 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XINYO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -PAIUTE-SHOSHONE INDIANS OF :THE BISHOP COMMUNITY OF :THE BISHOP COLONY, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN D. KIRBY, ESQ., San Diego, California; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.;as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners in partand the Respondents in part.REID PEYTON CHAMBERS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN D. KIRBY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.As amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners in part and the Respondents in part REID PEYTON CHAMBERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN D. KIRBY, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Inyo County, California v. the Paiute-Shoshone Indians of the Bishop Community.Mr. Kirby.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN D. KIRBYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KIRBY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:In this case the Paiute propose and are seekinga categorical rule that makes Indian tribes, theircasinos, their commercial businesses, and their personalproperty immune from search warrants and subpoenas issuedin connection with the investigation of crime and the prosecution of crime.They seek this rule under Federal statutory law,under Federal common law, and under the Constitution. However, such a categorical rule is not supported by thetext, structure, or history of the Constitution, by anyFederal statute, or by any sufficient or rational publicpolicy.Further, there is not now, nor should this Courtextend or create a common law right to be immune fromsearch warrants and subpoenas that are issued in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC connection with the investigation of crime and theprosecution of crime.It is a --QUESTION: Counsel, did the tribe offer toaccept as consent by the employees their employment forms?MR. KIRBY: Your Honor, I am prepared to answerthat question. It does involve matters outside therecord, and I will proceed to answer.QUESTION: I see. I just thought it was alittle curious that if some means of solving this had beenoffered, why we're here.MR. KIRBY: There was not any means of solvingit at the time, Your Honor, because the Federalregulations that govern the public welfare act atquestion, title , part , prohibits the information from being disclosed.QUESTION: Okay, thank you.MR. KIRBY: It is --QUESTION: That goes for -- they had asked foredited copies. They just wanted the last page, and theysaid that they could be edited. Does the -- in your viewdidn't Federal regulations preclude even those editedcopies of just the last page from being turned over?MR. KIRBY: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, because theinformation that's precluded from being distributed is the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC names of the individuals who are being investigated.Now, I know that the allegation is made that inthe letter that was sent by the district attorney and bythe Department of Health and Human Services stated thatthis was a welfare fraud investigation. However, thatletter actually did not so state. It stated that theinvestigation was a confidential investigation thatrequired the payroll information being sought.The fundamental right and responsibility ofgovernment is to protect its citizens, and one of the mainways it does that, of course, is through the investigationand prosecution of crime. The Federal Government and theState government have together an integrated lawenforcement regime that allows for search warrants andsubpoenas to be executed and issued in connection with the investigation of these crimes or alleged crimes whetherthe criminal conduct occurs on the reservation or off thereservation and regardless of whether the evidence orproceeds of crime is thought to be on the reservation oroff the reservation.For instance, in a Public Law State, such asCalifornia, if there is a crime committed off thereservation, frankly as well as on the reservation, theFederal Government does not have jurisdiction over thatcrime. Thus, the Federal Government does not have the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ability to issue a search warrant. If the States do nothave the ability to issue a search warrant under thosecircumstances and there is evidence of crime or proceedsof crime on the reservation, then that property orevidence remains immune from law enforcement.QUESTION: Is California one of the Statesthat has jurisdiction?MR. KIRBY: Yes, Justice Kennedy, California isa Public Law State.Now, in a non-Public Law State, the samesituation presents itself because in that situation, theFederal Government has the right to -- and the -- theduty, if you will -- as a responsibility to its citizensto enforce the criminal law with regard to crimes thatoccur on the reservation that would be State crimes if they occurred off the reservation. And under the MajorCrimes Act, as well as the General Crimes Act, the FederalGovernment prosecutes that crime and, of course, does theinvestigation prior to prosecution. In order to conductthose activities and to fulfill that mission, if you will,the Federal Government needs to have the right and doeshave the right to execute search warrants and to issuesubpoenas.Now, as we have seen, there may be a situationwhere a crime is committed on the reservation in a Public th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Law State and a crime committed in a -- the same crimein a non-Public Law State, and in those situations,there must be parity with regard to the law enforcementregime. If not, what we end up with is gaps in thecriminal justice system, and that wasn't the intent of thelegislature in enacting Public Law .As the Court will recall, Public Law waspassed by Congress because of a perceived lawlessness oncertain reservations. That lawlessness arose becauseCongress felt that the Federal Government -- due to thevast distances, if you will, of Federal Government lawenforcement agencies, and the lack of density of thoseagencies -- simply wasn't able to enforce criminal lawsthroughout the vast acreage of reservations. And so --QUESTION: Mr. Kirby, here what happened I -- as I understand it, was that a search warrant was served onthe tribe itself, and so I think that's what your argumentshould probably be addressed to. I think in Hicks we heldthat there could be process served against individualtribal members.MR. KIRBY: Yes, Your Honor. The search warrantwas issued as to tribal property. I -- I would point outthat the search warrant itself didn't actually require thetribe to do anything other than stand by and allow theofficers to go forth and search. And in this -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, that's true of most searchwarrants.MR. KIRBY: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: I mean, the person served doesn'thave to do anything except let them search.MR. KIRBY: Yes, Your Honor, the point being --the point being that the search warrant did not hail thereservation or the tribe into court for the purpose ofresponding to a civil judgment for the purpose of --QUESTION: What -- what was the tribal propertyat issue?MR. KIRBY: It was common payroll records,Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Were they records of the casino?MR. KIRBY: They were records of the commercial business operated there, yes, the casino.QUESTION: Where were they kept? Were they keptat the casino?MR. KIRBY: Your Honor, they were kept in backof the casino, as I understand it, in an outbuilding thatwas secured by a padlock.QUESTION: Would you -- would you draw adistinction between the subpoena of the records of thecommercial operation and a subpoena of the records of the-- of the government records of the tribe itself? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. KIRBY: Yes, Justice Scalia, there couldvery well be a distinction there. And the solution thatwe believe would address that distinction would be asolution that Justice White presented in the Brendaledecision when he talked about a tribe having a uniqueprotectable interest in certain situations. And the tribeought to have a right to go to court -- in this case, itwould be a State court -- to present that protectableinterest so that a -- an interest-balancing assessment canbe accomplished.In this case the interest of the tribal recordmay very well outweigh a minimal interest of the State ifit was a simple minor misdemeanor. On the other hand, itmay be that if it's a large serious felony of multiplemurder and there is very direct evidence in the records of the tribal government, perhaps under those facts the courtmay find that the interest weighed in favor of the State'spolice power.QUESTION: But that --QUESTION: Isn't there the obvious --QUESTION: Is it that the local magistrate ineach case has to -- and then the law enforcement officerweigh these interests? Well, this is a misdemeanor. Well, this is a felony. I -- I don't -- I think thatwould be a very difficult rule to implement in practice. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: What does everybody do? Sort ofstand around until the appeal is finally exhausted --MR. KIRBY: No.QUESTION: -- for a couple of years to seewhether they can do the search or not?MR. KIRBY: No, Justice Scalia, and no, JusticeKennedy.What would happen would be once the probablecause determination is made that there is evidence of acrime within the records of the casino in ourhypothetical, the search warrant would be executed and theproperty would be seized and brought before the court. Atthat time the tribe, if it thought it had a protectableinterest under State statute, perhaps because of certainstatutory privileges, or under some special protectable interest that the tribe may feel that it has because ofits unique domestic dependent sovereign status, couldpresent that interest balance analysis to the magistrateimmediately.QUESTION: But what good did it do to the State-- to the tribe after the horse is out of the barn? Inother words, the State -- the tribe is not beingprosecuted for anything in these cases. It's a tribalmember who's being prosecuted. And if you're saying,well, the -- the warrant has to be executed but after the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC fact the State -- the tribe, to -- to ease its woundedfeelings, can have this declaration? I don't follow it.I mean, the tribe's idea is there is no right tocome on our property and seize our records. If you'resaying every time the county can do that and that all thetribe has is an after-the-fact determination by somemagistrate that the county was wrong, it's not much of aremedy, is it?MR. KIRBY: With all respect, Justice Ginsburg,I believe it's the best remedy available. The tribe'sdesire to have a categorical rule that no search warrantsmay be issued with regard to its property has disastrousconsequences when evidence or proceeds of a crime islocated upon the reservation.QUESTION: Why? Why is that? I mean, from what you've said so far, it sounds to me as if the State or thecounty went to the tribe and said, we want your records,and the tribe said, why? And the county said, we can'ttell you. Well, obviously that would be a situation wherethey might get their backs up.But suppose you just said, look, the reason isthat we think there are a couple of people here who arecheating us. We think they get welfare from us and you'repaying them too much. That's why we want to look at it. Maybe they would have said, sure, go look at it. But I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC take it you couldn't do that simple thing?MR. KIRBY: Your Honor, the Federal regulationprohibits the --QUESTION: All right. So then isn't thesolution that maybe you need a law to overcome the Federalregulation or maybe you just go to a Federal official andsay, will you please ask them?MR. KIRBY: No, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: There's no way to do it. In otherwords, under the law the only choice -- your majorconstitutional thing is you have to say the onlypossibility is the county that wants to prosecute somebodyhas to -- goes to the tribe and says, we want to prosecutesomebody. We won't tell you who. We can't tell you why. Give us all your records. I mean, on that circumstance, I'd think the tribe would certainly have a point. And yet-- yet if -- if you were behaving reasonably and maybe --maybe if Federal law prevents you from behavingreasonably, maybe they should change it.How is this supposed to work out?MR. KIRBY: Well, Justice Breyer, looking at thesituation that you've presented, which is our situation,one must remember that letters were sent by the Departmentof Health and Human Services to the three individualsasking for a reconciliation. Letters were sent by the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC district attorney to these same three individuals. Twoletters were sent to the tribe asking for the information,which the tribe had honored five times in the lastapproximately two years, and the tribe had actually in oneof those occasions asked for a search warrant, which itthen honored. There was a history of working with thetribe to obtain this information.During this circumstance, the tribe took theposition it was no longer going to do that. It wanted tohave something more, and in fact the tribal attorneysuggested that a search warrant be obtained. And as ithad been in another circumstance within the preceding months. So there is a clear history of trying to workwith the tribe.What ended up happening in this case is what could happen in any case. The tribe, for whatever reason,depending upon whatever tribal government might have beenelected at the time -- and it -- they may have beendifferent on that day than they were during the preceding years -- decided, no, we're not going to do that anylonger. And that's how this situation came to fruition.And what we're looking at --QUESTION: Well, do you have other means to getthe information? Can you question the people you suspectof welfare fraud and ask them how much they earned, if th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC anything?MR. KIRBY: Justice O'Connor, that was done onat least two separate occasions. Letters were sent toeach of the three casino employees advising them of thediscrepancy and asking that the employees come in andreconcile the discrepancy. Those letters, unfortunately,were ignored. And so the county was faced with thesituation where it is mandated to have such aninvestigation process into potential fraud by the --QUESTION: Well, presumably you could questionsupervisory employees who prepare payroll records and askthem how much have you paid these people, if anything. Could you do that?MR. KIRBY: Yes, Justice O'Connor, that could bedone. That presumes, however, that the tribal officials would subject themselves and submit to questioning andproviding the information verbally that they have refusedto provide in writing simply by filling out a formrequesting the information.QUESTION: Well, we have said that the -- inMinnesota v. the United States, I think we said that aproceeding against property in which the United States hasan interest is a suit against the United States. Do youtake the position that you can file a suit against theIndian tribe without its consent? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. KIRBY: Justice O'Connor, when property isat issue, we have an in rem situation that doesn't requirea lawsuit. We have the -- I believe it's Minnesota andthe Cass County case which --QUESTION: Well, you didn't answer my question.MR. KIRBY: I apologize.QUESTION: Do you take the position that you canfile a suit against the tribe?MR. KIRBY: Not to differ or to draw hairs, yes,the suit could be filed and if the tribe consented tojurisdiction, then we could resolve it in court.QUESTION: Yes, but -- against its consent.MR. KIRBY: Not against its consent. That'sright.QUESTION: No.QUESTION: Mr. Kirby, isn't it the case that --that you can sue -- the United States can be sued againstits -- against its consent if it's operating a commercialenterprise. Isn't that the international law of sovereignimmunity, just as under our Foreign Sovereign ImmunitiesAct a foreign sovereign can be sued in this countryagainst its will if it is operating a commercialenterprise?MR. KIRBY: That is my understanding, JusticeScalia, and that is the case we have here. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: No, but isn't there one difference?And that is, take the foreign sovereign situation. There's a statute of the United States. And -- and if westart with the assumption, as I do, that we are in adifferent situation from -- from what we faced in Hicks sothat we're talking about, in effect, a claim directlyagainst the -- the sovereign itself, and if we alsoassume, which I think is correct, that the ultimate partyin interest in this kind of a welfare fraud situation isthe United States, why isn't the sensible answer to say,all right, if the United States wants the tribes to betreated like foreign sovereigns in a commercialenterprise, and if the United States wants to regard thecasinos as a commercial enterprise for that purpose, letit pass a statute comparable to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act?MR. KIRBY: That would certainly be a resolutionof this case, Justice Souter. However, what we're leftwith dealing today without congressional action is thecommon law tribal immunity doctrine as set forth by thisCourt and the Montana analysis that this Court has setforth with regard to --QUESTION: Has Congress ever adopted a statutespeaking to tribal sovereign immunity?MR. KIRBY: No, Justice Scalia. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Isn't it entirely a creation of thisCourt?MR. KIRBY: Yes, Justice Scalia, it is.QUESTION: And if in fact --QUESTION: Well, isn't -- isn't it also a -- acreation which basically was an adoption of aninternational law norm?MR. KIRBY: Initially --QUESTION: Isn't that what John Marshall thoughthe was doing?MR. KIRBY: I believe that the tribal sovereignimmunity doctrine commenced with the Turner decision whichwas approximately . And as this Court indicated inthe Kiowa decision, that sovereign immunity doctrine wascreated almost by accident. It was --QUESTION: What about Worcester v. Georgia? Ithought that the -- the tribal sovereign immunity beganlong before -something.QUESTION: So did I.MR. KIRBY: Worcester v. Georgia, JusticeGinsburg and Justice Souter, dealt with primarily treatyrights and the -- the need for Justice Marshall to try to-- to put, if you will, or place the tribes who werenation -- independent nations, sovereigns of this country,into some category that was different from nation states. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Our Constitution recognizes that Indian tribes are notnation -- foreign nation states. In the Commerce Clause,we speak to the Interstate Commerce Clause as States beingone type of entity, Indian tribes being another, andforeign nations being another. So tribes have always beenconsidered differently. And here they are domesticdependent sovereigns which has characteristics totallydifferent from foreign nation states.QUESTION: Mr. Kirby --QUESTION: I think we will hear in about aminute, if we get to the main issue of this, I suspect --you see, on the one hand if we decide in your favor, thatmeans that any magistrate in the State, of which there maybe many, in any criminal case whatsoever for probablecause can allow State officials to go into all the tribal documents no matter how many there are, no matter howrelated to government of the tribe, whatever they are. They're most -- they're most key matters for the tribe'sgovernance. But if we decide against you, all it means isthat you have to go to the Federal Government and convincethem that this is really important and then they'll dealwith it.MR. KIRBY: Well, Justice Breyer, Congresscertainly has plenary power over Indian tribes.QUESTION: I'm not thinking of Congress. I'm th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC saying right now -- you go to the Interior Department.They have people there. You go tell them what the problemis, and they say -- you say, this tribe is being totallyunreasonable here, completely. I don't know why but theyare. And -- and if they feel it's important that theFederal Government now has adequate ways of getting youthe information you need. Now -- now am I wrong?MR. KIRBY: Justice Breyer, with all respect,yes, you are wrong.QUESTION: There's no way. In other words, it'sjust we're at a -- at a loss. Either -- either -- we'dhave to get legislation, in your opinion.MR. KIRBY: In my opinion we have to adopt a --first of all, we cannot adopt a categorical rule that thetribes propose. So what we are looking for is a solution that is acceptable to certainly the majority of theCourt --QUESTION: All right. You -- it's acceptable toyou. You say commercial -- if it's a commercial body likea casino, that's -- they don't have the immunity, but ifit's noncommercial, it's okay. But has this been arguedbelow whether they're commercial or noncommercial?MR. KIRBY: It has not been argued below,Justice Breyer. However, that's not the distinction thatwe're making between commercial and governmental activity th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC because, as I indicated earlier, if the governmentminutes, if you will, the tribal minutes, have directevidence of a very serious felony for whatever reason --QUESTION: Okay. The distinction you would bemaking is?MR. KIRBY: A balancing interest, Your --Justice Breyer. And I believe that --QUESTION: Why do you want to --MR. KIRBY: -- under the Younger abstentiondoctrine -- yes, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: You want to do it the hard way. Imean, the -- you win this case if we say you can subpoenathe commercial -- the records of a commercial enterprisebeing run by the tribe, but you don't want to do that.MR. KIRBY: We'd be happy to win this case on that ground, Justice Scalia.(Laughter.)QUESTION: May I ask, speaking of that -- thatquestion, does the tribe itself operate the casino or doesit operate it through a corporation of some kind?MR. KIRBY: The casino is operated through acorporation that is chartered by the tribe, not by theState. So the tribe has certain policies wherein itblesses an organization as a -- as a tribal corporation.QUESTION: Your -- your petition raises three th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC questions, and so far, due to no fault of your own, you'veonly covered one of them. Do you want to try to get tothe other two or three?MR. KIRBY: Justice Rehnquist, I see that mytime is drawing to a close. If I may, I would like toreserve my time and perhaps address that in reply.QUESTION: Very well.Ms. McDowell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS IN PARTAND THE RESPONDENTS IN PARTMS. McDOWELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:I would first like to correct onemisunderstanding that the Court may have been left with asa result of Mr. Kirby's comments. There is no Federalregulation or other Federal requirement that would haveprevented the county or the State from sharing with thetribe the information, the welfare applications, and soon. Federal --QUESTION: Well, but even so, let's assumethere's a serious felony having been committed involving acrime of violence where employees of the casino areimplicated. Surely, the district attorney's office or the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC county is not going to share that information with --necessarily with -- with the whole tribal council.MS. McDOWELL: In the first place --QUESTION: That seems -- that seems to me a verydisruptive proposal for -- for orderly law enforcement.MS. McDOWELL: Well, Your Honor, nothing in theposition that's being urged here would preclude a Statefrom proceeding against individual tribal members andsearching their own --QUESTION: No, but the suggestion was thatthere'd be a lot of cooperation between the tribes. Butit seems to me that that may compromise a very seriouscriminal investigation.MS. McDOWELL: Well, and -- and if that's thecase, they would not need to share the information with the tribe, but they could proceed against the individualtribal member.QUESTION: No, no. But -- no, the problem thathe's trying to put -- imagine the most serious crime youcan think of committed off the reservation by people whohave nothing to do with the Indian tribe, for example, butthere is a key piece of evidence that is there in thetribal document and they want to get it.Now, what we've just been told is there -- theycan't -- if -- if we decide for the tribe, there's no way th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whatsoever they can get it. It's impossible. If thetribe refuses to cooperate, the Federal Government can donothing without new laws being passed. Now, is all thatthe case?MS. McDOWELL: No, that's not the case, JusticeBreyer. In many instances, of course, if there was aserious crime, it's a crime that the Federal Government,as well as the State, could prosecute, and there's noimmunity bar to --QUESTION: But if there -- it's not --QUESTION: In the jurisdiction?MS. McDOWELL: Even in the Public Law jurisdiction, Justice O'Connor, because there are Federalstatutes, as you're well aware, dealing with firearms,narcotics, racketeering and so on that could often be used in this sort of situation.In addition, the Federal Government could oftenbring the parties together and try to reconcile thesesorts of disagreements. Tribes, after all, are sovereigngovernments. They have a significant interest in lawenforcement.QUESTION: Well, Ms. McDowell, let's talk abouttheir being sovereign. I had thought that we -- that ourcases make very clear that their sovereignty is a peculiarand lesser kind of sovereignty. It is certainly -- does th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not exceed the sovereignty of the States or of foreigncountries. And I -- I am perplexed at why -- why theUnited States wants to accord the -- the tribe'scommercial enterprises greater protection than is accordedto England or -- or Germany or any -- any foreignsovereign --MS. McDOWELL: Well, of course --QUESTION: -- where suit is allowed. And I'msure in the course of suit, you can subpoena documentsrelating to that -- to that commercial enterprise. Whyshould we -- and that provision in the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act was simply a reflection of what theinternational norm had become. Now, why in the worldshould we accord greater protection to this lessersovereignty that -- that consists of the Indian tribe? MS. McDOWELL: Well, in the Kiowa case, YourHonor, the Court extended tribal sovereign immunity tocommercial off-reservation activities of a tribe. TheCourt recognized that any limitation on tribal sovereignimmunity that would exclude a tribe's commercialactivities from the protections of sovereign immunity wasa task for Congress rather than for the judiciary.And it is significant that when commercialactivities of the United States Government, for example,have been -- when suit has been allowed against such th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC entities, it's been a matter of -- of statute, not amatter of judicial decision. Indeed, the ForeignSovereign Immunities Act is, after all, a statutoryprotection.QUESTION: I think there was a dissent in thatcase that made the point that Justice Scalia has beenpursuing.I'd like to back up and find out how we gothere. This is a suit brought by the tribe, not by thecounty, right?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And I think you are urging that is not available --MS. McDOWELL: That's correct.QUESTION: -- to the tribe either as plaintiff or defendant.If is not available, then what is thebasis? What statute does the tribe's case arise under forthe substantive determination that you would like to havethe Court adjudicate? If we don't have , what Federallaw does the case arise under?MS. McDOWELL: It's generally been understood,Your Honor, although not specifically addressed in adecision of this Court, that the Supremacy Clause and theFederal jurisdictional statutes provide a right of action th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC for injunctive and declaratory relief when a party isclaiming that State action is precluded by superseding --QUESTION: Are you saying it's a kind of Bivensaction?MS. McDOWELL: It may be that. It's -- it'ssimilar to Ex parte Young. Justice Kennedy's dissentingopinion in the second Golden State Transit case discussesthis at -- at some length. Also the Court's decision inShaw v. Delta Air Lines provides a number of -- ofcitations to cases that arose in this particular context. So it is a settled, although not frequently discussedbasis, of coming into Federal court to challenge Stateaction.QUESTION: Is -- is there a problem on an Exparte Young theory here? I mean, you're -- we're not --they're not simply asking the tribe to stop doingsomething that's unlawful by going against the officer whodoes it. They are asking for tribal property.MS. McDOWELL: I think you're referring to asituation where a State would sue the tribe.QUESTION: Well, they -- that's what's going on. The -- the county here wants tribal property, right?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct. It has obtaineda search warrant against tribal property. Interestinglyenough, the return of the search warrant directs the tribe th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that if they want the property back, they will have tocome into State court and proceed under the CaliforniaCriminal Code.QUESTION: Well, is that Ex parte Young?MS. McDOWELL: No. That's not Ex parte Young. Ex parte Young is -- is based essentially on what theCourt has called the legal fiction that when a Stateofficer is violating superior Federal law --QUESTION: Right. So -- so Ex parte Young isn'tgoing to cover a situation like that. I mean, an Ex parteYoung analog in this situation isn't going to cover the --the request here.MS. McDOWELL: Well, it is when one isconsidering the tribe's suit against the petitioners.QUESTION: Well, if -- if the -- what is the Federal -- basis for Federal jurisdiction of the tribe'ssuit against the petitioners if is not available?MS. McDOWELL: Well, the jurisdictional basis issection , Federal question jurisdiction, Your Honor.QUESTION: But surely the Federal law that thecase arises under is not itself. You have to haveanother law, and the one exception to that is on theFederal side when the Court created the Bivens actionbecause Congress had not enacted a statute like tocover Federal offices. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC But you seem to be asking us to create anothersuch category where there's some right of action impliedfrom what?MS. McDOWELL: From the Supremacy Clause, YourHonor, because the tribe's Federal common law immunitysupersedes the State enforcement of a State search warrantagainst it.QUESTION: This is such an obvious way to raisethis kind of issue without that. The next time somebodywants something from the tribe, they say no, make them goto court and appeal it.MS. McDOWELL: Yes, but a search warrant isobtained in an ex parte proceeding, Your Honor. There'sno opportunity for --QUESTION: Well, I mean, can't you just resist a search warrant and say, no, I think it's an unlawfulwarrant and go right to the State court and appeal it?MS. McDOWELL: No, you can't, Your Honor.QUESTION: Everybody just has to follow this. There's no procedure to resist --MS. McDOWELL: No, there's no procedure forthat. And indeed, a -- a party that resists the searchwarrant may subject itself to criminal penalties for doingso.QUESTION: May I ask -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: So that's not an optimalprocedure.QUESTION: May I ask you a question about yourtheory that the tribe is not a person within the meaningof ? You seem to assume that if they could not bemade a defendant, they also could not be a plaintiff. Don't you make that assumption in your argument?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, Your Honor, andthat's because the term person --QUESTION: And isn't that assumption plainlywrong? Because for -- to be a defendant, you have to actunder color of State law. So there are all sorts ofpersons who can be plaintiffs who could never bedefendants.MS. McDOWELL: Well, it -- it is not necessarily the case that a tribe could not act under State law, YourHonor, because, for example, with jointly administering --QUESTION: But in the normal course of events,it wouldn't be acting under State law. It's acting underits own law.MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, or it may beacting under Federal law.QUESTION: So in the normal course of events,the fact that it might not be a defendant wouldn't shedany light at all on the question of whether it could be a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC person for plaintiff purposes.MS. McDOWELL: Well, generally, Your Honor, theCourt has applied the interpretive presumption that theterm person doesn't include a sovereign. The term personappears twice in the same sentence in section , so itwould be curious if it was construed differently.QUESTION: Well, but a citizen, an ordinarycitizen, could be a person for plaintiff's purposes butnot necessarily a defendant.MS. McDOWELL: Well, that -- that may indeed bethe case, Your Honor.In the South Carolina Ports decision recently,the Court recognized that the preeminent purpose ofsovereign immunity is to assure that sovereigns aretreated with the dignity that their sovereign status entitles them. The execution of a State warrant is aparticular threat to the dignity of a sovereign tribe,even more so perhaps than hauling it into court. It'sobtained ex parte.QUESTION: You think that's so when -- when whatyou're doing is getting the records of a casino? Imean --MS. McDOWELL: That's correct. Now, we're notsaying that every tribal business necessarily is an arm ofthe tribe for sovereign immunity purposes, but the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC particular characteristics -- may I finish, Your Honor?QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell.Mr. Peyton -- Mr. Peyton Chambers.ORAL ARGUMENT OF REID PEYTON CHAMBERSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. CHAMBERS: Thank you, Mr. --QUESTION: Are you Mr. Peyton Chambers or Mr.Chambers?MR. CHAMBERS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I'm Mr. Chambers.QUESTION: Very well.MR. CHAMBERS: Thank you. Thanks, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court:There are three principles of Federal law thatbar this search warrant. The first is tribal sovereign immunity. The second is the longstanding principle thatStates may not infringe the right of tribes to governthemselves or internal affairs on their reservation. Andthe third is that there's no act of Congress thatauthorizes this search warrant, though two statutes,Public Law and the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, doprovide a framework for some assumption of Statejurisdiction over tribes and Indians on reservation -- the-- reservations. The county doesn't claim that eitherapplies here to authorize this act, and they do not. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I -- I want to address, if I may, JusticeScalia's question about the commercial and governmentaldistinction because basically the Indian Gaming Act byCongress sets up a framework for tribes to operate gaming. This is a tribal enterprise. It has to be, under theGaming Act, owned and controlled by the tribe. It -- andthe proceeds of the gaming have to be used for tribalpurposes, chiefly tribal governmental purposes. And theyare by the Bishop Paiute Tribe.The Bishop Paiute Tribe is a small tribe in aremote area of California. It uses all of its gamingrevenues to operate tribal programs on its reservation. Like most tribes, the Bishop -- the Bishop Tribe operatesa health clinic, for example, educational programs,welfare programs --QUESTION: May I just interrupt --MR. CHAMBERS: Certainly, Justice Stevens.QUESTION: -- on the corporate point that wasbrought up earlier? Who pays the income tax on theearnings of the casino? The corporation or the tribe?MR. CHAMBERS: The -- the tribe is not taxableunder the Federal income tax laws, Justice Stevens. And-- and the corporation, as an arm of the tribe, is nottaxable.QUESTION: So there are no taxes on the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC earnings.MR. CHAMBERS: There -- there are no taxes. This is a relatively small casino. It's in a prettyremote part of California, sort of halfway between LosAngeles --QUESTION: But it is owned by a corporationrather than by the tribe itself?MR. CHAMBERS: Well, Justice Stevens, it'soperated by a corporation that was chartered by the tribe. It's wholly owned by the tribe. And it -- it -- the boardof directors, for example, is removable --QUESTION: Well, who owns the real estate thatthe casino is located on? The tribe or the corporation?MR. CHAMBERS: No, the tribe, Justice Stevens. The tribe owns all the real estate on this small reservation in eastern California. It's an -acre realestate -- or trust land. It's owned by the United Statesin trust for the tribe.QUESTION: How about the slot --QUESTION: But this -- what you're saying istrue of all --QUESTION: How about the slot machines? Whoowns the slot machines? The tribe or the corporation?MR. CHAMBERS: They'd be tribal property,Justice Stevens, and operated -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, what does the -- does thecorporation own anything?MR. CHAMBERS: No, I don't believe so, JusticeStevens. It's a simply a tribal arm and -- and it's --it's -- it is the tribe. And it has to be the tribe underthe Indian Gaming Act. My point is that Congress --QUESTION: You're -- you're sure that it doesn'town -- what does it do? What -- you say it doesn't ownthe land. It doesn't own the slot machines. What -- whatdoes it do?MR. CHAMBERS: It -- it operates the gamingfacility rather than having the tribal political leaders,Justice Scalia, engaged in the day-to-day operation of the-- of the gaming activity. But it's --QUESTION: But if -- if what was formerly tribal government has now been so infused with a commercialcharacter, that it seems to me calls tribal immunity intoquestion generally.MR. CHAMBERS: Well, let me try to persuade youit doesn't, Justice Kennedy. That the -- I mean here,first of all, the Indian Gaming Act was enacted for thepurpose of strengthening tribal governments. That's whatCongress was doing. Secondly, Congress required the tribeto own and control gaming operations. And third, Congresslimited the revenues that the tribe gets from the gaming th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC operation to be used essentially for the welfare of themembers of the --QUESTION: How is that different from anyforeign country that wholly owns a corporation engaged in-- in business? For any foreign country, when it ownssuch a corporation, all the revenue, all the profits go tothe treasury of the foreign country to be used for thepublic benefit. At least where that is the case, I thinkthat the sovereign immunity turns on the nature of theoperation, not on whether the revenues go to the benefitof the people of the country.MR. CHAMBERS: But, Justice Breyer, there ofcourse the country, the legislature, or the government ofthat country could decide what to do with its revenues.QUESTION: And they're all for -- well, what is -- so tell me precisely what is the difference between thecasino and, let's say, the state of -- the Government ofFinland which happens to own a shipping business percent and the revenues and profits from that shippingbusiness go entirely to health care, parks, other thingsfor the people of Finland. Now, what's the differencebetween our Finnish shipping line and the casino here?MR. CHAMBERS: There are two differences,Justice Breyer.First, the Finnish government, if it wanted to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC could decide to invest the proceeds of the shipping linein the U.S. stock market. The tribe cannot do that. Thetribe is constrained by Congress to use the revenuesessentially for governmental purposes or for charitabledonations or a couple of other purposes. But it's not --it's like a State lottery I suppose, although even therethe State legislature could decide to use the Statelottery for some other purpose.The second distinction really was I thinkpointed out in -- in Justice Souter's question to -- Iforget whether it was to Mr. Kirby or Ms. McDowell. But-- but Congress has enacted the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act which provides that a commercial enterpriseof a foreign nation operating in the United States isstripped of its sovereign immunity.Congress has never done that for a tribe, andit's very important to note that while sovereign immunityin the tribal context is a common law doctrine developedby this Court, it has been adopted by Congress. Mostimportantly, in the Indian Self-Determination Act of --QUESTION: Why aren't you relying on KiowaCounty? Because that was as commercial as a deal could beand the Court said no sovereign immunity.MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Ginsburg, as you pointed th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC out, there was a dissent there, but a difference in KiowaCounty is that you had a tribe engaged in the commercialoperation outside the reservation. That's not so here. This is entirely on the reservation. It's a tribe --QUESTION: That's a fortiori for you I wouldthink. I would think that the difference in Kiowa is --is -- it seems to me one -- one might say when the moneyis coming -- when money is sought that comes out of thetribal treasury, we're not -- we're not willing to takeinto account the commercial nature of the enterprise. It's still coming out of the tribal treasury.But this is quite a different matter. Nothingcomes out of the tribal treasury. And you're -- you'rejust seeking documents that belong to the commercialenterprise essentially. I -- I don't know that Kiowa necessarily covers this case.MR. CHAMBERS: I hope I can persuade you that itdoes, Justice Scalia, that -- that -- the sovereignimmunity basically covers funds and property and theoperation of a tribal or any government, whether it's theFederal Government, a State government, or a tribalgovernment. And it protects that categorically fromjudicial process of a non-superior sovereign.Here the tribe is not subordinate to the Stateof California. The tribe is subordinate to the United th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC States and the county is subordinate to the State ofCalifornia. But the tribe is not subordinate toCalifornia. So the tribe's policy cannot be displaced byCalifornia when it's operating its own government.Now, this could apply to any record of thetribe, and -- and the tribe operates, as I said, healthcare programs, educational programs. All -- virtually allIndian tribes do this today, and it's --QUESTION: The tribe is subordinate to this --to this extent, that the laws of the State of Californiacan be enforced under -- under section .MR. CHAMBERS: Justice --QUESTION: Under law .MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Kennedy, Public Law confers criminal jurisdiction on California on offenses by or against Indians. That's the language of Public Law. It does not apply to tribes. The Court held in theBryan v. Itasca County case that Public Law does notapply to tribes, and in the second Three Affiliated Tribesdecision, the Court said that Public Law does notwaive tribal immunity or interfere with tribal rights ofself-governance. So -- so Public Law -- and the Statedoesn't claim -- I'm sorry -- the county doesn't claimthat the State has any jurisdiction over the tribe underPublic Law . th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC That proceeds really to another reason why the-- why the warrant is not good here under Federal law.QUESTION: Well, but it -- but it hasjurisdiction over individuals who by hypothesis either in this case or some hypothetical case might be given --might be being -- being sheltered by the tribe.MR. CHAMBERS: Well, Justice Kennedy, the tribeisn't sheltering anybody. This tribe wouldn't shelteranybody and -- and tribes don't do that.QUESTION: Well, why didn't the tribe --QUESTION: We're -- we're talking abouthypothetical instances --MR. CHAMBERS: Okay.QUESTION: -- as to how this -- as to how thisrule that you advocate would apply.MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Kennedy, I think how itshould apply is that the rule should encourage cooperativeintergovernmental agreements between tribes and counties,and that is in fact what happens all over Indianreservations today, that --QUESTION: Well, then why didn't it happen onyour side?I would like to ask a question of the samenature that Justice O'Connor asked the county. These wereemployees of the casino. They had twice received notices th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC from the county saying, here's the payroll thing, what itsays you've got, and here is the welfare payment youreceived. Would you please reconcile these? And theemployees didn't respond, didn't respond twice. And sothe county comes to the employer, the casino, and says,help us out. These people -- I guess we could lock themup, but we would prefer just to have you give us therecords that will enable us to determine whether there waswelfare cheating.MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Ginsburg, the tribe triedto avoid this confrontation. First, the tribe did get aletter asking for information about three employeeswithout any specification of why. The tribe respondedthat its policies do not allow a disclosure of employeeinformation without the consent of the employees. Then,without any further notice, the county came to the tribewith armed officers and insisted on seeing the records.Now, the reason that -- I mean, the tribe hassecurity officers in the casino. They came in a privatepart of the casino. But obviously the tribe doesn't wantthat kind of confrontation. They told the officers wherethe records were. The officers went with deadbolt cuttersinto the tribe's building, cut the locks, and seized therecords.QUESTION: Are you saying the tribe did not know th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that this investigation pertained to welfare fraud?MR. CHAMBERS: I believe that is correct at thetime that the search warrant was executed, JusticeGinsburg.Now, the tribe took that hit basically. I mean,the tribe didn't do anything. They approached thedistrict attorney. They said we don't want to have thiskind of thing happening again and offered to work it outby accepting simply a copy of the last page of the --California law requires a welfare applicant to sign anacknowledgement that employers can turn records over tothe county investigating welfare fraud.QUESTION: Mr. Kirby said there was some Federalregulation that blocked that and then Ms. McDowell told usthat there is no such regulation.MR. CHAMBERS: I think Ms. McDowell is right,Justice Ginsburg. But -- but I guess one would have tolook at the regulation, and I'm sure the Court will.QUESTION: All right. So what's your suggestionon this point? That -- it seems to me that what we haveis an instance where perhaps both sides feel the other wasbeing very unreasonable, but something that should havebeen worked out. And -- and so because you couldn't workit out, one way to work it out would be get the FederalGovernment involved, but it couldn't be worked out. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC So now we're in a position of either having tosay no matter how unreasonable the tribe is in stoppingthe State from getting evidence of a serious crime, well,that's -- the tribe wins, or saying no matter howunreasonable the State is in trying to interfere with theactivities of the tribe, they win.Now, to me quite honestly, neither of thosesolutions is satisfactory. Do we have to choose the oneor the other?MR. CHAMBERS: I think that you have to choose a-- a solution that respects the tribe's operation as agovernment. The tribe --QUESTION: If I have to choose, why wouldn't Ijust say, if I'm trying to look for a compromise thatpreserves the essence of it, very well, if I have to choose between two imaginary, unreasonable warringparties, I will say that where it's commercial, the tribeloses; where it's noncommercial, the tribe wins. What'swrong with that, which is where we started?MR. CHAMBERS: Well, what's wrong with that hereis we don't have imaginary parties. We have real partieshere.QUESTION: No. I understand that.MR. CHAMBERS: I understand your hypotheticaland I -- I don't want to say it's not this case. I know th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I'm not supposed to say that.But I -- but I think that -- that the -- I mean,here what you have is a tribe that tried to work it out. The tribe was willing and is willing to sign anintergovernmental law enforcement agreement with thecounty.Tribes and counties do this all over thecountry. You know this, for example, from the amicusbrief filed by four States on behalf of the tribe in thiscase, four States that have two-thirds of the Indianreservation trust lands in the country in their bordersand the majority of Indians who live on reservationswithin their borders. Those States say that they work itout between tribes and counties, tribes and States. Tribes have agreements all over the country with counties about domesticating search warrants, about extradition --QUESTION: Those -- those agreements may beprompted by at least the uncertainty of what would happenif they didn't make an agreement. I mean, we don't knowthat those agreements aren't prompted in part by theuncertainty as to whether, if there were not an agreement,the State couldn't come in anyway.MR. CHAMBERS: Well, Justice Scalia, I -- Ithink that ascribes -- tribes do try to operate -- tribeshave a very strong interest in law enforcement too. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- and there were plenty of alternatives here available tothe county. The county could have gone and gotten asearch warrant against the individuals. That -- those arethe people they had to prove had the intent to defraudthem anyway.QUESTION: But the individuals don't have therecords. The -- the tribe does have the payroll records.MR. CHAMBERS: They would presumably, JusticeGinsburg, I think have their bank accounts or -- orcancelled checks or -- or other information.QUESTION: Suppose the question were the casinodidn't file whatever was required, the State -- whateverpayroll reports it was required to report to the State. So it's the tribe's default. And the State now wants toenforce the requirement that -- that all employers in the State file certain records about their employees. Couldthe State, which could go after any other operation thatfails to file required papers, go after the tribe?MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Ginsburg, the tribe isrequired under its compact with the State of California tofile certain information because the tribe, for example,participates --QUESTION: Yes, and if it doesn't -- doesn't --MR. CHAMBERS: If it doesn't, there are disputeresolution mechanisms in the compact and there's a waiver th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of tribal sovereign immunity for the enforcement of thosedispute resolution provisions. So the answer to thequestion in -- in that situation is that the State couldget that information.But here the tribe has filed all the things it'srequired under that compact to file with the State --QUESTION: May I ask kind of a backgroundquestion? Because I'm really not sure of the answer.Supposing a tort was committed within the casinoby one non-Indian against another non-Indian. Where wouldthe recovery be allowed for that tort? Could they sue inan Indian court or State court, and what law would apply?MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Stevens, in that casethey would sue in State court because the State would havejurisdiction over a civil action, even actually in a Public Law State between an Indian and an Indian.QUESTION: Suppose there was a tort committed bya casino employee against a patron. Would the State havejurisdiction over that suit?MR. CHAMBERS: The State would have jurisdictionover that suit, Justice Stevens, unless the nature ofthe --QUESTION: Well, could the -- could the litigantin that suit get discovery from the tribe in that suit --MR. CHAMBERS: I was going to say -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- in State court?MR. CHAMBERS: They could not get discovery tothe extent that it would intrude on essential governmentalfunctions of the tribe because that would be --QUESTION: Well, the very records that wereinvolved in this case -- some reason they had to identifythe particular person in the casino who was responsiblefor the tort and you have to look at employment records tofind out. Could they get that in a civil suit in Statecourt, do you think?MR. CHAMBERS: No -- no, they could not withoutthe tribe's consent, Justice Stevens. But in the ordinarycourse of business, if the tribe understood the nature andneed of the issue, why, almost surely it would comply witha -- with a request like that. But --QUESTION: You -- you say essential governmentrecords, but these are basically commercial records, arethey not?MR. CHAMBERS: Mr. Chief Justice, I see Ihaven't persuaded you. I -- I think they are given thenature of Congress' oversight and limitations Congress hasput on the operation of this facility and -- and alltribal gaming facilities. So this isn't just any tribalbusiness. This is a business that's operated under prettystrict guidelines by Congress for it to be owned and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC operated by the tribe.QUESTION: Well, if the tribe were operating atrading post, would it be different?MR. CHAMBERS: It could well be different,Justice -- Chief Justice Rehnquist.QUESTION: Mr. Chambers, you -- the tribe filedthis suit under section . Is that correct?MR. CHAMBERS: It filed it under several --under and , Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: And one of the questions we have toanswer is whether the tribe is a person under section.MR. CHAMBERS: Well, if you -- yes, if the Courtdecides that --QUESTION: And I -- I would appreciate it if you would address that point because the interpretivepresumption is that the tribe, as a sovereign, whichyou're so strongly urging here, is not a person undersection . Why should we recognize that it's coveredas a person under section ?MR. CHAMBERS: Justice O'Connor, you should doso because -- because section is a broad remedialstatute for violations of Federal rights by States.QUESTION: Well, does that mean we should justgo wild construing it for that reason? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CHAMBERS: No, Mr. Chief Justice. And Idon't think you have. I --QUESTION: I don't think we will.(Laughter.)MR. CHAMBERS: No, but -- but --QUESTION: But it doesn't include States?MR. CHAMBERS: No, it doesn't, Justice O'Connor.QUESTION: Why would it include the tribe?QUESTION: And it doesn't -- it doesn't includeforeign governments. We said a couple of years agoParaguay couldn't bring a suit.MR. CHAMBERS: Yes, you did. You did in thecontext of a pretty late capital punishment --QUESTION: No, but I mean --MR. CHAMBERS: -- interception by Paraguay. QUESTION: No. Sure, it was -- it was late inthe day for capital punishment. We were deciding a -- aquestion of -- of the meaning of section , and I don'tknow why that isn't good for your case too.MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Souter, it's not goodbecause there wasn't a history in of States impactingnegatively on States' Federal rights or on the Federalrights of foreign states and there was in the case ofIndian tribes. This Court had decided in two casescited in our brief involving the Kansas Indians and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC New York Indians, and the Court had decided the Cherokeecases about years before where there were seriousintrusions on tribes' Federal rights by States.So Congress, when it enacted section , wasnot only presumptively aware of those, but in the committee report relied on by the Government, by theSenate Judiciary Committee, specifically makes referenceto the Kansas Indian case when it's considering whetherIndians are citizens under the Fourteenth Amendment andwhen they're not.QUESTION: But -- but you agree, I think, thatthe tribe is not suable. Under -- as a defendant, thetribe is not amenable to as a defendant.MR. CHAMBERS: That -- that is correct, JusticeGinsburg. But, for example, in the antitrust cases, you've held that States can sue as plaintiffs. You'veheld that foreign nations can sue as plaintiffs. Theycan't be sued as defendants under antitrust statutes. AndI think in the Vermont Natural Resources Agency case onthe False Claim Act, you decided that while a State couldnot be sued as a defendant under the False Claim Act, thatit wouldn't necessarily preclude it from suing as aplaintiff.QUESTION: Mr. Chambers, I thought your -- yourfirst position on this issue was that it was not raised th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC below. You raised that in your brief in opposition to thepetition. Are you abandoning that now?MR. CHAMBERS: No, I'm not, Justice Scalia. I'mtrying to answer the question --QUESTION: No, I understand that. But you --but -- but you didn't mention a thing about it, and it wasin your brief in opposition to the petition. It was alsoin your brief. You claim that the issue was notraised below.MR. CHAMBERS: And -- and should have been ifit's going to be pressed to this Court. I -- I do agreewith that, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Then what is county's jurisdictionalbasis? And don't tell me because it has to ariseunder some law other than .MR. CHAMBERS: I'm not going to tell you .QUESTION: I don't mean the counties. I meanthe tribe.MR. CHAMBERS: No, no. It arises under Federalcommon law when sovereign immunity or the right to self-government is being pleaded. And that's --QUESTION: And your -- and your best citationfor that proposition?MR. CHAMBERS: Two cases, Justice Kennedy: theNational Farmers Union v. Crow Tribe and the second Oneida th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC case, both in .QUESTION: So is the injunctive relief -- Ilooked at the declaratory relief in the complaint and itdidn't seem really directly on point. The -- the requestfor declaratory relief had to do with the Gaming Act, law, compacts, et cetera. So they didn't seem really toraise the question we now have. Then there's a section ondamages, which is , and then some requests forinjunctive relief.MR. CHAMBERS: Justice Breyer, the -- the firstcount in the complaint did raise the right of self-governance.QUESTION: Not the first request for relief. The requests for relief -- there are five, and the firsttwo have to do with the declaratory judgment. I thinkthey're not right on this point, but --MR. CHAMBERS: Okay. Well, I -- I think atleast the -- the count did do that and sovereign immunitywas pled in the complaint.And then also, the preemptions -- SupremacyClause issue that Ms. McDowell was mentioning in theGolden State Transit, I think, dissent by Justice Kennedycites Gibbons v. Ogden and the Cooley case v. the Port ofPhiladelphia, going back into the th century for theproposition -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Those came up out of State courts,though. They didn't come up through the Federal system.MR. CHAMBERS: I guess that's correct. I thinkthat -- yes, there wasn't Federal question jurisdiction inthat part of -- of the th century.QUESTION: So what -- the Federal questionjurisdiction you're saying is Federal common law. Anything else?MR. CHAMBERS: Well, I certainly think infootnote of our brief, we cited a number of Indiancases, the Chickasaw case, the Sac and Fox case, NewMexico Apache Tribe v. Mescalero, where the Court hadentertained similar claims under .We're only seeking here prospective injunctiveand declaratory relief against the county, and we only brought the action when they threatened the second searchand seizure. We didn't do anything with the -- with thefirst intrusion. So -- so I would rely on -- on -- Imean, on -- on the number of cases where you have allowedtribes to bring preemption type claims against Stateswithout relying on section , though -- though we dobelieve the compensatory damages are appropriate undersection also.If there are no further questions, thank you,Mr. Chief Justice. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Chambers.Mr. Kirby, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN D. KIRBYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. KIRBY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.I would like to address very briefly the flipside, if you will, of the categorical rule being proposedby the tribe and the problems with that. And that flipside involves not the police power of the State, which wehave already talked about, but the constitutional rightsof a defendant who is faced with criminal prosecution in aState court when that defendant feels there is exculpatoryevidence in the possession of the tribe. For instance, itmay be a video surveillance of the parking lot or whatnotthat shows perhaps a self-defense defense for this particular person.Under the tribe's rule --QUESTION: It's odd for you to be raising atribal member as a defendant when you have potentialtribal members here who might be subject to suit. Youseem a strange champion for such people.MR. KIRBY: It doesn't necessarily need to be atribal member who might be a criminal defendant, JusticeGinsburg. It could be anyone, a non-tribal member or evena patron, who feels that there is exculpatory evidence th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that the tribe possesses. And under the Sixth Amendment,that person has the right to have the State issuecompulsory process to obtain that exculpatory evidence.Under the tribe's rule that's being proposed,the tribe would have the ability to trump the SixthAmendment right of the accused in that situation and notproduce the exculpatory evidence. The tribe would alsohave the right to trump the Fourteenth Amendment rights toa fair trial of that particular person. And that's theflip side of the categorical rule that's being proposedand why we believe it's another reason it should not beadopted by this Court.With regard to the action, I would like tosay that not only is the tribe not a person within themeaning of the statute and the interpretive presumption that this Court has set forth in, I believe, the VermontAgency it was acknowledged. But also the right that thetribe is asserting, the right to self-governance, is not aFederal statutory right and it's not a constitutionalright, and as such, it cannot support a action. Andthat is another reason why provides no relief for thetribe in this case.In -- in closing, I would like to say that thiscase does not implicate traditional sovereign immunitywhich is sovereign immunity from civil suit. And there th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was a question raised with regard to that, I believe byJustice Scalia, pointing out that the tribe's treasury isnot at issue here. It's not at stake here. What we'redealing with is process, in this case the criminal processof the court. And that's a totally different situation.This Court has never addressed criminal processas being subject to tribal immunity. All of this Court'sdecisions have addressed the tribe's immunity to civillawsuit. That is not what we have here. The doctrine oftribal immunity should not be extended in this case toinclude criminal process for the reasons that we have setforth.While there may not be any wholly satisfactoryresult, Justice Breyer, we believe that our position isthe best position. Even if one has to choose between either of the two categorical approaches, simply evenlooking at the rights of an accused and compulsoryprocess, that should mitigate toward the county's positionhere. We've also suggested a procedure, as presented byJustice White in Brendale, as being a potential resolutionof this problem, maintaining the dignity of the tribe andalso allowing the State to exercise its police power andprotect its citizens as it investigates and prosecutescrime.If there are no further questions -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Kirby.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 