 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XRAYMOND B. YATES, M.D., P.C. :PROFIT SHARING PLAN, AND RAYMOND B. YATES, TRUSTEE, Petitioners :::V. : No. -WILLIAM T. HENDON, TRUSTEE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES A. HOLIFIELD, ESQ., Knoxville, Tennessee; on behalfof the Petitioners.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. C. MARK TROUTMAN, ESQ., LaFollette, Tennessee; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. HOLIFIELD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners C. MARK TROUTMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES A. HOLIFIELD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Raymond Yates v. William T. Hendon.Mr. Holifield.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. HOLIFIELDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. HOLIFIELD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Petitioners believe that a sole owner may be aparticipant in an employee benefit plan if another commonlaw employee participates in such plan, regardless ofwhether that corporation or entity transacts business as asole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation. Thisbelief is based on a plain reading of ERISA, the planlanguage in question here, the statutory scheme of ERISA,the DOL regulations and the policy considerations beside-- excuse me -- behind such regulations. When ERISA was passed, it incorporated the termemployee. This Court dealt with that term in Nationwidev. Darden and held that the term employee includes acommon law employee. And -- and the term participant in aplan says if you're an employee with a right to a benefit,then you've met the definition of participant. In justlooking at these two terms alone, Yates was a participant th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in this plan and it's the petitioners' position as such hehad the rights to enforce the rights of ERISA.If you further read, the terms of the plan inand of itself support this. This was an IRS prototypeplan and the plan allowed for sole owners, soleproprietors, partnerships, or even incorporated entitiesto participate as sole owners in the plan if they coveredother common law employees. On top of this, if you look at the ERISAstatutory schemes, when ERISA was passed, title Iaddressed many different concerns. As I've alreadyexplained the definition of employee and participantspecifically include the person such as Yates as allowinghim to participate because he is an employee. Furthermore, if you look at, for instance, ERISAsection (b), that provision excludes as an exclusionfor certain aspects to the trust requirements of ERISA. One of those specific exclusions if -- is that some or allemployees are employees as defined in the Internal RevenueCode, and a specific reference is made to U.S.C.(c)(). And so you -- you see a pattern here that theIRS Code and the ERISA law being congruent in itsadministration of plans and a specific reference to adefinition of working employers that includes self-employed individuals, partnerships, and -- and people such th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. as that. When ERISA was passed, title II of ERISAspecifically dealt with changes to the tax code. It dealtwith specifically amendments to code section . Since --QUESTION: Mr. Holifield, I'm curious whether if-- if we were to agree with you that the petitioner couldbe considered an employee under ERISA, do we have to thengo on and address the rest of this rather complicatedquestion on the alienation issue and so forth, or would weremand on that?MR. HOLIFIELD: Your Honor --QUESTION: It wasn't dealt with below, was it?MR. HOLIFIELD: No, it wasn't, Your Honor. Andit -- it's -- certainly I could make an argument here thatPatterson and Guidry is controlling on that matter ofanti-alienation, but that issue wasn't the particularissue --QUESTION: No.MR. HOLIFIELD: -- raised in this Court, and --and not addressed in the lower courts.QUESTION: What is the -- what is that issue? Because I saw some -- I'm not sure that we're talkingabout the same issue. What is the issue that you saywasn't addressed? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HOLIFIELD: The issue that was not addressedin the lower courts is there is the maybe potentialconflict with the Bankruptcy Code as far as preferencelaws and the ERISA anti-alienation provision. QUESTION: In other words, this $, wasn'tput back until the eve of bankruptcy so even if -- even ifwe agreed with you that Yates can be an employee, this$, still might constitute an unlawful preference.MR. HOLIFIELD: Your Honor, it -- it might. There's certainly language, I believe, in the SixthCircuit opinion and the district court opinion that theyboth held that had -- certainly indicated it would bedicta that had Yates been declared a participant in theplan, they would have enforced the anti-alienation provisions, but there was no specific holding on thatpoint.QUESTION: And even if there was, that's notbefore us.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: We -- theoretically we could agreewith you that he's a participant and so forth but stillsay send it back for the bankruptcy issue.MR. HOLIFIELD: That is within the prerogativeof this Court, Your Honor. When title II was enacted, it was enacted with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the -- an understanding that in the Revenue Act of --was passed that allowed shareholder employees toparticipate in a plan. In , Self-Employed IndividualsTax Retirement Act was passed and that allowed soleproprietors or partnerships to form a Keogh plan in which-- and whether they could participate in a plan that onlycovered themselves or allowed it if it covered otheremployees.ERISA was passed in ', and it was passed withan understanding that these tax code provisions werethere. When Congress was amending title II of ERISA toamend the tax code, it did not change any of thesedefinitions. It clearly allowed these sole owners, theseworking owners, if you'll let me call them that, to participate in these plans and had Congress wanted toexclude them, they could have. They knew how to excludepeople. QUESTION: Does it have to be a working owner? Could it be someone who just owns shares and doesn't workin the business? MR. HOLIFIELD: Possibly, Your Honor. Yes. Imean, that is -- very rare does that occur. Typically youmay see that in a group health plan, but not typically ina retirement plan. You may see those types of things, butthere's nothing to prevent that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That -- that would be pretty farafield from the word employee. I mean, one could be --for example, did -- did Yates -- he was a -- a workingowner.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Was -- were FICA and FUTA taxes paidfor his labor?MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. In the termsof -- I think the record is critical on this that he's acommon law employee. The retirement plan in and of itselfdefined compensation as W- compensation, which means FICAand FUTA, as you're inquiring, was withheld. And so as aW- employee, the monies that were contributed to thisplan were based on a percentage of his W- compensation. So from a common law standpoint, just pure corporate law,he was an employee of that corporation who was handed aW- as an employee of the Yates P.C., and it was based onthat compensation that his contributions were made to theplan.In title IV of ERISA, there's an exclusion forplans maintained solely for substantial owners. And thepoint I'm making, whether you look at title I, title II,or title IV, you see references to sole owners being inthere or not -- possible ways they could be excluded, butnone of them that would prevent them from participating in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. plans such as this. And I think if you look at that, as well as lookat the DOL regulatory scheme that has come out of this,the DOL opinion letters report this conclusion, be that-A which is in the record at J.A. -- the jointappendix at and , the opinion letter -A at aand a. You see an information letter that's actuallyis part of UNUM Providence brief at appendix , and that'sa letter from Robert Dole to Susan Hoffman. Each of theseis where the DOL has opined an opinion that people thatare working owners can be a participant in an employeebenefit plan. And so I think the case law on that pointis pretty clear. And I think where the confusion comes into play is this definition of employee benefit plan in a reg thathas been misread by, I believe, two circuits on thatpoint. And I think just a plain reading of the reg in andof itself shows that working owners were intended to beincluded in these plans if they had another participant inthe plan. And --QUESTION: Here there were a couple of other --MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: -- plan participants at all times?MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. Thestipulation of facts point that -- that there were always th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. other participants in the plan besides the working ownersince these plans were formed in .And so just for the policy reasons behind thatis I think the preambles to the reg further shed lightabout the definition of employee benefit plan. And whatthe Department of Labor was weighing here was do youreally want to have working owners that are the soleowners, sole participants of the plan, have to comply withthe ERISA burdens. In other words, is there a need totell the working owner, even though there's no one else inthe plan, you need to give yourself a summary plandescription? You need to file an annual tax returnreporting about the plan. You need to communicate COBRArights for a health plan to yourself. Presumably if you created that plan, you are in a situation that you areaware of the benefits of the plan. But as soon as youhave one other employee, then there's a necessity for youto communicate those rights and benefits and explain theterms of the plan.And that seems to be a pretty reasonable readingof what the DOL was trying to balance here. In theirpreambles, they even said, one, there's no reason toprotect any abuse here, and secondly, that's not a gooduse of our resources to administer sole owner/soleparticipant plans. And given that background, I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's how that reg should be read.QUESTION: How does it come in? I'm -- I'm --just if you could clarify. This is a little --MR. HOLIFIELD: Sure.QUESTION: -- complicated in my mind. But basically -- so we have all thecharacteristics of a plan. Now, you have to start firstby saying that Dr. Yates is an employee of the corporationcalled Raymond Yates, P.C. And then it's not a plan,however, because he's -- wait a minute. It's not a planunless -- if there are no employees.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And an owner is not an employee forthat purpose.MR. HOLIFIELD: Correct.QUESTION: And so we look to see. There isanother one, and therefore, what section . took awayunder (b) -- under (c) it gave back under (b).MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Or it gave back because there wassomebody else.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes.QUESTION: But step one of that, we had to saythat he was an employee of the corporation.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And where does step one come from?MR. HOLIFIELD: Well, step one is just based on common law and the work -- and that is what this Courtheld in Darden. If you look at that, that --QUESTION: Okay. So we have to say -- we haveto find -- we have to first find that he is an employeeand, in fact, these regs don't give a definition of that.MR. HOLIFIELD: Exactly.QUESTION: So we have to appeal to the commonlaw to say he's -- he's an employee under common lawprinciples of the corporation.MR. HOLIFIELD: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: Then (b) says -- (c) says he isn'tone for purposes of ERISA, and (b) says that really wrecks the whole thing unless there's somebody else.MR. HOLIFIELD: Correct. QUESTION: And that's how it works.MR. HOLIFIELD: Exactly, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. MR. HOLIFIELD: And I think if you look at --what the -- the holding in the Sixth Circuit, I reallythink it really creates some policy problems for employeebenefit plans that are -- are pretty significant. Forinstance, the holding was that there is an employeebenefit plan here which -- with the issue you just raised. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And then it said, but there's not a participant -- Yatesis not a participant in that plan. So you have this -- Idon't know what you call it because he's been under oneplan document since the passage of the plan, since it wasenacted, and so now there's a presumption that this aspectof the plan is governed under State law, even thoughthere's never been a provision provided such as that. Theplan document is the same plan. And you could very easilyget fiduciaries in a situation like this havinginconsistent State law claims versus Federal claims. Youcould end up having situations that really make no sense.And one of the -- the primary purposes of ERISAwas to avoid the very issue that that would cause and thatis they wanted a uniform administrative scheme for all of the States and now there will be, you know, Stateshaving different regulatory provisions regarding theseplans, plus the Federal regulations. And what if theydon't co-exist in consistent remedies?And so I think for those reasons, petitioner isasking that Yates be declared a participant in this planand remand that for further proceedings. If you have no further questions, I'll reservethe rest of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Holifield. Is itHolifield or Holifield? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HOLIFIELD: Holifield. QUESTION: Holifield. Mr. Holifield.Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Hundreds of thousands of shareholders, partners,and sole proprietors who work for the businesses they ownare currently covered by benefit plans that also coverother employees. All of those different types of workingowners are participants subject to the rights and remediesof ERISA, just like the other employees in the plans. Andthat's clear from the text of ERISA which contains severalpartial exemptions, which Mr. Holifield referred to someof, for certain plans that cover working owners, and thoseexemptions presuppose that working owners may be ERISAparticipants. In addition, working owners have long beeneligible to participate, along with other employees, inpension plans qualifying for favorable tax treatment. AndERISA was intended to harmonize with those tax provisionsand it didn't revoke the ability of working owners toparticipate in tax qualified plans. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Coverage of working owners also furthers ERISA'spurposes of ensuring that employee benefit plans aregoverned by a single set of regulations, of encouragingplan creation, and of protecting plan participants. Sothere's no question that the other non-owner employeesthat are covered by plans that also cover working ownersare participants subject to the rights and remedies ofERISA.And if the working owners in those plans werenot also ERISA participants, they would be subject todifferent regulations and have different rights andremedies than other employees in the same plan. Theymight even be prohibited from being covered by the plansat all, and that result would place the coverage provisions of title I of ERISA at war with the taxprovisions governing pension plans and with the insuranceprovisions of title IV of ERISA, both of which cover plansin which working owners participate along with otheremployees.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts --QUESTION: But what if --QUESTION: -- what -- what is the consequence ofthe Sixth Circuit decision on the tax side of this plan? They said for the -- the retirement portion, it can't bean ERISA -- ERISA plan, but would -- would the tax th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. benefits be lost as well?MR. ROBERTS: No. The -- the -- it's clear andit's accepted in the opinions below that it is a qualifiedplan for -- for tax purposes. But it -- there's a strongpossibility that if -- if the working owner, Dr. Yates, isnot an ERISA participant under title I of ERISA, thattitle I would prohibit him from being in the plan at all,which would be a very anomalous situation because the taxcode is encouraging him to be in the plan along with otheremployees. And title I of ERISA would be prohibiting whatthe tax code encourages, and if it were a defined benefitplan, which this one doesn't happen to be, it would infact be insured also under title IV of ERISA which insuresplans in which working owners participate along with other employees. And in addition, allowing working owners toparticipate along with other employees, as I was alludingto before, advances ERISA's purpose of encouragingemployee benefit plans because the ability to participatethemselves gives working owners an incentive to establishplans for other workers. It also could create economiesof scale in plan administration and investment and itencourages owners to monitor the plans to ensure thatthey're well managed and that they're well funded. So for all of those reasons, the Department of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Labor has issued the advisory opinion stating that ownerscan be participants in ERISA plans. The IRS and the PBGCshare that view, and it's entitled to substantial weight.The -- the reason that the court of appealsreached the contrary conclusion is it misread theregulation that Justice Breyer was discussing with Mr.Holifield earlier.QUESTION: You're -- you're not saying it'sentitled to Chevron deference, just substantial weight?MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Skidmore deference, YourHonor, on the interpretive letter, although --QUESTION: Do we need deference?MR. ROBERTS: No. We don't think you need anydeference, Your Honor. The one point that --QUESTION: Well, I don't know why it isn'tChevron, but I mean, what he's referring to is theargument about the mysterious meaning of Mead, which ifyou'd like to go into it, fine.MR. ROBERTS: I -- I have no desire for --QUESTION: I just want to know what theGovernment's position is in this. As I understand it, itis not Chevron. You're just -- Skidmore.MR. ROBERTS: We're not asking -- we're notasking for Chevron deference. As the Chief Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. pointed out, we think that it's --QUESTION: I want to know -- I don't care whatyou're asking for. You do not think it's entitled toChevron deference. Is that right?MR. ROBERTS: We read Mead to say ordinarily --particularly since in Christianson, the Court wasconfronting an opinion letter from the Department ofLabor, I would hesitate to suggest that an opinion letterfrom the Department of Labor here and a statute that is,as far as I can tell, no different in how it treatsopinion letters, would be entitled to greater deferencethan --QUESTION: Well, you have Udall v. Tallman, ifyou want to go into it --MR. ROBERTS: Well --QUESTION: -- where it's interpreting its ownregs.MR. ROBERTS: That's a different -- yes. Yes,Your Honor. On the question -- on the question of theSecretary's interpretation of her regulation as to limitthe definition of employee to only the regulation itselfand to not extend to the statute, on that point theSecretary's interpretation of her own regulation iscontrolling. That would be Udall, Auer v. Robbins, whichis also a Labor Department case. And I think there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question about that as well.One point I did want to make is that we wouldurge the Court to make clear in its opinion that all typesof working owners, not just those that are common lawemployees, are -- are eligible to be participants underERISA. And the reason for that is that there's confusionon that in the courts of appeals and the very reasons --same reasons that justify the conclusion that soleshareholders can be ERISA participants also justify theconclusion that sole proprietors and partners who are notcommon law employees, if they are working for thebusinesses, may be ERISA participants. QUESTION: You -- you keep stressing working forthe businesses. What -- what is your answer to the question I asked Mr. Holifield about suppose you have asingle shareholder, percent owner, but that doesn'twork in the business. MR. ROBERTS: As a general matter, I think thatperson could not be covered as a -- a participant. Theperson might be designated by a participant as a -- as abeneficiary or in certain circumstances designated by theplan as a beneficiary in connection with a participant inthe plan who was an -- an employee. But the definition ofemployee for ERISA is the same definition as under ofthe Internal Revenue Code which is common law employees th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. plus self-employed individuals who are people that areproviding personal services to the business and gettingearned income. Responds to Your Honor. If there are no further questions, we would askthat the judgment of the court of appeals be reversed andremanded.QUESTION: If -- I just have one question. If-- if we follow your suggestion for the writing of theopinion, how do you suggest we explain and cite ClackamasCounty?MR. ROBERTS: Well, in -- in Clackamas, theCourt followed the same approach that the Court followedin Darden. And the first step in that approach is to lookto the statute.QUESTION: Look at the statute.MR. ROBERTS: And so we would say Clackamas justdoesn't come in because you look to the statute. Thestatute makes clear that all the types of working ownerscan be covered, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts.Mr. Troutman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF C. MARK TROUTMANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. TROUTMAN: Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Justice Breyer, we -- we address this issue atthe very level that you -- you talked about, that firstcommon law level, and we think an important distinctionshould be made in this case that this case is not aboutworking owners. This case is about one workingshareholder, a sole shareholder. And we think that makesa substantial difference when you get down to the basicsof an organization and -- and you look at the fiduciaryduties a president, a director has to a corporation andyou look at the fact that when you have one shareholder,there's one person that that duty is enforceable by, andthat's the same person that it applies to. On the other hand, in this -- in this Court'sopinion in Clackamas, you had four shareholders, and no matter what their interests were, those shareholders allhad fiduciary rights and expectations between themselvesand all had the right to enforce those fiduciaryobligations amongst them. So there is some element ofcontrol that those other shareholders have when -- whenyou try to separate one down. But here, at its basic level, Dr. Yates iscontrolled by no one. So when you start talking aboutcommon law applications of master/servant and control,there's no one else to apply it to. He answers to no onein this corporation. So we think -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I mean, for what purpose? If you --suppose I set up a corporation. I'm the sole shareholderand I enter into an employment agreement they pay me$, a month and I'm called the president, chief cookand bottle washer, and employee. Now, am I not anemployee under the common law? The common law, say, forpurposes of tort, is there not respondeat superior so thatsomeone who sues me can get to the assets of thecorporation for purposes of liability --MR. TROUTMAN: There -- there is.QUESTION: -- of any kind? Is there anydifference whether I happen to be the sole shareholder ornot?MR. TROUTMAN: Well, we think there is a difference --QUESTION: Which -- what is it?MR. TROUTMAN: -- in this case because --QUESTION: No, no. What is not in this case. What is it in general?MR. TROUTMAN: Well, in general you're -- you'recorrect that -- that you would be --QUESTION: All right. If I'm correct ingeneral, then what is it about this --MR. TROUTMAN: Okay. In this case and in theClackamas case, the Court looked at what the common law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. considers an employee. And we think when you apply commonlaw concepts of control in a master/servant relationshipand when you get down to breaking down and applying theelements that are referenced in the Darden case, that allof these -- all of these elements, when you're applyingthem to Dr. Yates, will indicate that as sole shareholderhe is more considered an employer than he is an employee.QUESTION: When you talk about control, Mr.Troutman, you're talking about two different peoplebasically. How much control does one have over the other. Here there is only one.MR. TROUTMAN: That's correct, Your Honor, andthat's why we think that when you have sole shareholdersand when you -- and when you're dealing with trying to apply a control to only one, it's almost an anomaly. And-- and --QUESTION: Well, but you -- you think then thata sole shareholder for that reason cannot be an employee?MR. TROUTMAN: We think that for purposes ofERISA, when ERISA is trying to determine whether a personis an employee and an employer and where we're not givenmuch guidance by the statute, we don't think these --number one, we don't think these other statutoryprovisions give us guidance with a sole shareholder. Andwe think a distinction should be made within this category th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of working owners between sole proprietors and -- and soleshareholders. And so while in -- in the common lawcontext in general, an employee may constitute or consistof an -- of a sole shareholder, when -- when you're tryingto separate that person out under ERISA and plug thatperson into one of those definitions under ERISA --QUESTION: Why does it have to be onedefinition? Certainly Yates is an employer, but why can'the also be an employee? Why -- am I right that you seemto think it's got to be one or the other? It can't beboth? MR. TROUTMAN: We think under Darden -- yes,Justice Ginsburg. We think under Darden that when youapply the factors that are listed in the Darden case, the control, the -- the providing of the instrumentalities,the right to direct the work of other employees, we thinkthat that results in this instance with the soleshareholder of classifying him as an employer, not anemployee.QUESTION: Well, he is an employer. There's noquestion about that. But why can't he be an employee forthis purpose just as he is for taxes on workers likeSocial Security and unemployment compensation?MR. TROUTMAN: Well, I -- I guess under that --under that scenario then we would need to look at perhaps th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what the employer -- how the -- how the particular personis acting under the plan. And if -- if we're talkingabout is he taking money out of his paycheck and deducting-- and contributing under ERISA, perhaps he's an employee. Is, on the other hand, he -- exercising his -- hisinvestment decisions as trustee, does he then come underthe definition of employer as someone acting on hisbehalf?Or in this instance, we have the -- we have thedebt that existed for -- for many years and contrary tothe specific terms of the plan, that debt was not repaidby a specific --QUESTION: But that's an issue that everyoneagrees is open, that even -- even if he's classified as an employee, the creditors may have priority over the planwith respect to that $,.MR. TROUTMAN: Yes, I agree with that, but whatI was going -- what I was -- what I was leading to wasthat when he failed to make those quarterly deductionsthat are required by the plan, he -- that more couches himin terms of an employer because he's the -- he's got hisemployer hat on, in other words, because he's the one thatwould control what deductions come out of employees' payor not. And -- and we think that's the very heart of this-- this case. And so if he's acting in that capacity, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. perhaps --QUESTION: If he hadn't -- if he hadn't loanedany money from the plan, then he would be an employee?MR. TROUTMAN: If he hadn't loaned any money inthe plan --QUESTION: Hadn't borrowed any money.MR. TROUTMAN: Borrowed any money. We wouldn'tbe here because it would have been --QUESTION: No, no. But no. But --QUESTION: He'd still be something I assume.QUESTION: That -- that's true, but we're --we're asking what his status is.MR. TROUTMAN: I understand. But now, there'salso -- we also make the point that perhaps there can be participation under the plan, but that doesn't necessarilyelevate him to this protected status as a participant. Under the Internal Revenue provisions, he is permitted toparticipate under this plan, but the IRS -- I mean, the --ERISA distinguishes between an employer and an employee inthose -- in those definitions. So --QUESTION: I didn't get your answer to JusticeGinsburg's question. Had -- had he not borrowed themoney, would he -- would he have been employee?MR. TROUTMAN: He could have possibly been anemployee insofar as -- if -- if under Justice Ginsburg's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. scenario, you look at the activities of the individualunder a specific set of circumstances. QUESTION: Would he be a participant in the planlawfully under ERISA?MR. TROUTMAN: We don't think so. We think thathe --QUESTION: Whether or not he borrowed money.MR. TROUTMAN: Whether or not he borrowed money. Our position is that he may have been able to participateunder the plan under the Internal Revenue --QUESTION: But you do concede that theDepartment of Labor views it differently. MR. TROUTMAN: The Department of Labor does viewit differently. QUESTION: Shouldn't that have some weight inour interpretation?MR. TROUTMAN: We think under the Harris Countycase that is entitled to the respect to the extent that itis persuasive. But again, the -- the labor regulationsrefer to this broad class of working owners, and we thinkthat there is a substantial difference between soleproprietors, sole shareholders, and these otherclassifications, for instance, the General Motors lineemployee who gets stock as part of his pension plan. Wedon't think that -- you know, because he's not able to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. control his job, he's still at the mercy of -- ofmanagement. We don't think that -- that stock ownership,no matter how fractional, gives him any -- any rights tocontrol or act as --QUESTION: What -- what about partners?MR. TROUTMAN: Partners would be the same way wethink because obviously you're going to have more than oneperson if it's a partnership. But a partner, you know,owes other fiduciary duties and an individual partner isalways subject to a fiduciary duty to his other partners.QUESTION: A partner -- say, there are twopartners. They could be both employees and employers ofthe business. MR. TROUTMAN: No. We think -- well, no. Yes,we would agree that if there's two or more, that thatdistinguishes the situation from this case where you haveone sole person involved. So, yes, partners could beemployees and deemed participants under -- under ERISA.QUESTION: But you don't just have one personinvolved. Isn't it correct you have a corporation whichis a person and you have a human person? So there arereally two people involved.MR. TROUTMAN: You do, but you only have -- butthat -- that corporation, that legal fictional entity, canonly act through a human person, and there's only one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. human person to act. Dr. Yates, as president or director,owes those fiduciary duties to the corporation, but assole shareholder, you know, in essence they're owed tohim. So he -- there's no way to enforce those back.QUESTION: Well, the -- you know, you're -- if-- you can't be appealing to the common law then if -- ifwe're going to get the meaning of employee from the commonlaw. The common law doesn't pierce the corporate veillike that.MR. TROUTMAN: No, it doesn't. QUESTION: You establish a corporation andthere's the corporation and there's the employee. And thefact that the employee happens to be a shareholder of thecorporation would have no relevance at common law. MR. TROUTMAN: That's right. We're appealing --QUESTION: So you're arguing something apartfrom common law, something based on what? Based on the --the purposes of ERISA?MR. TROUTMAN: Yes, based on the purposes ofERISA and based on this Court's opinion in the Clackamascase where -- where it looked beyond the corporatestructure of the -- of the four shareholders there. And-- and in the -- in the footnote it specifically said that-- of course, we had the EEOC guidelines of control and --and all the others, but -- but the Court went beyond the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. corporate veil there to say that these four shareholdersunder the common law may more likely be classified asemployers than employee, at least under the ADA.QUESTION: But -- but that was because thestatute was, we thought in Clackamas, silent on the point,and the Government's argument is that the statute iscontrolling here.MR. TROUTMAN: The Government is arguing thatthe statute is different in the -- from both Darden andClackamas in that it indicates that employees may -- orthat working owners may participate. Our response to thatis two things.One, when you break it down to sole shareholdersand go back to the purposes of ERISA, you know, the owners of the -- employers were not who ERISA -- Congress wastrying to protect. It was the employees.Secondly, when you look at other provisions likethe definition of an employer that says someone working onhis -- on behalf of the employee -- when you look atsections , of ERISA that clearly seem todistinguish between an employer and employee, we submitthere are other inferences that may be drawn that perhapsthe same person cannot function in two differentcapacities under ERISA.QUESTION: I mean, I don't understand what -- I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. thought ERISA is to protect employees --MR. TROUTMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: -- let's say, other than the owner.MR. TROUTMAN: That's correct. QUESTION: All right? So we put some of them inthe program, and then ERISA says, and by the way, if youhave a program like that, the owner can participate in ittoo just like an employee. So that seems to be thepurpose, to make sure you have some employees, and then ifyou do, you let the owners and the executives, everybodyelse involved can become as participants if they'remembers or former members of the organization at least. So if that's the purpose, how does this defeat thepurpose? There are some other members and he wants toparticipate. MR. TROUTMAN: If the -- we submit that whatthis doctor -- what Dr. Yates is here as a soleshareholder is more akin to an employer than an employeeand that when you start combining his interests with thoseof other employees, that you start to muddy the purpose ofthe congressional intent --QUESTION: No, no, no. I'm just talking interms of purposes. If you're talking in terms oflanguage, what they say is, A, the common law would haveconsidered him an employee of the corporation. B, we have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the tax code which says -- doesn't happen to throw him inas a member or former member. It says he's a participantbecause it says he's an employee. We have the PensionBenefit Guaranty code which again refers to him as anemployee, and then we have the language of the reg itselfwhich says he's not deemed an employee for purposes ofthis section, words which wouldn't have been necessary ifhe fell -- didn't fall within it in the first place. Andthen it says, for purposes of this section, whichcertainly suggests that it could mean just purposes ofthis section, otherwise he's in it. And just to top it,we have that's what the Labor Department thinks.All right. Now, that seems like a pretty goodset of considerations.MR. TROUTMAN: I understand. I -- I would saythat under title IV, Justice Breyer, also the samelanguage is there: for purposes of this section. Then itdefines a substantial owner. So we submit the samelimiting language that's in the CFR is also in theprovisions of title IV, and -- and as the petitionercorrectly points out in their brief, title IV does notapply here.So we think the policies of ERISA are -- arefurthered when you separate the two and you -- you know,where Congress has intended to -- to protect employees, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and we think when the other provisions of the statute areexamined, that -- that this one person cannot occupy thesetwo positions of employer and employee.QUESTION: But as far as the tax exempt part ofthe plan, that's okay. You agree with -- I think I askedMr. Roberts that question. MR. TROUTMAN: You did, Justice Ginsburg, and wedon't think there's any tax effect here by this decision. QUESTION: On the point that would be left overfor remand, that is in any event, this was a -- was anunlawful preference, was that something that you raisedbelow?MR. TROUTMAN: We did. In fact, Your Honor,that was the very first thing we raised and that was the first issue we focused on and the -- the bankruptcy courtinstead chose this issue to rule on and pretermitted thedetermination of the other issue. We focused on theexception under statutory section , that ERISA is notintended to preempt other Federal laws. That decision wasnot reached by the bankruptcy court.And we -- we also thought it important -- we'renot going after Dr. Yates' interest as an employee in thisplan. The -- the defendants are the plan administratorand the trustee. Under the Bankruptcy Code, our cause ofaction is against the recipient, the plan, for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. repayment of the debt not Dr. Yates --QUESTION: You want the $, that he paidback into the plan.MR. TROUTMAN: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. So for those reasons, we think that -- thatClackamas did not limit us to looking at the corporatestructure, and we think that ERISA is considered toemployees. And we think the lower courts correctly ruledso.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Troutman.Mr. Holifield, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. HOLIFIELDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. HOLIFIELD: Your Honor, I would just -- just point out just a couple quick points here, and that is,there's nothing in ERISA that prevents a person from beingor playing or acting in multiple roles. That wascontemplated all throughout ERISA and it's in the briefs. Matter of fact, there's nothing preventing Yates PC frombeing the trustee, the plan administrator, the plansponsor, and having all those roles. This Court in Varityv. Howe dealt with an individual in one speech who waspart of the time held to be the employer, part of the timeheld to be a fiduciary communicating benefits in the samespeech. So those roles can happen simultaneously in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. certain aspects. And so I would point that out.And the other thing is -- is the term employer. There's nothing preventing a person being an employer andan employee. In fact, the definition of employer saysanyone acting as an employer, a person acting as anemployer, and the definition of persons specificallyincludes individual, partnerships, joint ventures,corporations, unincorporated organizations, associations,employee organizations, mutual companies, this -- thishuge laundry list of entities, including down to a singleperson. So I'd argue that I don't think there's aquestion about a person being an employer and even if youassumed Yates was a sole proprietor and still being ableto participate in this plan based on the other regulatory provisions and statutes of ERISA.And for those reasons, we'd ask that you reversethe decision of the Sixth Circuit and remand it forfurther proceedings. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Holifield. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 