 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, : Petitioner : v. : No. -SAMUEL FRANCIS PATANE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.JILL M. WICHLENS, ESQ., Assistant Federal Public Defender, Denver, Colorado; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner JILL M. WICHLENS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument nowin No. -, the United States v. Samuel FrancisPatane. Mr. Dreeben. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Before this Court's decision in Dickerson v.United States in the year , it was the uniform rule inthe lower Federal courts that the failure to issue Mirandawarnings meant that the unwarned statement was notadmissible in the Government's case, but that there was norequirement to suppress physical evidence that was derivedfrom those unwarned statements. Following this Court's decision in Dickerson,which affirmed that Miranda has constitutional stature,the majority of the Federal courts of appeals to addressthe issue continued to adhere to the pre-Dickerson rulethat physical fruits of an unwarned statement wereadmissible. In this case, the Tenth Circuit broke ranks withthat uniform body of authority and held that, as a result th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of Dickerson's ruling that Miranda has constitutionalstature, there is a derivative fruits suppressioncomponent to the Miranda rule. That holding should bereversed. Miranda stands as a rule that implements theFifth Amendment, not by requiring the compulsion that theAmendment literally speaks of, but by providing an extralevel of protection for the core of the Fifth Amendmentright, the right for the defendant's own statements thatare incriminating not to be used against him in a criminaltrial. QUESTION: Is it a Fifth Amendment right or not aFifth Amendment right? MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, as I understand it,it is a right that implements the Fifth Amendment'sprotection. QUESTION: It - it has to be based on somethingin the Constitution or we would have had to respect thestatute enacted by Congress in Dickerson. So it is -there is obviously some provision of the Constitution thatenabled us to disregard that statute. What - whatprovision is that? MR. DREEBEN: The Fifth Amendment. What the - QUESTION: All right. It's a Fifth Amendmentright then. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: What the Court concluded in Mirandaand then reaffirmed in Dickerson is that the traditionaltotality of the circumstances test for ascertainingwhether a statement is voluntary or has been compelled bythe Government is not adequate when the statements aretaken in the inherently pressuring environment ofcustodial interrogation. And to provide an extra layer ofprotection to avoid the violation of the defendant's FifthAmendment rights, the Court adopted a prophylacticwarnings and wavier procedure. QUESTION: Whether it's prophylactic or not, itis a constitutional right, is it not? It is aconstitutional right. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Scalia, it is aconstitutional right that is distinct from the right notto have one's compelled statements used against oneself. QUESTION: Well, so is the constitutional rightnot to be pistol-whipped in order to - to confess. MR. DREEBEN: Well - QUESTION: That's distinct from the introductionof the coerced confession at trial, but we don'tdistinguish between the two, do we? MR. DREEBEN: Oh, I think you do, Justice Scalia. That is a violation of the core due process right not tohave substantive violations of one's liberty interests. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. What we're talking about in this case is not a substantiveviolation of the defendant's rights, but a proceduralviolation of the Fifth Amendment that this Court hasdefined in Miranda, but has defined it in a way that ishighly distinct from the basic, textually-mandated rule ofthe Fifth Amendment that compelled statements may not beused. QUESTION: Let me - let me take out the pistol-whipping. It - it - it is a coerced statement because ofthe application of mental coercion. Now, that is not aviolation of the Fifth Amendment, I suppose, until theproduct of the - of the coercion is introduced at trial. Will you say the same thing? MR. DREEBEN: I would - I'm not sure, JusticeScalia, that your question addresses what Mirandaaddressed. What Miranda addressed was a situation inwhich it was extremely difficult for the courts to sortout whether a statement was coerced or not coerced, and toavoid the risk that an actually coerced statement would beused in evidence against the defendant, thus violating thecore Fifth Amendment right. The Miranda Court, as thisCourt has later explained, adopted a presumption, apresumption for a limited purpose. In the government - QUESTION: May - may I ask a - a modified versionof Justice Scalia's question? Supposing that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government used official powers, such as a grand jurysubpoena or a congressional committee subpoena, to - toget a confession out of a person under threat of contemptof court, so it was clearly just a Fifth Amendment was a -he made an answer that revealed the existence of the gunand then he - would that be a - would the gun beadmissible or un - inadmissible in that scenario? MR. DREEBEN: If your hypothetical, JusticeStevens, presupposes an assertion of the Fifth Amendmentright and actual compulsion of the - QUESTION: The threat of contempt, yeah. MR. DREEBEN: - information, presumably under agrant of immunity, then the gun would not be admissible,because this Court has defined a violation of the FifthAmendment that involves actual compulsion as entailing twodifferent evidentiary consequences. One evidentiaryconsequence is that the statements themselves may not beused. The other evidentiary consequence is that nothingderived from the statements may be used. But the criticalfeature of that hypothetical and its distinction fromMiranda, is it involves actual compulsion. Miranda - QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben - Mr. - Miranda itselfsaid, but unless and until such warnings and waivers aredemonstrated by the prosecution at trial, no evidenceobtained as a result of interrogation can be used against th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. him, no evidence as a result of interrogation. Thatsounds like a - a - a derivative evidence rule to me. MR. DREEBEN: It does, Justice Ginsburg, andthere are many things in the Miranda opinion that have notstood the test of later litigation in this Court, becausethey extended the implications of Miranda far beyond wherethis Court has gone. And let me be precise about this. The rule, at the time of Miranda and today, is that ifthere is actual compulsion, the Government may not makeuse of the actual statements that are taken or theirevidentiary fruits. The Government may also not use thatstatement for impeachment, and there is no public safetyexception that could - QUESTION: Well, how are we going to determineactual compulsion if it's a situation where the policeknowingly engage in conversation hoping to pick upinformation without giving the Miranda warnings, and thenthe minute they start hearing something useful, give thewarnings, but then rely on what they learned earlier tofurther that information gathering. How - how do we parsethat out? MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, the determinationof whether the statements reflect voluntariness at theoutset and then a knowing and - and intelligent waiver ofMiranda warnings later on after they are given needs to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. determined based on the totality of the circumstances. But this Court has recognized, in allowing theuse of unwarned statements for impeachment and in adoptingthe public safety exception, and in permitting a secondwarned statement, as the Court did in Oregon v. Elstad, tobe admitted into evidence, notwithstanding an earlierunwarned statement, that there is a difference between theMiranda presumption and a finding of actual compulsion. QUESTION: May I ask you - you mentioned thepublic safety exception. We wouldn't - we really don'tneed a public safety exception if you're correct in thiscase, do we? MR. DREEBEN: No, we still do, because thecrucial thing about Miranda that is not challenged here isthat a failure to issue Miranda warnings, followed bycustodial interrogation, means that the unwarned statementis inadmissible in the Government's case in chief. Thatis the core ruling of Miranda. QUESTION: But the core ruling of the publicsafety exception, as I remember it, is that you can usethe gun. MR. DREEBEN: No, the core ruling of the publicsafety exception is that you can use the statement. TheCourt held, in New York v. Quarles, that when pressingpublic safety needs justify the conduct of custodial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interrogation without prior issuance of Miranda warnings,that situation falls outside of the Miranda paradigm, andthe statements themselves can be used. Now, Justice O'Connor's dissenting opinionargued that there should be no exception for public safetyfor the statements themselves, but the gun, as derivativeevidence, should come in, because it was not the productof actual compulsion at which the Fifth Amendment isaimed. QUESTION: Mr. - QUESTION: The - the difficulty that I haveaccepting that as the final answer is that there isn't anyfunctional difference in a case like this betweenadmitting the statement, the admission that he had the gunon the shelf in the bedroom, and admitting the gun. Sothat, in functional terms, the - the Miranda protection,even as you describe it, disappears on your theory. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Souter, if - if I acceptthat that accurately describes this case, it does notaccurately describe the large class of cases in whichphysical evidence is discovered as a result of unwarnedstatements. In many - QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, doesn't it occur - coverquite a wide number of cases? This was a case where the -the crime that the police were after were - was gun th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. possession. It might be narcotics possession, it might bestolen goods. And in all those situations, are you sayingthat the constitutional rule is that a police chief cansay to his officers, go in and get him to tell you wherethe narcotics are, where the gun is, where the stolengoods are? We don't worry about his statement, but wewant the goods. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, that is myposition, but I don't think it would be a prudent policyfor law enforcement to adopt. This case may be one inwhich the Government can prove knowing possession of afirearm by the defendant even without the benefit of hisstatements, but police officers are not going to be ableto predict in advance that that is going to be true in thevast majority of cases. What they are going to know isthat if you have a statement that links the defendant tothe gun, that allows you to show knowing possession. Inthe absence of that, having the physical evidence alonewill not necessarily guarantee a conviction. QUESTION: You don't think the gun on the shelfin the guy's bedroom is going to be sufficient to proveknowing possession? MR. DREEBEN: Oh, I do in this case, JusticeSouter. QUESTION: You know what's in your bedroom. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: I think that the Court shoulddecide this case not based on the particularities of thisfactual scenario, but on the class of cases in whichphysical evidence is at issue, and should regard thequestion of what incentives the police may have asinformed by the totality of cases that may arise. Police officers who decide to conduct custodialinterrogation without giving Miranda warnings know thatthey will not be able to use the statements that thedefendant makes in the Government's case in chief, andthey have no way of knowing before they conduct custodialinterrogation what the defendant may say. If thedefendant offers up information that is incriminating onunanticipated crimes or provides leads to information thatthe police haven't previously anticipated, then the policeofficers run two risks. The first is that they won't be able to usethose statements against the defendant in the case inchief. The second is that by failing to issue Mirandawarnings, they increase the likelihood that a later courtreviewing the facts will conclude that this is not a caseof a mere failure to give Miranda warnings, but is a caseinvolving actual compulsion. And if a court concludesthat the statements are actually compelled, involuntary - QUESTION: Well, Mr. Dreeben, supposing that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. police decide that they're going to follow this strategythat is perhaps suggested by Justice Ginsburg. Would thatitself be evidence of compulsion? In other words, theywon't give Miranda warnings and see - see what the personsays, then they give them. Would that be evidence ofcompulsion? MR. DREEBEN: It would be evidence that adefendant could argue is relevant, but I don't think thatit would be evidence of compulsion. What's relevant inthe compulsion analysis is what the police officersactually say and do and communicate to the suspect. Theiruncommunicated intent or law enforcement policies wouldnot add up to compulsion by itself. QUESTION: If we were to reject your position and- and say that this is purely a constitutional violation,would you then lose the case? MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Kennedy. The Courtshould still do as it has done in other contexts, balancethe costs of a Miranda suppression remedy against whateverincremental benefits there may have. QUESTION: What's your - QUESTION: And why - why is this different thanthe rule under the Fourth Amendment, say Wong Sun? MR. DREEBEN: What the Court has done in theFourth Amendment context is deal with an actual violation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of the Fourth Amendment and establish very exclusion -various exclusionary rules that are designed to deter thatkind of police conduct. The Miranda rule is verydifferent, because even if the Court holds that Mirandaprescribes a rule of substantive conduct for the police,which we submit it does not, even if the Court were tohold that, it still is a rule that merely presumescompulsion. It doesn't constitute a finding of actualcompulsion. QUESTION: Well, we said last year in Chavez thatthe Miranda - that the Constitution was not violated byfailure to give Miranda warnings until they were offeredin evidence, didn't we? MR. DREEBEN: That - that is correct, Mr. ChiefJustice. But what the Court has done under the FifthAmendment - QUESTION: Is it correct, was there a majority totake that position? QUESTION: That was the trial court's opinion,wasn't it? QUESTION: That - that - I believe to - you'retaking all the opinions together. There were six votesfor that. MR. DREEBEN: I think this Court will be betterable than I am to say what Chavez held. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: But the - the reason that thatprinciple alone does not decide this case is that theCourt has, in instances of actual compulsion out of court,applied a derivative evidence suppression rule. That'sthe rule that the Court adopted in Counselman v.Hitchcock, and it's followed it in its immunity line ofcases where it has held that to displace the FifthAmendment right against compelled self-incrimination, youneed to suppress both the statement and the fruits. QUESTION: Is part of your - is - is part of yourreasoning that in the Fourth Amendment violation case,exclusion is the - really the best available, most directremedy? And in - and in this case, there are otherremedies, number one, excluding the statement, so thatwhen you - when you find tangible evidence, it's - it'sjust a - an ancillary and less necessary remedy. Is thatthe whole - MR. DREEBEN: That - that's - QUESTION: - thrust of the argument. MR. DREEBEN: That's the core of it, JusticeKennedy. What the Court did in Miranda was create a rulethat operates in the very heart of the Fifth Amendment bycreating a prophylactic buffer zone against the risk, notthe certainty, but the risk, that actual compulsion has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. been exacted. It is that risk that the Fifth Amendmenttargets as the core concern. QUESTION: What's the theory of the compulsion? That is, what - why, assuming that there's compulsion butthere hasn't been an introduction of the statement thatwas compelled into evidence. Under that - and supposethat the compulsion doesn't rise to the level of the dueprocess violation. I mean, I - maybe - maybe they all do,but - but if they don't, then what's the theory of keepingout the evidence derived from that sort of compulsion. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, as the Courtexplained it in its immunity line of cases, the startingpoint of analysis is that a defendant under the FifthAmendment can claim his privilege against testifying basednot only on incrimination from the statements that hemakes, but also that evidence that the Government canobtain as a result of the statements is incriminating. If his testimony is a link in a chain ofincrimination, he can stand silent, and the Court reasonedfrom that that the Government should not be able tocircumvent that right of the defendant not to be a witnessagainst his - himself, by calling him out of court,compelling testimony over his objection that - based onthe Fifth Amendment, and then obtaining the veryincriminating information that the privilege shielded him th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. from having to provide. QUESTION: So why doesn't all that apply here? Imean, is - is that - I can understand it if they compelthe testimony, then you introduce it. Then - then youhave the completed violation of what the Fifth Amendmentforbids, all right, the completed violation. I canunderstand it if you compel the person to the extent thatit violates the Due Process Clause, beating him upseverely, whatever. Now, I don't understand why, if you have neitherof those two things, you would keep the evidence that'sthe fruits out, under some theory that doesn't also sayyou should keep this out. MR. DREEBEN: Well, the - the distinction betweenthis situation and the true compulsion situation is,Miranda does not involve an actual finding of compulsion,and the Court has been very frank about this. As aresult, the Court has repeatedly drawn distinctionsbetween the use of unwarned statements and the use ofactually compelled statements. Actually compelledstatements may not be used to impeach a defendant's trialtestimony. That too would violate the Fifth Amendmentright. But the Court held in - in the Hass case and inthe Harris case that statements that are merely unwarned, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. but not compelled, can be used for impeachment. The Courtsimilarly held in Michigan v. Tucker and then again inOregon v. Elstad that statements that are unwarned, butnot compelled, can be used as leads to find anotherwitness' testimony, or to obtain a second statement fromthe defendant himself. And if - QUESTION: So is this distinction that the - that- that one case is just more egregious, more an affront tothe Constitution, more dangerous, i.e., physicalcompulsion as opposed to the compulsion that's justpresumed from Miranda? MR. DREEBEN: One case, Justice Kennedy, involvesa literal violation of the Fifth Amendment. Mirandainvolves a presumption that this Court - QUESTION: Well, then - then you're back intometaphysics. MR. DREEBEN: It is a little metaphysical,Justice Kennedy, but there's a - a pot of truth, I think,a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow here, which isthat the Miranda presumption does not mean, this Court hasheld, that a statement is actually compelled. It protectsagainst the most crucial right contained in the FifthAmendment itself, which is - QUESTION: But you don't think we shoulddifferentiate based on the gravity of the - of the wrong th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in either case? MR. DREEBEN: You could look at it that - thatway, Justice Kennedy. What - what the Court has done whenit's dealt with a - a failure to issue warnings, isbalance. It has recognized that, by providing a rule thatpresumes compulsion in lieu of proving it, the Court hastaken a step beyond the core of the constitutional rightitself, and the Court's language in its previous cases ofcalling Miranda warnings and the exclusionary rule underMiranda a prophylactic right is understandable in thatsense. Miranda excludes some statements that are notcompelled under the Fifth Amendment. QUESTION: May - may I ask this question, Mr.Dreeben? The - there's a distinction in - in your - yousubmit, between a presumption of involuntariness andactual involuntariness. Do you know any other area of thelaw in which we've differentiated between a presumedresult and an actual result? MR. DREEBEN: I - I - I don't want to go off intoan excursion into rules of law that might occur to me as Istand here, Justice Stevens. But what I do know is thatthe Court's own Miranda jurisprudence - QUESTION: My understand - you're - you're -there's - there's a lot in the case that support what yousay. But I'm suggesting it is kind of a unique th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. development of the law, because normally I would think ifyou presume X from Y, that would be the same as proving X. MR. DREEBEN: It - QUESTION: But you say that's new - that's nottrue in this line of - this area of the law? MR. DREEBEN: There is language in the Mirandaopinion, as Justice Ginsburg has mentioned, that wouldsupport the view that the original vision of Miranda wasthat it would constitute compulsion - QUESTION: Right. MR. DREEBEN: - not merely presume it. But asthe Court developed the rule and considered what the costsand benefits would be of having a rule that merelypresumed compulsion, any context in which it was notnecessarily true. The Miranda Court itself recognizedthat not all statements taken in custodial interrogationwithout warnings are compelled. Once you are dealing witha prophylactic rule, it's incumbent upon the Court tobalance the benefits against the burdens of the rule. QUESTION: Of course, one of the benefits of -under the Miranda analysis, we will - we avoid thenecessity of resolving difficult issues of fact sometimes. There are a lot of borderline cases to whether therereally was compulsion or it's just presumed. We'll haveto get back into that, under your view. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think the Court has putitself back into it by adopting the holdings that permitstatements that are not warned to be used for impeachmentand to be used to obtain leads for other witnesses. QUESTION: Well, I guess we tell juries they candisregard presumptions, but they can't disregard facts. MR. DREEBEN: And I think that that's what theCourt has really decided is the right approach when youare outside the core concern that the Miranda Court wasaddressing, namely the use of the unwarned statementitself. There is a terrible cost to the truth-seekingfunction of a criminal trial to suppress reliable,physical evidence that was obtained not as the result of acore constitutional violation involving literal compulsionor a substantive due process violation, but merely afailure to issue warnings. QUESTION: It's a terrible cost, but it's aterrible cost for which the law provides a ready means ofavoidance. I mean, Miranda's been around for a long time. There is - there's no excuse at this point in our historyfor the police to say, gee, I - I don't quite understandwhat Miranda is getting at. And - and that's why it seemsto me the cost argument is a weak one - MR. DREEBEN: Well, I - QUESTION: - and is a - let me just finish this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sentence. And as against that weak argument, there seemsto me a fairly strong argument that if you accept yourposition, there is a, in - in effect, a recipe fordisregarding Miranda, because in every physical evidencecase, as in Justice Ginsburg's examples, there's going tobe an inducement to say, never mind the statement, justget the evidence, the evidence will take care of the case. So I - it - it - it's seems to me that we got aweak argument on one side and a strong argument on theother side. MR. DREEBEN: Well, there - I - the argumentbased on cost, Justice Souter, is - is not weak, becausethe costs are quite real. The jury does not hear theevidence that's suppressed - QUESTION: The costs are quite real, but thestate knows how to avoid having to pay those costs. Itgives the warning. MR. DREEBEN: This Court has repeatedlyrecognized though that there are situations in which thereare ambiguities in the way that Miranda actually applies,and law enforcement officers are going to make mistakes inthe way that they apply Miranda. QUESTION: I thought the main rule was, thepolice, when they take someone into custody, are supposedto give them four warnings, and that seems to me a simple, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. clear rule. Now you - you're shifting this to say, well,they don't have to give the warnings up front, that'sokay. MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Ourposition is that if they don't give the warnings up front,they lose the statement that is taken without warnings. That is the Miranda rule, and it responds to the coreconcern that Miranda had. The question is, how much further should thatrule go? And, as I think I answered Justice Souter andyourself earlier, police officers do not know before theyget hold of evidence whether they are going to be able tolink it to the defendant with other admissible evidenceand prove the violation at trial. They are much betteroff following the Miranda script, getting the admissibleevidence of - of the defendant's own statements, and usingit to tie the defendant to the evidence. And in a largepercent - QUESTION: Then - then why do we have - if that'sthe case, why do we have a case coming up in - in a fewminutes in which a - a contrary policy has been adopted? I mean, it - your - your statement that - that the policehave much to gain and much to lose if - if - if they - ifthey follow the practice of avoiding the warnings is - isnot intuitively clear this morning. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Souter, I think as theCourt will hear more in the next hour, the - the officerin that case acknowledged that he was rolling the dice. There are many reasons why - QUESTION: And there was a policy to roll thedice. MR. DREEBEN: That officer testified that he hadbeen trained to do that - QUESTION: Yeah. MR. DREEBEN: - and he decided that - that hewould in that case. The FBI policy has been, even beforeMiranda and continuing to this day, that you issue thewarnings. You avoid difficult voluntariness inquiries,you smooth the path to admissibility of the evidence, youensure that the warned statements are admissible. QUESTION: No, I - I'm - I'm sure that that isthe FBI policy, but it - the point is, there is asubstantial, apparently a substantial body of thoughtoutside the FBI within American law enforcement that dice-rolling pays off. MR. DREEBEN: Well, it - I think that in manycases it pays off with risks that responsible lawenforcement officers often choose not to run. If I could reserve the remainder of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dreeben. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Ms. Wichlens, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JILL M. WICHLENS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. WICHLENS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: I'd like to begin by responding to theGovernment's argument that Miranda warnings are not arequirement, they may be simply a matter of provingpolicy, but are not a requirement. Just three terms ago,this Court reaffirmed in Dickerson that - and I'm quotingfrom Dickerson - Miranda requires procedures that willwarn a suspect in custody of his right to remain silent,which will assure the suspect that the exercise of thatright will be honored. QUESTION: Yeah, but I think, Ms. Wichlens, ifyou read through the entire opinion in Dickerson, it'sclear that the warnings are required in order to make thestatements admissible. They don't say that mere failureto give the warnings without seeking to follow up withadmission is a constitutional violation. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct, Your Honor, but inthis case they are seeking to admit the evidence. So ifthere are two components to a Miranda violation, one beingthe violation in the field by the police officer, thesecond component is admitting the evidence at trial, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that is exactly what the Government is attempting - QUESTION: Well, is - isn't this a fruits case? MS. WICHLENS: It is a fruits case, Your Honor. QUESTION: It's not the statement. MS. WICHLENS: Correct. QUESTION: It is - it is derivatively obtainedinformation. MS. WICHLENS: Absolutely, absolutely. QUESTION: Which might make a difference to you. MS. WICHLENS: It could make a difference, and - QUESTION: At least I've thought so. MS. WICHLENS: Absolutely, Your Honor, andfollowing up on a question asked by Justice Kennedy,whether, if this is a constitutional violation, thederivative evidence rule, the fruits rule, would apply. And my answer to that is yes, absolutely, under Wong Sun. If this is a constitutional violation, it would apply inChavez, just - QUESTION: Well, what - what's the magic aboutthat metaphysical rule when we're talking about adifferent amendment and a different kind of statement or adifferent kind of - a different kind of evidence than isin the - than the rule itself was designed for primarily? I mean, I don't know why we're just bound by thatmetaphysical rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor, I'm speaking of WongSun for the general proposition that when we have aconstitutional violation, turning to the Fifth Amendmentspecifically, the amendment that we're, of course,concerned with here. In Chavez, a plurality - theplurality opinion in Chavez made it clear that if we havea violation of the Fifth Amendment, then application ofthe derivative evidence rule is virtually automatic. Now, my argument doesn't rest entirely on theargument that this is a constitutional violation. Myfirst position is that, if it is, it's an automaticapplication of the derivative evidence rule. But even ifit is not, then we go to a balancing and we balance thecosts, the benefits of applying a derivative evidencerule. QUESTION: Why - why would there be any cost hereto anything if you took the position, as we might take,that if a policeman goes in and purposely doesn't give thewarnings when he knows that he should, or even if hereasonably should know and doesn't, we're not going to letin derivatives. MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor - QUESTION: But in the unusual case, we're quite -it was an honest mistake, as it could be here, because hetried to give the warnings and the defendant said, no, no, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I know what they are, okay. So - so what cost, if - if -there? MS. WICHLENS: Justice Breyer, we need a brightline in this area of the law. This Court has virtuallyalways applied bright lines, particularly in the area of aMiranda violation. QUESTION: Well, we've had - we've had, Ms.Wichlens, probably somewhere between and cases sinceMiranda was decided, deciding was this interrogation orwas it not, was this custody or was it not. There arefactual disputes about every single aspect of Miranda. MS. WICHLENS: I think Your Honor's cases, whichwere, particularly in the early years following Miranda,have now made those rules quite clear what isinterrogation, what is custody - QUESTION: Well, we - we apply in this area, asregrettably in a lot of others, what we call the totalityof the circumstances test. Do you call that a brightline? MS. WICHLENS: Well - QUESTION: It seems to me the fuzziest of alllines. MS. WICHLENS: For the voluntarinessdetermination, it is a fuzzy totality of thecircumstances, but no, in Miranda, we apply bright lines th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. determining whether there was interrogation, whether therewas custody. We don't try to get inside the head of theindividual police officers - QUESTION: Well, the brightest line, it seems tome, would be if the policeman knew or should have knownthat he was supposed to give a warning, fine, the evidencestays out. MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor - QUESTION: But now all we're excluding, we'rejust letting in evidence in those cases where it genuinelyis fuzzy and no policeman knows what he's supposed to do,or - or it's at least reasonable for him not to know. Now, under those circumstances, what you do is loseevidence, lose evidence that could be useful in convictinga criminal, and what you gain is precisely nothing, sincethe policeman, by definition, was confused about thematter and reasonably so. Now, what's the answer to that? MS. WICHLENS: The answer to that is, drawingthat bright line, if it is one, Your Honor, I think doesrequire us to get inside the head of the police officer. It requires us to make determinations about whether it wasreasonable or not. An individual police officer may havemixed motives. We're not giving - QUESTION: We're - we're - we're saying whether areasonable police officer in the - in the position of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. police officer, would have - would have made the mistake. MS. WICHLENS: If - QUESTION: Just as - just as you say, you say forcustody we apply a bright line. We don't apply a brightline for custody. The test for custody is whether -whether a - a reasonable person would have believed, giventhe totality of the circumstances, that he was free toleave. MS. WICHLENS: Perhaps, Your Honor, I - QUESTION: That - that is anything but bright. MS. WICHLENS: Perhaps I shouldn't say brightline. What I mean is objective versus subjective, andwhat I urge this Court not to do is impose a subjectivetest, which requires us to get inside the head of thepolice officer. QUESTION: Okay. Well, we can apply objective -an objective test then. MS. WICHLENS: Under an - QUESTION: If a reasonable police officer in theposition of this police officer would - would have beenconfused about the necessity of giving a Miranda warning,then you're - we're at a different situation. MS. WICHLENS: And if it is an objective test,Justice Scalia, then in this case the police officer failsthat test. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, not necessarily. Didn't thesuspect here say, don't give me that warning, I know whatmy rights are, I know about that. MS. WICHLENS: The record shows that thedetective said, you have the right to remain silent. Mr.Patane said, I know my rights. Then the detective - andthis is the most crucial thing - is the detective not onlydidn't go on to read the other very critical Mirandarights, also didn't obtain a knowing waiver. He didn't - QUESTION: No, wait, you left out - he said ittwice, you have the right to remain silent. Patane says,I know my rights. The detective says, you know yourrights? MS. WICHLENS: Correct. QUESTION: And the - Patane says, yeah, yeah, Ido. MS. WICHLENS: Correct. What he didn't say - QUESTION: I know my rights. MS. WICHLENS: What he didn't say was, do youknow your right to have counsel here present, Mr. Patane? QUESTION: No, no, I understand that a lawyermight have - who really knows this area, might haveunderstood that you have to do more than that. But is itfair to ask a policeman who's on the line of duty when hetries twice to read him the rights, and each time the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. defendant says, no, I know them, forget it. Is it fair toask the policeman to be the lawyer who has to know youhave to go and get out a paper and have him sign it and soforth? MS. WICHLENS: It is absolutely fair to requirethat of a police officer. He doesn't have to be a lawyer,Your Honor. He has to have attended police academy . You read four warnings to a defendant, a suspect, afteryou arrest him. That is not - QUESTION: Well, we're talking here about fruits,the location of the gun and the gun. MS. WICHLENS: Correct. QUESTION: And ever since Oregon v. Elstad, whichsaid it didn't apply to fruits, all the courts of appealsin the Federal circuits, but one, have said it comes in. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: I - this is the - from the one circuitthat holds otherwise. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct. QUESTION: And it hasn't resulted in disaster,has it? MS. WICHLENS: I think it is approachingdisaster, Your Honor, and the case that's going to followthis one is at one end of the spectrum. We have lawyersin California going on record instructing police officers th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to violate Miranda on purpose, and they actually use thatword. QUESTION: When you say violate, Miranda, Mirandais - is not a command that prohibits police officers, orthat requires police officers to give the statements. It's a - it's a - it's a conditional thing. Unless theygive the statements, the stuff can't be admitted inevidence. MS. WICHLENS: I respectfully disagree with that,Your Honor. I think Dickerson has made it clear it is acommand. Miranda - QUESTION: I think - well, I think, havingwritten Dickerson, I think differently. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You're - and you're entitled to readthe opinion as you wish. MS. WICHLENS: I understand, Your Honor. The wayI read Miranda, its progeny, all the way up to Dickersonand including Dickerson, which, of course, you, YourHonor, Mr. Chief Justice, are the authority on, is thatthere are two components to a Miranda rule. If theexclusion of evidence is the core of the rule, well thenthe warning requirement is the rest of the apple. Thereare two components to the rule, and police officers arebeing instructed out in the field to violate, to ignore th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the first part of the rule. QUESTION: Well, that's not this case. You'rearguing somebody else's case. That certainly isn't thiscase. MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor, I am trying to arguethe implications of this case. QUESTION: Well, that's why I raised the point,because it seems to me you could have one simple rulemaybe. I'm just tying - trying it out for all thesecases. You say if the policeman knew or reasonably shouldhave known, well, we're talking about derivative evidence,not - not the evidence itself, but derivative - knew orreasonably should have known, keep it out. But if in factit was really an honestly borderline thing, at least ifwe're talking about derivative, then no, you don't have tokeep it out. Now, that's simple and we'd send yours backmaybe to find out whether he reasonably knew or shouldhave known, et cetera. And I'm testing it on you. I wantto see what your reaction is. MS. WICHLENS: Understood. Understood, YourHonor. I think we - we could pass that test, and, ofcourse, it would need to be sent back - QUESTION: Oh no, I'm not - I don't - I'm not sointerested whether you pass it or not if you don't have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to. But I'm interested in what you think of it. MS. WICHLENS: My preferred test is, you have aMiranda violation, you suppress derivative evidence. Ithink that's the simplest rule, Your Honor, with allrespect. But if we do have an objective reasonablenesstest, in this case and others like it, it's notobjectively reasonable to think you can forego three ofthe four Miranda warnings, and it's certainly notobjectively reasonable to think that you don't have to getthe suspect to waive those rights before you go on. QUESTION: Well, so - so far as the defendant isconcerned, what - what difference does it make to himwhether the officer's failure to give the warnings wasintentional or just negligent? MS. WICHLENS: No difference whatsoever, YourHonor, none whatsoever. The suspect is still not informedof his constitutional rights. That's why I believe abrighter line, a simpler test, if you will, Your Honor, ismore appropriate. But even under an objectivereasonableness test, the Miranda violation in this casewas certainly not objectively reasonable. QUESTION: What - QUESTION: May I ask you a background question? I think most cases you know whether there was a duty togive the Miranda warnings. Just take a case where it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. clear the officer failed in the - in the duty to give awarning. Is it not correct, as your opponent argued inthe first sentence of his oral presentation, that the lawhas generally been settled for a long time that fruits arenevertheless admissible, and what's your response to thatargument? MS. WICHLENS: My response to that, Your Honor,is I think the lower courts have been mistaken. What theyhave done is taken the language in Elstad, and thatdecision, of course, did include some language aboutphysical evidence, it was dicta in that case, and that's - QUESTION: But I would think very, very sounddicta. (Laughter.) MS. WICHLENS: Well, with respect, Your Honor - QUESTION: It makes a very simple rule. You canlet it in. MS. WICHLENS: With respect - QUESTION: There's your simplicity. MS. WICHLENS: With respect, Your Honor, it makesthings simpler, but it doesn't achieve the purposes herefor the reasons that some of the Justices here today havepointed out. In the case of physical evidence, thephysical evidence is the equivalent of the statements. The police officers - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, let me - let me ask you this,and I'll - I'll go back and read Miranda to - to makesure. To what extent was the Miranda rule founded on theconcern that compelled statements - we'll call them that -are unreliable? Wasn't that a - a significant factor? MS. WICHLENS: That was one of the factors. QUESTION: Now, when you have tangible evidence,then the reliability component substantially drops out ofthe case. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: And it seems to me that that makesthe, what you call dicta in Elstad, with reference tophysical evidence, point to a case that's even easier thanone - than the one that was in Elstad. MS. WICHLENS: Well, Your Honor, I disagree withthe conclusion there, because the flip side of that is the- the reliability of the physical evidence and the factthat if the police find out where it is through a Mirandaviolation, they just go and pick it up. That's what makesphysical evidence different, and that what - that is whatmakes the deterrence factors different here. And so - QUESTION: Well, it certainly is reliable. There's no question that it's reliable. MS. WICHLENS: There's - there's no question. Physical evidence is what it is. I - I don't - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Then that's - I think that's the pointJustice Kennedy was making - MS. WICHLENS: Understood. QUESTION: - that the statement might not bereliable. Now, there - there may be other things thatwork in Miranda, not just to make sure that the statementis reliable. MS. WICHLENS: Absolutely, Your Honor. The otherthing that's at work in Miranda and in the Fifth Amendmentitself is the notion that the Fifth Amendment isn't just arule of evidence, just a rule designed to ensure reliableevidence. It's also a rule that recognizes that in a freesociety, it's repugnant to the concepts of - concept ofordered liberty to compel a citizen to incriminatehimself. And so that - QUESTION: But we do - we do have a number ofthings that are permissive - permissible, like a - a voiceexemplar - MS. WICHLENS: Correct. QUESTION: - or a blood test. MS. WICHLENS: Because none of those involve anytestimonial aspect whatsoever, this Court has made veryclear. And so we don't really have the derivativeevidence rule, the fruit rule, even at issue in thosecases. There's no violation whatsoever in those cases, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Your Honor. There's no tree, so there can be no fruit. Here, we do have a violation. QUESTION: You have to wind up the rhetoric to ahigh degree to say that all of society finds thisrepugnant. The man twice said he didn't want his warningsand he had a gun in the house he wasn't supposed to have. MS. WICHLENS: And we don't know that he knew hehad a right to counsel to be there while Detective Bennerwas saying, you need to tell us about the gun, Mr. Patane. I'm not sure I should tell you about the gun, you mighttake it away from me. You need to tell us about the gun. If you want to get in front of the domestic violence case,you need to tell us about the gun. I think that is - QUESTION: Well, half the problem is that thatisn't - I mean, it begs the question to say that that'scontrary to established ordered liberty, et cetera,because that is the question. MS. WICHLENS: It's - QUESTION: Everybody, I guess, agrees that itdoes violate those basic principles to permit questioningof the person, compel a statement and then introduce thatstatement into evidence. MS. WICHLENS: It - QUESTION: But apparently, for many, many years,people haven't agreed under the same circumstances that it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. violates ordered liberty to get a statement and getphysical evidence and introduce the physical evidence. MS. WICHLENS: What I'm talking about, YourHonor, are the two bases underlying the Fifth Amendment,going way back now, not just reliability, but alsoconcepts of, in a free society, should we compel people toincriminate themselves? I understand that there has beena lot of water under the bridge since the framers came upwith the Fifth Amendment, but I was answering thequestions in terms of - QUESTION: And a lot of it was that the policeused to beat people up, say, they beat people up. Now,that's very repulsive. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct. QUESTION: But the answer to that is that if theycome even close to that, we'll keep the statement out andwe will also keep the fruits out. MS. WICHLENS: That's correct, Your Honor. Buthere - QUESTION: The - the difference is Mirandadoesn't assume compulsion. You're talking as thoughMiranda - Miranda is a compulsion case. It isn't. It -it's a prophylactic rule, even when there has been nocompulsion - MS. WICHLENS: It's a - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - we keep it out - MS. WICHLENS: It's a - QUESTION: - we keep it out. MS. WICHLENS: It's a prophylactic rule requiredby the Constitution, of course. QUESTION: That may well be, but you can't makeyour argument as though what's at issue here is compulsionand our society has set its face against - against the useof anything obtained by compulsion. There - there is notnecessarily compulsion. In fact, there usually isn'tcompulsion simply because a Miranda warning is - is notgiven. I expect this - this - this individual in thiscase did indeed know his rights. MS. WICHLENS: We don't - QUESTION: I - I think probably most of thepeople in this room could read - could - could reciteMiranda just from - just from listening to it ontelevision so often. MS. WICHLENS: Well, Your Honor, when I pose thatquestion at cocktail parties, people generally fall offwith the fourth - the fourth warning. They don't realizethat they would have a right to counsel appointed - QUESTION: Well, I mean, that might depend on howlate in the cocktail party. I mean, we - (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I'm not in any position to pose thequestion later in the cocktail party, Your Honor. Theimportance is that the Fifth Amendment protects twothings, and Miranda, of course, protects the FifthAmendment. And if we give the police officer in the fielda pass to say, Miranda's optional, you can do a cost-benefit analysis, you can decide whether you think thestatements are really what's going to be important, or youcan decide that it's the derivative evidence, the fruit ofthose statements that's going to be important. We don'thave much of a rule at all. As the Tenth Circuit summed it up very aptly, Ithink, quoting from the decision of the Tenth Circuit,from a practical perspective, we see little differencebetween the confessional statement, the Glock is in mybedroom on a shelf, which even the Government concedesclearly excluded under Miranda and Wong Sun, and theGovernment's introduction of the Glock found in thedefendant's bedroom on the shelf. It's the same thing inthe context of physical evidence. QUESTION: But - but the latter you know is true. The former may - may have been the product of coercion andbe false. MS. WICHLENS: Correct, Your Honor, but this is - QUESTION: So, I mean, that's a big difference if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you think the primary purpose of Miranda is to preventfalse testimony from - from being introduced, then itseems to me quite reasonable to say that police can indeedmake the choice, do I want to use this testimony. If Idon't want to use this testimony, I won't give a Mirandawarning, and anything the testimony leads to, if it leadsto anything, I - I don't know how the police will alwaysknow that - that it will lead to something, so I - I thinkit's a - a pretty high risk enterprise. But what's - what's wrong with it if - if youthink the primary - the primary function of Miranda is toprevent browbeaten statements by - by - by confused peoplein custody who - who confess mistakenly? MS. WICHLENS: The problem is, it lets theindividual officer on the street decide whether he or sheis going to give the Miranda warnings in a particular caseor not. That's not a rule that law enforcement is behindin, here I'm referring to an amicus filed in - in thecompanion case of Seibert. Law enforcement doesn't want such a rule, if Imay be so bold to say that, in general. They don't wantthe police officers to have to be trained in the policeacademy to be a lawyer basically, Your Honor, and try todecide which evidence is going to be most important - QUESTION: Well, what - what is your authority, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Ms. Wichlens, for saying that law enforcement doesn't wantthis sort of a rule? MS. WICHLENS: Well, Your Honor, what I'mreferring to there very specifically is an amicus filed inthe Seibert case by former law enforcement andprosecution. QUESTION: And you think they represent the viewsof, quote, law enforcement, closed quote, generally? MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor, I'm a public defender. I can't speak for the interests of law enforcement. Perhaps I've been presumptuous to - QUESTION: Well, you were - you were told in theargument by Mr. Dreeben that that is the practice of theFBI and the Federal law enforcement officers. MS. WICHLENS: That's - that's correct. Prudentpolice officers, as I understood him to say, will go aheadand give the warnings. But we have some very, if I maysay imprudent officers out there, at least in Missouri andCalifornia. We know about those. And there are now Websites that police officers can go on to that instruct inthis method, instruct police officers to try to decidewhat's really important in the case, put themselves in theposition of the DA, I suppose, and decide whether thestatements are really going to make the case or, in apossessory case, is it the physical evidence that's really th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. going to make the case? In this case is a perfect example of that. The information was, he keeps it on his person or in hiscar or in his home. They're going to investigate a felonin possession of a firearm case. If they find thatfirearm in his bedroom or in his car, that's pretty muchall she wrote. The prosecution doesn't need a lot more. They don't need the suspect's statements about where thatis, and so that's why we can draw a line between physicalevidence and other types of evidence. And I could add - QUESTION: All right. So what? That's - we'regoing to the same thing - let's suppose they found outabout that gun without compelling anything, no compulsion- MS. WICHLENS: But violating Miranda. QUESTION: - no testifying against yourself. MS. WICHLENS: But violating the Miranda rule. QUESTION: But they didn't omit - they omittedthe Miranda warning. MS. WICHLENS: And we - QUESTION: And the Miranda warning is a way ofstopping the compulsion. But if you're willing to assumethere is no compulsion, what's so horrible about it? MS. WICHLENS: Well, I'm - I'm not willing to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. assume there is no compulsion. QUESTION: Ah, well if there is - then whatyou've got is Miranda as a way of getting at instanceswhere there is compulsion. MS. WICHLENS: Absolutely. QUESTION: Fine. MS. WICHLENS: Absolutely. That is the basicpremise of Miranda. QUESTION: Does that apply to the physicalevidence too? MS. WICHLENS: Yes. I mean, the - the basicpremise, if we want police officers to comply withMiranda. And if I could say another word about Elstad,part of - a central part of the holding in Elstad, as Iunderstand it, was that in that case, the initialconstitutional violation is cured by the time thesubsequent statement comes around. In other words, youhave a Miranda violation, the Miranda warnings are notread, the person is interrogated, then the Mirandawarnings are carefully and thoroughly read. And as this Court stated in Elstad, and I'mquoting, a careful and thorough administration of Mirandawarnings serves to cure the condition that rendered theunwarned statements inadmissible. We can't possibly havethat type of cure in the case of physical evidence. When th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the police officer is going simply to seize the physicalevidence, there's no curing of the Miranda violation, andthat's another way that Elstad is distinguishable. QUESTION: But was there never a question in thiscase of whether the - there was consent to this search,because the defendant said twice, I know my rights? MS. WICHLENS: And you're speaking of the consentto the search, Your Honor? Because then Detective Benner - QUESTION: Consent to the questioning, and thenvoluntarily telling them, it's on a shelf in my bedroom? Why wasn't the - the whole thing pretty much like when yougo to the bus terminal and say, mind if I ask you aquestion? MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor, because he was underarrest. He - he had been told he was under formal arrest. He was in handcuffs. And so the Miranda warnings - theMiranda warning requirement clearly applied. And soDetective Benner was not to ask those questions withouthaving warned him first. QUESTION: Okay. Well, that's just a silly rule,isn't it? I mean - MS. WICHLENS: Miranda's not a silly rule, YourHonor. QUESTION: Well, it - it is when the person says,I know my right. What if he stuck his fingers in his th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ears, saying, I don't want to hear them, I don't want tohear them. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But you have to read it to him anyway? MS. WICHLENS: It's not hard to say, sorry, pal,I have to read them to you, and even if you don't want torequire the officer to do that, how about, okay, pal,would you like to waive those rights? That's an importantpart of Miranda law also: A, inform the suspect of hisrights, B, ask him if he would like to waive them. QUESTION: We take the case on the assumption,the Government's question that there was a failure to givea suspect the Miranda warnings here, do we not? MS. WICHLENS: Correct. Although theGovernment's concession in the lower courts, districtcourt and Tenth Circuit, is that Miranda was violatedbecause there was a lack of a knowing waiver of thoseMiranda rights, and that's the basis on which the districtcourt accepted the Government's concession. But the - QUESTION: What did the court of appeals - whatdid the court of appeals - MS. WICHLENS: The court of appeals assumed aMiranda violation, and I believe repeated the languageabout the waiver problem. QUESTION: May I ask you if you - there was a lot th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of interruptions to your answer to my question. If youhad inadequate time to say everything you wanted to sayabout the settled state of the law before this case aroseby - in the lower courts, that's your opponent's originalargument. MS. WICHLENS: Your Honor, simply that thosecases were mistaken. This Court had never spoken directlyon the subject of derivative evidence rule in the contextof physical evidence. And the times have changed, YourHonor. The time of Elstad and some of this Court's cases,New York v. Harris, that followed Miranda mostimmediately, we all assumed, naively it turns out, thatpolice officers would at least try to comply with Miranda.And now there's this movement afoot to basically thumbtheir noses, if you will, at this Court's Miranda decisionand say Miranda is just an option. QUESTION: May I ask you if the state courts wereuniform in the same way the Federal courts were? MS. WICHLENS: The state courts were not. I'vecited some cases in my brief, both pre-Dickerson and post-Dickerson, where the state courts were not at all uniform. QUESTION: And was that on both the matter ofsubsequent confessions and physical evidence? MS. WICHLENS: Correct, Your Honor, as I recall. If there are no further questions from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Court, I would ask this Court to hold that the derivativeevidence rule applies to physical evidence fruit of aMiranda violation and to affirm the judgment of the TenthCircuit Court of Appeals. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Wichlens. Mr. Dreeben, you have three minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Miranda is a rule that is perfectly matched to the problemthat the Court sought to address, namely the risk that thedefendant's own self-incriminating statements would beobtained by compulsion and admitted against him to provehis guilt. That risk implicated two central concerns ofthe Fifth Amendment, one going to reliability, the othergoing to the state's burden to prove guilt with evidenceother than that extracted from the defendant's own mouth. Extension of Miranda to this case, whichinvolves physical evidence that does not involve thereliability concerns that are at the heart of the FifthAmendment, and does not involve the concern about usingthe defendant's own self-compelled words to incriminatehim, would not only be contrary to the body of authorityin the lower courts before this Court's decision inDickerson and largely after it, but would also be contrary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to the purpose of truth-seeking in a criminal trial thatis central to the Court's jurisprudence in this area. Justice Stevens, I - as far as the Government isaware, there was no more than a handful of cases in thestate courts that have followed the rule, other than whatthe Federal rule had been. Justice White's dissentingopinion from the denial of certiorari in the Pattersoncase, I believe, collects them, but this was by no means agroundswell movement in the state courts. QUESTION: Well, I understand, but I noticed thatin your brief, in your oral statement you said that theywere unanimous, your brief said there was a strongmajority in the Federal courts. I haven't checked it outmyself but is it - is it a unanimous view in the Federalcourts? MR. DREEBEN: My understanding is that there areeight Federal circuits before Dickerson, including theTenth Circuit, that it held that suppression of derivativephysical evidence was not warranted. Since Dickerson,only the Tenth Circuit has changed its position, and thereis no other court, other than the First Circuit, whichfollows a rule that depends on - on balancing deterrenceconcerns against the loss to - of evidence to the trial,that follows anything akin to the kind of derivativesuppression rule that the Tenth Circuit adopted in this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case. Thank you. QUESTION: Well, wait, can I - if you have aminute. What if the policeman deliberately fails to givethe Miranda warning in order to get the physical evidence? MR. DREEBEN: In our view, Justice Breyer, nodifferent rule is warranted in that situation, becauseMiranda continues to protect against the risk that it'saimed at. Absent actual compulsion, there is no warrantfor a rule that does anything other than suppress theactual statements. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 