 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, : Petitioner : v. : No. -ABEL COSMO GALLETTI, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KENT L. JONES, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.DAVID R. HABERBUSH, ESQ., Long Beach, California; on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEKENT L. JONES, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner DAVID R. HABERBUSH, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKENT L. JONES, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the United States v. Abel CosmoGalletti. Mr. Jones. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONES ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. JONES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: Federal employment taxes owed by a partnershipwere assessed by the commissioner, and when thepartnership failed to pay the taxes, the United Statesbrought this action to recover the taxes against theindividual partners who were derivatively liable underState law for all debts of the partnership, including itstax debts. QUESTION: Did the Government have to wait untilthe partnership failed to pay? Could it have proceededimmediately against the partners under -- under thegoverning State law? MR. JONES: You've addressed an -- an unansweredquestion that isn't presented here, of course. It'sunanswered because Federal law -- QUESTION: It -- it's not presented, depending th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. on what you mean by derivative liability. I -- I alwaysthought that derivative liability would be liability thatdoesn't attach unless and until the person primarilyliable fails to -- fails to pay up. MR. JONES: And -- and I agree with that, and --and the Uniform Partnership Act, which California hasadopted, contains a provision that specifies that thecreditor must exhaust his efforts to recover from thepartnership before he can recover from the partners. QUESTION: I see. MR. JONES: And -- and so that's what makes itclear this is indeed a derivative secondary liability. QUESTION: You think maybe the United States maynot be bound by that. You -- you don't want to -- youdon't want to concede that the United States is bound bythat. MR. JONES: It's not so much I don't want toconcede. I don't feel that I'm able to concede that notbecause it is related to this case, but because of a -- astructural intellectual problem about the extent to whichwhose law governs in that situation. If it's alimitations provision, we know Federal law governs whenthe United States is bringing a claim that it acquires inits sovereign capacity. Whether this would be regarded asa procedural restriction that the State substantive law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. didn't -- now, whether you want to think this issubstantive or procedural may affect the answer to thequestion -- the hypothetical that you've raised. QUESTION: Well, can you tell me as a matter ofpractice if -- if you know? Suppose there's a partnershipwhich is a little murky. It's in the Cayman Islands andthey're behind, but that one of the -- the generalpartners is in California. Can you just proceed againsthim, do you know? Does the Revenue Service ever do that? MR. JONES: Well, there -- QUESTION: -- ever do that? QUESTION: There -- there is an -- the uniform-- in the case law, there's a discussion of situationswhere the partnership is known to be insolvent. You'renot required to do a senseless act. You're not requiredto pursue and exhaust against the partnership when it'sknown to be insolvent. So in that situation, you haveexhausted because the partnership is insolvent. QUESTION: And I take it in that situation --you correct me if I'm wrong -- but you can't just levy onthe account if the tax has not been assessed against thatpartner individually, but you can commence some othersorts of proceedings which would allow a subsequent levy. Or am I wrong, or is that clear? MR. JONES: Well, you've brought me through -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to a lot of levels of complexity, but I think the answerto the question is we -- we don't dispute that you need togive a -- a notice of assessment in order to collectadministratively through liens and levies. That's notrelevant to this case because this is a judicialcollection case. QUESTION: Of course. MR. JONES: But, nonetheless, there is case lawthat says that when you give notice to the partnership ofits liability, that's sufficient as constructive notice tothe partners to permit administrative collection throughliens and levies. QUESTION: Mr. Kent, if you're not right aboutthat and you do have to have individual notice and demandto the partners, then there's a consequence other thanliens and levies, isn't there, where you have whoppingpenalties and interest attached? I thought if you don'tgive notice and demand within the -day period, then notonly can't you impose liens, but that the interest andpenalties stop running. MR. JONES: I'm -- I'm familiar with the -- theconcept of interest doesn't run until notice of theassessment is made, but nonetheless again, notice to thepartnership would be constructive to the partners. QUESTION: But if you're wrong about that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. constructive notice, then you could still say, well, thestatute has been extended years because of theassessment. However, one might conclude that the intereststops running and that you can't use administrativecollection procedures. MR. JONES: Well, I -- I don't mean to be -- Idon't mean to sound like I'm retreating from that issue. I'm just -- it's not presented here, and so I'm not reallycapable standing here -- QUESTION: Well, it would be to the extent on --if -- if this thing is remanded with instructions that theassessment counts against all of them, that there would bethe question remaining about the interest and penalties. MR. JONES: That's -- I don't -- it is possible,and if the Court were to reverse and remand for furtherproceedings, it's possible that that issue would beraised. QUESTION: Are you -- are you saying that weshould maybe flag it but not decide it? Is it -- MR. JONES: I don't -- I don't know what yourpractice would be. I would think your practice would beto decide the issue that's presented. You could noteother issues haven't been raised, but since those issueshaven't been briefed here, we're not really in a positionto advise you on their proper resolution. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why don't you go ahead with theissues that are presented? MR. JONES: Okay. Well, the point I was makingwas that the court ruled against us because they said thatthe partnership taxes had not been assessed directlyagainst the partners. But respondents now correctlyconcede that there is no requirement of Federal law that aderivative or secondary State law liability to pay a taxhas to be assessed before it can be collected, and thatconcession is plainly correct in light of this Court'sdecision in in the Leighton case where the Court heldthat a derivative or secondary liability that arises underState law to pay a tax may be recovered -- and I quote --without assessment of that liability. And there arenumerous cases that have applied that principle in -- inrelated secondary and derivative liability contexts. And as -- as I've already indicated, thoseprinciples plainly apply here because under the UniformPartnership Act, which applies in California, theliability of the partner is derivative for the -- andsecondary rather than principal, as I've discussed withJustice Scalia. Not only is it clear from the legalstructure of the UPA, but the official comments to the --of -- to that act state that the liability of thepartnership for partnership debts is principal and that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the liability of partners is -- is in the nature of aguarantor. It's secondary. It arises only when thepartnership doesn't pay its own debts. Federal law also makes clear that this is aliability that attaches directly to the partnership. Thisis a Federal employment tax. It applies to employersbecause, under California law, the -- the partnership is aseparate and distinct legal entity. It is the employer. It pays the wages. Its payment of wages is what causesthe taxes to be imposed. QUESTION: But you -- you agree that it's thelaw of California that imposes the derivative liability onthe partners? MR. JONES: That's the way the cases describeit. From my -- and that's the way this Court described itin -- in Commissioner v. Stern. QUESTION: What more do you want? MR. JONES: Pardon me? QUESTION: I say what more do you want. MR. JONES: Well, I don't want more. I'm justbeing finicky I guess, because to me we -- the Court inCommissioner v. Stern said that these -- historicallythese are substantive liabilities that Congress acceptsfrom State law. And therefore, the Court applies thesubstantive body of State rules in -- in implementing that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. liability. You could also think of this -- and I'm notasking the Court to reconsider Commissioner v. Stern. Butyou can -- even in light of Commissioner v. Stern, you canthink of this as Federal law borrowing State law for thisremedial purpose, and Congress has sanctioned that by notaltering the principles that have long existed on this. The -- but the -- the point that this Court madein Leighton is that these principles that they apply comefrom State law and you don't a -- actually respondents nowadmit there's no mechanism in Federal law to assist this-- assess this sort of secondary derivative State lawliability, and that's correct. That's what the Courtaddressed in the Leighton case. And the court of appealsin this case just misapplied those well-acceptedprinciples. Once the assessment of the partnership taxes wasmade, under section the United States has yearsfrom the date of the assessment to bring any proceeding incourt to collect the taxes. And in the Updike case in, the Court held that that years applies not onlyto actions against the directly liable party but also to aperson whose liability is derivative or secondary andarises from State law. And the Court explained that thebroad purpose and broad text of applies equally in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. both cases because in the Court's words, in a real sensethe action against the derivatively liable party is aproceeding in court to collect the tax. As the Court saidin Updike, the aim in the one case, as in the other, isthe same. It's to collect the tax liability. Now, in this Court respondents do not disputethat accepted understanding of . Instead, they raisehere a new and, indeed, a radical claim that no court hasadopted and that they did not raise prior to their meritsbrief in this Court. What they argue now for the firsttime is that the Federal statute of limitations should notgovern this derivative liability claim because since itstems from substantive State law, the State statute oflimitations should govern it. Now, since they didn'traise that claim at any time before their merits brief inthis Court -- and it is a statute of limitations which isan affirmative defense -- they're -- they've waived theclaim as too rate to -- too late to raise it. But nonetheless, I think it is important to notethat their claim is plainly inconsistent with this Court'sdecisions. For example, in the Summerlin case, this Courtheld that whenever the United States acquires a claimacting in its governmental capacity, that claim of theUnited States is not subject to a State statute oflimitations because of the sovereign rights -- sovereign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. immunity of the United States. And they applied thatholding in Summerlin to a situation where what the UnitedStates obtained was a right to enforce a private note andprivate mortgage that the -- QUESTION: May I interrupt for this question? You know, there are some State statutes of limitationsthat -- or some States have limitations provisions thatare either affirmative defenses or some are, in effect,conditions precedent to bringing an action. If Californiahad the latter form of action, how would you decide thiscase? MR. JONES: I think that in -- in Commissionerv. Bresson where the Ninth Circuit addressed that verypoint, they -- they were -- they wrote a very usefulopinion that seems to me to be perfectly correct, that the-- that if it is the passage of time after the UnitedStates acquires its right that causes the claim to expire,that that is what is barred by the Summerlin rationalebecause the sovereign rights of the United States can't beextinguished. And so whether you think of it asextinguishing the claim or limiting the -- the period ofrecovery, in either event what's instrumental is that the-- the United States had the right at the time it obtainedthe claim and that the State law could not thereafter cutthat right off. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why not? Why -- why -- suppose thatyou have a -- a bank that guarantees a debt, and the debtis Smith's debt. And the guarantee is to pay, includingtax debts. That's what it says. It was a condition ofthe borrowing or some other thing. Now, why wouldn'tState law govern the period of time in respect to whichany creditor, including the Government, has to assert a --a claim under that note, let's say, or under thatparticular written guarantee since the liability there isa creation of State law and the State would have the rightto define its contours? And after all, that guarantor isnot the taxpayer. The -- the guarantor's liability arisessolely out of the fact that he happens to have enteredinto a note with a guarantor who promised to pay. MR. JONES: So you're talking about a -- aprivate contractual right -- QUESTION: Yes. Say a private -- MR. JONES: -- that the United States somehowobtained rights under by -- QUESTION: Yes. MR. JONES: -- levying, for example -- QUESTION: Yes, yes. MR. JONES: -- on the -- on the right. QUESTION: Yes, yes, and then I'm going to saywhy isn't this that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: That's -- that's a -- that's exactlyfrankly what happened in Summerlin -- QUESTION: Yes. MR. JONES: -- except Summerlin involved ahousing program instead of the Internal Revenue Code. InSummerlin, the Government obtained a private note andenforced it, regardless of the State statute oflimitations, and the Court's reasoning was that the --that the United States as sovereign cannot be subject tolimitations imposed on the rights that it obtains. QUESTION: So if I -- if I enter into a promisewith you and say in return for my lending, you know,whatever it is, I -- I promise that I will pay your taxdebts, but by the way, I don't want to pay any tax debtthat isn't definite before January the th, or . I don't want to pay anything that arises -- MR. JONES: It's a limit -- if you're talkingabout a substantive limitation in the document itself,well, the United States takes its -- stands in the shoesof the assignor in that situation, and we don't get abetter substantive right -- substantive right. QUESTION: Okay. So it's a substantiveprocedural distinction. MR. JONES: Well, certainly that's the way theCourt has looked at it, and I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But you know, in -- in other cases,let's say when the -- when the Federal Government createsa Federal right without establishing a statute oflimitations for that Federal right, State law does notgovern, but Federal law looks to the -- to the Statestatute of limitations as a matter of Federal law. Idon't know why it wouldn't be the same thing with respectto a -- a Federal claim. You mean there is no statute oflimitations whatever on Federal claims? MR. JONES: No. Well, that's the second routethat the Court has used to say the State's limitationsdon't control, and that is, when there's a Federallimitations period that applies to the claim, then theState provision doesn't control. QUESTION: Of course. MR. JONES: And under -- under Updike, what thisCourt concluded in Updike was that there is a Federalstatute of limitations that applies to these proceedingsin court to collect the taxes, which includes thederivative claim. QUESTION: Well, that -- that's fine. But I'mtalking about the more general proposition that -- thatyou're -- that you're defending or -- or proposing that --that State law does not -- never -- never applies to a --to a Federal claim. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: Well, it doesn't -- QUESTION: I mean, a claim by the United States. MR. JONES: It doesn't -- QUESTION: I think it does. Now, it may notapply of its own force. MR. JONES: Exactly. QUESTION: But it applies because of adoption bythe United States. MR. JONES: If the -- if the Court were to findit appropriate in a particular instance to adopt a Staterule, that would not interfere with Summerlin, but thatwould -- that would -- I can't think of a case exactlylike that. There may well be some. But most Federal claims -- QUESTION: I can't imagine our not doing it. Ican't imagine our saying that, you know -- MR. JONES: Most -- QUESTION: -- the clock keeps ticking on Federalclaims forever and ever. MR. JONES: Most Federal claims come within somegeneral statute of limitations, and this is certainly asituation like that. QUESTION: Is it -- is this question reallyacademic in this case because you have not one but twoFederal limitations, one, the regular -year period, then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the extension by years following an assessment? MR. JONES: Well, I think the Updike case makesthis discussion somewhat hypothetical, and I understoodJustice Scalia's question to be in that vein. QUESTION: But here, what you're relying on arethe Federal limitations period. So you don't need toworry about suppose there had been no Federal limitations. MR. JONES: I -- I don't need to worry aboutthem, and I -- but I'm only addressing them becauserespondents have raised them at this point in the case,and so I'm just discussing the two theories that thisCourt has applied in rejecting that kind of contention. QUESTION: You're saying it's doublyhypothetical because they can't raise the whole issue -- MR. JONES: Yes. QUESTION: -- at this point anyway. MR. JONES: Yes, sir. QUESTION: I thought their primary position,though, was that the partners are not secondarily liable,they're primarily liable, so that they are the taxpayerand they're entitled to assessment notice and demand. MR. JONES: That is now clearly their primaryposition, and for the reasons I've already described thatposition can't be reconciled with the Uniform PartnershipAct or with -- or with the Federal law that applies to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. these taxes. QUESTION: Can you -- can you tell me in thecase of a corporation, if the responsible officer does notwithhold employment taxes, I -- I take it -- I thought Iremembered that -- that the responsible officer ispersonally liable. Or am I wrong about that? MR. JONES: Yes. There is a statute thatauthorizes an assessment of that liability against aresponsible officer. QUESTION: Ah, but you have to assess it. MR. JONES: It -- it authorizes the assessment. That's -- you know, it's interesting. There are certaintypes -- QUESTION: Can -- can you proceed against theresponsible officer without the assessment? MR. JONES: If you have a claim based on Statelaw or common law, and that's the reason we have aresponsible officer statute is that this is a Federalclaim. There isn't -- unlike in the partnership situationand in the ordinary transferee situation, there's not abackup State law action. QUESTION: Well, if -- if in the case ofcorporate officers, there must be an assessment, then byanalogy it would seem that it wouldn't be too much troublefor the IRS to assess the partners in your case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. JONES: Well, sometimes it is troublesome,but it's not required in any situation under ourunderstanding of the existing law. QUESTION: I -- I thought that it was requiredin the -- in -- in the corporate case. You said it has tobe assessed against the responsible officer. MR. JONES: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you weretalking about the partnership then. Yes. I -- theresponsible officers -- officer liability is created byFederal statute, unlike the partners' obligation for thedebts of the partnership. QUESTION: I'm simply wondering if -- if thatisn't a model, if that's what happens in the corporateinstance, in this case where the statute is -- is silenton the point, whether we shouldn't just assume that sinceit's not too much of a burden on the Government in thecorporate context to require it to assess the responsibleofficer before the tax can be collected, that we shouldn'tsay the same thing here. MR. JONES: There is -- QUESTION: I'm just -- MR. JONES: I understand. But the responsibleofficer liability is -- is really a radically differentconcept. It only -- it only arises when that officer hadknowledge of the fact that the taxes weren't being paid as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they accrued and willfully failed to pay them and -- andwas responsible, had the responsibility to pay them. Itis a -- it is a malfeasance claim, whereas the derivativeliability claim is just under State law, you are liable asis the partnership, and we can enforce that State law. There's another example -- QUESTION: There's a -- MR. JONES: -- where the similar thing happened. , which is the lender's liability. There was nolender's liability for employment taxes that the Courtdiscussed in the Jersey Shore case. That liability didn'thave a -- a common law precedent, and so Congress createdthe liability because they saw a specific problem wherelenders were allowing or in -- in effect, helpingemployers evade employment taxes by loaning them moneyfrom which they paid wages but didn't paid taxes. And soCongress created this separate statutory scheme. But respondents are correct in their concessionthat there is no mechanism under Federal law for assessingthe derivative State law liability of a partner for thedebts of the partnership. And so as the Court held in --in Leighton, we can proceed without assessment againstthem to enforce that liability. Now, I do want to also mention the -- thecitations that respondents make to section . That th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. section appears in the portion of the code that addressesadministrative collection through liens and levies, and itstates that the Secretary is to give notice of theassessment to any person liable for the tax. The casesthat have interpreted and applied that statute, which stemfrom , have -- have concluded correctly that thatstatute applies only to administrative collection throughliens and levies and has no application to judicialcollection actions. And there's a -- a sound historical explanationfor that, and that is that prior to , there were twoindependent routes for collecting taxes. The Secretarywas authorized by the code to bring a judicial collectionsuit, but there was a separate officer known as thecollector of revenue for each district. And the collectorof revenue was, by the code, authorized to do theadministrative collection through liens and levies. Andthe predecessor of had said that the collector is togive notice of the assessment and make demands forpayment. And it was well established that that applied tohis actions in administrative collection and had noapplication of the Secretary's independent authority tobring a judicial collection suit. In in revising the code, Congresseliminated references to the collector in the code, placed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Secretary in charge both of the -- of judicial andadministrative enforcement and changed the predecessorlanguage of from saying the collector is to givenotice to saying the Secretary is to give notice. But indoing so, Congress did not mean to change -- and thecourts that have reviewed this have correctly concludeddid not change -- the fact that this notice of assessmentrequirement applies only to the administrative collectionarea, has no application to judicial collection suits likethis one. QUESTION: Are you conceding then that therecould be no liens and levies against the partners herebecause there was no notice and demand -- MR. JONES: I -- QUESTION: -- individually to them? MR. JONES: I don't think the record discusseswhether there was notice to the partnership. QUESTION: No, no. To the partners. MR. JONES: No. QUESTION: You just explained these twodifferent routes. MR. JONES: Yes. QUESTION: And you said that this is a judicialcollection proceeding. MR. JONES: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So the other doesn't apply. So I'masking you if you are now making the concession that thosewords -- what are they -- each person liable for unpaidtax, would stop you from using the administrativecollection route because you didn't give notice and demandindividually. MR. JONES: Let me -- I can't say what we did ordidn't do in notice because there's nothing in the recordon that in this case because administrative collectionisn't involved in this case. QUESTION: Well, let's assume you gave noticeand demand only to the partnership. MR. JONES: Okay, let's assume that. If we gavenotice and demand to the partnership, what we would beauthorized to do is clearly under and -- make a lienand levy against any assets of the partnership. And thenas I said, although -- the -- the cases are also perfectlyconsistent that the notice to the partnership is valid asconstructive notice to the partners. And so, for example, if we have a partnershipemployment tax liability from Smith Construction and thetwo partners are Bob Jones and Bill Wilson, notice of theassessment to the partnership is valid as notice to itstwo partners. And so our lien arises, if they don't paythe tax, but if a third party creditor is out there, First th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. National Bank, the First -- our notice to the partnershipmay not be notice to the First National Bank. And so in alien contest we might not have the prior lien vis-a-visthis other party, but vis-a-vis the two partners, thecases say that our notice is valid for purposes tothem because, well, of course, a partnership only actsthrough its partners and notice to one of them or to thepartnership is valid, constructive notice to all theothers. There is no case inconsistent with thatconclusion, but again, it's plainly not presented in thiscase and we would not ask the Court to address it. There's no need for it to. This is just a judicialcollection case. The only issue that is really before the Courtis whether we have to give notice -- I'm sorry -- whetherwe have to assess the individual partners to collect theState law derivative liability. And for the reasons I'vedescribed, that the decision below is incorrect on thatand -- and should be reversed. And I would like to reserve the balance of mytime. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Jones. Mr. Haberbush. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID R. HABERBUSH th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. HABERBUSH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: We've heard some interesting arguments, and I'dlike to address the history here of the way in which thisalleged derivative liability is imposed upon the partners. We contend that the partners -- QUESTION: Now, the Government says you -- youdid not raise what is now your principal argument untilyour merits brief. Do you agree with that statement? MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor, no, I don't. Thiscase has always been about statutes of limitation. Wewere addressing, in fact, a argument raised in the meritsbrief by the Government. If the Court will note, at page -- I'm sorry -- page , footnote , this specificquestion is addressed by the Government stating that it'sa Federal not a State statute of limitation that comesinto play. And our portion of the brief is simply a replyto that. QUESTION: Wait. It seems to me it's -- it's --the burden is on you to make the claim that a Statestatute applies, and you never claimed that any Statestatute applies. Now, the Government here, out of anexcess of caution or maybe to explain the whole situationto us, puts in that footnote, but that doesn't create a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. claim on your part that the State statute governs. Did you ever assert that -- that this matter wasgoverned by -- by a State statute of limitations untilyour merits brief? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, we did in the courts belowand our briefs below. QUESTION: You asserted that it was governed bya State statute of limitations. MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor, what we argued wasthat if the Federal statutes did not apply, section requiring notice and demand, if these partners are nottaxpayers under the Internal Revenue Code, then State lawwould govern. And yes, we did raise it below. QUESTION: Did the court of appeals touch on it? MR. HABERBUSH: The court of appeals did notneed to touch upon it, because the court of appeals feltand decided that these partners are taxpayers under theInternal Revenue Code. And that's the precise question Iwould like to address. QUESTION: Did you raise the statute oflimitations point in your pleadings in the district court? MR. HABERBUSH: In the United -- this originatedin the bankruptcy court, so the district court -- QUESTION: Well, I mean in the bankruptcy court. MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor, we did. We raised th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it both in terms of the statute of limitations undersection and under State law. QUESTION: Did you raise it as an affirmativedefense under State law? MR. HABERBUSH: Well, we objected to the proofof claim which is akin to an answer, and yes -- QUESTION: And one ground of your objection wasunder State law it's barred? MR. HABERBUSH: Our objection was a fairlygeneric objection in all honesty -- QUESTION: So we're talking about did you eversay this claim is barred by -- it -- it is too late underthis State statute of limitations, citing the Statestatute of limitations? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, we did. QUESTION: Would you provide us with -- QUESTION: Where can we find that in the record? QUESTION: Where will we find that? MR. HABERBUSH: I believe you'll find that atthe -- the district court level after the bankruptcycourt. QUESTION: Well, isn't the place to raise it inthe bankruptcy court? I mean, that's where your pleadings-- that's where your responsive pleadings were filed. MR. HABERBUSH: If indeed it is an affirmative th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. defense, yes. Our objection to the claim was this was notan enforceable claim under law, State or Federal, and ourreason for it was barred by the limitations periods. QUESTION: As a Federal -- QUESTION: Under California practice, I assumestatute of limitations is an affirmative defense? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, Your -- Your Honor, it is. We, however, believe that this case does not becontrolled by State law, but rather by Federal law. Apartner's liability for the debts of a partnership mayarise under State law, and this Court has noted in thecase of United States v. Kraft that State law defines therights as between the parties, but the manner by which itmay be collected, the tax itself or the claim, is governedby Federal law. And that is really the heart of what ourargument is. There is no specific Internal Revenue Codeprovision that makes a partner liable for a partnershipdebt. What the Government in this case does is it reliesspecifically upon historical cases that stem from oldsection , which is adopted as section of theInternal Revenue Code, whereby assessments may be madeagainst transferees, donees, and fiduciaries, and thecases interpreting those statutes basically find thatthere is a derivative liability with a coterminous statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of limitations. QUESTION: This would be an odd State law,wouldn't it? Imagine that I guarantee a debt or suppose apartner is like a guarantor. And suppose that the primary-- person primary -- primarily liable is in litigationwith the debtor -- the creditor, rather. And because ofdelays and so forth, it takes about years to resolvethis litigation. I've never heard of a guarantor whowouldn't become liable at the time the thing is final andthat the -- he just becomes -- I mean, how does it work? I would have thought a guarantor is liable for the debtthe debtor owes. How does the statute work, the Statestatute? MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor, we believe the Statestatute is -- is one that does not require exhaustion ofremedies as against the partnership. QUESTION: It has nothing to do with exhaustionof remedies. I'm -- and I'm talking about States -- theState insofar as it sees the partner as a guarantor of theliability that is created by a different entity, namelythe partnership. And I'm asking if under State law ofCalifornia, wouldn't it be the case that if he's aguarantor and you get the statute of limitations on amatter to determine liability extended, that the guaranteealso extends. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HABERBUSH: That would -- QUESTION: There's no State law that says youhave to sue the guarantor before the liability that he'sguaranteeing is determined. MR. HABERBUSH: That is correct. QUESTION: All right. If that's correct, whatare we arguing about? MR. HABERBUSH: What we're arguing about here isthat this is not a suretyship or a secondary liability -- QUESTION: Yes, yes. You're back to yourquestion of whether under partnership law in fact this isa guarantor or the equivalent or a surety. I understandthat argument, but it sounds to me as if that argument isresolved against you, this statute of limitations argumentis a serious red herring because it won't matter. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, unless Federal lawcontrols. QUESTION: Right. MR. HABERBUSH: Unless these parties aretaxpayers under Federal law, in which case -- QUESTION: No, no. If the primary argument,which you want to argue, that they're taxpayers or thatthey are primarily liable, you win it or you lose it. Ifyou win it, you win. If you lose it, your statute oflimitations argument adds nothing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HABERBUSH: I think not. QUESTION: That's my -- that's what I'mthinking. MR. HABERBUSH: I think not. I think we win,and let me explain why. It has nothing to do withlimitations periods. It has nothing to do with State lawgoverning guarantees. It has to do with the way thisCourt is asked to define this particular claim in thisparticular case. Is it a tax claim or is it a claim whichis derived from the partnership liability? In otherwords, is it a tax debt or is it a debt because they'reliable for a debt of the partnership so that it loses itsnature as a tax claim? If that's the case, this is a bankruptcy case. Tax claims in bankruptcy have priority over other claimsunder section (a) of title of the United StatesCode. Those claims too are not dischargeable if they're atax claim under section of title . So if the Courtdetermines this is nothing more than a guarantee pursuantto State law and not a tax claim, then this debt will bedischarged in this bankruptcy case. QUESTION: Do you have -- have any cases forthat, that a tax claim loses its character as a tax claimwhen relief is sought not against the person primarilyliable but against somebody derivatively liable? It seems th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to me it's still a tax claim. MR. HABERBUSH: No, Your Honor, we do not haveauthority for that. However, if it is a tax -- QUESTION: I wouldn't expect you to find any. MR. HABERBUSH: However, if they are liable forthe tax, this Court has already stated on a number ofoccasions, including the most recent case of U.S. v.Kraft, someone who is subject to the tax is someone whopays it, someone who is liable for it. These parties areliable for the tax. They are subject to the tax undersection (a)() of the Internal Revenue Code, andtherefore they are taxpayers. Once they are taxpayers,that invokes the provisions of section requiringassessment or suit within years. We don't claim thatassessment is the only method. We claim assessment orsuit, which is consistent with the history of the cases,and that's a -year limitation period as to these -- QUESTION: No, but you say that they'retaxpayers because they're partners, and therefore they --and -- and that's why the -- their -- their right to anassessment can be claimed. But by the same reasoning thatyou follow, if they are taxpayers because they arepartners, why isn't notice to the partnership notice tothe partners or assessment against the partnershipassessment against the partners? Why -- why do you, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. effect, make a metaphysical distinction in the latter casebut not in the former? MR. HABERBUSH: Well, Your Honor, I don't thinkthat we do. I think that the argument that there isconstructive notice merely because one is a partnercreates notice to -- notice to the partnership is noticeto the partners. There is no controlling case on thisidea, and that would be too a question I think of Statelaw, whether notice to a partnership is notice to thepartners. And we've clearly cited to California law thatsays you must commence a separate suit against the partnerin order to obtain a judgment against it. There is noCalifornia law that says that by filing a suit against thepartner, that's sufficient for due process purposes ofcreating notice to the partners such that -- QUESTION: We don't ordinarily decide questionsof State law here. I think we would generally feelperhaps the Ninth Circuit knows more about California lawthan we do. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, certainly that's true. And that's -- QUESTION: I said, we would think. (Laughter.) MR. HABERBUSH: Well, thank you. And -- andyes, this Court ordinarily does not address questions of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. State law. We think that this is a Federal statutoryinterpretation. Either these persons are taxpayers liablefor a tax or they are not taxpayers liable some -- forsomething that is not a tax. QUESTION: The last part. They are for -- theyare not taxpayers in the meaning of the statute who areliable for something that is a tax. And I don't know whythat wouldn't be. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, Your Honor -- QUESTION: And State law makes them, in effect,guarantors of debts. This is a tax debt. So they'reguarantors of the tax debt. So, therefore, they're liablefor the tax or sureties or some other equivalent word. MR. HABERBUSH: All of the cases referred to forthe coterminous statute of limitations, which is whatwould be suggested would be applied here if in fact theyare liable for this tax debt and therefore the provisionsof the Internal Revenue Code apply, are all cases wherespecific enabling provisions created the liability ofthose persons. Under section , certain persons aremade personally liable. Under section , certainpersons may be assessed with taxes as transferees. Andthose specific statutes have provisions in them that saythat the assessment and collection and enforcement of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. tax -- this is and its predecessor, section ,where the collection assessment and enforcement of the taxis subject to the same provisions and the same limitationsas the tax itself. So it's not surprising that you havecases like Leighton and Updike where the statute oflimitations set forth in what is now applies to thembecause they're subject to the same limitation periods. There is nothing in the Internal Revenue Codethat sets forth a limitation period as to partners. Ifone adopts the guarantor analogy, then this is conceivablea case where any number of years could pass where thepartners would become liable. Your -- I would point out the Court's record inthe joint appendix. At pages and , we have theproofs of claim that were filed in these bankruptcy cases,and these proofs of claim on their face show that theGovernment in this case is not simply filing a claim asthough it were a lawsuit against these partners. Theseproofs of claim were filed as secured claims in both ofthe two cases that are before the Court. Secured by what? Motor vehicles and real estate. So the Internal RevenueService is taking the position clearly, unequivocally thatit can enforce this debt by the summary collection processwhich has been called awesome and -- and super powers thatare not available otherwise. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Whether they could or not, they'resaying that the question here is a judicial action. MR. HABERBUSH: Well -- QUESTION: And -- and so maybe they're wrong andmaybe they're right about that, but that's not before theCourt. MR. HABERBUSH: That's not -- that may not bebefore the Court, but the Government has taken theposition the only way, the sole and single way, it cancollect taxes is to file suits against partners. We wouldsuggest that if the Court were to permit assessment, rulethat they are taxpayers subject to assessment, subject tosuit, that that would enhance collection. It wouldencourage partners at the earliest opportunity to causetheir partnerships to pay taxes. It would cause partnersat the earliest opportunity to pay the taxes. In thisinstance, you have proofs of claim -- QUESTION: It -- it would also cause an enormousnumber of assessments to be made that ultimately wouldhave no -- no use. I mean, the -- the amount ofadministrative assessing going on would -- would bestaggering. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, the amount of suits couldbe staggering as well to collect these kinds of taxes. QUESTION: What is the problem? Suppose -- I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- I'm failing to see it but maybe -- suppose it's truethat what the Uniform Partnership Act says is true. Partners are, quote, in the nature of guarantors, endquote, rather than principal debtors on the debts of thepartnership. So let's suppose they're like guarantors. Iwould have thought that State law was something along thelines of a guarantor must be sued in order to collect a --a guaranteed debt within a period of time after it becomesdetermined that such a debt exists. Now, I would thinkthat that's how the normal State law runs. So unless there's something Federal to thecontrary -- and by the way, if there is, they have moreyears. But unless there is something Federal to thecontrary, there's no problem with bringing this case. So the only question in this case is are they inthe nature of guarantors. And I'd be interested -- well,A, I'm interested in your comment on what I just said, andI'm also interested in the comment of why they're notguarantors. MR. HABERBUSH: Very well. Here the InternalRevenue Service has filed proofs of claim in thebankruptcy court not for the debt of the tax but for thetax, for the penalties, and for the interest. Guarantorsunder California law are liable for the debt and perhapsthe interest, but not for the penalties. The Court will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. note that these proofs of claim are approximately three tofour times as much as the amount of tax that wasoriginally assessed against the partnership in the initialinstance. There is nothing in the record to suggest thatthese partners had knowledge or notice of these taxes atany time before these proofs of claim were filed. Now, under California law, if you have aguarantor, the guarantor knows of the liability that thatguarantor is offering surety for. That guarantor knowsthat that liability exists. That guarantor can encouragethe principal party to pay the tax or the debt inquestion. Here the policies that are urged by theGovernment do not encourage collection of this -- QUESTION: Mr. Haberbush, do you defend thedecision of the Ninth Circuit in this case? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, we do. QUESTION: That in order to collect against thepartners, an assessment would have to be made againstthem? MR. HABERBUSH: No, not within that specificlimitation. We think that an assessment or a suit shouldbe brought within the statutory period -- QUESTION: Well, I thought -- I thought thereasoning of the Ninth Circuit was that you couldn'tcollect against the partners unless you assess them too. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HABERBUSH: To that extent, the opinion iswrong for the reason that it is a well-held propositionthat suit or assessment may be brought under section within the -year period, so that it's not exclusivelyassessment that's involved. And this Court and othercourts, I believe, have -- have ruled that assessment isnot a prerequisite to collection. However, some actionmust be taken within the statutory limitations periods. QUESTION: And the filing of a claim in abankruptcy court is insufficient because? MR. HABERBUSH: It's untimely. It is not donewithin the period of time -- QUESTION: So this is simply a statute oflimitations case. MR. HABERBUSH: That's our position. Yes, YourHonor. It is simply a statute of limitations case. TheGovernment has contended that this is a tax governed bythe Internal Revenue Code. The liability may be createdby State law, and this Court has consistently said whileliability may be -- be created by State law, theenforceability of that liability is a subject of Federallaw. The Federal laws provide for notice and demand. They provide for -- provides that assessment must bemade. The -- the Government suggests that there can -- QUESTION: Mr. Haberbush, would you be able, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. after the argument, to furnish the Court with the placesin the record available to us where it shows that youraised the State statute of limitations issue below? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, I can. QUESTION: Thank you. MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, I can. QUESTION: Why shouldn't an assessment againstthe partnership be good as to the partners as well? Imean, the whole difference is that you'd have to add the-- the names of the individual partners. I mean, theassessment itself is something in a file in some building. Right? MR. HABERBUSH: Well, the assessment is thenotation or recording of the liability. However, section says that to be a proper assessment, it must recordthe liability of the taxpayer and we, of course, say thatthe taxpayer also includes the partners. And yes, there could be a single assessmentnaming numerous parties. There are examples of that. Forexample, a husband and wife are jointly assessed. Anassessment against a husband or a wife independently isnot an assessment against the other. So there aremultiple assessments that are capable of being made underthe code. There are numerous other instances where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. assessments are made. , for example, assessment -- QUESTION: Is it -- does it -- would it matterif in fact the partners knew -- had received the -- Iassume that the notice and demand would come to thepartnership. This is a small partnership. There werewhat? Four partners involved? If they had actual notice,would that make any difference? MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor, that might make adifference. We -- we would contend that it does not makea difference. We have cited to cases -- and I don'trecall them right off the top of my -- my head at thismoment -- where the assessment -- in fact, that was CoolFuel, Inc. out of the Ninth Circuit where the assessmentactually has to be received and made. It has to name whothe taxpayer is. Marvel v. the United States. While the taxpayerthere was named as a partnership's name, the individuals'Social Security numbers, taxpayer identification numbers,were on that -- that assessment, and that was found to begood as to those persons even though they were notindividually named. QUESTION: But certainly they had actual notice. Your big due process objection that you make would not --would -- would be very thin, would it not? MR. HABERBUSH: I don't disagree with that, Your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Honor. There is nothing in the record below where thereis -- that issue has been addressed. There is no factsthat were derived at the trial of this matter where thatwas addressed. There is nothing in the record -- QUESTION: But you addressed it in your brief. You said if they didn't get individual notice and demand,that would be a violation of due process. MR. HABERBUSH: Yes. It is not before theCourt, however, whether they did or didn't, and there'snothing in the record suggesting that they did get suchnotice. That's why the -- the Government relies soheavily on its constructive notice theory, althoughstarkly absent from that argument is any California law tosupport that idea that notice to a partnership isconstructive notice to its partners. Turning back to the -- the idea of the -- theassessment in this case, the -- there are strikingexamples throughout the brief of the Government, althoughthe Government contends that it is not able legally toassess partners, there are no less than cases cited inthe briefs, of which were cited by the Government, inwhich summary collection process was instituted againstpartners, and in -- in any of those cases there was anassessment. In fact, the one case that's cited by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government, the -- the United States v. Wright -- that'sthe case which came out of the Seventh Circuit that theGovernment contends is in direct conflict with the NinthCircuit case in this instance is one where the UnitedStates District Court in its findings found that thepartners were assessed. And it's not surprisingtherefore, that the Wright court found that there were -- QUESTION: It said that -- but I thought JudgeEasterbrook said that that was irrelevant, that theremight have been a fact question about that whether therewere individual assessments. But in any case, the court'srationale had nothing to do with that. MR. HABERBUSH: That is correct. However, thedistrict court did find that there were assessments. TheSeventh Circuit found that that was irrelevant to the --the determination. However, it is entirely consistentwith the idea that in that case there were coterminousstatute of limitations. For the reason that assessmentswere made within the statutory period of time -- that wasstill within the coterminous periods -- then thecollection. The question was whether the allowed thecollection against the partners who were jointly liablewith the partnership in that instance. The statutoryperiod of time allowed to the partnership, because it hadbeen tolled during a bankruptcy, the court found th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. coterminous statute of limitations, relying on the Updikecase as its example. We -- we believe that the collection of taxeswould be enhanced by adopting the position that we havetaken in this case. We believe that requiring the filingof lawsuits in every instance where partners are liablefor the debts of a partnership which has failed to pay itstaxes and which may or may not be out of business, issimply a policy which would have litigation that is notrequired. If the partnership is liable for the tax andthis Court were to find that the notice provisions of and the provisions of allowing suit or assessmentwithin years applies, that that would enhance thecollection of taxes. We believe that -- excuse me -- webelieve that by doing that, the tax will be paid at theearliest possible time. Interest and penalties, such ashave accrued in this case, would not accrue because thepartners would be encouraged at every point and at everyspot to cause their partnership to pay or to pay the taxthemselves. The Government is not in the business of bankingtax claims, if you will, allowing them to accrue penaltiesand interest and thereafter, for who knows how many years,potentially as many as plus , and if suit is filed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. within the years under , the -- the term forenforcing a judgment. So it could be - years that apartner could be out there liable for the tax during whichpenalties and interest continue to accrue, and thenfinally one day maybe that partner or that partner'sestate or the partner's beneficiaries of the partner'sestate might become liable for this tax. We believe that by filing the tax -- by filingan assessment at the earliest possible opportunity againstthe partners, this would encourage tax collection. QUESTION: Nothing would stop a partner frompaying the tax. MR. HABERBUSH: If the partner knows, that iscorrect. If the -- QUESTION: Isn't it reasonable to assume mostpartners know what's happening in their business? MR. HABERBUSH: I don't know that it'sunreasonable to assume that, but I suppose it isreasonable. However, there are partnerships and there arepartnerships, and some partnerships have managing partnerswho are actively involved in the business of thepartnership and -- QUESTION: Yes, but I -- I would think, by andlarge, most partners know what's going on. I mean,certainly there are exceptional cases, but certainly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's not typical. MR. HABERBUSH: Unfortunately, I'm only involvedin my law partnership and I know what's going on there. I've not been involved -- QUESTION: Maybe you shouldn't be a generalpartner if -- if you're not prepared to know what's goingon. It's pretty risky. I mean, that's -- that's theresponsibility you assume when he -- it only applies togeneral partners. It doesn't apply to limited partners. MR. HABERBUSH: That's exactly right. QUESTION: So don't become a general partner ifyou're not willing to know what's going on in thepartnership. I -- I thought that's the deal. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, Your Honor, I don't knowwhether that -- QUESTION: That's what it means to be a generalpartner. You're -- you're going to be liable for what thepartnership does. So you better pay attention. I -- andyou're saying this is unjust somehow? MR. HABERBUSH: Well, yes, it is, Your Honor,for the reason that does that mean that every partner hasto go through every single piece of mail that enters thepartnership and be familiar with every single thing thatoccurs? QUESTION: No, but when you accumulate tax th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. liabilities of several hundred thousand dollars, theyought to find that -- be able to find that out. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, Your Honor, these are overa number of quarters. These were not all assessed at onetime. QUESTION: Which is all the more reason theyshould have known about it a lot earlier. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, husbands oftentimes hidethings from their wives who are a joint taxpayer as well. QUESTION: But we're talking about a partnershipthat has not paid -- what was it -- FICA and FUTA taxes. Surely, the partners were aware that they were not payingthe taxes that were due year after year. MR. HABERBUSH: There's nothing in the recordthat suggests -- QUESTION: Who was responding to these lettersfrom the Government? The secretary? MR. HABERBUSH: Your Honor -- QUESTION: I mean, does she take it in to -- toher boss who was presumably one of the general partnersand say, hey, you know -- MR. HABERBUSH: If it's a -- QUESTION: -- the Government says we owe a lotof money. MR. HABERBUSH: If it's a managing -- if it's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. managing general partner, I assume that that's the case. If in fact the partnership had ceased its operations andthese notices came afterwards, who knows who received thenotices. I don't think that the law imposes a burden uponevery single general partner to look at every single billand piece of paper that comes into a partnership. QUESTION: No, but you shouldn't rely on theUnited States Government to tell you what you -- how yourfinancial affairs are coming along and be the primarysource of information. MR. HABERBUSH: That may be so, but if the -- ifthe Government were required to do so, partners would atevery point in time be encouraged to cause the partnershipto meet its financial obligations. QUESTION: It doesn't place that kind of aburden on the partners that you're talking about. They'reentirely free not to read the mail. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, that's -- that's correct. QUESTION: But -- but the problem is they'regoing to be liable for whatever debts are incurred by thepartnership if they don't do it. That's the only burdenimposed. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, Your Honor, and looking atburdens there is no -- there is no insignificant -- excuseme. It's not a significant burden to place upon the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government to simply send another notice to the partnersregarding their derivative liability for these claims. QUESTION: And it's not a very significantburden to a partner to say you better make sure they'repaying the taxes. MR. HABERBUSH: Well, of course. However, there-- there have been dishonest partners, and the cases thatI cite -- QUESTION: You better be careful who you form apartnership -- MR. HABERBUSH: Well, yes, and there are casescited in the briefs that say exactly that. However, if --if the policy is to collect taxes and collect thempromptly, then that is encouraged, rather than filing suitagainst partners, by a simple assessment sent in the mailto the partners. If there is nothing further -- QUESTION: Does an assessment affect your creditrating? MR. HABERBUSH: Yes, it does. It does. QUESTION: So -- so you want -- all right. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Haberbush. MR. HABERBUSH: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Jones, you have minutesremaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KENT L. JONES ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. JONES: Thank you. At page of respondents' brief on the merits,they say -- and I quote -- if respondents are secondarilyliable for the partnership taxes, then the Ninth Circuit'sruling that the IRS must assess respondents to collect thepartnership taxes is incorrect. It is clear to us thatthere is -- this is a secondary derivative liability thatpartners have under State law. I didn't hear respondentsgive any explanation of why that isn't so. Given those two facts, then this Court's holdingin Leighton seems clearly applicable, which is that wedon't have to assess a derivative State law liability tobring suit to recover upon that liability. Now, respondents say, well, somehow that holdingis influenced by the fact that transferee liability isprovided in of the code. It's interesting that in --in the Leighton case what the Court held was that the transferee liability is a supplementary remedy that didnot displace and, indeed, left in place the right of theUnited States to bring its suit upon the derivative Statelaw liability without assessment. So the -- the principle that we draw from theLeighton case is not dependent on any of the specific th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statutes that address specific types of -- of assignmentsof transferees. In fact, it's utterly independent ofthat, which was the very issue the Court decided inLeighton. Given that and -- and given that there's aderivative sub-secondary liability, we can recover againstState law. Then the only other question is, well, whatstatute of limitations applies to that, which the Courtheld in Updike that it's which applies both to thedirect liability and the derivative liability. QUESTION: See, that's what I'm really wonderingabout. I mean -- but -- but I mean, A, they may have nothave raised it below. B, it's not within the scope of thequestion. C, it may not make any difference because theState and Federal may give you enough time anyway. But ifyou do have to get to it, I'm -- I'm a little worriedabout it because I don't -- I don't really see why itshould be Federal. MR. JONES: The reason it should be Federal isbecause all of these actions are designed, as the Courtstressed in Updike, to collect the tax. We have differentremedies. Congress could Federalize all of this. Congress could write a statute that said, you know, youcan bring suits for derivative liabilities and that thosesuits will -- specifically subject to . And what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Court noted in Stern was that Congress hasn't done thatbecause the Court has consistently applied State law topermit such tax collection to occur. And -- and so that's why Updike has got to beright because this is a strong Federal interest incollecting taxes, not to be too big about it, but I mean,this Court has noted that the collection of taxes is thelifeblood of Government. This is as sovereign a claim aswe have, and -- and because of that, we need to have auniform statute of limitations, which Congress hasprovided under . If -- if we were left to the haphazards of Statelaw, we would certainly want Congress to -- to addressthat and correct it, but they don't need to correct itbecause since in the Updike case, the Court hasexplained that is broad enough to cover both types of-- of judicial collection proceedings. In the Court'swords, the action against derivatively liable party is inevery real sense a proceeding in court to collect the tax,and that's the -- that's the statutory language. And -- and I -- there has been no contentionthat that's not a correct interpretation of . I donot know what references respondents may have in mind toarguments they raised under State statutes of limitationsbefore. We're not familiar with those. The statute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's referred to in their merits brief is a specificState statute. We're not aware that that statute was evercited before by the parties in this case, but even if itwas, it seems to us that the reasoning of the Summerlincase and -- and of Updike, which is -- there's already aFederal statute -- should control that question and -- QUESTION: Mr. Jones, why isn't Mr. Haberbushright at least when he says everybody would be better offif you went ahead and listed the partners as well on theassessment and gave them notice and demand? Then therewould never be any hassle of whether you could use bothremedies, administrative and judicial. MR. JONES: I think it's a question for Congresswhat's -- you know, what makes everybody better off. Andwhat Congress has said is that we can assess these taxesagainst the employer. The employer under State law is aseparate and distinct legal entity known as thepartnership. QUESTION: Do you think you're impeded that youhave no authority to give the partners noticeindividually? MR. JONES: We -- well, we have authority togive them notice of an assessment and collect from themadministratively, but in terms of, if you will, making anassessment against them directly, we're supposed to assess th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the party whose subject to the tax. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Jones. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 