 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSUSAN JINKS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -RICHLAND COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as Intervenor.ANDREW F. LINDEMANN, ESQ., Columbia, South Carolina; on behalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT S. PECK, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as Intervenor ANDREW F. LINDEMANN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Susan Jinks v. Richland County.Mr. Peck.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT S. PECKON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PECK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:In enacting section , Congress took up thisCourt's invitation in Finley to manage the boundaries ofsupplemental jurisdiction. It had two goals in doing so. It sought to provide a Federal forum for plaintiffs thatso chose to use it, and for -- for reasons of respect forthe interests of comity and federalism, it provided a mechanism by which those cases may be returned to Statecourt. They knew that there was a dilemma, a dilemmacaused by the operation of statutes of limitations, and sothey sought to find and found a simple, practical,workable solution that traveled down a well-trod path. It's a path that was traveled down by the Soldier andSailors' Relief Act, a act that also tolls State statutesof limitations even when exigent circumstances do notexist. And in the case in holding that, Conroy, this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court found that it was applicable in that instance to adefendant who was a town. It also traveled down that road in section of the Bankruptcy Act. This too provides that kind of -day window after dismissal of the automatic stay orlifting of the automatic stay for a plaintiff to file anaction which is otherwise purely a State matter in Statecourt. This Court found in Stewart v. Kahn that thereis no federalism bar to congressional authority as long asthat authority exists someplace in the Constitution. Throughout its history, pursuant to Article I, which has acognate provision duplicative of the authority it derivesalso from Article III, Congress has used its jurisdiction-setting authority as a traffic cop over the area of concurrent State and Federal jurisdiction. It has done soalmost from the beginning in the Anti-Injunction Act, theremoval statute, and has always found this to be anecessary incident of maintaining a dual-court system. QUESTION: Well, the Anti-Injunction Act justapplies to Federal courts, doesn't it? MR. PECK: The -- it gives Federal courts theauthority, though, to stay a State action when itinterferes with the jurisdiction of the Federal court.QUESTION: It's an -- that -- that's an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC exception to the Anti-Injunction Act.MR. PECK: That's an exception contained in theAnti-Injunction Act, and another exception is when an actof Congress so provides. The choice of tolling did not attempt to givelonger life in State court than it would have enjoyed inFederal court. It did not eliminate defenses that wereavailable in Federal court, have the matter remain there. It did not change the State's policy on waiver ofmunicipal liability or alter its statute of limitations. It simply said that the case, as it stood in Federalcourt, is now available to be heard in State court. TheState is free to change both its waiver of immunity, itsstatute of limitations, and Congress accepts those changesregardless of the application of the supplemental jurisdiction statute.Once that jurisdiction attaches, once theFederal court has authority to hear the State action, theneven after the Federal -- Federal claim has fallen away,the court still has the jurisdiction to hear whatotherwise would have been a purely State claim. This is unusual in a diversity case. Whencomplete diversity is broken, the jurisdiction ends. Buthere no one, not the Supreme Court of South Carolina, notthe respondents, not the amici, questioned Congress' th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC authority to say that this remains a Federal matterbecause a Federal interest has attached because the matterhas now been heard.QUESTION: I didn't understand it that way, Ithought South Carolina said, Federal court, you want totake this and deal with this stale claim? That's allright with us. It's one of the ironies of the case thatthe State's position is the Federal court can have it ifyou keep it. The only thing they can't do is give it backto us when we don't want it because that would becommandeering the use of our courts. South Carolina'sposition is the Federal court can keep our State claim inFederal court. Indeed, it must if it wants the claim toremain alive.MR. PECK: That -- that is correct, and even at this late date, rule (b) would enable a plaintiff likeSusan Jinks to seek to reopen that Federal case, to -- toreconsider its judgment and allow this case to still liveif -- if the tolling provision is ineffective. So here what we're saying is that there's acontinuing Federal interest in this matter. There's --there's been a Federal attachment to what otherwise wouldhave been a purely State matter. In a removal situation,for example, South Carolina could not refuse a remand andwe contend that that authority which is contained in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC removal statute is the same kind of authority thatCongress is exercising here because what Congress haseffectively done is define the legal effect of theappearance of this matter in Federal court and the Federaldisposition of it. And the State courts of South Carolinaor any other State is not equipped, it's not authorized torefuse that definition because Congress is the supremesovereign of Federal law. So --QUESTION: We -- we know what Congress has --has -- has defined. Why is it important? I mean, what isthe -- how would you define the important interest to theFederal courts in -- in our seeing the constitutionalissue your way?MR. PECK: Well, first of all, Congress wantedto provide this Federal forum. They clearly had the authority to do that. But they also wanted to take in theinterest of comity which this Court has always referred toas a vital consideration. QUESTION: The State says, we don't want thiskind of comity. Keep it. MR. PECK: It's -- it's very nice for the Stateto have that interest, but the federalist design of ourConstitution provides that impetus that Congress wasacting on.QUESTION: No, but I -- I want to get down to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC specifically what's important to the Federal courts and toCongress. MR. PECK: Well --QUESTION: Why would it hurt the Federal courtsif you lose this case? What's -- practically what's --what's at stake?MR. PECK: I -- I think there are -- there areseveral things that might happen. Right now what we callsupplemental jurisdiction is a doctrine of discretion. Itwould be turned into a doctrine of plaintiffs' rights,that if the State courts are refusing to receive thesecase -- cases, then the Federal courts will be obligatedto hear these State matters even if they were novel andcomplex matters in which only the State courts have theappropriate expertise to hear it. And I think that would cause some problems. QUESTION: What difference does complexity makeif the State Federal court's position is we don't want toclutter up Federal courts with a lot of State tort --garden variety, simple State tort claims? We don't wantto be a fender bender court.MR. PECK: And I think it is perfectlylegitimate in Congress' jurisdiction-setting authority forthem to make that determination. These are matters thatare -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: The -- the idea is that Federalcourts should be occupied with Federal cases and not withState cases. MR. PECK: And I -- I think that is anappropriate -- appropriate reason for Congress to adoptthis kind of a statute to assure that that happens.The other -- Justice Souter, the other possibleconsequence is that plaintiffs, fearful that a Federalcourt will not hear their matter, will not take it back ifthe -- the State courts will not accept the matter, may beleft without a cause of action on their State claim, thatthey will suddenly be shut out the door. And in orderto --QUESTION: And how is that going to hurt theFederal courts?MR. PECK: That does not necessarily hurt theFederal courts, but Congress certainly has a right to beconcerned for those litigants and try to --QUESTION: Why -- why isn't the person to beconcerned for those litigants the State courts under whoselaw the litigants want to sue?MR. PECK: Because -- because, Justice Souter,here the State courts have -- have -- Congress hasbasically done one thing. They've -- they've looked atthe idea of comity that this Court had talked about in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Guaranty Trust, in Ragan, and -- and what they said isthat comity is a reciprocal process. It's got to have atwo-way street.And so what we're doing is we're not givinglonger life in Federal court to what's in State court. Wehave the authority to assign to the State courts a matterthat is purely Federal in nature. Now we have a matterthat has a Federal interest because of the intervention ofits arrival in Federal court, and because of that, we haveenough authority also to say that this is a matter thatthe State courts can't refuse. They can't suddenly saythat we do not recognize the authority here --QUESTION: But comity is traditionally a matterof consent rather than having one sovereign impress its --its law on the other. I mean, it's consensual. MR. PECK: It is consensual, but then again, the-- the idea behind comity is tied up with our -- ourfederalism and our idea that we have a dual court system. That dual court system recognizes that there will beconflicts. There will be some -- some difficultiesbetween the Federal and State systems. Those difficultiesis what Congress is trying to police. It's a -- it's a function that they haveperformed repeatedly, and the removal statute is a verygood example of that. And certainly Congress could insist th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- could insist that the State courts receive back even amatter that the Federal court erroneously dismissed ratherthan remand it.And here they're not asking the South Carolinacourts to do anything that they don't normally do. If a-- a matter is --QUESTION: Well, they're asking the SouthCarolina courts to grant relief in a case that is outsidethe statute of limitations. I take it they don't -- theSouth Carolina courts don't normally do that.MR. PECK: South Carolina courts, as -- as wecited in the -- the Hilton Head and Moriarty decisions,has said that they will sometimes waive the statute oflimitations in the interest of justice. Another instance in which they waive that issue is when venue has been misapplied. When -- when theydemand that venue be placed in one particular place, youfile in that wrong place, the statute of limitationsexpires before that court acts on it, they say it hasjurisdiction to transfer it to the proper venue.QUESTION: Well, would this case come outdifferently in the State? Supposing Georgia, aneighboring State, had no such waiver. Would this casecome out differently there?MR. PECK: I don't think so, and the reason I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC don't think so is because when all that is left in theFederal court is a matter that is otherwise a State-basedclaim, that Federal court sits as just another court ofthat jurisdiction, another court within that State'ssystem. And for that reason -- for that reason, it oughtto be treated, when Congress so authorizes -- andCongress, exercising that Article III, that necessary andproper powers that it had, utilizing the Supremacy Clause,authorizes that this be treated essentially by tolling asmeeting the statute of limitations. They have the right to define the meaning ofwhat the Federal law is here, and that is simply whatthey've done. They've done it by adopting a tollingprovision that is not unlike other tolling provisionsthroughout the law. And here it's clear that they --they've done something that they have the authority to do.Tolling comports completely with the federalistdesign of the Constitution, enables the court'sconsideration of what court is best positioned toadjudicate. That is decidedly a jurisdictional decision. Here -- and it's -- and it -- it is doing that by allowingthe courts to control their own borders of what isappropriate to them and what is not.QUESTION: I thought the South Carolina SupremeCourt agreed that as far as the Federal courts are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC concerned, this is all fine. So it was necessary to sparethe Federal courts having to sit on a case that no longerhas a Federal element. That's fine. It serves alegitimate Federal purpose. But, says South Carolina, you can't -- it isn'tproper to tell us then -- they can dump it. That's fine. They can't tell us that we have to pick it up.MR. PECK: That is indeed what they've said. But Stewart v. Kahn says otherwise.QUESTION: That was a -- that was a Civil Wartolling of the statute of limitations. MR. PECK: That is correct. It found thatwithin the war power, Congress had the authority to tollthe statute of limitations in a State action brought inState court. Obviously then there is no Tenth Amendment overlay that prevents the use of that war powersauthority. Here they have similar authority, both inArticle I, section , to establish the inferior courts, aswell as Article III where there's a cognate phrase, andthat authority has to be equivalent. They've used thatauthority also with respect to bankruptcy, again derivingfrom section . And so here again there's no question that theseother tolling provisions have been properly used. No one th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC has questioned their constitutionality in recent times,and this simply adopts a longstanding congressionalapproach to this issue. It's one that this Court haspreviously approved.If -- if the respondent has his way, enormousmischief will result. You leave the courts with aHobbesian choice, a choice that they have beenuncomfortable with in which you've seen courts grantingmotions for reconsideration, courts requiring waivers of astatute of limitations, so having much the same effect --and clearly when tolling does that, it is clearlyappropriate to the judicial power -- and in otherinstances, simply holding onto a case they would otherwiseallow the State courts to do, again in the interest of thefederalist overlay in our Constitution.QUESTION: Well -- well, isn't it -- if --suppose you should not prevail here. Well, then you justbring -- the plaintiff would bring two actions, bring --bring a protective action in the State court within thestatute of limitations and then that would solve theproblem, wouldn't it?MR. PECK: But that -- that's an unworkablesolution. Congress sought to avoid that. Congress wantedto give a Federal forum capable of hearing all mattersthat a plaintiff would expect a single court to hear. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC by filing a protective action of that sort, first of all,you could not stop the State court from continuing toproceed, possibly eclipsing in speed the Federal court andcoming up with res judicata on their Federal claim, aswell as the fact that you may be signaling the Federalcourt that on the State matter we have a preference to bein State court when that really isn't the case.I -- I would -- if there are no furtherquestions, I would like to reserve the rest of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Peck.Mr. Lamken, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKENON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS INTERVENORMR. LAMKEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The tolling provision at issue here is withinCongress' constitutional powers for two reasons. First, it establishes the legal effect of adistinctly Federal set of events: the filing, pendency,and dismissal of an action in Federal court over adefendant over whom the court can exercise jurisdiction.Second, it serves legitimate Federal interests,ensuring that if plaintiffs are held harmless for havingselected a Federal forum in the first instance andensuring that Federal courts are not required to exercise th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC jurisdiction and decide cases that involve potentiallysensitive issues of State law that are more reliably andmore appropriately decided in the State court.Because municipalities are not States or arms ofthe States, sovereign immunity does not prevent them frombeing hailed into Federal court and it doesn't prevent theFederal courts from exercising jurisdiction over casesagainst them, including supplemental State law claims.Congress can establish the rules for whenFederal courts should hear such claims and the rules forwhen they should not. Congress has correspondingauthority to establish reasonable rules about the legalconsequences of the pendency of the Federal action, of thefiling of the claim, its pendency, and the court'sdecision to dismiss it under specified rules that Congress itself has established. The rule established here falls within thetradition of Federal control over the effect of Federalproceedings. It falls in the tradition of, for example,legal effect of the filing of a bankruptcy petition whichstays all the actions that are against the debtor andtolls the State limitations periods during the pendency ofthe automatic stay. Or the removal provision which takes cases outof State courts, stays the proceedings in State courts, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and thus prevents the State courts from proceeding in away such as by deeming the case constructively dismissedthat might have the effect of causing the statute oflimitations to continue to run.And the effect of a Federal -- a judgment of aFederal court case. All these are matters that are controlled byFederal law, and that Federal law is no less binding onState courts adjudicating State causes of action,including against municipalities, than they are on Federalcourts.The rule in this case serves twin Federalinterests. First, it holds plaintiffs harmless for havingselected a forum -- a State -- excuse me -- a Federal rather than a State forum in the first instance. Absentthis sort of rule, plaintiffs would face the risk, if theychose a Federal forum, of having the statute oflimitations run on their State law claims. If the Federalcourt then chose to dismiss, those State law claims wouldbe barred. And plaintiffs would have an artificialincentive to avoid Federal court, including for theassertion of their Federal law claims. It also serves the interests of Federal courtsin ensuring that they don't have to decide State law th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC claims that are potentially sensitive, that under thestandards this Court articulated in Gibbs that Congresshas codified in section (c) and it reflects sensiblenotions of division between State and Federal authoritymore appropriately belong in State court and can be morereliably adjudicated there.This Court's decision in Stewart v. Kahnestablishes that there is no constitutional impediment tocongressional preemption of State tolling rules if itserves a legitimate Federal interest, the tolling provision here, like the social -- excuse me -- like theSoldiers' and Sailors' Relief Act, the bankruptcyautomatic stay tolling rule, following that tradition.Finally, the tolling rule here intrudes onlymodestly on State interests. The timely filing of the State claims in Federal court serves all of the statute oflimitations purposes as the claim -- as the timely filingof those same claims in State court. Accordingly, we ask that the judgment of theState supreme court be reversed.If there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lamken.Mr. Lindemann, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW F. LINDEMANNON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. LINDEMANN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:By enacting section (d), Congress hasintruded on principles of State sovereignty. This caseinvolves more than just the tolling of a State law statuteof limitations. It involves, in this particular instancewhere a political subdivision is involved and SouthCarolina law is involved, specifically the South CarolinaTort Claims Act -- this case involves a -- a waiver ofState law sovereign immunity, State law governmentalimmunity.QUESTION: What about examples cited by therepresentative of the Solicitor General of the Soldiers'and Sailors' Civil Relief Act and other Federal laws thathave a similar effect on South Carolina and other States? MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I would submit to theCourt that, first of all, the issue has never come up,never been litigated in this Court, and as far as I'maware, has never been litigated in any court whether ornot the Soldiers' and Sailors' Act in any application is-- is constitutional. QUESTION: Okay. So you think, as far as you'reconcerned, it would be the same problem and the sameresult.MR. LINDEMANN: No, I do not necessarily believe th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it will be the same result. I believe it would be a muchmore difficult question for this Court than what wasfacing the South Carolina Supreme Court and is presentlybefore this Court.QUESTION: Why? MR. LINDEMANN: Because you have differentFederal interests that are involved. And obviously, indetermining whether or not the -- a statute is properunder the Necessary and Proper Clause and to do a TenthAmendment analysis, you have to look at -- you have toweigh the various Federal and State interests that areinvolved.In this particular case, which I'll elaboratemore momentarily, you have very superficial, I wouldsubmit, Federal interests involved compared to a very substantial State interest of determining whether or notthe State and its political subdivisions are subject tosuit under State law. QUESTION: But is it not -- is it not correct --is it not correct that the intrusion on State sovereignty-- forget the Federal side of the balance for a moment --the intrusion on State sovereignty is precisely the sameunder all these other statutes?MR. LINDEMANN: I would disagree, JusticeStevens. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Why is the intrusion in the Soldiers'and Sailors' Civil Relief Act any different than this one?MR. LINDEMANN: The Soldiers' and Sailors' Act-- it would be a very similar intrusion on the -- on theState sovereignty.QUESTION: And how about the bankruptcy statute?MR. LINDEMANN: The bankruptcy -- the actual --any -- any of these statutes that have been cited by thepetitioners and by the Government that actually providefor a stay of a State court action I think aresubstantially different because I would submit to theCourt that a stay of a State court action, whether it'spursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, pursuant to the removalstatutes, any of -- Anti-Injunction Act, any of those doesnot have the same effect upon State sovereignty because it's not changing the actual liability of the defendant,in this particular case, Richland --QUESTION: Well, neither does this statutechange the liability. It just preserves the cause ofaction.statute.MR. LINDEMANN: I --QUESTION: Just like the Soldiers' and Sailors'MR. LINDEMANN: I -- I would respectfullydisagree, Justice Stevens, because what has occurred in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this particular case is Richland County was entitled toState law sovereign immunity once years passed from thedate of the loss. And at -- at the point that thislawsuit was filed in State court --QUESTION: Wouldn't it be entitled to sovereignimmunity if a sailor had -- had sued them too?MR. LINDEMANN: Well, that's why I was trying todistinguish the stay cases from the Soldiers' and Sailors'Act. I think the Soldiers' and Sailors' Act issue is amuch closer question and there what you're weighing ismuch more substantial Federal interests. QUESTION: I'm -- I'm just looking at it fromthe State's point of view in the point of my questions. It did not seem to me that the State interest in it beingimmune was any different in any of those situations. MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I would -- I would submitthat there is no difference in the Soldiers' and Sailors'context, but there would be a major difference in any ofthe situations involving a stay.QUESTION: Mr. Lindemann, I don't -- I don't seewhat difference it makes that the statute of limitationsin this case was applied to -- to what you call Statesovereign immunity. That is, you -- you acknowledge thatthis entity, Richmond -- Richland County, was -- was notentitled to sovereign immunity as we know it under Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC law.MR. LINDEMANN: That's correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: But you're saying that the Statewished to confer upon Richland County a shorter statute oflimitations for suit against it than -- than this Federalstatute permits. Why is that any -- any different from applyingthe same statute against South Carolina's determinationthat a private individual should not be suable after years? What difference does it make whether -- whetherthe person being affected by it is a private individual orRichland County? So long as it's not the State of SouthCarolina, Federal sovereign immunity law is not -- is notat issue. What do we care?MR. LINDEMANN: Well this, Your Honor, is not a case involving the Eleventh Amendment. QUESTION: Exactly.MR. LINDEMANN: This is not a case that isinvolving Federal constitutional immunity.QUESTION: Exactly.MR. LINDEMANN: This is a case that was brought-- a negligence case that was brought in State courtagainst a State governmental -- or a local governmentalentity in the State of South Carolina to which SouthCarolina law should apply. And the reason why we contend th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that this violates the Tenth Amendment is it intrudes intothe areas of State sovereignty to determine, number one,what South Carolina law provides; number two, how SouthCarolina law determines whether or not their owngovernmental entities are subject to suit.QUESTION: But, Mr. Lindemann, one of thecuriosities about this case is if the Federal court, oncethe Federal claim dropped out, decided that it would clean-- clean up the operation, it would keep it in Federalcourt, there would be a Federal court adjudicating SouthCarolina's State law case. The only regulating ruleswould be State rules. And South Carolina says, that'sokay with us. They can take our law into the Federalcourt and apply it there and -- but we don't want it back. In other words, we want to force our cases to be litigated into -- in the Federal court. And that doesn't make awhole lot of sense.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, it's not as much thatthey're trying to force the Federal court to litigate thecase. Obviously, the plaintiff chose that forum to startwith. And Congress has deemed -- has provided forsupplemental jurisdiction. So obviously Congress hasprovided a forum in Federal court for the litigation ofthese State law claims. And so South Carolina has notsaid, you can't give it back to us, but what South th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Carolina had said is that in the interim, if there's adismissal without prejudice of the State law claims inanother court, whether it be the Federal district court orwhether it be in a court of another State, if there's adismissal without prejudice under South Carolina law,that's considered as if the suit had never been brought inthe first place.QUESTION: In other words, you're saying it'sall right with us if the Federal court adjudicates thispurely State claim. The State isn't offended by that, butit is offended by getting it back even though everyone hadnotice in ample time within the -- the county had amplenotice because they received a Federal summons andcomplaint. So there was no question of -- of reposeinvolved.But there's one -- another aspect of this, itseems to me, passing strange. Are you suggesting that theremoval statute would be vulnerable to a similar attack? Because that's really -- if you're talking about Statecourt, this is wrenching a case out of the State court,ousting the State court of jurisdiction, putting it intothe Federal court. I would think if you're right aboutsending it back, then you'd certainly object to lifting itout.MR. LINDEMANN: I don't believe the interest th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC here is that South Carolina has a problem with -- with theFederal court deciding issues of State law, and I don'tthink South Carolina has a problem with deciding thoseissues itself. The problem South Carolina has in thisparticular case is with Congress expanding upon State lawthat actually set the boundaries as to when and how apolitical subdivision can be sued.QUESTION: What difference does it make whetherit's a political subdivision or not? Suppose SouthCarolina law said, gas stations shall be immune from suitexcept that you can sue them within two years, and thenthe same situation occurs. Would -- would not the Federalcourt be intruding upon South Carolina's decision ofimmunity just as much?MR. LINDEMANN: South -- yes, the Congress would be intruding upon --QUESTION: So -- so --MR. LINDEMANN: -- the ability of the State ofSouth Carolina to set a statute of limitations for privatedefendants. QUESTION: That's -- and that's all we'retalking about, to set a statute of limitations whetherit's for private defendants or whether it's for RichlandCounty which, as far as Federal law is concerned, is aprivate defendant, or whether it's for gas stations. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I mean, I -- you -- you try to make somethingdifferent of this case by saying what it involves in -- isRichland County, but what we, the Federal courts, say isRichland County is not the State of South Carolina. It isnot a State entity, and as far as we're concerned, it's agas station.MR. LINDEMANN: But I would submit to the Courttwo points in response to that. It goes beyond becauseit's a governmental entity and you look at the applicationof State law because again, this is a State law casebrought and adjudicated in a State court. And you look atthe State law which actually provides a greater defensefor a governmental entity than it does for a privatecitizen.To give the Court an illustration --QUESTION: You would have no --QUESTION: You give greater defenses for gasstations. Would -- would that change the gas station casesimply because you give greater defenses to gas stations?MR. LINDEMANN: No, it would not change thecase.QUESTION: Of course not.MR. LINDEMANN: My point is it -- it actuallymakes a stronger case to show the intrusion on Statesovereignty where you have a political subdivision. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And if I may illustrate. Prior to , SouthCarolina recognized absolute sovereign immunity for itsState entities as well as its political subdivisions. Andif you looked at -- the question that comes to mind iswhether Congress, prior to , could have enacted astatute that subjects Richland County, a politicalsubdivision in the State of South Carolina, to a claim fornegligence in the operation of its local detention centerwhere South Carolina law itself provides there is no suchclaim because of sovereign immunity.QUESTION: The answer is, of course, they couldif they had a -- if there is a basis in the Constitutionfor the Federal Government to pass a law that changesState law. They do it every day of the week.And so usually what you ask is, is there a basis here? Of course, there is. They say Article III.Indeed, was there a problem Congress was tryingto cure? Indeed, there is. It was the mess that existedbefore the statute.Is there an infringement of what the State wouldlike to do? Of course, there is but the Constitutiongives the power to the Federal Government to do that.Now -- now, what's -- that -- like, you know,purely I'd say hornbook. So what -- what is the -- whatis the special thing about this infringement of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC State's power to do what it would like to do here?MR. LINDEMANN: I respectfully disagree withyou, Justice Breyer. If, prior to , Congress wantedto create a situation where Richland County would beliable for the operation of its detention center, it wouldhave to do so in the context of a Federal cause of actionwhich obviously existed at that time under section . What I'm saying is --QUESTION: So Congress in your opinion doesn'thave the power to -- to interfere with State law insofaras it creates State laws of action? Congress couldn'tpass tort reform, for example. MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I believe tort reform incertain instances would be permissible. I -- I believethat -- and certainly the -- the precedent set by this Court supports this -- that Congress has the authoritythrough preemption and through its properly enactedstatutes to limit the liability in State court actions --in State law actions, but cannot create liability wherenone existed previously. And I'd submit to the Court thatI'm not aware of any single example where Congress hasstepped in and created a statute that creates a -- a Statelaw cause of action or expands upon a State law cause ofaction to create liability where none existed.QUESTION: Except the Soldiers' and Sailors' th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Relief Act, for example. MR. LINDEMANN: Well, and the Soldiers' andSailors' Relief Act, if it is indeed constitutional, isbased upon a different weighing of the Federal interestversus the State interest. You obviously in that casehave much greater Federal interest involved than thesimple convenience to litigants to have to be able to be-- have the ability to file your Federal and State claimsin the same Federal action without concern that your Stateaction might ultimately be dismissed after the statute oflimitations ran. Obviously the Soldiers' and Sailors' Actinvolves First Amendment war powers. It involves issuesof national defense and deployment of armed servicesaround the country where they're not available to -- where they don't have the immediate availability of access toour court system. Those are much different rights, muchdifferent Federal interests, and would create a muchdifferent issue. And how this Court would ultimatelyresolve that issue I cannot say, but it would certainlymake a much stronger case for allowing that than thesimple case that is -- or the Federal interests that areat stake in this particular instance.The --QUESTION: If we went back to the old ways, is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there any unconstitutionality in one of the things thatwas done? And the Federal judge will say, yeah, this isreally State business, but I'm not going to subject theplaintiff to a time bar. So, defendant, Richland County,any defendant, would you agree that you will waive thestatute of limitations should I dismiss this case withoutprejudice. The -- the -- the State -- the countycertainly could do that. MR. LINDEMANN: That -- that happened frequentlyprior to , and I'm actually aware of -- personally ofinstances even since where that's been the case --QUESTION: And how about bringing --MR. LINDEMANN: -- and that obviously is thesolution. QUESTION: A plaintiff brings a protective action and says, I really want this claim to be thefront runner, but if I fail on that, I want to have thesegarden variety State -- whatever it is -- assault cases. So the plaintiff begins a State -- a case in State courtand the State tort claims, the Federal case, including the claim.MR. LINDEMANN: That's right.QUESTION: Then that would be perfectly allright.MR. LINDEMANN: That would be perfectly all th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC right, and in fact --QUESTION: And all that accomplishes is havingtwo cases instead of one, which is if -- if that can beavoided, it's -- for the efficiency of the system, it's apretty good idea, isn't it?MR. LINDEMANN: But realistically looking at theway (d) operates anyway is you often do have twoseparate lawsuits such as what we have in this particularinstance.QUESTION: But that's what (d) was meant toovercome I thought, having two lawsuits going on, just tohave the -- the State court sitting there and nothinghappening in the event that the Federal court shoulddismiss the Federal claim and there's a live lawsuit topick up.MR. LINDEMANN: There are many differentalternatives that courts dealt with this issue prior to. And in fact, I'd submit that there's certainly noauthority to support any finding or any conclusion thatlitigants' due process rights were violated before (d)was enacted.QUESTION: No. It wasn't necessary tolitigants. It's just that your solution to the problempermits the two parties who want to try their case inFederal court to confer a jurisdiction on the Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC court that the district judge believes it doesn't have anddoesn't want.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, and -- and that is true.QUESTION: So from a point of view of protectingthe State, I guess Congress dived into this mess. I -- Iwrote an opinion. You might -- to recall it to mind, ithappened to involve a plagiarism. Did you read -- I had ast Circuit case. It involved plagiarism of an Icelandicpoet called Franjen Gendulik. (Laughter.) MR. LINDEMANN: I'm not aware of that --QUESTION: And in that -- you're not aware ofthat. Well, if you don't -- that doesn't call it tomind --Nogot.QUESTION: It was made into a movie, wasn't it? (Laughter.) QUESTION: But the poem was Suze Sine RazmutIn any case, the -- the point was at the end ofthat it seemed like a terrible mess. There seemed likefive solutions. Each of them had something to be said forit, and so Congress went in to legislate in order to dealwith this procedural mess. Now -- now, why isn't that a legitimate interestjust as legitimate as the interest in protecting soldiers th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and sailors, the interest that underlies lots of otherFederal legislation? MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I would submit to YourHonor that that is certainly not a very substantialFederal interest to the extent it is a Federal interest. QUESTION: To deal with a problem of unfairnessto States, unfairness to litigants, try to have a uniformrule?MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I don't believe it -- itcreates unfairness necessary to litigants, and there areobviously solutions around it -- and was dealt with by --many courts dealt with this particular issue prior to. And I would submit that when you balance thatFederal interest with the State interests that areinvolved here and -- which is obviously what -- what's the analysis under the Tenth Amendment, that the result shouldbe that the State interests involved to be able to controlState law and State law claims, to be able to control whenand how State -- States and their political subdivisionsare subject to suit under State law, that those interestsfar outweigh the Federal interest. Obviously it is abalancing problem.QUESTION: Isn't -- isn't one of the questionswho should do the balancing? Should we do it or shouldCongress do it? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. LINDEMANN: Well --QUESTION: Doesn't Congress normally make thiskind of policy decision?MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I believe in this --QUESTION: And the branch of the FederalGovernment that makes this kind of policy decision.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, there -- there's clearlyno -- no legislative history that suggests that Congressmade that particular balancing. In fact, there's nothingin the legislative history --QUESTION: No, but I assume the State of SouthCarolina was represented in Congress at the time they madethat decision and could be -- could raise all theseobjections in that forum.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I would submit to the Court that just as this Court ruled in the Raygor caselast term in the Tenth Amendment context, just like in theEleventh Amendment context --QUESTION: The Eleventh Amendment was reallyimplicated there.MR. LINDEMANN: -- you have to look at whetheror not there's a clear statement that Congress intended toaffect Federal-State relations such as it did.QUESTION: No, but I think the clear statementrule is limited to States, and of course, counties are not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC considered the same as States.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I would -- I would submitto the Court that if -- if Your Honor is suggesting thatonly comes into play in Eleventh Amendment cases, that --that -- I would disagree with that because Gregory versusAshcroft was a Tenth Amendment case and this Court ruledbased upon the clear statement rule.Now, whether or not a party has standing toassert --QUESTION: Was that -- was that a -- animmunity --QUESTION: That was State officials.QUESTION: -- official -- an officer immunitycase?MR. LINDEMANN: That was a case. It was a -- a ADEA case, Your Honor, looking at the qualifications ofState judges in the State of Missouri.QUESTION: But the difference is that the Stateis not amenable to suit in Federal court. Themunicipality is just like any other corporation. So --MR. LINDEMANN: I don't disagree with that. That's why we are not pursuing this matter under theEleventh Amendment. However, a municipality has standingto assert a challenge under the Tenth Amendment, and thisCourt in the Printz case, Printz v. United States, was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC actually --QUESTION: It's not a kind of jurisdictionalchallenge. I mean, the State -- if the State were sued inFederal court and there was a pending claim, the Statewould say you -- we don't fit under (a), and the Statenot there at all. But here this claim is properly broughtin Federal court against the city. Is that right?MR. LINDEMANN: That -- that's correct, YourHonor. QUESTION: So it seems to me there's a verylarge difference in that respect.MR. LINDEMANN: We -- we are certainly notarguing that (d) is unconstitutional as applied to --I mean, (a) is unconstitutional as applied to RichlandCounty. What we're arguing is that the expansion of the State law statute of limitations and the limited waiver ofsovereign immunity under State law is what, as applied inthis particular case, violates the Tenth Amendment. QUESTION: I can see in the abstract what yourargument is, but in the concrete, let's take the removalcase. So there's a case lodged in State court. It'slifted up, put into Federal court, and then more than years later, it gets remanded. Practically what's thedifference in terms of South Carolina and its concern withstale claims between those two cases? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. LINDEMANN: Well, Your Honor, obviously aremoval situation is substantially different in thatjurisdiction was first lodged in the State court, and as aresult, any type of waiver issue or any type of statute oflimitations issue would be resolved by the fact that therewas a initial filing of the State court claim in Statecourt.QUESTION: But functionally I don't see anysignificant difference if the concern is we don't wantstale claims. We don't want to adjudicate claims thathave been hanging around more than two years. In my case,yes, you touched base in Federal -- in State court. Whatyou got was what you got in Federal court, that is, noticethat the plaintiff is suing arising out of this particularepisode. I don't see practically any difference if the State's -- the State is trying to protect its concern foradjudicating stale claims. The claim is still stale whenit comes back from the Federal court.MR. LINDEMANN: It's not so -- as Your Honorpointed out earlier, it's not solely an issue of reposebecause here because the respondent, the defendant in the-- in the underlying case is a governmental entity, thereis a aspect of State sovereign immunity that comes intoplay that doesn't come into play in -- in the otherinstances. And so you have the added interest of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC preserving the right of the State in order to determinewhether it's going to waive its sovereign immunity, whichof course didn't happen until , and when it does waivesovereign immunity, the extent to which it's going towaive it. And again, I'm referring to State law sovereignimmunity, not Federal constitutional immunity under theEleventh Amendment or otherwise. So what --QUESTION: I understand that. I just don'tunderstand why you think we should -- we should care.MR. LINDEMANN: Well --QUESTION: If you're not talking about Federalsovereign immunity of the State, why should we care if --if the State chooses to create some other kind ofsovereign immunity that -- that isn't the kind that we'reconcerned about?MR. LINDEMANN: Because it goes, Your Honor, tothe heart of exactly what the -- the State sovereignty,the interests of State sovereignty that's involved in thiscase. QUESTION: No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. The-- the essence of State sovereignty is everything coveredby Federal State sovereign immunity which is States andagencies of States. Everything else is not central toState sovereignty, whether -- whether they choose to makeRichland County a -- you know, give them some State th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC sovereignty protection or -- or choose to make a gasstation that way.I don't -- I just don't understand why youexpect this to impress us, that the State has gone beyondFederal State sovereign immunity and created some newelement of State sovereign immunity. I mean, they're --they're free to do that, but I don't see how it invokesany new doctrine under either the Eleventh Amendment orthe Tenth Amendment or any other provision of Federal law.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I'm not submitting that itcreates any type of new doctrine, Your Honor. What I'msuggesting is that it's an aspect of State sovereignty fora State court -- I mean, for a State legislature todetermine what the law is in that State that is applicablepurely to State law claims litigated in a State court. QUESTION: Okay. Why isn't the answer thennecessarily the same whether we have a private litigant orwhether we have a -- a political subdivision? They saidfor the private litigants, two year statute oflimitations. Why isn't your answer exactly the same? TheState was exercising the State's -- the same sovereignpower in each case.MR. LINDEMANN: Well, I believe it would alsoapply to a private litigant, and I didn't try to convey tothe Court -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay. I -- I hadn't understood thatwas your position. MR. LINDEMANN: What I'm trying to suggest tothe Court is because you have this added element of Statelaw sovereign immunity, which is created by a Stateconstitution, it makes it even a more compelling TenthAmendment --QUESTION: But you don't -- you don't need it. You don't need it. The private litigant doesn't have anysovereign immunity rights under State law, but the privatelitigant would be able to insist on the two-year statutejust the way the county is insisting on it here.MR. LINDEMANN: I believe that would be thecase. Now, that's not the issue, obviously, before thisCourt and that's not decided by the South Carolina Supreme Court. The South Carolina Supreme Court decided this casein a very limited fashion and found that (d) asapplied to political subdivisions in South Carolina, giventhe South Carolina Tort Claims Act and the history ofsovereign immunity -- State law sovereign immunity in that State, that as a result, as applied to Richland County,it's unconstitutional. QUESTION: Suppose a judge should say -- theFederal judge -- knowing South Carolina's position on thisquestion, I'll keep the case, which is now an entirely th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC State case, and I know that in diversity cases I'msupposed to apply the State statute of limitations. So ifthe Federal judge keeps this case in deference to SouthCarolina's position that it doesn't want it, it's toolate, and the Federal court in a diversity case must applythe State statute of limitations, when -- when does thatlimitation begin, when South Carolina said it would if thecase were reinstituted there?MR. LINDEMANN: No, Your Honor. I would -- Iwould submit that the statute of limitations started to --or ran from obviously the date of loss through -- throughfor the two-year period, and if the case was filed inFederal court within that two-year period, the statute oflimitations, as well as the -- the argument that sovereignimmunity applies, would not be applicable to that case. But what occurred in this case is there was adismissal without prejudice of the State law claims. Under South Carolina law, a dismissal with prejudice istreated as if the suit was never brought in the firstplace. And as a result, when the case was refiled in theState court, it was refiled beyond the two years, at whichpoint the statute of limitations had run and at whichpoint Richland County was also entitled to absoluteimmunity under the South Carolina Tort Claims Act.And I would again submit to the Court that the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reason why we believe that this is a significant issueunder the Tenth Amendment for this case and why theEleventh Amendment jurisprudence of this Court does notgovern is -- is because of the importance of the State lawinterest. And the key to this whole argument is the pointthat this is not a Federal claim litigated in Federalcourt. In fact, the cases that have been cited by thepetitioner in their briefs, the Burnett case, the Order ofRailroad Engineers case, all of those cases aredistinguishable because those are Federal causes of actionthat are litigated in Federal court.This is a State law claim that's litigated inState court under purely State law, and we would submitthat the South Carolina General Assembly should decidewhat is the applicable South Carolina law and that Congress does not have the power under Article III and theNecessary and Proper Clause to override that statement ofState law and to create liability where no liabilitypreviously existed. And that is the key point.Congress has the authority through a validlyenacted statute and through use of the Supremacy Clause tolimit liability in State actions by providing forpreemption, ERISA being an example, but there is noexample that I'm aware of where Congress has createdliability where none previously existed. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Lindemann.MR. LINDEMANN: Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Peck, you have minutesremaining.MR. PECK: If the Court has no furtherquestions, I would ask that the Supreme Court of SouthCarolina be reversed and would waive rebuttal.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Peck.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 