 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDELMA BANKS, JR., Petitioner ::v. : No. -DOUGLAS DRETKE, DIRECTOR, TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE, CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION :::::- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GEORGE H. KENDALL, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of the Petitioner.GENA BUNN, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Austin, Texas; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GEORGE H. KENDALL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner GENA BUNN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGEORGE H. KENDALL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Delma Banks v. Doug Dretke.Mr. Kendall.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEORGE H. KENDALLON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KENDALL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case presents three issues, two arisingfrom purposeful and recurring misconduct by the trialprosecutors, and a third from constitutionally deficientdefense counsel. Prior to trial, the prosecutors promisedto disclose discoverable material to the defense. Theyknew that Robert Farr would testify as a key witness ateach phase of trial, and they knew that he was aninformant and had been paid for his services.Mr. Farr did in fact take the stand at bothphases of this trial. He denied he was an informant. Hedenied he received any consideration for his work. Hedenied tipping off the authorities that Mr. Banks would betaking a trip to Dallas. He denied setting up Mr. Banksfor arrest. The prosecutors knew that when Mr. Farr gavehis testimony it was not truthful. They did not rise totheir feet and ask Mr. Farr to correct this testimony. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And it - is it your contention thatthis is a basis simply for setting aside the sentencingphase of the trial?MR. KENDALL: We have asked this Court to affirmthe district court, who - who did grant relief on deathsentence. We're not asking for relief on guilt innocenceon - on the Mr. Farr claim.QUESTION: All right. I'm - I'm - I'm somewhatpuzzled by that, but you have three different claims todiscuss here and I don't want to take too long. It - itwould seem to me that, if it - if - if this is theevidence at trial, that - that there's no additionalobligation or special obligation at sentencing where thatbecomes really a secondary matter.MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, the reason why we takethat position is that his testimony at the punishmentphase is absolutely critical for the state to get thedeath penalty in this case. The district court recognizedthat. The Fifth Circuit in this case said that thattestimony was crucial. What he told the jury was that Mr.Banks had returned to Dallas to get a gun so that Mr.Banks could on the return trip commit armed robberies andtake care of and eliminate witnesses.There was no other testimony that came close tomatching that at the punishment phase, and the state had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the burden to establish beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr.Banks would be a danger in the future. If they didn'tsatisfy that -QUESTION: Well, but - but you - you have theburden, don't you, to show that the outcome would havebeen - would have been different had the - had the statecome clean at the beginning? And as I understand it, you- you assert that - that he would not - a jury would nothave judged him as harshly if the jury had known that hewas going to get the gun in order that Farr could commitrobberies with - with apparently his assistance, ratherthan what Farr had told them, namely that he had gottenthe gun in order that he would commit future robberies,right? And you think that would have made the difference,whether he's getting the gun to let somebody else kill orgetting the gun to kill himself?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, Mr. Banks denied attrial that he had any intent to commit any crimewhatsoever with regard to this robbery. And Mr. Farr hadmade it clear -QUESTION: Understand. But - but - but you'resaying he admitted that - that he got the gun so that Farrcould commit robberies, right?MR. KENDALL: We think there's a world of -QUESTION: And that would have - would have - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would have tapped a wellspring of mercy in the - in thejury's breast? I - I don't really see how it would makethat much difference.MR. KENDALL: No, Your Honor. The point is - isthat the - the state could not ask the jury to impose thedeath sentence unless it first found beyond a reasonabledoubt that Mr. - there was a strong likelihood that Mr.Banks would commit acts of violence in the future. Wethink there's a clear difference, and the trialprosecutors recognized this, between Mr. Banks going toget a gun so that Mr. Banks could rob and kill, as opposedto providing instrumentality.But more importantly, Your Honor, Mr. Farrrecanted that testimony at the Federal hearing and thatrecantation was found credible by the district court.QUESTION: Recanted what testimony?MR. KENDALL: No one had the intent to robanybody. That was a ruse that Mr. Farr used -QUESTION: Banks admitted that himself.MR. KENDALL: No. Mr. Banks admitted on thestand that he had finally agreed to accompany Mr. Farr toDallas to get a gun. But Mr. Farr denied - Mr. Banksdenied that he had any intent whatsoever to commit anycrime, and he flatly denied that assertion. Mr. Farr -this was a ruse that Mr. - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: What - what - what was - what was thegun going to be obtained for? Self-defense?MR. KENDALL: It was -QUESTION: These people were being -MR. KENDALL: - it was a ruse -QUESTION: - threatened by somebody?MR. KENDALL: Justice Scalia, it was a ruse thatMr. Farr used that was not true -QUESTION: Oh, that - that explains -MR. KENDALL: - to -QUESTION: - why Farr got it. It doesn't explainwhy Banks got it.MR. KENDALL: But that was not the theory thatthe case - that the prosecutors asked the jury to concludebeyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Farr would - that Mr.Banks would be dangerous in the future. The districtcourt granted relief on that and we think that clearly wehave shown materiality on that point.QUESTION: As to materiality -QUESTION: But he - I take it you do not agreethat you have to show that the result would have beendifferent?MR. KENDALL: We - we do not agree with that. Infact, we believe that this Court has not retired theAlcorta and Napue standard, and - and it shouldn't use th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. this case. The - the standard in Alcorta and Napue thatsays if the Government puts up perjured testimony, that ifthere's a possibility that that testimony affected thejudgment or if the judgment is reversed. We doacknowledge that this Court in Brecht did provide a rulegenerally for habeas corpus that is different from thatrule. But it said in footnote of that decision thatwhere there are cases where there was a pattern ofmisconduct, that the Brecht rule might not apply. Thereis clearly a pattern of misconduct by the Government inthis case. QUESTION: Well, you have to show cause andprejudice, and I thought that under Strickler, the - thenecessity of showing prejudice requires that you show thatthere is a reasonable probability that the sentence wouldhave been different.MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, we've not -QUESTION: You - you don't think you have anobligation to show reasonable probability -MR. KENDALL: We do. We do, and - and -QUESTION: - that the sentence would have beendifferent.court -MR. KENDALL: We do, Your Honor, and the districtQUESTION: You - you acknowledge that you have to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. do that or?MR. KENDALL: On - on cause, we do, Your Honor,and we - we - we've met that clearly. So it's oursubmission here that Mr. Farr's testimony was critical -QUESTION: Alcorta was a case on direct review?MR. KENDALL: It was a habeas case, Your Honor,but the Court has not distinguished between -QUESTION: But decided long before a lot of ourother habeas cases, which have somewhat limited therelief?MR. KENDALL: That's correct, Your Honor, but theCourt, since Brecht, in - in subsequent cases, in - inKyles and in Strickler, has continued to refer to the factthat there's this category of misconduct that has alwaysbeen treated differently, and we do not see why itshouldn't be applied here. However, we believe that,given the importance of Farr in this case to the state'scase that we meet the reasonable probability standard, orwhatever the - other standard the Court would impose onus.The Fifth Circuit reversed the district court -QUESTION: May I ask you whether the record showsthat counsel for Banks and Banks thought Farr was aninformant back in ?MR. KENDALL: There was repeated effort by trial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. counsel to answer that question. At a pre-trial hearing,counsel specifically asked the chief investigator, who'syour informant? And the investigator said, I'm not goingto tell you. When Mr. Farr was on the stand, both at theguilt phase and at the sentencing phase, counsel asked,are you working for the state, are you an informant?QUESTION: Well, so there was a suspicion of thatback in `?MR. KENDALL: And I think after trial, given the-were -QUESTION: But then years went by.MR. KENDALL: Yes, Your Honor, because thereQUESTION: And - and this wasn't evidence thatwas under lock and key. There were witnesses. They justweren't easily available.MR. KENDALL: Your - Your Honor, there was - itwas very difficult for us to obtain this proof. We - wehad every right to belief the - given the fact that theprosecutors had said, Mr. Farr has been truthful with youin every way, that whoever the informant was in this case,it was not Robert Farr.We only began to think differently about thiswhen we finally got access to another of the criticalstate witnesses, Charles Cook, who told us in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. some of his testimony was not truthful. QUESTION: Suppose we find that the - or - orconclude that the defense counsel was not as diligent asit ought to have been on this point. Is that somehowexcused by the prosecution's failure to present the Bradymaterial?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, we think that we actedreasonably and diligently in post-conviction. We weremisled by the state, and in fact, we used that statehabeas - we filed in - in - in the claim oninformation belief Farr was an informant in this case.QUESTION: Well, it's - there's perhaps a slightdifference in being misled and simply a - a case in whichthe prosecution does not come forward with Brady material. There - they may be some distinction in the two. What isthe standard that you would have us apply in this case torule for you with reference - if - if we base that rulingon the prosecution's failure? Is it just a standardBrady?MR. KENDALL: That would be under Strickler. Ourview is that because of the misrepresentations in thiscase, we were - we were allowed to rely on thosemisrepresentations. We wanted to litigate Farr'sinformant status in the state habeas proceedings, but wecouldn't get the evidence to prove that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: What -QUESTION: But specifically themisrepresentations were what?MR. KENDALL: Were that Farr had - had - haddenied that he was a paid informant. He was a paidinformant, and the prosecutors in their closing argumentstold the jury that he had been completely -QUESTION: Okay.MR. KENDALL: - truthful in every way with you. QUESTION: Had they also not given, or - orbefore trial had they not also said, we'll give youeverything in the file?MR. KENDALL: They said, you don't have to file adiscovery motion, we will disclose to you material that isdiscoverable, and this clearly was discoverable material -QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: - when they put him on the witness -QUESTION: But they didn't - the defendant didn'task to discover anything. The prosecutor said, you know,everything is available to you.MR. KENDALL: He -QUESTION: What did - what - what did he ask for? What did defendant ask for?MR. KENDALL: He filed a standard discoverymotion, but the - the Government long before that said, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you don't have to file a motion, we'll provide materialthat's discoverable to you. And there's no argument - the- the state has tried to say that it, even by calling aninformant, it does not have to reveal -QUESTION: Did - did -MR. KENDALL: - that status.QUESTION: - did - did the defendant get anythingafter the prosecutor said, you don't have to file anyformal motion, we'll give you everything you're entitledto?MR. KENDALL: It - the prosecution revealed priorconvictions on its witnesses. It did not disclose Mr.Farr's informant status or arrangement. It did notdisclose with regard to Charles Cook.QUESTION: Were there documents -QUESTION: Okay, but -QUESTION: Were there documents or arrest reportsto show Farr's informant status, or was this just a - a -a circumstance where the prosecution should have saidorally that this is his status?MR. KENDALL: When we finally obtained what wasrepresented to us to be the full prosecution file in thiscase, there was not one notation in there with regard toMr. Farr, identifying him as an informant. They wereobliged to - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So then there - you're not complainingthat documents weren't turned over?MR. KENDALL: That's correct. They -QUESTION: You're complaining that the - that -that a statement was not made by the prosecution?MR. KENDALL: That - that we believe the lawrequired them, once they decided to put this informant onthe stand, to disclose that factor to the defense.QUESTION: Because it was Brady material?MR. KENDALL: Because it was Brady material.QUESTION: All right. Now, may I go back toJustice Ginsburg's question? You - you - you gave us someexamples of - of material that was turned over to youunder this policy in - in which it was not necessary tofile a motion. Was that material turned over you inresponse - to you in response to a specific request fromyou, or did they simply come up with this and say, this isthe material that you could get if you moved for it?MR. KENDALL: It was turned over after a generaldiscovery motion was filed, but that discovery motion wasnever taken up at a hearing. This was disclosed -QUESTION: All right. Did the general discoverymotion refer specifically to what they gave you, or wasthe motion simply, give us everything we're entitled to?MR. KENDALL: It - I believe it said give us th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. prior convictions. And -QUESTION: Well, then that was what they gaveyou.MR. KENDALL: And that's all that they provided,that's correct.QUESTION: I mean, the problem that I'm - I'mhaving with this is, I thought at - and - and I - I - Igot into this myself, I realize, but I thought they hadsaid, in effect, we'll give you everything you're entitledto. Now we're getting down to greater detail, and I thinkthe problem is mine, but I want to follow it through. They apparently said, you don't have to file a specificmotion. Justice Ginsburg raises the question, well, whatdid you ask for even though you didn't have to file aspecific motion?You say that you filed a general discoveryrequest that specifically did ask for prior convictions. They gave you prior convictions. My concern is that theunderstanding between counsel was, we'll give you what youask for, but we are not volunteering by our representationto give you anything you don't ask for. If this iscorrect, then the only reason you would be entitled tothis would be an affirmative Brady obligation, whether youask for it or not.Is it the Brady obligation or do you think they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. had undertaken something more extensive than Bradyrequired?MR. KENDALL: I think that they assured counselthat whether it was - whether they had to disclosesomething under state law or under Brady, that there wasno need for litigation. They would provide Bradymaterial -QUESTION: But did they assure counsel thatcounsel would not have to ask for it?MR. KENDALL: The letter - the letter says, youdo not have to file a motion, we'll provide you withmaterial that the law requires us to disclose -QUESTION: That the law requires us to disclose?MR. KENDALL: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Material. I - I would take that tomean documents that we have that you're entitled to, andwe don't know that there are any documents reflecting -reflecting Farr's informer status, do we?MR. KENDALL: But, Your Honor, it said in lieu ofa motion, and so I think it was fair for counsel toinclude that there needed to be no litigation aboutdiscovery -QUESTION: Well -MR. KENDALL: - that the Government understoodwhat state law and Federal law required. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But maybe there had to be a request,not litigation, but say, tell me, was he an informant?MR. KENDALL: Well, Your Honor -QUESTION: Tell me. Did you ever ask that?MR. KENDALL: I think after these assurances, Ithink counsel -QUESTION: Please answer that question.MR. KENDALL: I'm sorry.QUESTION: Did you ever ask the prosecutionwhether Farr was an informant?MR. KENDALL: At trial, there's nothing in therecord where the prosecution was specifically asked. It'sstate habeas. We pled a - a claim on information beliefthat he was a paid informant. That required thegovernment lawyer who was - who was one of the trialprosecutors to respond, we believed, truthfully. He didnot respond to that, and that -QUESTION: Now, when was this?MR. KENDALL: That was in state post-convictionproceedings, and the - and he has was required to respondtruthfully to that, and under state law that -QUESTION: He didn't respond falsely. He justdidn't respond.MR. KENDALL: But under state law that is a no,that is a denial. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: But -MR. KENDALL: But he -QUESTION: A failure to respond is a no, ratherthan - than a yes?MR. KENDALL: Any - any factual allegation of petitionthat is not addressed specifically in the answer istreated as -QUESTION: So as a -MR. KENDALL: - a denial.QUESTION: And - and in addition -QUESTION: It was more than that though, wasn'tit? It - they - in - in fact, the state put it in ageneral denial. It denied each and every allegation ofthe complaint, including the allegation that Farr was aninformer.MR. KENDALL: Well, it's clear that when you readtheir answer that the state had denied our allegation thatMr. Farr was a paid informant in this case.QUESTION: And they had in effect at trial in thejury argument vouched for his truth, as I understand it. MR. KENDALL: On - on both at the guilt innocencephase and at the punishment phase.QUESTION: Yeah.QUESTION: That - that's the most shocking thing. Do - do we know that - that counsel who allowed Farr to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. lie on the stand, and indeed went on to argue to the juryabout Farr's testimony, do we know that counsel knew thatthat was a lie?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, there aren't -QUESTION: I mean, you - well, you can argue itwas his responsibility, you know, but I'm not talkingabout whether it was his responsibility.MR. KENDALL: Mr. Elliott gave an affidavit instate post-conviction that said that he was aware of allthe facts pursuant to the investigation and thepresentation of evidence in this case. I would thinkthat, given Farr's important status in this case, there'sno doubt that he knew. At the Federal evidentiaryhearing, he did not in any way try to say that he did notknow that Farr's - was - had this informant status untilmuch later at the trial.QUESTION: In -QUESTION: This is a bit of an aside, but do youknow whether any disciplinary proceedings were everbrought against the prosecutors?MR. KENDALL: There have been absolutely nodisciplinary proceedings whatsoever.QUESTION: Can I ask you about -QUESTION: But there's a - a number - you haveBanks and I take it - tell - you want to talk to us about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Cooksey in the - in - in the sentencing phase.MR. KENDALL: Let - let me - we - let me go tothe Cook claim if I could. There was another verytroubling due process claim raised in this case, and thatwas at the key guilt phase witness. Mr. Cook hadtestified pursuant to a deal and that the state hadwithheld impeachment material on him. Three months beforethe evidentiary in the hearing in this case, we receivedfor the first time a lengthy pre-trial statement that hadall kinds of impeachment material in that and that showedbeyond any doubt that Mr. Cook had lied in his testimonybefore the jury that he had not in any way, shape, or formrehearsed his testimony with the state.From the time of that disclosure until theevidentiary hearing, it was clear that this transcriptwould serve as evidence for us to prove up our claim thatthe state had suppressed material, impeachment material,on Mr. Cook. And Mr. Elliott, the trial prosecutor -QUESTION: What - what did Cook testify to thatwas - that was essential to the - to the sentence?MR. KENDALL: This was the - the key guilt phasewitness, Your Honor. He was the - the entire narrative ofthe crime in the -QUESTION: Yeah, but you're - you're - you're notasking for the guilt to be - to be overturned. You're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. asking for the sentence to be.MR. KENDALL: With regard to the - Mr. Farr,we're asking only for sentence relief. With regard toCook, we're saying he was the crucial guilt phase witness.QUESTION: So you're asking for reversal of theconviction on the basis of Cook?MR. KENDALL: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay. What - now, what - what wasessential to the conviction that - that he testified to?MR. KENDALL: He - he provided - he had to - the- the prosecutor in his opening statement told the jury,Mr. Cook is our critical witness, you have to believe himfor us to win this case. He said that over and overagain. Cook presented the confession -QUESTION: Well, he testified that the defendantconfessed to him several times, didn't he?MR. KENDALL: He - he was the only person whoprovided information that Mr. Banks had confessed. He wasthe only person that tied Mr. Cook to - Mr. Banks to anyother evidence in this case. The trial prosecutorportrayed him accurately. He was the critical witness forthe Government at the - at the guilt phase of trial.QUESTION: And - and what do you say the statewithheld with regard to Cook? That it had gone over histestimony in - in advance? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KENDALL: Well, what he was asked, the firstquestion on cross-examination was, who have you talked toabout your testimony? He said nobody. He said, youhaven't talked to any about this case? I haven't spokento anybody. That was a bald-faced lie. QUESTION: Well, it's on its face incredibleanyway. You think the jury believed it?MR. KENDALL: Well, Your Honor, the -QUESTION: They think the prosecutors can justput him on without even asking him what he was going totestify about?MR. KENDALL: Well, they certainly would - theycertainly would have believed that if the Government wouldhave disclosed this transcript that showed that three daysbefore trial Mr. Cook had a very difficult time keepinghis narrative about this crime straight.QUESTION: How - how does that work? When thisoccurs and - and this - these questions are set forth infootnote of your brief - when this occurs, does a Bradyobligation arise at that point?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, I think that -QUESTION: I'm the - I'm the prosecutor, I'msitting there, I hear this guy say that he's never talkedto me and I know that he has and I know that I have or pages of notes. Do I now have a Brady obligation? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, for decades the Courthas said that when a government witness lies, thegovernment attorney has the obligation to correct that. The Brady obligation continues, it's pre-trial and it'sduring trial. It can arise during trial depending on - onwhat the government witness says, and it's clear thatafter Cook gave that answer, that the Government wasobligated, one, to have him correct his testimony, butcertainly not, after he'd given that testimony, to get upin front of the jury and say, Mr. Cook was completelytruthful.QUESTION: But my question is, is there a Bradyobligation?MR. KENDALL: There is a Brady obligation,absolutely.QUESTION: Well, now, is your point - your pointis more than just that he said it, he didn't admit that hehad talked to other people before trial, is it?MR. KENDALL: No, no, no, because it - it wasclear that what the defense was trying to show was thatMr. Cook should not be believed because he's really beenworked over by the prosecutors to get his story together. And that's exactly what the transcript that wasn'tdisclosed demonstrated. He was mocked during this pre-trial statement by the prosecutors who were preparing him th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because he was making so many mistakes and getting thingsall out of order.They didn't believe he was a credible witnessthree or four days before trial, and the only reason thathe was, or might have appeared credible, was because ofthis session. This was classic impeachment material. TheGovernment had this in their briefcase at trial. They -they disclosed the - the brief statement that Mr. Cook hadgiven four minutes before but not this one.QUESTION: But you lost on this point in the - inthe Federal court?MR. KENDALL: Unfortunately, Justice Ginsburg, wedid not lose on it. The district court did not adjudicatethat claim.QUESTION: But your time - your - your light'sflashing, and I - when you come back, I'd appreciate yourasking - answering one factual question I have on this. In , you're in Federal court with five witnesses aboutFarr being a - an informant. In , you say you learnedfrom Cook information that led you to think you'd findthose witnesses. In and `, you are in statehabeas. Why did you not either engage in that kind ofdiscovery in state habeas or find those witnesses for thestate habeas court?MR. KENDALL: Because we - efforts were made, we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. could not find Farr. But we - efforts were made, and wecould not find Farr, but we went right to the horse'smouth. James Elliott, the prosecutor in this case, knewthat he was a paid informant. When we raised that claimin our petition, he had an obligation then to - to tell ushonestly was he an informant or was he not, and he did notdo so.We wanted to litigate his status, Farr's statusin the state court. We were prevented from doing sobecause of the lack of candor and the lack of discoveryfrom the prosecutor. He could have made this very simpleand said, yes he's the guy, let's litigate this in statecourt. He didn't do so.Let me turn briefly to the ineffectiveassistance claim. The district court granted relief onthat claim after hearing information that this Court hassaid time and again is relevant to the capital sentencingprocess. The Fifth Circuit overturned that grant ofrelief by making a - two legal mistakes. First, unlikethe district court, and - and not following the decisionsfrom this Court, the - the Court vulcanized its review ofour mitigating evidence instead of looking at it in itsentirety and weighing that against the aggravation.It broke this evidence up into three categoriesand said, looking at each one, weighing these on the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. scale, the panel found no reasonable likelihood of adifferent result. That is clear -QUESTION: What - what categories were -MR. KENDALL: There was mental health evidence. There was testimony about Mr. Vetrano Jefferson recantinghis testimony that - about who was the - who had been theaggressor in a fight before this crime, and then thetestimony offered by the parents in this case.QUESTION: All going to guilt or some going tosentencing?MR. KENDALL: All - all going to sentence, YourHonor. This was -QUESTION: All going to sentencing?MR. KENDALL: This was only about sentence, YourHonor, that's correct.QUESTION: Of course, the parents had testifiedin the - and I think he even said that they were goodparents, didn't he?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor -QUESTION: And - and - and the fact that theywere these horrible parents were - was going to betestified to by a Dr. Pina, is that it?MR. KENDALL: Your Honor, there was no claim thatthese were horrible parents. They were loving parents,but they was a very troubled family that Mr. Banks - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I see.MR. KENDALL: - grew up in, and it's - there wasevidence that came out that was plainly relevant to thesentencing decision in this case.QUESTION: It came out of whose mouth?MR. KENDALL: It came out of Mrs. Banks' mouth asa -QUESTION: Who -MR. KENDALL: Mrs. Banks, the mother -QUESTION: What did - what did she say?MR. KENDALL: - in the state habeas proceedings.QUESTION: What did she say?MR. KENDALL: She said that, for example, her sonhad been subjected to all kinds of problems because of hisvery serious dermalogical ailment that he had from birthall through his life.QUESTION: He had a skin - a skin problem -MR. KENDALL: A very serious -QUESTION: - and you think that would havealtered the jury's -MR. KENDALL: Well, that was one piece of the -of the court -QUESTION: All right. What - what - I - let -what - what is all of it?MR. KENDALL: That her - her husband th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. unfortunately had been an - a alcoholic and - and foryears when he became drunk would terrorize her, terrorizethe children. She often had to take the children andleave the house to assure her safety and Mr. Bank's safetyand his siblings' safety.QUESTION: She testified to that?MR. KENDALL: She - she proffered that in statecourt, that's correct, Your Honor. And then the experts,Mr. Cunningham in Federal Court, testified about what allthis does to an individual in the formative years of life. This is -QUESTION: There was one specific incident of thefather tying the boy to a tree and whipping him. Werethere any other specific incidents or just generalallegations that when he - he - when the father becamedrunk -MR. KENDALL: It - it -QUESTION: - he became violent.MR. KENDALL: It was - it was Mrs. Banks'testimony that there had been repeated instances where, toavoid harm, they had to leave the home. In - there weresome problems that -QUESTION: Did she testify about being tied to atree?MR. KENDALL: Did - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Did - did Mrs. Banks provide thetestimony about his being a tied to a tree and whipped?MR. KENDALL: No, she did not.QUESTION: Who provided that?MR. KENDALL: Mr. Banks provided that.QUESTION: Mr. Banks provided that.MR. KENDALL: Yes.QUESTION: Not terribly credible if -MR. KENDALL: Well, Your Honor, the state hasnever - in state court they did not attempt to show thatany of this proffer was inaccurate or not true. Theirposition in state court was simply that the trial lawyerhad done a good job, and so we'd failed to show prong oneof Strickland. In the Federal court -QUESTION: Well, I'm - I'm just concerned whetherit would make any difference. One - once again, yourburden is to show that would have made a difference.MR. KENDALL: And the - and -QUESTION: Skin problems and an alcoholic father,you know, who - who on the basis of Banks' mother'stestimony terrorized the child and Banks' testimony thathe was tied to a tree and whipped.MR. KENDALL: Your -QUESTION: I - I just -MR. KENDALL: Well, Your Honor, the - the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. testimony here was that these were very serious -QUESTION: And this was -MR. KENDALL: - things that plagued Mr. Banks'life -QUESTION: - and the jury would have thought thatthis explains his - his - his cold-blooded murder of - ofthe victim for his car?MR. KENDALL: Well, Your Honor, it might notfully explain it, but it would say that he's not the typeof offender for whom the death penalty needs to be carriedout against.I'd like to reserve the rest of my time forrebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Kendall.Ms. Bunn, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENA BUNNON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BUNN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:From to , Banks filed three separatestate habeas applications raising numerous claims, butBanks failed to diligently pursue his current Brady andStrickland claims during these state proceedings. Heelected instead to expend his efforts pursuing otherclaims. It wasn't until Federal habeas proceedings that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. he turned his efforts to developing the instant claims.QUESTION: Did - did the state deny in one ofthese habeas applications, deny that Farr was aninformant?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor, the state never deniedit. It did fill -QUESTION: Well, now wait a minute -QUESTION: Then explain to me what was -QUESTION: - in - in - in the state habeasproceeding, the state submitted a response to thepetitioner's petition and denied all the allegations inthe petition, which included the assertion that Farr was apaid informant and that the state had withheld thatinformation from Banks. The state denied that, did itnot?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor. It is not ourinterpretation of the record that it did, because thissingle sentence found in a -page petition was buried ina - basically a laundry list of claims of prosecutorialmisconduct, at the end of that section containing a greatnumber of other allegations, which the state responded tospecifically by saying, first a number of them had beenaddressed in other sections of the brief, including theSwain claim, and another Brady claim that was fullydeveloped. And then it responded to the remaining claims th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. by saying that they were all procedural - procedurallydefaulted based on the lack of a contemporaneousobjection.QUESTION: Ms. Bunn, did not the state say, wedeny each and every factual allegation in this complaint?MS. BUNN: Yes. There was a general denial atthe beginning of the - the state's answer to the -pagebrief. However, the context -QUESTION: You better be careful what you deny,don't you think? I mean, each and every would includethat, even if it's buried in, you know, if it's buried ina lot of other stuff. I mean, you could have said, youknow, everything's so buried we can't tell what's what,but you didn't say that. You said, we deny each andevery.that -MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor, and it does appearQUESTION: Is it that the case that - do you nowconcede that Farr was paid something for his information -MS. BUNN: Yes.QUESTION: - by the state.MS. BUNN: Yes. Well, not for information. Hewas paid to assist police in obtaining the murder weapon.QUESTION: Yeah. And did the state prosecutorever disclose that during the trial, even though he said, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. no, everything's perfectly truthful here?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor. The state never -QUESTION: He knew - he knew that Farr wastestifying falsely and he - he let that testimony go, andindeed relied on it in his summation to the jury?MS. BUNN: What the trial prosecutor knew -there's nothing in the record to indicate the trialprosecutors actually knew about the money that Bank - that- that Farr was paid several months before the trial inthis case by - by police investigators.QUESTION: But isn't he charged with knowledge ofwhat the organization as a whole did?MS. BUNN: In the - in the Brady disclosurecontext, certainly he is.QUESTION: Wasn't it representative of the policethere at the trial the whole time to assist theprosecutor?MS. BUNN: Not that - not that I'm aware of thatthe police were at the - at - really have testified in thetrial. But I believe the rule was invoked in the trial,so he did not sit in on - on Farr's testimony or any ofthe other state's witnesses' testimony. But -QUESTION: Well, I assume we have to take thiscase on the - the premise that the state somehow knew thatthe state had paid the money to Farr, and I guess also had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. promised some kind of a break not making certain criminalcharges?MS. BUNN: There is no evidence of any inducementof that kind to Farr in this case, no evidence of any kindof inducement whether financial or a break in - in anyconvictions for his testimony, contingent upon histestimony in this case. That's what distinguishes it fromcases like Bagley and Giglio.QUESTION: But are you saying that because he waspaid to help get the gun back rather than to testifyfalsely?MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. That is correct.QUESTION: So that he was paid for a criticalrole in the scenario that led to the indictment, ratherthan post-indictment false testimony.MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. That is correct. But again, as far as the cause issue goes, and there is nodispute that the claim is procedurally defaulted to - dueto Banks' failure to develop it in - in the state court. The dispute is whether he has established cause, and the -the basis - the focus of the inquiry in cause is thepetitioner's conduct, and in this case, the state recordmakes clear that Banks was aware of this claim andactually alleged the claim in the petition itself.QUESTION: Well, does the petitioner's awareness th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that there is a - a claim supersede the prosecution'sobligation to disclose Brady material, and to disclose thefact that one of its own witnesses lied on the stand?MS. BUNN: Not that it supersedes the obligationunder Brady, but it does preclude a finding of cause in acase like this where the nondisclosure -QUESTION: So the prosecution can lie and concealand the prisoner still has the burden to - to discover theevidence? That's your position?MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor, because in a caselike this, unlike Strickler, unlike Amadeo, this is morelike - more like McCleskey, where the nondisclosure,whether in trial court or in state habeas, did not preventthe petitioner from developing the claim.QUESTION: But it didn't prevent it absolutely,but it made it pretty tough, didn't it? I mean, the -sitting there in January, the prosecution has been not -been denying nonstop that Farr has been paid anything,they're beginning to get some information maybe that isn'ttrue. The prosecution is still denying it by denying theallegation, and they think they're going to have to findsomebody who will prove - who will say that, and theycan't find Farr.So what are - what were they supposed to bedoing? They were looking for witnesses. They couldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. find Farr. The prosecution isn't telling them the truthapparently. And so, what - what is it that they shouldhave done?MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, this case does notpresent a situation where there is a record developed onwhat efforts Banks expended on this case. There's nothingin the record to indicate that Banks' counsel pursued thisclaim, that they sent investigators out to try to findFarr. There's absolutely nothing -QUESTION: I didn't say that. What I said was, Iwas repeating what he said, that - and when they filed itin January - I don't want to repeat it again, you heardwhat he said too - and he said they're just learning fromCook some time in that it might be possible to getevidence that would show what the prosecution was sayingwas false.So I want your opinion. You say it's quiteclear that they should have investigated this further. Really? Because?MS. BUNN: Because they were obviously aware ofthe claim, aware of the potential existence of the claim. They requested no investigative assistance regarding theclaim. They investigated no discovery regarding theclaim. They - while they - what they did do was expendwhat at that point were pretty extensive resources th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. pursuing and developing their Swain claim and anotherBrady claim.QUESTION: But you want us to say that the - thatthe defendant relies on his peril, at his peril, on therepresentations of the - of prosecution?MS. BUNN: At - in - in a case like this where,unlike Strickler, where the evidence, the - thenondisclosed evidence was not in the sole possession ofthe state. It was discoverable as - as actuallyultimately have it in habeas, in - in Federal habeasproceedings. Banks was able to procure this evidence.QUESTION: No, but you are - are - aren't youarguing, just as Justice Kennedy suggested, that what theyshould have done in this case is to go to the court andsay, we want further resources to investigate, and whatspecifically we want to investigate is an issue which, ifwe are correct, the state is affirmatively lying about. We want investigative resources to prove that state'scounsel is lying. Isn't that your position?MS. BUNN: Well, yes, Your Honor -QUESTION: And for failure to do that -MS. BUNN: - that would be -QUESTION: - for failure to do that, they're out. Isn't that your position?MS. BUNN: That is part of our position, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. essentially the absence of that, the absence of a requestfor investigative assistance, the absence of any -QUESTION: But, in the - in the - in the face ofthe state's representation. In other words, if - if theyasked for it, I assume the state would have said, well,we've told them that there isn't anything to this. And -and - and you would - you're saying that they should havepursued it in the face of that for the purpose, amongother things, of proving that state's counsel was lying tothem?MS. BUNN: Your Honor, they - there was anobligation from them to pursue the claim further, yes.QUESTION: Why wasn't there an obligation on thepart of the prosecutor, having deceived the jury and thecourt, to come clean? Why is the burden on the defendant,who was subjected to false testimony? Why is - and theprosecutor knows it - why isn't it the prosecutor's burdento come clean at any stage, rather than let this falsehoodremain in this record?I just don't understand why it becomes thedefendant's burden when the prosecutor is best situated tohave the information, was this true or not, did we paythis informant or not. Why isn't that a continuingobligation on any lawyer who makes a representation that'sfalse to a court? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BUNN: Your Honor, the first - first it isnot - that's not the question. It is the habeaspetitioner's burden to allege and prove - provideevidentiary support for his claim.QUESTION: Well, but it is the question if - ifJustice Ginsburg is right, that prosecutors have acontinuing obligation.MS. BUNN: Well, that obligation is essentiallytriggered by materiality, so you have that working aswell. But that does not - the - the state's continuingobligation does not basically preclude a finding of - of -of no cause in a case like this.QUESTION: Well, if I were a defense counsel, Icould think of a - of a - no more damaging material ofcross-examination in this case than to show Farr was paidmoney to come up with the story.MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, again, that - thatwas not the - those are not the facts of this case. There's no evidence and - and Farr has not said in post-conviction that he was paid for testimony.QUESTION: Yeah, that's true, but I - I mean,what -QUESTION: But I think it's even -QUESTION: - what bothers me about your positionis, if we were to say that a defense counsel behaves th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. unreasonably when he relies upon an explicit statement ofthe prosecutor's, such as I deny the allegation, that's tosay that the justice system lacks integrity, and indeed itmight contribute to that lack of integrity to impose thiskind of obligation and thereby excuse a prosecutor undercircumstances like this.MS. BUNN: But to find cause in a case like thiswould essentially be to hold that a Brady claim can neverbe defaulted because -QUESTION: Of course it can. All that itrequires is that a prosecutor who says, my files are open,who says that we do not, in fact, deny that we paid moneyfor a related purpose to the witness, all it requires isthat he be telling the truth.MS. BUNN: And I want to focus also on the - onthe record itself and what Banks - Farr was never askedspecifically whether he was a police informant, so henever denied that allegation. At the guilt innocencephase, starting - it - it's in the joint appendix at page - in the middle of questioning by defense counsel atthe guilt innocence phase about his drug - prior drug useand his drug habit, he - Farr was asked the question, andhave you ever taken any money from some police officers? And he answered no.This was a false statement, but not to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. construed as necessarily as a denial that he was a policeinformant, particularly given the context of thequestioning. Later in the guilt innocence, he was asked -QUESTION: May I just interrupt with onequestion? But isn't it even more significant that hisreal role in the - in the whole story is that he was theperson used by the police as an excuse to go up and getthe gun back two weeks after Banks had left it there,whereas the record left the impression that Banks himselfwanted that gun to commit future robberies, without anyexplanation of the fact that the - that two weeks went bywithout any such request?And then when Farr gets in the picture, they goup to get the gun, and then Farr says, because Banksinsisted on it, which is not only false, but improbableand terribly prejudicial at the - at the sentencinghearing.MS. BUNN: Again, though, the - the materialityof Farr's - of this nondisclosure has to be - there areseveral factors that have to be assessed in that - in thatissue. First, the fact that Farr wasn't paid for histestimony, and the impeachment value of the informantstatus itself is limited to the mere fact that Farr hadacted as a police informant in this case and had assistedpolice in obtaining the murder weapon. But that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. impeachment did not extend to any inference that Farr hadtestified favorably for the state because he had anyfinancial or any other kind of incentive to do so.QUESTION: What - what -QUESTION: But it - it was diametrically opposedto the notion that he wanted to get the gun to commitrobbery, as whereas the real purpose of the whole ventureis to get the gun to give to the police.MS. BUNN: But Farr's subjective intent did notundermine Banks' intent, and Banks actually admitted atthe punishment phase -QUESTION: Banks' intent as revealed in Farr'stestimony, which is the only evidence in supporting thattheory that Banks was dangerous for that reason.MS. BUNN: The difference is, Farr's testimonywas - indicated that Banks was - had the intent himself toparticipate in the robberies, and Banks limited that tobeing willing essentially to - to abet Farr in - incommitting those robberies.QUESTION: What - what page of the transcriptthat you - you cited page . Is that in the jointappendix?MS. BUNN: Yes, joint appendix. That's the -QUESTION: And that is the - that is theconfession of - I'm sorry - that - that is the perjury - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's the only perjury that's supposedly -MS. BUNN: That's the - that's one instance thatthey - that - that's the only one dealing with money. What police officers -QUESTION: Of course, this doesn't - this doesn'tdeal with whether he has - was a police informer. It - itdeals with whether the police officers promised youanything.MS. BUNN: Yes, yes, that's correct. And that -the denial of that, of course, is - is not fault, becausethere's nothing in subsequent testimony to indicate that's- that's untrue.QUESTION: Have you ever taken any money fromsome police officers? No.MS. BUNN: Yes. That is a false statement. However, it can - it's - it is far afield to interpretthat as a denial of being a police informant.QUESTION: Where - where - where is that? Haveyou ever taken any money from police officers?MS. BUNN: That is at joint appendix .QUESTION: It's three lines down from the top.MS. BUNN: In the middle of the questioning about- about Farr's prior drug use, defense counsel asks, and -and have you ever taken any money from some policeofficers? There is further - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Thirty, thirty-seven, my God, reading- oh, I got it, I got it, okay.MS. BUNN: Further, he's asked, what policeofficers did you talk to about this? I have talked to noone about this outside of when they called us downreferring to the case -QUESTION: Yeah. We got it.MS. BUNN: - which again is a false test - is afalse statement, but does not specifically deny policeinformant status.QUESTION: Now, it does seem to me that theCooksey report that the - I think it - the Cook - the -MS. BUNN: Cook.QUESTION: - the witness Cook -MS. BUNN: Yes, Charles Cook.QUESTION: - that the - that the report of hisinterviews with - with the police was - was very, verystrong and helpful impeachment material. Do you want tocomment on - on the claim that relates to his testimony?MS. BUNN: Certainly, Your Honor. The lowercourts did not consider that claim to be properly beforethe court because Banks failed to present it in hisFederal petition, failed to present it in any amended andsupplemental position, and the - and there's nothing inthis - in this record to indicate - that would support a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. finding of implied consent, or the trial by consent.QUESTION: Well, you said, I mean, the - theFifth Circuit didn't think that Federal Rule of CivilProcedure (b) applies in habeas, right?MS. BUNN: That was a basis of its holding, yes. That's correct, on debatability.QUESTION: Is - is that absolutely clear?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor, it's not, and it -QUESTION: Well, if it's not absolutely clear,then - then it seems to me they should have - they shouldhave granted the - the certificate of appealability.MS. BUNN: The issue actually before the FifthCircuit, the issue that it resolved, was whether - whetherit was debatable - the district court - whether thedistrict court abused its discretion in denying the (e)motion, because, in fact, the district court neverconsidered (b) because it was never raised to thedistrict court, that - that particular argument. So -QUESTION: Well, that wasn't the basis that theFifth Circuit relied on. I thought it relied on the basisthat there's huge - there's just no question that (b)doesn't apply in habeas.MS. BUNN: That was part -QUESTION: And there's a lot of question aboutthat, it seems to me. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor. That was part of theholding. The stated -QUESTION: So maybe we should remand at - atleast on the, you know, on the - on the Cook claim to havethe - the Fifth Circuit decide whether a COA - decide the(b) question and then decide the Cook claim.MS. BUNN: I believe that would be an appropriatecourse on this issue, and in this - we are not - we areconceding the debatability of the general applicability of(b) in the habeas context. What we do not find to be -what we do not believe to be debatable is theapplicability in this case, that essentially there's nofactual predicate for the application of (b) in thiscase, given that there's - there's simply nothing in therecord to show that any party beside Bank himself,including the judge - the lower court judges, had anyinkling that this issue was properly before them.QUESTION: But the Fifth Circuit passed on it,didn't it? Didn't the Fifth Circuit pass on the questionof whether (b) applied?MS. BUNN: The Fifth Circuit, after - afternoting that what the Fifth - that - that the districtcourt's findings regarding the failure to raise the claim,the failure to raise it in an amended petition, did holdthat it was - that it - that (b) did not apply in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. habeas context.QUESTION: There was one position you took inyour brief and you said that - that the state is notobliged to reveal the identity of an informer. That's notcorrect, is it, if the informer is called as a witness?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor, that is our positionthat essentially a prosecutor's duty to disclose whateverinformation is triggered by the - the potentialmateriality of that information. And particularly in acase like this, where the informant is not - was not paidfor testimony, was not given any sort of break for histestimony, that there's no specific inference that can bedrawn regarding an incentive for testifying favorably forthe state, that that is not -QUESTION: What authority - what authority do youhave? What case holds that when the Government puts aninformant on the stand, it does not have to divulge thatcapacity?MS. BUNN: There - I know of no such authorityfor that particular proposition, but there's also nothing- there's also no opinion from this Court saying that awitness' informant status is per se material, which isessentially what - what that would -QUESTION: Isn't there - isn't there a Texas ruleof evidence that says, this is (c)() of the Texas th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. rules, an informer's identity must be disclosed if heappears as a witness for the public entity?MS. BUNN: Well, Your Honor, again, even - evenassuming a breach of a Federal rule of - state rule ofevidence, that would not implicate the constitutional dueprocess concerns at issue here. And under Brady -QUESTION: Well - well, it certainly goes towhether or not the defendant is - is entitled to rely onwhat the prosecution's course of conduct is with referenceto the informer.MS. BUNN: But again, there's nothing in thistrial record to indicate that trial counsel specificallyrequested that information prior to going to trial, thathe - that trial counsel himself didn't pursue -QUESTION: So you say at the outset of the trialthe defense counsel has to say, now, will you comply withall of the rules that are in the Texas statutes?MS. BUNN: Well, there is an obligation from - on- upon defense counsel to pursue the remedies he'sentitled to, and to - to specifically request theinformant status of any witness, yes, there is anobligation in a case such as this. And the fact thattrial counsel did not do that, at least precludes a -QUESTION: Why is there such an obligation if thestate rules require it? This - we supposed to say we want th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to be sure you've complied with all the state rules thatgovern prosecutions?MS. BUNN: But even assuming that - thatviolation, that is not - that does not support itself afinding of cause to the procedural default of Banks'failing to develop this claim for years even thoughknowing of its existence.QUESTION: Ms. Bunn, do you have any argumentthat this might not have made any difference?MS. BUNN: Yes, Your Honor, and again, severalfactors -QUESTION: I - I suggest you might train yourguns on that.(Laughter.)MS. BUNN: Several factors play into that issue. Again, just - just the pure impeachment value itself was -was weakened by the fact that there was no incentive. Butalso the fact that Farr was heavily impeached already andthat the informant status, weak as it was, was - wasreally merely cumulative. Defense counsel had broughtout, both on direct and then again on cross, his priordrug abuse, track marks, his denials during cross-examination, refuted by the defense witnesses, whichincluded a denial that he acted as a police informant in -in another case for another jurisdiction. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: This isn't - this isn't what theprosecution told the jury, was it?MS. BUNN: No, Your Honor. This is - this isfrom defense counsel. And third, even without Farr'stestimony, the significant evidence of Banks' futuredangerousness. Banks admitted at punishment that he waswilling to abet Farr's commission of future armedrobberies by providing him with the weapon. In fact, hewas willing to drive.QUESTION: But he did - is - is it correct thatbut for Farr there would have been no testimony that Bankswould participate in those robberies, and there would havebeen no testimony that Banks and his accomplices would usethe gun to eliminate any trouble that might come up duringthat. Is that correct?MS. BUNN: Yes. That is correct.QUESTION: That's pretty damning testimony, isn'tit?MS. BUNN: It is a piece of - of - of the state'spuzzle, but it - but given what is left, not material. And again, the fact that he was -QUESTION: It's not material because it would nothave, in effect, raised a serious question about the - theintegrity of the result or the fairness of the trial?MS. BUNN: Yes. It would not have put the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. state's punishment case in such a different light as toundermine the verdict.QUESTION: Well, but don't - didn't you have adefendant here without a prior criminal record, and - andthe state is trying to prove future dangerousness and thatthis is a really bad actor. I would have thought thatwent rather to the heart of the sentencing question.MS. BUNN: It was definitely favorable evidenceto the state's future dangerousness case, but it was notall that was there.QUESTION: Well, you have there as well Mr.Jefferson, who said that Banks whacked him or hit him hardand happened to omit that he himself, Mr. Jefferson, hadattacked Mr. Banks' sister, which could be a reason why hehad hit him.MS. BUNN: Well, the - Vetrano Jefferson'stestimony, though he did amend his version of the incidentin post-conviction proceedings, he did not recant histestimony that Banks hit him across the face with a gun,but only that - and not that he had attacked Banks' wife,but that he had - that he had had a verbal altercationwith her. And there was no physical - no physical threatwhatsoever that Banks responded to by hitting him acrossthe face with a gun, and this happened a week prior to themurder. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And again, this testimony indicated that Bankswas known to carry a weapon on a regular basis in theweeks before the murder. And the murder itself, theunprovoked nature of it, the fact that Banks essentiallylured a -year-old kid to a - an abandoned and secludedpark near his home and shot him three times to steal hiscar.And then - and then the fact that though -though Farr's testimony was - was crucial on the limitedissue of Banks' willingness to participate himself in thearmed robberies, it still - still the fact that Banks hadit - and himself admitted - admitted at punishment that hewas willing to abet Farr's commission of murder and had,in fact, been willing to drive what would have been a six-hour round trip to Dallas in the middle of the night toprocure that weapon to - to aid those -QUESTION: He didn't admit that - that he waswilling to abet murder. He just admitted he was willingto get the gun for robberies.MS. BUNN: Yes.QUESTION: Did he say specifically, in order thatsomebody can be killed? He didn't say -MS. BUNN: He did - he did testify in - inresponse to cross-examination by the prosecutor that hewas willing to provide what could potentially be a death th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. weapon in a robbery case. And in the light of this futuredangerousness evidence that remains, as well as theincremental impeachment value of Farr's informant statuswithin the context of the trial, former's informant -Farr's informant status wouldn't have put the state's casein such a different light as to undermine confidence in -in the jury's verdict.Again, the state's duty to - to disclose inthese cases is triggered by the materiality of theevidence, and in this case, Farr's import - Farr'sinformant status was not that kind of - of evidence. Itwas not material evidence.Unless there are no further questions. Thankyou.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Bunn.Mr. Kendall, you have two minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEORGE H. KENDALLON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. KENDALL: Thank you, Your Honor. Verybriefly, on the Charles Cook claim, I - Ms. Bunn hasconceded that jurors of reason would find debatable therule issue. We would ask that if the Court agrees withthat, that we not go back just to the Fifth Circuit, thatthe case be sent back to the court in Texarkana, thedistrict court, for fact-finding on the underlying claim. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. There's not been any fact-finding whatsoever on thatclaim, and we think that would be, if the case is goingback to the Fifth Circuit, that that would be entirelyuseful.Thank you very much.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Kendall. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 