IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xFRANCHISE TAX BOARD OF CALIFORNIA, Petitioner, :::v. : No. -GILBERT P. HYATT, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xWashington, D.C.Monday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:FELIX LEATHERWOOD, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Los Angeles, California; on behalf of thePetitioner.H. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; onbehalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF FELIX LEATHERWOOD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFH. BARTOW FARR, III, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFFELIX LEATHERWOOD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S[: a.m.]CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in number -, Franchise Tax Board of Californiaversus Gilbert Hyatt.Mr. Leatherwood.ORAL ARGUMENT OF FELIX LEATHERWOODON BEHALF OF PETITIONERMR. LEATHERWOOD: Mr. Chief Justice, may itplease the Court:Respondent has prompted the Nevada courts toextend their authority over California's tax process. TheNevada court has said at Joint Appendix , the entireprocess, of FTB audits of Hyatt, including the FTB'sassessment of taxes and the protests, is at issue in this case, end quote. This has been said to mean, at JointAppendix , that the tax process is under attack.This lawsuit interferes with California'scapacity to administer these taxes. The administration oftaxes is a core, sovereign responsibility from which allfunctions of State Government depend on. It is protectedby immunity laws of common-law tort lawsuits, like thekind presented by Respondent.California has invoked the protection of itsimmunity laws, but the Nevada courts have allowed th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC respondents laws to proceed, not by extending full faithand credit. And this refusal threatens our constitutionalsystem for cooperative federalism in violation of ArticleIV, Section of the United States Code.QUESTION: Mr. Leatherwood, may I ask you athreshold question? Some of your friends in this casehave invited an overruling of Nevada against Hall. Ofcourse, California was favored by that decision. Do youjoin in the plea to overrule Nevada v. Hall, or do you saythis case is different because it involves core sovereignfunctions?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Justice Ginsberg, we do notjoin in the chorus to overrule Nevada v. Hall. This caseis different. This case goes to footnote of Nevada v.Hall. It's our feeling that Nevada v. Hall is good law in the sense that it does -- it does not implicate anotherstate managing another state's core sovereign function. It's -- Nevada v. Hall was strictly an automobileaccident.QUESTION: But the comparison would be betweenthe university, education, which was the -- which was thedefendant, and the tax authorities. Both of those,education and tax, seem core. Or if you're going tocompare the tort itself, it would be a comparison betweennegligent driving, on the one hand, and going into another th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC state and committing -- you know, peering through windows,going through garbage, totally wrongly getting all theneighbors to reveal private information, et cetera. Socomparing the particular acts, what's the difference, orcomparing sovereign functions, what's the difference?MR. LEATHERWOOD: I mean, compared -- I thankyou, Your Honor -- in comparing the sovereign functions --QUESTION: Education versus tax.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yeah, and driving anautomobile in another state's -- on another state'shighway --QUESTION: That's not the sovereign function.MR. LEATHERWOOD: That's not --QUESTION: I'm saying that --MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- the sovereign function. QUESTION: -- it seems like that's apples andoranges to me. That is, in the one case, we're looking atthe acts they're complaining of, and here the plaintiff iscomplaining of acts that took place in Nevada that weremiles outside what would be reasonable. I'm not sayinghe's right, but that's his complaint. In Nevada v. Hall,they were complaining about negligent driving. So what'sthe difference there?Or, alternatively, in Nevada v. Hall, it was adriver who worked for a university, and here it is an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC investigator who works for the tax board. So what's thedifference there?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, to answer the Court'squestion directly, the most significant difference is thatthe tax function is -- is much more significant than theeducation function.QUESTION: Well, that's -- that -- that --thatwould be a very difficult premise for us to say, thateducation is somehow secondary.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well --QUESTION: You're -- you're saying Nevada can'thave a great university -- can have a great university bykeeping its people within its own borders. They can't goto California to get information to solicit, to recruitstudents? That -- that would be a very difficult decision for us to write on that premise.MR. LEATHERWOOD: No, Your Honor, I would agreewith you that that would be a difficult --QUESTION: For the State of California to arguethat education is not a core state function is, to me,rather astounding.MR. LEATHERWOOD: No, Your Honor, I'm notarguing that education is not a core sovereign function. What I'm arguing is that taxation is an essential coresovereign function since that education cannot move th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC forward --QUESTION: Well, Mr. --MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- to provide taxation.QUESTION: -- Leatherwood, we -- this Courttried to follow a core state function test under the TenthAmendment. And in Garcia, kind of gave it up, didn't it,as being an unworkable thing. Now, why would we want toresurrect that here? And why is it that you don't say,well, if the Court wants to overrule Nevada v. Hall,that's fine; I'll win. I mean, I don't understand yourposition. You're asking us to go back to a test that werejected under the Tenth Amendment in Garcia, but youdon't want to say, sure, if you want to overrule Nevada v.Hall, be my guest.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yes, Your Honor. JusticeO'Connor, what we are attempting to say here is that thiscase is more analogous to this Court's jurisprudence inthe area of the Federal Tax Injunction Act along the lineof fair assessment -- the fair assessment cases, where theCourt has directed that the Federal Government will backoff on trying to manage state taxes.QUESTION: There you have a specific act ofCongress that tells the Federal Government to back off. And I don't believe you have any such thing here.MR. LEATHERWOOD: But we do have the Full Faith th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and Credit Clause, which directs that a state is torecognize the public acts of another state. And we dohave an immunity law applicable here, and this directsthat Nevada should respect the immunity laws of the Stateof California. And the immunity law, in this particularinstance, provide absolute immunity for conduct asundertaken in a -- in a tax audit. Anything that'sassociated with tax audit, is protected.QUESTION: But Nevada did recognize Californialaw to the extent it was similar to Nevada's -- that is,saying you had immunity from the negligent acts. And thenit went on to say, no, you don't have immunity fromintentional acts, even though California law does giveimmunity from intentional acts. But surely you wouldn'tgo to the extreme that you would say someone could come over to Las Vegas from California and just beat upsomebody because they haven't paid their taxes, wouldthey?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Absolutely, I agree with theCourt on that point. The --QUESTION: Why not?MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- the extension of that --QUESTION: Why do you agree on that point? Idon't understand that?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Because the extension of our th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC immunity law does not cover physical torts or torts --QUESTION: Oh.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- outside the scope --QUESTION: I see.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- of course, the scope of --of the -- the acts that are incidental to --QUESTION: I see. So under California law,there would be -- that would be actionable; whereas, underNevada law, here, what they're doing is actionable. Youjust want to use the California standard rather -- ratherthan the Nevada standard.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, in fact, Your Honor, ifthey would use the Nevada standard, use the same standardthat Nevada applies to its own taxing agencies, then thiscase would be on a hold. What Nevada has done in this particular case is that it has gone outside its ownprecedent and applied a different standard to Californiataxing agencies, and it's not --QUESTION: But that's not what they're -- theNevada court said, we're going to treat the tax collectorsfrom anywhere who come in to our state and act here, andwe're going to -- the Nevada Supreme Court said, we'regoing to apply our rule, and our rule is negligence,there's immunity; intentional, there isn't. So you'reasking us to discredit or disbelieve the Nevada Supreme th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court when it said, the law we apply to tax collectors whoact in this state is the same as we apply to Nevada taxcollectors.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Your Honor, I am not askingthis Court to not believe the Nevada Supreme Court. Butwhat I'm saying is that Nevada has published precedent, asrecent as , where it requires that a taxpayer foregobringing a lawsuit until they -- until there has been --until there's a resolution of all statutory procedures.QUESTION: Oh, but this -- but Nevada SupremeCourt, I thought, made very clear that what they weredealing with is tortious conduct, harassing conduct. They, in fact, refused -- Nevada Supreme Court refused todecide where this man was domiciled, because that wouldinterfere with the ongoing procedure in California on the tax liability. I thought that the Nevada Supreme Courthad made it clear that they were dealing with the waytheir resident is being harassed and not with where he wasdomiciled on a magic date.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Your Honor, what has happenedin this particular case, percent of the conduct thatoccurred during the course of this audit occurred inCalifornia. And, quite naturally, what Nevada is -- whatNevada is doing is permitting Mr. Hyatt to go behind theactual tort and make a collateral attack on the tax th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC itself.QUESTION: Well, that may be, but the that isn'tthe issue that we've got in front of us here. I mean, thequestion in front of us is not how far can the Nevadacourts go in reviewing California's tax practice. Theissue before us is, among others, in a claim of tortagainst your -- your operative in Nevada, for the mannerin which the tax is collected is their absolute immunity. And, you know, maybe the Nevada courts are going too farin discovery, but that's not the issue in front of us.MR. LEATHERWOOD: I would absolutely agree withthe Court that the issue is whether or not Nevada wasobligated to apply our immunity laws with respect --QUESTION: All right.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- with respect to conduct undertaken incidental to this audit.QUESTION: May I go back to Justice Stevens'question, because I'm not sure of your answer to it. Whatif the State of California passed a statute tomorrowmorning saying the use of thumbscrews in tax collection isauthorized? Is -- would your answer to Justice Stevens'question be that -- or wouldn't your answer to JusticeStevens' question be that if you went into Nevada and youused thumbscrews, you would be entitled, on your theory,to absolute immunity? Isn't that correct? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. LEATHERWOOD: Your Honor, no. What I'msaying is that, under that particular theory, I do notthink that you could pass law in the State of Californiathat will essentially sanction a crime, and there was nocrimes committed within the course of this audit.If the -- if an auditor commits an intentionaltort, such as a burglary or a trespass in Nevada or inCalifornia, it's -- it's our position that that particularconduct is not incidental to --QUESTION: It doesn't matter. I mean, we'retrying to get the -- we're trying to get the analysis ofit, and I'm having exactly the same problem. Imagine thatthere, California did say there is absolute immunity, evenif you beat somebody up, absolute tort immunity. Okay? Even for beating people up. Now, suppose they did have that; you could prosecute it as a crime. Now you're inNevada, and they say, the plaintiff, he beat me up, hecame across the state line, down from Lake Tahoe. He wasin a bad mood, lost too much money at the casino, and hebeat me up. All right? Now, can Nevada bring thatlawsuit or not? That's, I think, what Justice Stevens'question was.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well -- well, I understandthat, Your Honor. My position is that even though thatlaw does not exist in California -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- but applying --QUESTION: If it did.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- applying it -- my -- ourparticular theory --QUESTION: Yes.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- that, yes, we -- thenNevada would be obligated under the Full Faith and CreditClause to apply that particular law. But --QUESTION: And, therefore, you could not bringthe lawsuit in Nevada about somebody beating somebody up.MR. LEATHERWOOD: If --QUESTION: If that were the law in California.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- if that were -- if that wasthe case. But --QUESTION: Yeah, okay.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- in this particular case,that's illegal in California and that's illegal in Nevada.QUESTION: So how, then, do we reconcile thatposition, where we're back to our starting place, with thefact that he could bring an action if on his way down fromLake Tahoe in the state car, he happened to drive a littlenegligently and ran somebody over? I mean, that's Nevadav. Hall, just reverse the states.MR. LEATHERWOOD: No, and we're agreeing with th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Nevada v. Hall.QUESTION: I know. So this is why we're havinga problem. It's clear that if our tax collector, on hisway down from Lake Tahoe, runs over a Nevada resident, theNevada resident can sue and apply Nevada law.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yes, I --QUESTION: You say, if, in fact, that same taxcollector beats up somebody, and the California law isthat you cannot sue, Nevada cannot apply its own law.MR. LEATHERWOOD: That's not what I'm saying,Your Honor. I'm saying if that conduct -- if that conductis connected to the actual audit itself, then it'sprotected. But what I'm saying, I cannot possibly see,under any possible theory, that a beating, that it -- thatbreaking into someone's house could actually be part of the assessment -- tax assessment process. If an auditorengages in that kind of behavior, the auditor is notcovered under the absolute immunity. That is outside thescope of that --QUESTION: Okay.MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- of that statute.QUESTION: And is the reason that the answer isdifferent in the two cases, the reason that there issomething special about tax collection or is the reasonthat there is a closer connection in the hypo of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC beating up for tax collection than the driving theautomobile for tax collection?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well --QUESTION: Which is it? Is it the nature of thetax collection or the nature of the activity which leadsto the tort liability?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, I think it's both, YourHonor. Well, first of all, tax -- tax collection, bydefinition, is an intrusion of someone's life. Theallegations alleged here are principally invasion ofprivacy, disclosure of information, that sort of thing. Ninety-seven percent of that conduct occurred inCalifornia. You cannot possibly investigate or prosecuteMr. Hyatt's case without intruding into that tax --QUESTION: Mr. Leatherwood, if I understand your position, it would be exactly the same if a hundredpercent of the conduct had occurred in Nevada.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Absolutely, Your Honor. That-- but -- but --QUESTION: But the problem I have -- may I justask this question. Assume there is a -- there's adifference between Nevada law and California law, as Iunderstand it. Some things are actionable against a taxpeople in one state and not the other. Why is it, in yourview, that if the same conduct had occurred six months th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC later, but by Nevada tax collectors instead of byCalifornia tax collectors, because he's been in bothstates and probably is subject to tax in both, Nevadawould allow the suit against its own tax people but notallow it against the California tax people? Why does thatmake sense?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, Your Honor, in thisparticular case, as I've indicated, according to ourreading of Nevada precedent, published precedent, thatthey would not permit this lawsuit to proceed until thetax process has been concluded. With respect to -- todirectly answer your question, it does not appear thatNevada would prosecute its own -- would permit aprosecution of its own agents in the case where theallegations are principally that there is an intrusion into Mr. Hyatt's life or that there --QUESTION: Well, we understood the reasoning ofthe Nevada Supreme Court to say they would. I think -- Imust have misread the opinion. Is that --MR. LEATHERWOOD: No, absolutely not, YourHonor. I don't think you misread the opinion. What Ithink the Nevada Supreme Court said is that they willpermit intentional tort prosecution of governmentemployees. This case does not involve a governmentemployee. This case involves a government agency itself, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a tax agency. And under Nevada law, you cannot proceedagainst the Nevada tax agency without first exhaustingyour administrative and statutory remedies to contest theunderlying tax itself.QUESTION: But certainly this sort of thingisn't the kind of thing you could have exhausted yourremedies on, is it?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Absolutely, Your Honor. Inour -- in our -- it is our position that this entire --the entire lawsuit is linked up to our tax process,because the conduct that the Respondent is complainingabout here is that the tax itself is -- the tax itself andthe tax process is engaged in bad faith. And I would --QUESTION: Now, what is -- was your answer tothe question? Suppose that this tax collector were driving negligently in Nevada --MR. LEATHERWOOD: Part --QUESTION: Suppose the tax collector weredriving negligently in Las Vegas. It's very important forthe tax collector to go examine the record, and he'sdriving negligently. What --MR. LEATHERWOOD: I think, under Nevada v. Hall,he would be -- he would be subject to negligent liability. It's not connected to a core silent function because thefunction here is -- the function here is a tax th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC investigation, whereas, driving is something that you caninvestigate independent of the tax process itself.QUESTION: So suppose that we -- we concludethat footnote does not provide sufficient guidance forus to have a stable jurisprudence and that you will loseunless Nevada versus Hall is overruled. Would you thenask us to overrule Nevada versus Hall?MR. LEATHERWOOD: Your Honor --QUESTION: I know you don't want to entertainthat possibility, but suppose that's what we conclude.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, we -- we've thoughtabout this, Your Honor, of course, and we would accept awin, if that's the Court's direction, through overrulingNevada v. Hall, but it's our contention that the Courtdoesn't have to go that far to get -- to get to this point. The Court can literally analogize to the specialprotections that are provided to state tax systems withinthe federal system itself.QUESTION: But then that, as I suggestedearlier, is a difficult thing to do, because there arecongressional statutes that mandate that here. And all wehave is the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Now, perhapsyou say that's sufficient, but isn't it possible thatthere might be other emanations of the Full Faith andCredit Clause, other than just footnote , or whatever it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is, in Nevada against Hall. I'm not talking aboutoverruling it, but developing it, perhaps.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yes, Your Honor. I wouldagree with that. Of course, we think that Nevada'sfailure to recognize or give dignity to California'simmunity statute is not only a violation of the Full Faithand Credit Clause, but is a hostile act, and this kind ofhostility is contrary to our whole concept of --QUESTION: What -- what about a congressionalstatute? That is, suppose the opinion read -- what wouldyour objection -- I know you'll object to this possibleopinion, and I want to hear what your objection is -- theopinion says they're complaining here, as far as we'reconcerned, with a serious tort, invasion of privacy, youknow, a whole lot of really bad behavior, et cetera --they're complaining about that taking place by aCalifornia official in Nevada, and we can't reallydistinguish that from the automobile accident taking placein Nevada. They're both torts. They're both very bad --you know, this is worse conduct. Now, it's true that ourinvestigation of this may interfere with California's taxauthority's ability to sort of run investigations ingeneral. But if that turns out to be a problem, a bigproblem, Congress can legislate.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, that still creates -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that still creates the situation where Nevada issupervising and managing California's tax practices.QUESTION: Back to activities happening inNevada.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yeah. In this lawsuit -- thislawsuit is -- is being prosecuted -- is being investigatedalmost exclusively in California. The -- the intrusionhere, the interference here, is that Nevada has permittedMr. Hyatt to use this lawsuit both as a -- as a wall and abattering ram. It has almost suppressed the entireCalifornia tax investigation. It's creating an entireclass of possible plaintiffs that can sue California justfor literally going across the state line and making aninquiry as to whether or not a former California resident,a former California taxpayer, actually owes any taxes. QUESTION: Well, they would have to show its anintentional -- whatever that means under Nevada law -- notjust negligent wouldn't they --MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, the intentional act hereis that California created a tax system in bad faith to --bad faith to extort an exit -- an exit tax from -- from ataxpayer.QUESTION: I thought that, again, the NevadaSupreme Court said, we are not going to touch the questionof where this man was domiciled. That's for California to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC decide. What we are dealing with is this new thing. Oneallegation was trespass and going through the man's trash,and another was calling -- maybe the calls emanated inCalifornia -- calling people in Nevada insinuating badthings about this person. And that has nothing to do withwhere the man is domiciled. It's a question thatCalifornia is deciding and Nevada says it won't touch.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Yeah, and I would -- I woulddirect the Court to Joint Appendix , where -- where theCourt would -- the Nevada courts have indicated thatalmost all the action in this -- in this lawsuit occurredin California. And --QUESTION: Well, you -- you recognized thatthere were two trips into California.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Actually, Your Honor --QUESTION: I mean, to Nevada.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Actually, Your Honor, Ibelieve there were three trips, and they were short trips-- they were trips of extremely short duration.QUESTION: And what was there about -- on one ofthose trips, there was a trespass on his property andrummaging through his trash.MR. LEATHERWOOD: Well, that's not part of --that's not part of the allegations of the -- of thecomplaint itself. The complaint is saying that -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It was a more -- a more generalinterference with his privacy, but those were examplesthat were alleged, if not in the complaint, somewhere.MR. LEATHERWOOD: No, there has been depositiontestimony that there -- on one of the trips, that theinvestigator looked at the timing of Mr. -- ofRespondent's trash delivery and also looked at --determined whether or not Respondent was receiving anymail at that particular location. That does not justifythe pervasive nature and the extent in which this lawsuithas reached into California and literally attacked the taxprocess.And, once again, I will refer the Court to theJoint Appendix at page , where it is alleged that theCalifornia tax system itself is a -- is a fraud -- that is, put together in bad faith for the specific purpose ofextorting an exit tax from former residents who -- as theyleave California.Well, if the Court has no more questions in thisregard, I would like --QUESTION: Do you want to reserve your time, Mr.Leatherwood?MR. LEATHERWOOD: -- reserve the balance of mytime, thank you.QUESTION: Very well. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Mr. Farr, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARRON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTMR. FARR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:In our federal system, it's recognized that thestates will sometimes have overlapping jurisdiction. Whenthat happens, the Constitution allows each state to applyits own laws against the background principle of comitywhere they believe it would be appropriate to defer to thelaws of another state. And I submit that the Nevadacourts here have applied these principles very carefully.Nevada, of course, correctly held that they werenot required to apply California's legislative-created lawof immunity. At the same time, however, they have applied principles of comity to strike out the declaratoryjudgment count that would have gone to the very issue thatis being contested in the Florida -- excuse me -- in theCalifornia tax proceeding, which is the date thatMr. Hyatt moved to Nevada. And they have also givenCalifornia complete immunity for any negligence that ithas committed.So in this case, it seems to me, the system isworking --QUESTION: Mr. Farr, can I ask you, do you think th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they were compelled by the Full Faith and Credit Clause togrant immunity on the negligence claim?MR. FARR: That's an interesting question,Justice Stevens, because Nevada officials themselves haveimmunity. There would be a question, I suppose, ofwhether the Full Faith and Credit Clause requires that. My general feeling is probably not, but that is really nota question so much of whether -- a choice of law betweenCalifornia law and Nevada law, but simply a question ofwhat Nevada law would apply. So I don't think that theFull Faith and Credit Clause itself speaks to that issue,but I do think principles of comity will traditionallyreach that result. And, in fact --QUESTION: Well, are principles of comitydictated by the Constitution? Suppose --MR. FARR: They are --QUESTION: -- suppose Nevada said they were notgoing to grant comity?MR. FARR: That's correct, yes. And I don'tthink there is a federally enforceable law of statecomity, but I think that is the system that has existedessentially between sovereigns for much longer than theUnited States is --QUESTION: Well, is it your position then theprivate plaintiff can always bring suit against a state in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the courts of another state?MR. FARR: Well, the first question, of course,is whether the court has legislative -- the first FullFaith and Credit question is whether the court in whichthe suit is brought has legislative jurisdiction. Sothere is a requirement that that state haveconstitutionally sufficient contacts with the law --QUESTION: Well, then under due process. Well,that's easy to satisfy.MR. FARR: So assuming that they've satisfiedthat, they are entitled to bring a suit. Then thequestion is whether the state -- and I -- and I believe atthat point the state is free to apply its own laws toprotect its own interests. I think that's what the FullFaith and Credit Clause allows. And it is the doctrine of comity that provides the acknowledgment of the state --the other state's interests. And that's typically, infact, what's happened since Nevada --QUESTION: It's very --MR. FARR: -- versus Hall --QUESTION: -- it's very odd to me thatCalifornia can't be sued in its own courts and it can't besued in a federal court, but it can be sued in a Nevadacourt, which, if we follow that declension really has the-- has the least interest in maintaining the dignity of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the State of California.MR. FARR: Well, there are two -- two factorshere, Justice Kennedy. First of all, there is the factthat Nevada has some very real interests of its own, itsown sovereign interests to protect here. I mean, therehave been torts which were both committed in Nevada anddirected at a Nevada resident. So, to begin with, beforeone gets to the immunity question, Nevada, as a sovereignstate, has important interests in assuring compensationand also in deterring that kind of conduct. So the ideathat a legislatively created immunity by another stateshould be able to prevent Nevada from protecting thoseinterests seems inconsistent with the federal system.Now, if one goes beyond that to the question ofinherent immunity, the very idea that a state should have to be subject to sue in the courts of another state, Ithink, first of all, as you know, we don't believe thatissue is properly presented on the question presented inthis case. But if you would like me to address it justfor a moment, I think there -- there are differences ifone looks to the -- to the way that the -- essentiallyimmunity has been resolved in -- in the course of -- ofthe United States.First of all, in its own courts, it has thecommon-law immunity based on the idea that it is both the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC king being sued in its own court, and also typically it isalso the progenitor of the law, so to speak, to JusticeHolmes' point.In the United States, there's -- the courts ofthe United States, there's a very specific situation. Atthe time of the convention, the states were, obviously,forming a new sovereign, and the question of whether thatsovereign was going to grant them the immunity they had intheir own courts or whether that sovereign would be in thesame position essentially as foreign sovereigns typicallywere, which is that they did not have to providesovereignty except as a matter of comity. That's TheSchooner Exchange opinion.But -- so the states, at that point, had a veryreal interest in deciding that question, and they did, in fact, decide that question, as the court has recognized. That is not true with respect to the immunity that theyhave had in the courts of other states.QUESTION: Is -- how does Alden fit into this? In Alden, I take it the court now -- we've held that acitizen of Maine suing in the State of Maine's courtsalleging that Maine had violated a federal law can't doit. Sovereign immunity. Right? That's Alden.All right. Suppose the citizen of Maine walksinto a New Hampshire court and brings the same lawsuit th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC against Maine, assuming New Hampshire has appropriatejurisdiction under its own laws.MR. FARR: Uh-huh.QUESTION: Do we get a different result?MR. FARR: Okay, I think that is not a questionthat is within the notion of the question in this case. QUESTION: No, no, well --MR. FARR: I'm sorry. I --QUESTION: -- you see, what I --MR. FARR: Excuse me.QUESTION: -- nonetheless, although --MR. FARR: No, I --QUESTION: -- what I'm trying to do is -- issort out what, in my mind, are a set of impossibleanomalies, and that's why I ask you that question. MR. FARR: I'm sorry. I started to answer inthe wrong way.QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. FARR: What I -- I reserve, of course, thepoint, always, that I don't believe this is within thequestion presented.QUESTION: Yeah, yeah, of course.MR. FARR: But I actually was going -- what Imeant to say is that I don't think it's the same kind ofquestion in the sense that I think still when you're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC talking about enforcement of a federal cause of action inanother state, that is still really a federal-statequestion.QUESTION: See, but --MR. FARR: That's still --QUESTION: -- your answer, then --MR. FARR: -- an evolving question.QUESTION: -- your answer to my question isAlden cannot be avoided simply by the Maine citizenwalking into a New Hampshire court and bringing the samecase.MR. FARR: That's correct.QUESTION: All right.MR. FARR: I think that is --QUESTION: And I would guess that's right. MR. FARR: -- still a federal-state --QUESTION: All right, assuming that's right --MR. FARR: -- I think that is still a federal-state issue. QUESTION: -- assuming that's right, now, lookat the tremendous anomaly, which you were just about toaddress, and I want to be sure you do. Our citizen ofMaine walks into the New Hampshire court and sues theState of Maine under federal law. And the answer is, hecan't do it because of sovereign immunity. Our citizen of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Maine does the same thing, but this time his cause ofaction is state law. And now you say he can do it.MR. FARR: That's right. And --QUESTION: And the only difference between thetwo cases is that his cause of action is federal law inthe first case, and he can't sue the state; but state lawin the second case, and he can, which, of course, meansthat the law of New Hampshire binds Maine in a way thatfederal law cannot. Now, that, to me, I just can't --that, to me, seems so anomalous that -- that I'd like anexplanation --MR. FARR: Well --QUESTION: -- if you can give it. And you seehow I'm thinking of it as connected here, because thefacts here are just part of that general anomaly. MR. FARR: That's correct. Actually, JusticeBreyer, I think that's something that the court, to someextent, addressed in Alden itself --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. FARR: -- in distinguishing the opinion inNevada versus Hall, when it noted that when you get intothe situation of a state being sued in the courts ofanother state and, as in Nevada versus Hall, under a statecause of action, you have now implicated the sovereigntyof a second sovereign. So when one is now looking at the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- at the issues of sovereign immunity, one is looking ata different platform of issues and also at a differenthistorical base.QUESTION: But that seems to make their caseeven harder. It would be difficult to conceive that theframers thought that Virginia could be sued inPennsylvania but not in a federal court. I would thinkthat the presumption would be that this was an evenstronger case for the exercise of sovereign immunity thanwhen all of the citizens of the union are involved as inthe Alden situation --MR. FARR: Well, I think that --QUESTION: -- in the Eleventh Amendment.MR. FARR: I mean, I think that there are twothings going on. I mean, first of all, the question is not whether they can be sued, but if not, why not. Forexample, with Pennsylvania and Virginia, as I'm sure theCourt is aware, had a -- Nathan versus Virginia is a casein which that very situation came up. But in the courtsof Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Attorney General urgedits own courts to recognize sovereign immunity. So thatcould naturally fit within the idea that Schooner Exchangehas made clear, which is that when you're talking aboutco-equal sovereigns of that nature, one is talking aboutsovereignty that -- excuse me, immunity that is extended th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC as a matter of comity, not as a matter of absolute rightof the other sovereign. And the reason is -- excuse me --the reason is that if you don't allow the sovereign toexecute its own laws within its own territory, you'redepriving that sovereign of part of its sovereignty.QUESTION: Well, doesn't our originaljurisdiction as the states between states bear somethingon this question?MR. FARR: It bears a little bit. But, ofcourse, Article III itself is not a exclusive jurisdictionprovision. The Section provides exclusivejurisdiction with respect to suits between states.QUESTION: The idea that the framers wouldprovide for its original jurisdiction in the Supreme Courtin -- for suits by one state against another suggests they thought it might be pretty hard to bring such a suitanywhere else.MR. FARR: Well, and they -- certainly as apractical matter, they would have been right, Mr. ChiefJustice. I mean, as a practical matter, it has alwaysbeen difficult to bring a suit against a state, either inits own courts or in the courts of another state. I mean,even since Nevada versus Hall, typically states havegranted immunity to other states for when they're sued intheir own courts. And if they haven't granted absolute th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC immunity, what they have done, which I think is animportant principle emerging -- emerging principle ofcomity, is they have tended to look at their own immunityto see what kinds of suits could be brought against themand to try, then, to grant to the -- to the outsidesovereign that same type of immunity.QUESTION: Mr. Farr, have you found otherexamples around the country of suits by citizens of onestate against another state in the other state's courts?MR. FARR: I --QUESTION: Is this relatively rare, or is ithappening? And in what context is it happening?MR. FARR: It's relatively rare, and -- butthere have been some suits. There are a few of them citedin our red brief, if I can find the page number, pages and . The -- there are suits, for example, negligencesuits involving the release of dangerous persons withinanother state who have created injury to citizens --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. FARR: -- of that state. There are morecommercial-type things involving contracts or -- one, inparticular, is a it for invasion of privacy when someonewho wrote a book disclosed information. In general,though, Justice O'Connor, as I say, some of those suits,the courts have just said, we're not going to hear them th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whether you have a valid cause of action or not. We'resimply not going to -- going to recognize that in ourcourts because of the sovereignty of the defendant. Othercourts have said, yes, we will open our courts, but we aregoing to look to our own immunity to try to haveessentially a baseline to measure the sort of immunitythat we are going to --QUESTION: Mr. Farr, are you saying --MR. FARR: -- accept.QUESTION: -- that that, too, is just a matterof comity?MR. FARR: I do think that that's --QUESTION: Doesn't --MR. FARR: -- just a matter --QUESTION: -- doesn't the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV have something to say? Ifyou can treat a tax collector from California differentlyfrom the tax collector in Nevada, you're not giving theirtax collectors equal privileges and immunities in Nevada.MR. FARR: If one granted lesser immunity? Isthat the question --QUESTION: Yes. If one -- you said that theonly stopper was a notion of comity, and I'm suggestingthat you might not be able to treat two officials, onefrom out of state, one from in state, to treat -- to favor th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the in-state official. But maybe Privileges andImmunities have -- has something to do with that.MR. FARR: If a state is entitled as a defendantto invoke Privileges and Immunities against the courts ofanother state, I would think that's right. Certainly inthe case --QUESTION: Is it?MR. FARR: I --QUESTION: I mean, I thought --MR. FARR: I would have thought not.QUESTION: -- that would go to individualliability, but it would -- it would not affect thisquestion, but I may be wrong.MR. FARR: Well, no, I -- that would be myassumption, also, Justice Souter. I think that the -- the Privileges and Immunities and Equal Protection are -- areprovisions that apply to individuals who are claimingdiscrimination in -- in another state. I don't think theywould apply directly to a state.But, as I say, the -- the notion that comity is-- is something that -- that doesn't have a force, eventhough it's not federal enforceable, it seems to me is alittle bit of a misperception. Because, again, if onegoes back to the notion of the law of nations or separatesovereigns, comity essentially has been the provision that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC governs their relations since well before the convention.QUESTION: Well, there is some reluctance to saythat California officials can run amok in Nevada withoutNevada being able to do anything about it. I suppose ifit were a pervasive practice, Nevada might be able to sueCalifornia in the original jurisdiction under some parenspatriae theory. I'm not sure about that.MR. FARR: Well, I mean, let me suggest a coupleof other possibilities, Justice Kennedy, as well. I don't-- I don't know whether the court would take originaljurisdiction of that question or not, but, I mean, themost direct example of something states could do,obviously, is they could reach agreements betweenthemselves. I mean, there have been two cases before thiscourt involving suits against states in the courts of other states. One was Nevada in California's courts. This is California in Nevada's courts. If those states,who are neighboring states, feel that this is an issuethat they need to address, they could reach some sort ofagreement and, therefore, have reciprocal legislation.And, for example, under the Full Faith andCredit Clause for years, as the Court may know, there is adoctrine that said that states didn't have to enforce thepenal laws of another state, even though Full Faith andCredit, on its face, would make you feel that maybe they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would have to.But, in fact, states eventually began, throughreciprocal agreements in decisions, and I think inlegislation also, to say, you know, we essentially willenforce the penal laws or the tax laws of other states, solong as they do for us. So, again, the states --QUESTION: Penal laws or penal judgments?MR. FARR: No, no, penal judgments, the courtsaid in -- in Milwaukee County, have to be enforced, butthey -- they distinguished at that point, Mr. ChiefJustice, the idea that a law itself would have to beenforced before it had been reduced to --QUESTION: Right, but what -- what -- what isthe -- I don't want to -- I don't want you to getdistracted, because I thought Justice Ginsberg and maybe Justice Kennedy and I were driving at the same problem,which is that imagine Nevada v. Hall is good law. Allright, now, the question comes up, How do you preventNevada from going wild? All right. And so now we haveseveral answers: (a), Congress can pass a statute --MR. FARR: Correct.QUESTION: -- (b) interstate compacts -- thatwas what you were suggesting.MR. FARR: And -- and --QUESTION: All right. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: -- if I may --QUESTION: Yeah, the --MR. FARR: -- if I may intercede, it doesn'tnecessarily even have to be a compact. I'm not sure --QUESTION: Right, some --MR. FARR: -- it's agreements that have to beproven.states.QUESTION: -- kind of a voluntary action by theMR. FARR: Right, correct.QUESTION: (c) Privileges and Immunities, whichhas the problem that it refers to citizens and not states,(d) equal protection doesn't work, I don't think, becauseit says, again, citizens. A due process clause, is astate a person under the Due Process Clause? (e), what's (e)? I mean, you see? If Nevada --(e) is, of course, footnote , but then that gets us intothe National League of Cities problem. And so NationalLeague of Cities --MR. FARR: Well, there could --QUESTION: -- that -- that -- that approach --equal -- no, Privileges and Immunities, due process oflaw, voluntary action states, Congress enacts a law,anything else? Have we got -- is that the exhaustive listthat we must choose from? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: It's --QUESTION: Or --MR. FARR: -- it seems exhaustive --QUESTION: And the only -- all right, that's --if -- if nothing in that list works, then the onlyalternative is overrule Nevada v. Hall.QUESTION: Is --QUESTION: -- or, excuse me --QUESTION: -- is comity on the list?MR. FARR: Well, comity --QUESTION: Well, I mean -- I mean I --MR. FARR: -- excuse me -- comity is --QUESTION: Comity -- comity is not the answer tothe problem, because -- well, it is, in a sense. It is,in a sense.MR. FARR: Yeah, I mean --QUESTION: Voluntary restraint.MR. FARR: Excuse me. I don't -- I certainlydon't mean to minimize the theoretical possibility thatsuits in courts of one state could ultimately prove to bea problem, generally. What I'm suggesting is that thereis nothing, first of all, in the history of the Full Faithand Credit Clause that would suggest that once a state hasproper legislative jurisdiction, as I think everybodyconcedes that Nevada does here, that somehow that clause th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was intended to displace the law of that state simplybecause another state had made different policy choicesabout, let's say, here, compensation and immunity.QUESTION: But can you say that categoricallyand absolutely? I mean, there are all sorts ofpermutations of facts that could come up.MR. FARR: Well, what -- the permutations offacts, I think, go particularly to what constituteslegislative jurisdiction. So perhaps in that sense, mystatement is broader, or seems broader in the context ofthis case than I mean it to be. But I do -- but I dothink, in general, that I don't see any warrant in theFull Faith and Credit Clause, given the fact that it wasenacted with very little debate, and almost all of thedebate was about judgments and not about enforcement of other states' laws, I think it would be stretching theclause beyond recognition to say that at some point it was-- it was telling states, you're going to have to set yourlaws aside and apply the laws of another state.QUESTION: There was a time in the 's and 'swhen this court came pretty close to that, the cases thatpreceded Pacific Employers.MR. FARR: That's correct, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Clapper and Bradford.THE COURT Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: That's correct. And as I think thatas my argument might suggest, I think the Court wascorrect to essentially back away from that kind ofbalancing test and essentially go back to the principle ofsaying when a state is competent to legislate, then it mayapply its own laws, leaving the additional questions aboutwhat might happen at that point to questions of comitywhere a state is the defendant. And, as I've suggested,Nevada courts have shown considerable comity already here,and the case, of course, is not yet concluded.QUESTION: Comity is something like a heartyhandshake. I mean, it -- it's something that you can'tput any -- any force to.MR. FARR: That's -- that's true in one sense,Mr. Chief Justice. I mean, when I say it's not -- that there's no federally enforceable state law of comity, I --that's true. But at the same time, I mean, the Court'sdecisions about comity since back in the late th centuryhave emphasized that it is a serious doctrine. It's adoctrine built of respect for -- for other sovereigns. And in particular -- and I think this -- this is -- alsogoes to the practical problem that Justices Kennedy andBreyer are asking about -- it also does have a healthymeasure of self interest in it.I mean, when -- when you are talking about co- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC equal sovereigns, any sovereign that is exercisingjurisdiction over another sovereign understands thatthat's -- the first sovereign -- or the second sovereignhas the same power and authority over it.QUESTION: Is -- is the question of comity onethat has a federal component so that this court shouldweigh in on when it has to be exercised?MR. FARR: I don't believe so state versusstate, Justice O'Connor. Or course, in the -- in thetypes of cases that the board was referring to thismorning, like McNary, there are comity elements. Andthere -- and there is a jurisprudence of this court withrespect to federal and state relations which does dependon comity, and that is, of course, federally enforceable. I don't believe that there is a concomitant enforceable doctrine --QUESTION: But you're arguing --MR. FARR: -- state to state.QUESTION: Even in the face -- even in the faceof some development by state -- a state court that seemstotally out of whack with our constitutional structure?MR. FARR: Well, Justice O'Connor, I suppose Ishould --QUESTION: Are there no extremes? Is there nolimitation? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: Well, I -- I mean, I'm -- I suppose Ishould pause in the sense that -- that if there issomething that is so threatening to the constitutionalstructure and something for which there is no historicalbasis in -- in terms of the -- the way that sovereignsdeal with each other. Now, see, that's -- that's where Ithink this case is very different, because even thoughthere was certainly a practical tradition that states werenot to be sued in other states, as I say, since SchoonerExchange, and, indeed, in Verlinden in , this Courthas always taken the position that when you're talkingabout relationships between sovereigns, and they're co­equal sovereigns, and the issue is immunity between them,that is a matter of comity.QUESTION: All right, but leave -- say, this case, I can easily see on your theory writing the part ofthe opinion that says the acts in Nevada, the acts inNevada that were arguably torts are certainly up to Nevadato pursue. But the discovery commissioner here, they say,went way too far in ordering discovery and ordereddiscovery that would have been relevant only to negligentaction and only negligent action, really, that took placein California, though a Nevada resident was at issue. Andthey can't do that, says the opinion, because -- because -- and now this is where it seems to me there -- something th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- what do I fill that blank with. They can't do that. They can't go over and, in Nevada, complain aboutnegligent action as this discovery commissioner may havedone, negligent action in California aimed at a Nevadaresident where it's a tax action. They can't do thatbecause -- and now what? You see -- do you see what'sbothering me?I -- at this point, it seems to me there has tobe something in the Constitution that limits that, andthis case may raise that problem because of the actions ofthe discovery commissioner. And, therefore, I think Ineed something to fill that blank with.MR. FARR: Well, as -- I don't think, to startwith, that the answer is the Full Faith and Credit Clause.QUESTION: All right, what is it?MR. FARR: I mean --QUESTION: I -- it's an odd -- an awkwardvehicle, Full Faith --MR. FARR: Right.QUESTION: -- but what is the answer?MR. FARR: Well, I mean, I still think that, inthe end, the answer is that this is a matter that onetrusts to the judgment of states --QUESTION: So the answer is if they want to dothat, they can do it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: -- that if, in fact, there is aquestion about discovery, that --QUESTION: Uh-huh.MR. FARR: -- I mean, that I -- accepting thecharacterization, although I dispute it to some extent,but to the extent there's a question about discovery, thatis simply part and parcel of the states being able toexercise their jurisdiction. I don't --QUESTION: I thought discovery was --QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: -- interlocutory. I thought that wecouldn't write in an opinion, as Justice Breyer hassuggested, if I didn't think that that question wascurrently reviewable.MR. FARR: Well, there's certainly nothing specifically in the question presented about discovery. The -- the -- the -- again, to come back to the questionpresented, because we've discussed a wide range of issues,most of which I don't think are within the questionpresented, but when we come back to the questionpresented, the question is basically was the Nevada or theNevada courts required to dismiss this action on summaryjudgment because of California's law of immunity? And --and the reason for that is because, according toCalifornia, the Full Faith and Credit Clause requires th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Nevada to enforce California's law of immunity.QUESTION: Mr. Farr --MR. FARR: Our view is -- yeah?QUESTION: -- do I understand -- your comityargument basically is -- it's kind a self-executing thing,because each time a state has to answer the comityquestion, it asks the question, what would I do if thetables were reversed? And as history teaches us, theygenerally treat the other sovereign the way they wouldwant to be treated themselves. And that's --MR. FARR: Well --QUESTION: -- well, that's the rule that seemsto have been developed without any overridingconstitutional command order here.MR. FARR: That's correct, Justice Stevens. And, in fact, they have become more specific in applyingcomity, I believe, in saying we want to treat the othersovereign as we do treat ourselves, not just as we want tobe treated. We are treating the other sovereign the waywe treat ourselves.QUESTION: What if the -- what if the case came,and they didn't do it? Justice Breyer's question, how doI fill in the blank? I -- if, let's say, through thisintrusive discovery process, systematically applied, theyreally were interfering with California's taxation, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC couldn't California bring an original action to enjointhis interference?MR. FARR: I certainly think that's possible. And, of course, as I've said, I mean, California can tryto talk to Nevada and try to reach agreement at asovereign level about this, or if, in fact -- the FullFaith and Credit Clause has a specific express commitmentto Congress of the right to declare the effects of otherlaws.QUESTION: What would be the underlying --QUESTION: Underlying --QUESTION: -- substantive law in JusticeSouter's proposed original action?MR. FARR: The -- I suppose, I mean, based onwhat California has said before -- said up to now, it would bring it under the Full Faith and Credit Clause,that it would say that there is some requirement --QUESTION: Well, but we wouldn't need anoriginal action for the Full Faith and Credit Clause. Ifthat's so, it could apply in this case.MR. FARR: That's correct. I mean, whetherthey're --QUESTION: So what's the -- what would anoriginal action -- there was -- there's no underlyingsubstantive standard to apply? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FARR: I mean, the question would be, isthere -- obviously, the question that's being raised. Iam not aware of the federal substantive standard --QUESTION: We haven't --MR. FARR: -- that says --QUESTION: -- in boundary cases, though,adopted, as a federal rule, something maybe different fromthe law of either state.MR. FARR: That's correct. Now, you do have --there are certain cases, in fact, in which you can't haveoverlapping jurisdiction, where you can't own the samewater, you can't own the same land, you can't escheat thesame property. So that's true. The court has addressedthose kinds of cases.In a situation where you're simply saying another state is applying its laws, I prefer that theyapply our laws, and I'm troubled by the discovery thatthey have -- they have allowed in applying their own laws,I'm not sure what the federal principle --QUESTION: It's not simply that --MR. FARR: -- is that entitles you to stop it.QUESTION: -- it's a prior action pending. That's what makes this case different, and one of thethings that makes it different from Nevada v. Hall. Whyis it -- is the California proceeding ongoing? Isn't it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC normal for a second court to stay its operations so itwon't interfere with that prior action?MR. FARR: It -- in fact, the Nevada courtdismissed the declaratory judgment action preciselybecause it didn't want to get into the question that wasat issue in the California proceeding.QUESTION: Yes, but what about the intrusivediscovery?MR. FARR: Well, most of the -- most of theother material -- with one exception, most of the otherissues involved things that have nothing to do with themerits of the California inquiry. I mean, whetherconfidential information has been improperly disclosed has-- is not -- does not require you to adjudicate theCalifornia tax liability in order to understand that. Theonly thing that has any bearing that is close to that, Isubmit, is something that is roughly akin to like amalicious prosecution suit. And tort law itself, overtime, takes care of that. We've not gotten to that issueyet in the Nevada Supreme Court.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Farr.Mr. Leatherwood, you have five minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF FELIX LEATHERWOODON BEHALF OF PETITIONER th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. LEATHERWOOD: Thank you, Your Honor.In this particular case, I'd like to go back toJustice Breyer's thumbscrew example. I don't think theFull Faith and Credit Clause would actually force Cal --force Nevada to apply -- apply a California thumbscrewstatute, because that would actually be outside the taxfunction.What I'm saying in this particular case what hashappened is that Nevada's failure to give us back toCalifornia's immunity statute has resulted in interferencewith California's tax system. If this court does notintervene and give us back to our particular proposedtest, which would look into California to see whether ornot we would grant immunity, then essentially that wouldpermit any defendant any form of taxpayer to run to the border and literally sue the State of California or anyother state to prevent the enforcement of that particularstatute.In addition, I pointed out that this givesanother state the power to intrude into the actualoperation of another state, and that's what has happenedhere.There has been some -- some discussion as towhether or not Nevada has legislative jurisdiction. Weconcede that they have legislative jurisdiction over the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC tort. But we -- what we complain about is that they won'trespect our legislative jurisdiction or our tax processover our immunity laws, and that is our particularcomplaint.We submit the case.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Leatherwood. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 