 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJEREMIAH W. (JAY) NIXON, :ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MISSOURI, :Petitioner :v. : No. -MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUE, ET AL.,; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS :::COMMISSION AND UNITED STATES, :Petitioners :v. : No. -MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUE, ET AL.,; and :::SOUTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE, :L.P., fka SOUTHWESTERN BELL :TELEPHONE COMPANY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUE, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, January , th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Federal Petitioners.RONALD MOLTENI, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Jefferson City Missouri; on behalf of PetitionerNixon.DAVID A. STRAUSS, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Federal Petitioners RONALD MOLTENI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner Nixon DAVID A. STRAUSS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Federal Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Nixon v. Missouri Municipal Leagueand Missouri Municipal League against Southwestern Bell.Mr. Feldman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL PETITIONERSMR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This case concerns U.S.C., section (a)which preempts State laws that prohibit or have the effectof prohibiting the ability of any entity to providetelecommunications services. Now, it's common ground that section (a)preempts State laws that keep private firms from thetelecommunications market. The question presented iswhether the law also reaches into the structure of Stategovernment and invalidating even a State statute thatdeclines to grant the State's political subdivisions theauthority to provide telecommunications.In Gregory against Ashcroft, this Court heldthat Federal statutes should not be construed to intrudeon core areas of State sovereignty unless Congress hasmade its intent to do so clear. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Now, in our tradition, political subdivisionsare creatures of the State and they have the authority andonly the authority that the State has granted them. Underrespondents' interpretation, section (a) would be asharp and unprecedented break with that tradition becauseit would be a grant of power by the Federal Government topolitical subdivisions of powers that the State, which washitherto the sole source of their authority --QUESTION: I don't think that's right. Itwouldn't be a grant of power. It would be -- it wouldpreserve power granted by the State itself.MR. FELDMAN: Well, I don't -- I'm not even surewhether that's true. That actually goes into anotherdifficulty in construing the statute the way the court of appeals did. Some States create their politicalsubdivisions or some political subdivisions and say youhave only the authority that we have given you, and it'snot -- other States create political subdivisions and sayyou have any authority you want except --QUESTION: The only -- the only thing I questionis your statement that the statute itself is a grant ofpower to a local entity. It doesn't grant any power toanybody. The statute doesn't. MR. FELDMAN: Well, I think --QUESTION: It preserves power from being th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. preempted.MR. FELDMAN: Well, perhaps it's a question ofsemantics, but --QUESTION: It is. MR. FELDMAN: -- but -- but the -- but the --the issue here is that in Missouri political subdivisionsdo not have the authority to provide telecommunicationsservices. Under the court of appeals' ruling, the statutethat -- that reaches that result is preempted, andtherefore they do have that authority. In any event, thatwould be a sharp break with the tradition that because itwould be Congress specifying what the authority of apolitical subdivision is even when a State has chosen notto give it that authority. QUESTION: Is it your view that in all instanceswe must interpret this statute so that any entity -- thatphrase -- does not include a local subdivision of theState?MR. FELDMAN: Yes, because under the Gregoryrule, if you -- if the Court were to construe the statuteso that it did include political subdivisions, it would bea intrusion into State sovereignty.QUESTION: It would be under the circumstancesof this case. Are there other circumstances in which itwould not intrude on the right of the State to allocate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. powers between itself and the localities so that thisstatute -- so that this interpretation would have aneffect in some other instance?MR. FELDMAN: The other -- I can't imagine cases-- and I'm not aware that any have come up in the casesthat have addressed the -- the question presented here --where there are some other restriction that a State haspassed that has nothing to do with political subdivisions. And the question might arise whether a politicalsubdivision could challenge that -- that provision ofState law as well as a private party.And -- but, however, since the Court is in thebusiness here of construing the statute and the questionis what is the meaning of the word any entity, I think under the Gregory rule, that -- that term has to excludepolitical subdivisions. And if it excludes it here, Ithink it -- there's no --QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, do we need to apply theclear statement rule of Gregory v. Ashcroft for you toprevail?MR. FELDMAN: I think it's our understanding --it's our understanding that the rule would apply here. Iguess the rule applies for the reasons I've already given,which is this is an intrusion on State sovereignty. Ifthat were not the case, the question would be whether a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. general term like the term, any entity, is whether thatwould just naturally be construed to extend so far orwhether it wouldn't. QUESTION: Exactly.MR. FELDMAN: And I would say that it raises thequestion that I was -- the -- the problem that I wasreferring to before in responding to Justice Stevens,which is State -- the application of (a) would dependon the form in which a State chooses to give or not giveits power to its political subdivisions. If it was aState -- a home rule State where the cities have all thepowers except what's expressly denied them, then a Statethat tried to pull back the power to providetelecommunications -- that would be preempted. In anotherState --QUESTION: Are those home rule Statesestablished in that fashion by the State constitutions?MR. FELDMAN: I think so sometimes. QUESTION: In which case the language of section(a) which says no State or local statute or regulationor other State or local legal requirement may prohibit orhave the effect of prohibiting. I'm not sure that -- thatwould reach a constitutional question. MR. FELDMAN: It would at least be a difficultquestion to try to figure out whether there is still th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. something that prohibits or has the effect of prohibitingrather than something which just never granted theauthority before. You could consider a politicalsubdivision of a State that's a special purpose waterdistrict or fire prevention district that just doesn'thave the authority, was never intended to have theauthority, and nothing in State law suggests that itshould have the authority to provide telecommunications. It would be hard to find something that should bepreempted in that case.QUESTION: Suppose you didn't give that verybroad meaning to any entity, but you included Stateentities that had been in the business and were otherwiseauthorized by State law to go into this business and then the State changes its law and without having a section (b)requirement, because you have loads of power under section(b), so we assume the entity meets section (b)'s test, butit passes another law which says, by the way, themunicipality can't go into it. And previously they had. So -- so we're not -- we're -- we're talking about onlyentities that have proved themselves fit, willing, andable to offer the -- the -- to offer the business. MR. FELDMAN: I -- I don't --QUESTION: Now, why -- why would that not beincluded? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. FELDMAN: I -- I don't think it -- because I-- I think that there is -- it's very difficult to imaginethat Congress intended that the -- the scope of thisstatute should turn on the exact historical steps --QUESTION: No, no.MR. FELDMAN: -- that they once had or --QUESTION: But what we want -- we want -- wehave implicitly there and it would be necessary in theState case but not in the private entity case an entitythat is fit, willing, and able. And -- and an entity thatis fit, willing, and able can include a municipality. Sowhat this statute is after is the State passing a new lawchanging the status of an entity that was previously fit,willing, and able. MR. FELDMAN: But I guess what I was respondingto was it's not -- the -- the definition of what apolitical subdivision is fit, willing, and able to do issomething that -- it is a creature of State law. It'sdefined by State law, by the State laws that have --QUESTION: That -- that's correct, but it'sdefined by State regulatory law in respect to thoseentities at least that have previously offered thebusiness. MR. FELDMAN: I think there's actually very few-- before , I think there were very few -- and I'm not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. aware of examples. There may be a few in the amicusbriefs. There are very, very few entities in this countryof these political subdivisions that offeredtelecommunications services. This is a question that hasonly arisen --QUESTION: You see, in other words, but yourargument here is coming down to the difficulty of tryingto draw the distinction I'm suggesting.MR. FELDMAN: I think that -- I think part of myargument is the difficulty of drawing that distinction,but the most important part of it is that this is anintrusion into a State's understanding of its governmentand what it wants to do with its authority. And where aState --QUESTION: If the -- if the statute were clear,if it said public -- it said any entity, public or private-- but you're -- you're making an argument now that seemsto say no matter how clear this was, there would still bea vulnerability.MR. FELDMAN: No. I don't -- I don't think so. I think there would be interpretive problems that wouldarise in the statute if it had said -- specified anypublic -- any governmental entity or something like thatthat really would have clearly referred to States andpolitical subdivisions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, wouldn't -- wouldn't any --MR. FELDMAN: That would have been --QUESTION: -- any entity, public or private,wouldn't that do? MR. FELDMAN: I think it's likely that thatwould do. The problem here is that any entity is just thekind of general term without the -- the reference topublic or private or without specific references to Stategovernments and political subdivisions. It's just thekind of general term that this Court referred to in Raygorand said that where there's a clear statement rule, thatkind of general term is not sufficient to overcome it. And here, there's nothing in the statute that suggeststhat Congress thought about, considered, and intended to put into question the issue of State sovereignty thatwould be -- that -- the intrusion on State sovereigntythat would be raised by construing (a) the way thecourt of appeals did. Beyond the statute itself, in the legislativehistory there's -- there is a -- the committee reportrepeatedly refers to the private sector deployment ofadvanced telecommunications as what the bill is designedto achieve. Not only that, the floor debates -- they'recited in, I think, Southwestern Bell's reply brief -- showalso people consistently referring to the private sector th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. development of advanced telecommunications.QUESTION: May I ask you --QUESTION: Isn't it also the case --QUESTION: May I ask you this one more sort ofgeneral question? As I understand your theory, you readthe statute as an anti-monopoly statute. No State shallgrant any exclusive privilege. Isn't that -- you saythat's really what it does. And my question is if thatwere the purpose, why wouldn't they write it that way thatno State shall grant a monopoly or grant exclusiveprivilege?MR. FELDMAN: It actually is broader than that. There is another provision which says -- I don't rememberthe number -- which says that there can't be exclusive franchises. This is intended to get at laws not only thatwould by terms give an exclusive franchise or keep aparticular company out of the telecommunications business,but also that would have the effect of doing that byimposing high taxes on one category of -- of participantsrather than on another category. There -- there's the --in fact, in the Texas case that came before this, theFederal Communications Commission found a couple ofprovisions of Texas law preempted because they did justthat.And the statute was designed -- it is an anti- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. monopoly law, but it is a little bit broader than justgranting exclusive franchises. It's also favoring one --at one -- one company or one class of company or theincumbent telephone company over other new entrants intothe field.Respondents cite the -- Lead-Deadwood case asthe closest that they can come to this, and I'd just liketo point out that that case has a dramatically differentquestion than the one here. In that case, there was noquestion of the Federal Government giving authority tolocal -- to political subdivisions that the State itselfhad not -- had not given. That case would be much closerto this case if, for example, the State there had said wedon't want our political subdivisions to be providing education because we do that at the State level, and thenthe political subdivision had taken the Federal money thatwas at issue there and said we want to open up a localuniversity or something. At least that would havepresented the question that's presented here of anintrusion of that sort on State sovereignty, but thatwasn't before the Court there and therefore the Courtdidn't apply a clear statement rule.QUESTION: What is the United States' positionabout utilities, public utilities, electric companies?MR. FELDMAN: I'm not sure what you mean. If th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you mean by public utilities companies that are in thebusiness --QUESTION: To enter this business. MR. FELDMAN: Yes, they certainly can. Privately owned companies that are in the utilitybusiness --QUESTION: Suppose it -- suppose it's mixedownership, city and private.MR. FELDMAN: The Federal CommunicationsCommission's position is if, under State law, it's treatedas a private entity, the fact that stock, some or even allof the stock, is owned by the political subdivisionwouldn't be -- it would still be an entity. It would be-- if it's treated under State law as a private company. In this case, the FCC looked at Missouri law anddetermined, I think, correctly -- it hasn't beenchallenged here -- that this is simply a law that preventspolitical subdivisions as political subdivisions fromproviding telecommunications services, and therefore,since it's really operating on the political subdivisionitself and not on some other corporation, it's notpreempted.I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Feldman.Mr. Molteni, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RONALD MOLTENION BEHALF OF PETITIONER NIXONMR. MOLTENI: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court:The Eighth Circuit interprets entity to includepolitical subdivisions of the States, and that would meanthat Congress has -- it would have the effect of Congressgiving Missouri's political subdivisions authority thatthe -- the very State that created them has withheld. Andthat would intrude drastically on the structure of Stategovernment. A general language term like entity is too broadto meet the Gregory test because it doesn't clearly andunmistakably include State subdivisions. If -- if thegeneral term entity, without a contextual compass, as itappears in (a), satisfies the clear and unmistakabletest, then clear and unmistakable really has littlemeaning.But that standard is important to the Statesbecause it gives the States some notice and opportunity toreact to proposed legislation that may intrude on Statesovereignty, and it requires Congress to be clear in thewording that it uses and to demonstrate cognizance of theimpact of legislation on State sovereignty.QUESTION: Why isn't any entity clear? I mean, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. what --MR. MOLTENI: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: What do they have to say to make any-- any entity clear? Paren, and we really mean it?(Laughter.) QUESTION: Or it has to say any entitywhatsoever? Would that be clear?MR. MOLTENI: Justice Scalia, there are no magicwords, and we're not asserting that there are magic wordsthat need to be there. There has to be some terminologywithin the statute that -- that demonstrates that Congresswas cognizant it intended to intrude on State government. There are other instances -- and I think SouthwesternBell's brief does a nice job pointing out that entity is used -and-some times in various statutes. It's usedmultiple times even in the Telecommunications Act,oftentimes with a modifier, sometimes without, andoftentimes with a definition, and sometimes the definitionis one -- it includes just a business context, andsometimes the definition is one that includes governmentand public and State, private, political --QUESTION: But it's perfectly clear that thisstatute does intrude substantially on the -- on theState's ability to regulate. Just even if it just doeswhat you say, it's a significant impairment of the State's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ability to run its own affairs. MR. MOLTENI: It's a -- Justice Stevens, it's asignificant restriction on the State's ability to -- toimpact commerce.QUESTION: To regulate private companies.MR. MOLTENI: But this Court has held in theGregory v. Ashcroft case that Congress has to use morethan the general language. It has to be clear andunmistakable.And, Justice Stevens, in -- in the -- theLeadwood case that -- that Mr. Feldman brought up, your --the dissent that -- that you wrote affirms some of theprinciples that -- that we've cited in our brief regardingHunter and -- and the City of Trenton case that the States control the -- the creations that they have, that they'vemade, all their political subdivisions, and -- and that is-- is something that this Court has always honored.QUESTION: You're saying that it's one thing forthe Federal Government to supersede State regulationsubstantively, but another thing to say -- to tell theState not only do we do that, but we're going to changethe relationship you have with your local subdivisions.MR. MOLTENI: That's exactly right, Mr. ChiefJustice. That's exactly right.QUESTION: Suppose they -- they did -- is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. totally Ashcroft you're relying on? Gregory v. Ashcroft?The -- suppose you looked at the statute assaying it doesn't prohibit States from enacting all kindsof laws that have the effect of prohibiting people toenter the business. Tax laws, for example, might leavethem without money to do it. It's only talking aboutspecific laws aimed at saying you can't enter. And ifit's aimed at specific laws saying you can't enter thisbusiness, then couldn't you say where a State's entityotherwise would have the authority to enter, then theState cannot pass a law that says in those circumstancesyou cannot enter telecommunications such as municipalityas well as private company? Now, what's wrong with that interpretation? What I'm doing is I'm trying to deal with what I thoughtof myself and they confirm is the major objection thatthis can't be administered once we start down the path I'mjust starting down.MR. MOLTENI: Justice Breyer, I think it wouldcreate an anomalous situation where if a State's politicalsubdivisions had been providing telecommunications priorto , they would be treated differently under the --under (a).QUESTION: No, no. It would be -- the questionwould be whether they had the authority to do it. If they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. had the authority to do it, then the State -- what itcould not do is it could not pass a law which aims atprimarily -- aims at primarily their authority to entertelecommunications. They could do all kinds of otherthings including removing authority as long as it weregeneral, and then there would be middle cases where theauthority, you see, is --MR. MOLTENI: But I -- I still think, JusticeBreyer, that what that does is it make -- it divides theStates into two categories and makes the Federal statutetreat the States in two different ways so that if a Statehad granted authority prior to , the -- they -- theymay never -- that State is never allowed to change itsmind about --QUESTION: It's a one-way ratchet.MR. MOLTENI: -- about the scope of authoritythat it grants its own political subdivisions.QUESTION: I -- I suppose it would also allowStates to adopt a -- a system of chartering corporationswhich charters the corporations according to variouscategories, mining, manufacturing, and it just does nothappen to name the category of telecommunications. Andthat would not be touched by -- by this type of aninterpretation enabling the State to create a monopoly --well, to -- to exclude any -- any telecommunication th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. company.MR. MOLTENI: Justice Scalia, I believe that Iagree with you, although I think the more and more we talkabout what States authorize and don't authorize theirpolitical subdivisions do -- to do, the more and more thatbecomes really the -- a State issue and -- and really whatI -- what I would call an intramural issue that would --that would be a matter litigated between the States andtheir political subdivisions at the State court level. And what -- what I really think this case is about is anapplication of (a) that, because of the generallanguage that -- that Congress used, won't be presumed andcannot meet the clear and unmistakable standard in Gregoryto -- to allow or at least have the effect of -- ofCongress' intruding into the structure of Stategovernment. QUESTION: So suppose that a State says that nopolitical subdivision in this State shall have thetelecommunications facility that does interactivetelevision unless the carrier that it contracts with paysthe city a fee of $ million. Could the State do that?MR. MOLTENI: I believe --QUESTION: And you'd say -- in other words, it'sconditioning the ability of its subdivisions to engage inthis by demanding that it extract certain financial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. consideration, and suppose that this is prohibitive.MR. MOLTENI: If -- if the State were addressingthat in terms -- through the private sector, I don't thinkthere would be -- I'm not sure I understand exactly whereyour question is going, Justice Kennedy. But the -- could-- the State can't create barriers to entry to privatesector competitors.QUESTION: Well, suppose -- suppose --MR. MOLTENI: That's clearly preempted by theCommerce Clause and -- and it's prevented specifically by(a). And I think what -- what that derives from, ifone looks at the purpose of the Federal TelecommunicationsAct of and you look at the -- the history of what was going on, huge swatches of the country were providedservice by regional Bell operating companies and they weregranted the exclusive franchise in -- in areas. And thewhole purpose of the ' act was to accelerate privatesector deployment and -- and to -- to take these -- theseswatches of territory that regional Bell operatingcompanies maintained monopolies on and encourage privatesector deployment and people would come in and utilizeeither those -- the -- the facilities that -- that wereprovided -- that -- that exist that the regional Belloperating companies had or unbundle network elements or to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- to resell and -- and hopefully even the encouragementof -- of building their own facilities base.But that's all -- that all ends up being a redherring discussion in terms of the clear language of(a) because (a) uses those general terms.Now, the FCC's reading of entity won't barStates from entering commercial phone business throughtheir -- through their political subdivisions because theFCC's reading allows that States who want to go into thephone business -- they'll be able to do that. But Stateslike Missouri that want their political subdivisionsfocused on core missions will be able to make that choiceif this Court allows the FCC's reading.QUESTION: Do we know how many States allow their municipalities to enter this business? MR. MOLTENI: How many States allow their own --QUESTION: Yes. In other words, you're arguingfor a position it's up to the State. They can let themunicipalities enter or not if they choose. So in -- infact, what has happened across the country?MR. MOLTENI: Justice Ginsburg, I -- I do notknow that. I have not surveyed which States allow theirpolitical subdivisions to -- to enter the commercial phonebusiness and -- and which, like Missouri, have made thatchoice to have -- made the choice to have their -- their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. political subdivisions focus on their core missions.Another problem that's created with therespondents' reading of -- of entity is that it literallymeans the State cannot regulate itself, and that -- thatcreates an anomaly and -- and it doesn't make a lot oflinguistic sense or a lot of public policy sense.The clear and unmistakable standard requiresmore of Congress than this use of general language andwhere there is doubt, States are entitled to the benefitof that doubt.If the Court has no further questions, Missouriwould respectfully request that the Court reverse theEighth Circuit and preserve the ability of the State ofMissouri to determine the functions of its own political subdivisions.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Molteni.Mr. Strauss, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. STRAUSSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. STRAUSS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Our position in this case is straightforward andI can state it very simply. Gregory against Ashcroftapplies in circumstances where the statutory language isambiguous. The Court has said that three times, including th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in Gregory itself. And the language of (a), anyentity, is not ambiguous. It's not -- it's not as ifCongress had said, for example, any corporation, whichmight leave some doubt whether Congress meant only privatecorporations and not municipal corporations.QUESTION: But it doesn't mean any fish, forexample. I mean, there are a lot of things it doesn'tmean.MR. STRAUSS: I -- I wouldn't -- I wouldn't -- Iguess it doesn't mean any fish, Justice Breyer, but of the-- I think it has a very broad meaning. I think it meansany entity and --QUESTION: When you -- when you say the statutehas to be ambiguous, the Gregory rule as put forth in the opinion is that there has to be a clear statement coveringthe Federal -- Federal aspect of the thing. And it seemsto me that that cuts away from the idea it has to beambiguous.MR. STRAUSS: What the Court -- the Court saidin Gregory that the statute has to be ambiguous and itreiterated that in Salinas and more recently in Yeskey.QUESTION: It depends on what you mean by -- byambiguous. What -- what -- the -- the language in Gregorywas -- was employees, wasn't it?MR. STRAUSS: Well, the unambiguous language in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Gregory was employee. The ambiguous language was at thepolicymaking level. In Gregory itself -- it's a -- it'san important point, Justice Scalia. In Gregory itself,the Court thought it was unambiguous that employee, Stateemployee, included State judges. Now, it seems to melinguistically to say that State employee includes Statejudges is more of a stretch than saying any entityincludes local governments, but that's what --QUESTION: In your view does --QUESTION: Of course, you're -- you're intoState already. I mean, the -- the State versus non-Statewas not at issue in Gregory. It was just how far into theState you go. I mean, it -- the whole thing applied toState -- State employees, but not at the policymaking level.What about Atascadero? The -- the languagethere was any recipient of Federal assistance.MR. STRAUSS: Yes. Atascadero, Justice Scalia,I think the Court has applied a different, stronger, muchstronger, form of a clear statement rule in the Statesovereign immunity cases where it has required specificityin the Court's words.QUESTION: I think there are various levels of-- of clear statement rules.MR. STRAUSS: Well, I think the -- the best th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. illustration of that is the contrast between the Court'sdecision in Raygor and the Court's decision in Jinks whichhave the advantage of focusing on exactly the samestatutory language, any claim asserted in a supplementaljurisdiction statute. In Raygor, the issue was whetherthat language overrode State sovereign immunity, and theCourt said no. In Jinks, the question was whether thatlanguage overrode a State's decision to immunize itssubdivisions, and the Court said, yes, it did. The samelanguage.Jinks is the case like this. In fact, Jinks ismore of an intrusion because the Congress was taking awaya power that the State wanted to confer and the localitywanted to have, and the Court just very unanimously and with no difficulty said Congress can do that with thelanguage, any claim asserted. Raygor was a Statesovereign immunity question. The Court analyzed itdifferently.And I think that makes the point that the kindof rigor the Court expected in cases like Atascadero doesnot apply in Gregory cases. In Gregory cases, if it'sunambiguous, that's the end of the case.QUESTION: Does the word, any entity, cover theState itself?MR. STRAUSS: Yes, I think it covers the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. itself.QUESTION: So if the Governor is about to sign acontract to -- to allow the State to enter intocommunications facilities and the legislature instructshim not to, that statute is void?MR. STRAUSS: No, that statute is not void,Justice Kennedy. I think that statute -- analyticallythat situation is exactly the same as if a board ofdirectors of a private corporation decided not to go intothe telecommunications business and the CEO defied it. And the solution is the State can say under our neutralprinciples of corporate governance, the CEO can't do thatnot because the corporation is not an entity.QUESTION: Why don't neutral principles of corporate governance apply to the relations between theState and its subdivisions?MR. STRAUSS: They --QUESTION: Suppose there's a constitutionalprovision. MR. STRAUSS: They absolutely do if they aretruly neutral principles. If it's a provision of Statelaw that says, for example, subdivisions may not engage inany commercial activity and there's no argument thatthat's just a subterfuge to keep them out oftelecommunications, it's a truly neutral provision, States th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. can absolutely enforce that. QUESTION: But you say that it can't be madeprecise to telecommunications.MR. STRAUSS: That's right.QUESTION: That was my example in the Statehypothetical, in the first hypothetical. MR. STRAUSS: Well, the -- what's -- what'soperating there is the general rule that Governors have todo what the State legislature tells them to do.QUESTION: Well, here it was operating as ageneral rule that subdivisions have to do what the Statetells them to.MR. STRAUSS: Well, when this --QUESTION: I don't see why the general rule applies in one instance and not the other, given yourdefinition of entity.MR. STRAUSS: Because in the -- in the case likethis one, what the State has done is to enact a specific,targeted rule not competitively neutral -- that issue is,strictly speaking, not before the Court yet -- a targetedrule that keeps an entity out of the telecommunicationsbusiness. And a municipality is an entity in the same waythat a private firm is an entity. Congress' language wasany entity. That language is simply not --QUESTION: Yes, but Raygor had any entity too th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and we said that was not conclusive there.MR. STRAUSS: Raygor said any claim. That'sright. That's right, Mr. Chief Justice. But Raygor was acase decided in the shadow of State sovereign immunity. The Court said a constitutional doubt was created byprinciples of State sovereign immunity. As I -- as I said to Justice Scalia, Jinksinterpreted exactly the same language, any claim, to besufficient to allow Congress to deprive local governmentsof an immunity that States wanted to grant them.QUESTION: Well, that was not the onlydifference. QUESTION: No.QUESTION: I mean, there were other factors in Jinks besides -- besides just the language, any claim.QUESTION: And also the fact that sovereignimmunity had never extended -- a State Eleventh Amendmentimmunity had never -- had never been extended to counties.MR. STRAUSS: Well, that's of course right, Mr.Chief Justice. And in fact, that is the reason I want totake exception with the picture painted by petitionersthat what -- our position here would lead to somedramatic, unprecedented intrusion on State authority.It's actually quite familiar for Federal law tointerfere, quote/unquote, with the relations between State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and local governments. Section imposes liability onlocal governments. QUESTION: But those are all under theFourteenth Amendment where the Thirteenth -- FourteenthAmendment altered the Federal balance with reference tothose. That's not what's involved here.MR. STRAUSS: Well, I understand that theFourteenth Amendment has special significance for purposesof State sovereign immunity. I've never known the Courtto say that the Fourteenth Amendment has specialsignificance for purposes of Gregory against Ashcroft. Idon't -- I don't think that -- that is a -- a --QUESTION: If -- if for purposes of -- will youassume with me -- and I may be the only one who thinks this. But I think when you use words like any entity orthe word any, that there's an implicit scope, and since Ithink there's an implicit scope, I'm trying to define thatscope. So I don't want to -- I mean, it's not going tohelp me for you to say, well, it's clear because I don'tthink it's clear. But at that point, I now want to -- to find outwhether -- explore what you said that, well, if we didapply this to the States and their municipalities, all wewould really be doing is targeting laws. Now, I did my best to pose some questions along th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. those lines, but I was met with the answer which strikesme as a pretty good answer. There's just no way to dowhat you're suggesting. It's going to be a nightmare. Justice Scalia suggested one reason it was a nightmare. And I'd add that in the case of private companies, thisstatute is designed to give the private company the rightto enter or the right to quit. Once you apply it to amunicipal entity, it has the right to enter, but it couldnever quit. Now, that would be bizarre.MR. STRAUSS: No. QUESTION: So given the -- the sovereignimmunity -- you know, the sovereign -- all -- all thethings we've been talking about in general, given thedifficulty of drawing a line, which seems virtually impossible or very hard, and given the one-way ratchet Ijust described, it can't be that Congress intended toinclude municipal entities within the scope of the word,any entity. What -- what is your -- that's -- I'm tryingto get to the merits.MR. STRAUSS: Yes.QUESTION: What's your response to that?MR. STRAUSS: Yes. I don't agree that there's aone-way ratchet at all, Justice Breyer. I think the --the purpose of (a) is to eliminate barriers to entry. It's not to force anyone, private or governmental, to go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. into the telecommunications business or stay in thetelecommunications business. And if a -- if a localgovernment unit decides of its own accord to enter andthen decides of its own accord to leave, it is notprohibited anything.QUESTION: The State -- the State cannot tell itnot to enter.MR. STRAUSS: The State cannot tell it not toenter by a targeted, non-competitively neutral provision. QUESTION: I don't understand. Why does itmatter whether it's targeted or not? Suppose it listscounties can enter into the following commercialbusinesses. It lists seven or eight. It does not listtelecommunications. MR. STRAUSS: It -- the reason why it's targeted-- targeted is what I'm using to embrace the notion statedin (b) which preserves an enormous realm of regulatoryauthority to the States. States may enact competitivelyneutral regulations that satisfy certain other criteria. And that's an important part of this picture because ifyou had (a) in isolation, that would -- that wouldcertainly be draconian. That would certainly be a -- aremarkable --QUESTION: Well, what -- what's your answer tothe hypothetical I give you? Is that targeted or not? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. STRAUSS: Well, I think that would be -- ifit -- if it specified certain commercial activities butnot others, I think that would be a difficult question. The question would be is that a gerrymander --QUESTION: That's why I asked it. I mean --MR. STRAUSS: Well, the question -- the questionwould be a (b) question for the FTC in the first -- FCCin the first instance.QUESTION: Well, it had nothing to do withwhether it's competitively neutral. It's competitivelyneutral. Nobody can enter except these fields. I mean --MR. STRAUSS: If it -- if it were a gerrymanderdesigned to keep -- really just designed to keep entitiesout of telecommunications, it would be unacceptable. QUESTION: So we're going to have to get intoinquiring into whether State legislatures -- well, ofcourse -- of course, they didn't want it. It was designedto keep them out of telecommunications because it saidthese are the only fields you can get into.MR. STRAUSS: That's -- that --QUESTION: If your question is whether it wasdesigned to keep them out of telecommunications, theanswer is unquestionably yes.MR. STRAUSS: This -- I agree --QUESTION: But -- but if you say it's okay if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they not only keep them out of telecommunications, butthey keep them out of a lot of other stuff as well, doesthat make it okay?MR. STRAUSS: This is the question that wouldhave to come up when the FCC applied (b) to a public ora private entity --QUESTION: But why should we --MR. STRAUSS: -- public or private.QUESTION: Why should we interpret a statute inthat awkward way, that the FCC has to make this kind offactual inquiry in every case?MR. STRAUSS: I think the FCC is in thatbusiness with respect to private entities anyway. AState --QUESTION: What is the -- I don't evenunderstand what the factual inquiry is. What is it --MR. STRAUSS: Well, the inquiry --QUESTION: -- that the FCC would be looking for?MR. STRAUSS: The inquiry -- it's (b). Itsays States may enact measures that are competitivelyneutral and necessary to promote certain publicobjectives. That's a savings clause. It's not --QUESTION: So the FCC is going to decide what isnecessary to promote --MR. STRAUSS: That's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: -- Missouri's public objectives?MR. STRAUSS: That is the business -- that isunquestionably the business Congress put the FCC in withrespect to private entities. There is no disagreementabout that.QUESTION: I see the answer to that part, whichis you're saying they have to do it anyway, and Iunderstand that. Whether -- I'm not sure I agree, but Iunderstand it.What about the part that it's a one-way ratchet? And there I think that local governments unlike localprivate businesses act through regulation, at leastnormally. And so the statute talks about a requirement, alocal requirement or a local regulation, and therefore, a State, State A, that does not permit its municipalities togo into the business, then passes a statute that doespermit it, then the local council passes a regulation thatsays we'll do it, which is now a requirement, and wheneither tries to repeal either, they run right straightinto your -- to this statute forbidding it as youinterpret it. And now, that's why I say it's a one-wayratchet in respect to municipalities, but not a one-wayratchet in respect to private businesses. MR. STRAUSS: The reason it's not a one-wayratchet, Justice Breyer, I think turns on the word th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. prohibit. This isn't -- the statute (a) says State andlocal regulations that prohibit the entry. If -- if Idecide not to go skiing, I've not prohibited myself fromgoing skiing. I've simply made a decision not to dosomething. If a local government decides not to enter thetelecommunications business, it hasn't prohibited itself. It simply made a decision. QUESTION: But the State could not repeal thestatute.MR. STRAUSS: The State could not repeal thestatute unless it were part of a competitively neutralreorganization of local government or something like that. Then it could repeal it, but it couldn't enter a targetedrepeal of it without running afoul -- it seems to me without running afoul --QUESTION: Why -- why would Congress design sucha strange system where -- where the municipality can getin and then get out, but the State can't allow themunicipality to get in and then decide, no, we want toallow them to get out? MR. STRAUSS: I --QUESTION: It's just bizarre.MR. STRAUSS: I think it applies -- I think forthese purposes, municipal corporations and privatecorporations are simply on a par as, of course, they were th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for large parts of our history. That's why municipalitiesdon't have many immunities. And Congress, for thesepurposes, simply saw municipal corporations as anothersource -- implicitly saw -- and the words, any entity,implicit in that sense, in the -- in the ordinary meaningof those words -- saw them as another source ofcompetition.QUESTION: Just so I understand you, a State can-- can grant certain powers to municipalities, does nothave to grant them the power to enter into -- intotelecommunications activity. Right?MR. STRAUSS: Yes. Yes, that's right.QUESTION: It does not have to grant them thatpower.MR. STRAUSS: Well, the -- the restraint is thecompetitively neutral language which will ordinarily allowmunicipalities to say -- the States to say, look, here'swhat you can do and here's what you can't do --QUESTION: Right.MR. STRAUSS: -- provided they aren't acting ina way that is competitively non-neutral with respect totelecommunications.QUESTION: Right, but -- but once they have letthem get into telecommunications, it's -- it's only themunicipality that can decide to get out of it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. STRAUSS: No. The State could repeal theauthority if it does it, again, in a competitively neutralway. If a State decided, for example, to abolish allunits of local government or if a State decides to say,okay, we are assigning special functions to municipalgovernments. QUESTION: Okay, but -- but the municipalityitself can say we're going to get out oftelecommunications.MR. STRAUSS: Yes. QUESTION: The State cannot say no -- nomunicipality shall do telecommunications.MR. STRAUSS: That's right. The municipalitycan decide for itself because then it's not prohibiting anyone from doing anything. It's simply making adecision. QUESTION: Mr. Strauss, may I go back and ask avariant on Justice Breyer's question, assuming that thereis some implicit limitation on -- on the scope of anyentity? And it relates to what, if I have my factsstraight, is the -- is the drafting history in this case,and I'd like you to tell me whether I have got the factsstraight because I didn't look them up myself. I just gotthis out of the briefs. And if so, what you think thesignificance is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. As I understand it, at least the Senate versionof the original bill had a provision in it thataffirmative -- expressly provided that any existingutility, whatever its object of service, could go into thetelecommunications business. And this, as -- as you pointout at one point in your brief, this would be -- thiswould be good for your argument because a lot of thoseutilities are municipal utilities.As I understand it, in the -- in the conferencecommittee, that language was, in fact, removed entirely,and subsequent to its removal in the conference committeereport, there were references to any private entity beingable to go into the telecommunications business but notthe old, pre-conference committee references to -- to any -- any public as well as private entity.That suggests to me, the -- the combination ofthe drafting change and the conference committee report,that the implicit scope they were getting at was animplicit scope that says any entity is a reference toprivate, not public.What -- are my facts straight, and if so, what-- what's your response to that argument? MR. STRAUSS: Two points, Justice Souter. First, I think it is common ground that Congress didenvision utilities as among the any entities. And the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the likely reason Congress didn't spell that out was thatit was already included in the notion any entity, andCongress didn't want to begin spelling out specifics andrun --QUESTION: So you say the -- the excision was aredundancy excision.MR. STRAUSS: Yes, that's right. And I thinkthere is no dispute that not only that utilities are amongentities, but that Congress really saw utilities as aprimary source of -- of competition.QUESTION: Okay. The answer to that I think isin -- in part a response to something in your brief. Youmentioned that the original House and the original Senatereports were speaking, among others, expressly of -- of public entities. As I understand it -- and again, Ididn't look myself. I just got this from -- from one ofthe briefs. As I understand it, the conference committeereport -- after this excision, which is arguably just aredundancy excision, the conference committee reportstarted using the adjective private entities rather thanpublic entities as being subject to this kind of universalpreemption. Doesn't that nix the theory that it wasmerely a redundancy excision?MR. STRAUSS: The conference committee report, Ibelieve, Justice Souter, used the word private to describe th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. -- in describing the sort of competition it believed wouldbe brought about. That passage from the conferencecommittee report was then incorporated almost verbatim inthe preamble to the statute, but the word private was leftout when it was transferred to the statute so that theword private that does occur prominently in the conferencecommittee report -- I agree with that -- dropped out ofthe statute, which simply talks about encouragingcompetition.QUESTION: Okay. What we're left with, it seemsto me, is -- is at least -- maybe let's call it tensionbetween the conference committee report and the preamblelanguage which was then inserted. And isn't that aperfect situation to provide -- to -- to apply a Gregory kind of rule, saying when we're not sure what they meant,we want them to spell it out more clearly before weconclude that they, in effect, are -- are limiting the --the power of a -- of a State to determine what itsmunicipalities can do? Isn't this a good situation for aGregory rule?MR. STRAUSS: I think the ambiguity to whichGregory refers -- I mean, I don't think. I mean, I thinkit is clear the ambiguities to which Gregory refers isambiguity in the statutory language. QUESTION: I -- I think so too. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. STRAUSS: And --QUESTION: And -- and maybe what I'm saying iswe -- we ought to -- those of us who would look into the-- the legislative history, as I would, maybe ought totake advantage of a slightly broader Gregory rule.MR. STRAUSS: Well, the -- the case I think thatwould stand in the way more than any other perhaps --well, many would I think, but the clearest example I canthink of is Yeskey where the -- the question in Yeskeywhether the ADA, the Americans with Disabilities Act,applied to inmates of State prisons. The Court assumedthat prisons were special and that the Gregory ruleapplied to legislation that assertedly reached prisons.The Court also assumed that Congress never specifically contemplated that prison inmates would becovered, and it said, nonetheless, unanimously that if thelanguage -- the language is something like Stateinstrumentalities -- if the language included prisons,Gregory was satisfied.QUESTION: Isn't the difference, though -- and I-- I see your argument. But isn't the difference that inthat case we didn't have anything in the history either ofthe drafting or of the legislative consideration of thestatute that suggested that there really was an -- anargument each way as -- as to whether they -- they were -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they were intending to -- to cover the -- the prisoners. They simply didn't deal with -- with that situation atall, and they used absolute kind of -- of language. Here, there is an argument to be made becausethe drafting changed. The drafting certainly could havesignificance for -- for public utilities. There is atension between the -- the conference committee report andthe preamble. In other words, we've -- we've got a -- aquestion sort of affirmatively raised by the history ofthe drafting and enactment of the statute, whereas therewas simply silence in the Yeskey situation.MR. STRAUSS: Justice Souter, I guess thedifficulty I'd have with that approach in general would beit has to be common for there to be this sort ofuncertainty in legislative history with feints in acertain direction and withdrawals for reasons that aredifficult to -- to fathom.QUESTION: Well, I -- I grant you that, but when-- when the -- when the issue relates to the kind of Statesovereignty issue that -- that Gregory addresses, that's agood reason for having a Gregory rule.MR. STRAUSS: Well, but as to the legislativehistory, I think that sort of uncertainty is going to beeasy to generate, and what we do have here -- in additionto any entity, what we do have here, not just in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. legislative history, but on the face of the statute, is,as I said, agreement I think all around that utilities areprominent among the entities that Congress envisioned. Ithink that's completely clear.QUESTION: But would you also say that thelegislative history makes it pretty clear that there's adistinction in meaning between the term private entity onthe one hand and the term entity on the other hand, andthe statute used the term entity?MR. STRAUSS: Well, that's true, JusticeStevens. Of course, they could have said private entityhad they meant that. That's not -- I mean, our argumentis any entity means any entity.QUESTION: So what does -- what does --QUESTION: Is there any argument for putting --leaving this up to the commission? That is, can it bedone? Because I can see a complex interpretation that maybe workable that you're suggesting and may be helpfulcompetitively, frankly. And I also can see some goodarguments against, assuming Congress intended that complexinterpretation. But under those circumstances, maybeCongress purposely leaves it somewhat ambiguous permittingthe commission to go one way or the other, and althoughyou've lost it in the commission so far, maybe in thefuture, the commission would say, well, we think we want th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to Chevronize this, in other words. MR. STRAUSS: Well, I think -- I think that --QUESTION: What do you think about that?MR. STRAUSS: I think that is the schemealthough not under (a). What the commission -- we knowthe commission's views with unusual clarity here. Whatthe commission said is we think we've got to say thestatute is not preempted.But as far as the purposes of the -- of the actgo, this is a terrible State law. All the purposes theState wants to be accomplished can be accomplished in lessrestrictive ways. The commission has said that over andover again as emphatically as it can.And the way to Chevronize, Justice Breyer, to use your term, is by saying that these -- thatmunicipalities are entities, but that these admittedlysomewhat difficult issues about what special problems domunicipalities pose, those should be handled under (b),which is what Congress had in mind. That's -- of course,the States can enact laws so that there can be licensingrequirements and basic fitness requirements and variouskinds of regulation --QUESTION: You say -- you say that that's -- I-- I could -- I could understand that there's no ambiguityif you simply say any entity means any entity. But -- but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to say that the statute -- but you're not willing to saythat it says that. You're not willing to say that -- thatthe State cannot prohibit its -- its counties fromentering into commercial activities. That would certainlyhave the effect, which is all this requires -- have theeffect of prohibiting the ability of counties to provideinterstate or intrastate -- you're not willing to saythat. You -- you insist that we derive this very subtledistinction between the State initially granting it andthen taking it away or the county taking it away itself. I don't think that that is unambiguously within thestatute at all.What's -- what the unambiguous choices are arethat the States are not included or that the States areincluded, and that means that -- that the States cannotexclude counties or, for that matter, even departments ofthe State government itself from entering into thetelecommunications business. That would be unambiguous. But if you're not willing to embrace that, it seems to meyou are arguing that the statute is ambiguous.MR. STRAUSS: As -- as to (a), JusticeScalia, I am absolutely embracing that. I am absolutelyembracing the notion -- and maybe I disagree with JusticeBreyer about this -- that any entity means any entity, andI will go down the line with that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The reason that doesn't lead to absurd resultslike the maverick Governor entering the telecommunicationsbusiness against the will of the legislature is because of(b). Now, (b) is filled with ambiguities andcomplexities and -- and problems that the commission willhave to take the first crack at. QUESTION: -- impact upon (a). You -- you can'tuse (b) to explain (a) and then say, oh, yes, (b) isambiguous.MR. STRAUSS: I --QUESTION: If you're using an ambiguous (b) toexplain (a), (a) itself is ambiguous. MR. STRAUSS: (b) does not explain (a). (a) hasa very -- I agree with you, Justice Scalia. It has a veryclear meaning. Any entity means any entity, and if -- it-- it would trivialize Gregory to say that Congress has tosay, and we mean any entity whatsoever. Congress has tocome up with a -- a definition. Any entity means anyentity.In answer to the charge that that producesabsurd results, I say no. Congress left a broad scope forState regulation, broad enough not only to deal withabsurdities, but broad enough so that these claims aboutincursions on State sovereignty are, I think, grosslyoverstated. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I mean, let me draw the comparison to Gregorydirectly. In Gregory, Congress passed an anti-discrimination law, an age discrimination law. The claimwas that that law required States to give their judges --their judges life tenure, a major structural issue. Andthe Court said, well, if they had stopped at employees,maybe they would be giving judges life tenure, but theysaid employees at the policymaking level and that's justtoo ambiguous for us to think Congress was doing such adramatic thing to the structure of State government. This is nothing like that. This -- this statutesimply says that among the universe of entrants that wewant in this robust, wide-open, newly competitive field oftelecommunications, if municipal corporations, true to their roots as corporations, want to get into thisbusiness, the States can't keep them out except if they'redoing the kinds of regulation that States can reasonablydo to private and public corporations alike. That seemsto me not only a coherent reading of the statute, not onlyone that is consistent with what everyone agrees is thevery dramatic pro-competitive turn that the Telecommunications Act took, but also one that really isnot a significant incursion on State sovereignty,certainly not an unprecedented incursion on Statesovereignty. When decisions of this Court have held th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. municipalities liable under the antitrust laws,notwithstanding State efforts to immunize them, liable fordamages, notwithstanding States' efforts to immunize them,have withdrawn from municipal governments States' effortsto grant them sovereign immunity against State claims inthe State court, Congress --QUESTION: It has nothing to do with theirauthorities, all of those instances you mentioned. It hasnothing to do with their authority. MR. STRAUSS: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. Withtheir? QUESTION: Authority under State law.MR. STRAUSS: Well, it has to in a sense -- Iagree with you, Justice Scalia, it doesn't. In a sense,those are more intrusive because what we have here arelocal government bodies who say we want to do this inorder to serve the needs of our citizens. We don't have asituation in which Congress is thwarting the will of boththe States and the localities. We have a situation inwhich localities want to do this, in some casesdesperately want to do this, believe that Congress, whenit said any entity shall be free from barriers, believethat Congress gave them the power to do it, subject ofcourse to reasonable regulation by the State, only to findthat Gregory against Ashcroft, the decision that is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. supposedly designed to ensure that decisions -- thatgovernment decisions are made at a level responsive to thepeople -- Gregory against Ashcroft is thrown up as anobstacle to their doing what they think is needed to servetheir citizens' interests. And given what seems to me to be the unambiguouslanguage of section (a) and the very limitedcircumscribed focused nature of what Congress has done inthis circumstance, it seems to me to be an unwarrantedconclusion for the -- for the commission to reach.If the Court has no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Strauss. MR. STRAUSS: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL PETITIONERSMR. FELDMAN: I'd like to contrast this casewith the Yeskey case, which came up during Mr. Strauss'argument. In the Yeskey case, the Americans withDisabilities Act referred to public entities, I think, andthen it defined them as including any department of theState. Once -- that meant that in that act, Congress hadspecifically considered that it was going to intrudedeeply, as Justice Scalia said, in State government, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it had made the decisions of how to do it and the whole --in fact, title II of the act is designed to -- to tailorthat, exactly how Congress wanted to.In this statute, there's no indication thatCongress crossed that initial dividing line and wanted --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Strauss points tosubsection (b) of the statute as indicating Congress didcontemplate giving some leeway.MR. FELDMAN: Yes, Congress did contemplategiving some leeway to the States when it was competitivelyneutral, but the question of what competitive neutralitymeans in this context is not an easy one. And -- and I'd like to add that if Congress hadhad to take the -- do what it did in Yeskey and -- and decide yes, we do want this to apply to the States, itmight have occurred to Congress that they were going tohave to think about exactly what that means, applying astatute like this to State governments that grant theirpolitical subdivisions different kinds of powers indifferent kinds of ways. Congress didn't -- never madethat first choice that it consciously wanted to intrude onState -- State sovereignty the way the Eighth Circuitheld, and therefore it never answered those otherquestions. QUESTION: What is the rationale for saying a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. municipal utility, a wholly owned electric company, whollyowned by the city, that's okay? That doesn't matter --the State can't stop that from going into thetelecommunications, but it can stop the municipalcorporation.MR. FELDMAN: Well, I mean, that isn't at issuein this case, but the FCC's rationale is that insofar asunder State law you have a thing that is treated just likea private corporation, it's -- it's an entity. That'sexactly who Congress was clearly and directly and mostimportantly targeting this law at. It's -- it's where the-- if it's a municipally owned utility that is reallytreated like the political subdivision of the State, asthey are in Missouri, then that would be different because that would raise these other questions, and Congress hadnever made the decision that it wants to intrude on --really in an unprecedented way, on the authority of thepolitical subdivisions. States decide to give --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Feldman.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 