 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLINDA FREW, ON BEHALF OF HER :DAUGHTER, CARLA FREW, ET AL., :Petitioners :v. : No. -ALBERT HAWKINS, COMMISSIONER, :TEXAS HEALTH AND HUMAN :SERVICES COMMISSION, ET AL., :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m.APPEARANCES:SUSAN F. ZINN, ESQ., San Antonio, Texas; on behalf of thePetitioners.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners. R. EDWARD CRUZ, ESQ., Austin, Texas; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN F. ZINN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners R. EDWARD CRUZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSUSAN F. ZINN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Linda Frew v. Albert Hawkins.Ms. Zinn.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN F. ZINNON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. ZINN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court:Sovereign immunity should not bar enforcement ofthe consent decree in this case for two reasons. First, when State officials ask a district courtto enter a consent decree, they submit their rightsconcerning the decree for judicial determination, thereby waiving any possible claim for objection on the basis ofimmunity.Second, the decree in this case providesprospective relief to protect the supremacy of Federallaw, exactly as envisioned by Ex Parte Young.QUESTION: May I ask on -- on the first point? You say when State officials submit to -- to a decree. It's -- it's immaterial, as far as you're concerned,whether the State Attorney General defended the -- thesuit or represented these officials. Is that right?MS. ZINN: No, it's not immaterial. The -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Texas' Attorney General is authorized by the legislatureto represent the State and its employees --QUESTION: No. I understand that, but supposehe hadn't been and suppose it is just the State officialswho appeared in an Ex Parte Young suit. They're --they're sued. There's no other State official who takespart in the proceedings. Nonetheless, they enter into aconsent decree. Is it your submission that even withoutany other participation by anybody else in the State, thatconsent decree binds not just them, but I gather you sayfuture officials in -- in their offices? Right?MS. ZINN: Unrepresented by the State AttorneyGeneral.QUESTION: Unrepresented. You would --QUESTION: Well, but wouldn't -- wouldn't therebe a question of fact in that case? I mean, it would beodd, I -- I would suppose not to have the State AttorneyGeneral there, and -- and wouldn't the -- if I were atrial judge, I'd say, well, is this the State that issubmitting this -- this settlement? I mean, wouldn't --wouldn't there be, theoretically at least, a fact questionin Justice Scalia's circumstances? MS. ZINN: Fact and a matter of law, Your Honor. The question under this Court's decision recently inLapides would be whether those officials are authorized to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY represent the State in court, even absent their attorney. That would be so unusual in Texas I can't imagine it evenhappening, but --QUESTION: No, but that -- but that's a waivertheory. I mean, if you're proceeding on a waiver theory,you -- you need the State there. But let's assume you're not proceeding on thewaiver theory. You have the second ground, which is justif you have authority to enter the decree, you haveauthority to enforce the decree. Now, for purpose of thatargument, does it make any difference to you whether theState Attorney General is there or whether these officialshave the power to represent the State?MS. ZINN: Under our second argument, our position is that since the decree is a remedy ordered in avalid Ex Parte Young case, it provides prospective reliefonly from alleged ongoing violations of Federal law. The-- the remedy is proper.QUESTION: And therefore it's consistent withthe Eleventh Amendment without any waiver.MS. ZINN: Correct. The Eleventh Amendment isnot engaged for that -- for that --QUESTION: Can you tell us how it worked? Therepresentative of the Attorney General was in court and hestands up and he says, we insist on sovereign immunity, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY and the judge say, all right, that's act one. It'sclosed. And then did the same officials stay and theysay, well, now we're here on the Eleventh Amendment? Imean, how -- how did this work? And --MS. ZINN: In -- in this case --QUESTION: And let -- let me just say alsothere's no excerpt of record or docket entry. The onlything I have is the consent decree. Was there any ordersaying the consent decree dated so and so is herebyentered as the judgment of the court? I mean, can I findthat anywhere?MS. ZINN: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the lodginghas the -- as its last page, the order to correct theconsent decree which states that the -- the order was --the unopposed motion to -- to correct the consent decreehas merit and should be granted. The decree was enteredas the court's order in February of .QUESTION: And --QUESTION: There was no separate order. It wasjust this consent decree that's in the lodging. That's --MS. ZINN: That's correct. QUESTION: -- that's it.MS. ZINN: That's correct. QUESTION: Okay. Now maybe we can go back andyou can tell me who the -- was there an act one and an act th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY two, act one being the State asserts immunity, act twobeing the Eleventh Amendment, or -- or were the sameparties before the court at all times?MS. ZINN: The same parties --QUESTION: Wearing different -- wearingdifferent hats or proceeding under some different theory.MS. ZINN: The same parties were before theCourt for the entire case with the exception of two Stateagencies which were dismissed early on.QUESTION: Right. QUESTION: That's the puzzle in this case. TheState as State was dismissed at the threshold, and then wehave an Ex Parte Young case. And now we're talking aboutEleventh Amendment immunity again. So the State is out ofthe case. It's proceeding as an Ex Parte Young case. Howdid it then become converted back into a case against theState so that we're talking about whether the State waivedits immunity?MS. ZINN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. Our position,as well recognized apparently, is that this is an Ex ParteYoung case. However, the State officials in theirbriefing have urged that that is not correct and that this-- this, at least in part, is not a valid order under ExParte Young.QUESTION: The State, if -- if I remember th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY correctly, came before the judge and urged the approval ofthis consent decree.MS. ZINN: Correct. QUESTION: Did it not? And there were -- therewere several representatives of the State who sotestified.MS. ZINN: Correct, and they were unanimous. The -- all of the State officials and their lawyer wereunanimous in requesting the district court to enter theconsent decree.QUESTION: That -- that's your waiver. That'sthe waiver side of your argument. MS. ZINN: Correct. QUESTION: I frankly am reluctant to -- to decide the case on that ground if another ground isavailable simply because that would require a case-by-caseinvestigation as to -- to what extent the participation by-- by other State officials existed, whether they wereauthorized to participate and so forth and so on. Whereas, your other ground doesn't require that -- thatcase-by-case investigation, and wouldn't that be a -- amuch clearer line to -- to establish?MS. ZINN: In our -- in our view both positionsare clear in this case. The -- the --QUESTION: You have to make sure that the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Attorney General was authorized to represent the State inthis case or whatever other official you say committed thewaiver. That would -- that would be a factualinvestigation in every case, wouldn't it?MS. ZINN: No. In Lapides, it appeared to -- tobe a question of law. The issue --QUESTION: No, but Justice Scalia's questiondidn't go to waiver. It went to representation. AndLapides says, if you can represent, you can waive. Butthere would be a question of representation, wouldn'tthere?MS. ZINN: But in Lapides, it appeared to methat that was resolved fairly simply based on theapplication of Federal law to the State --QUESTION: Once -- once it was understood thathe could represent. MS. ZINN: Yes, which was determined by anexamination of the State statutes involved. And the Texaslaw on that point is almost word for word the same as the-- the Georgia constitutional provisions --QUESTION: Oh, sure. Easy. I mean, I'm -- I'mnot saying that this would be a difficult case, but youwould have to, I suppose, make that inquiry.MS. ZINN: But --QUESTION: This case might not be difficult, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY I -- I don't like going rummaging around in State law. Ifind Federal law hard enough. (Laughter.) MS. ZINN: I do too, Your Honor. QUESTION: Ms. Zinn, I thought that you said inresponse to my question that this -- this waiver -- that'snot your preferred ground. You said you're arguing itbecause the State insisted that this was EleventhAmendment and it wasn't waived. But your -- you broughtan Ex Parte Young suit. You've got a consent decree underthat heading, and -- and that argument, if it prevails,would be -- one would not need to reach the question ofthe Eleventh Amendment in the --.MS. ZINN: That's correct. The -- one way to look at this is that given the Texas Attorney General'sargument that this is not an Ex Parte Young case, not avalid order under Ex Parte Young, to the extent that theCourt agrees with that, those points have been waivedbecause by asking the district court to enter the consentdecree, the State officials submitted their rightsconcerning the decree for judicial determination. And bydoing that --QUESTION: Let's put -- put it this way. Areyou saying that if the State officials negotiate a consentdecree that goes beyond the Eleventh Amendment -- or that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY goes beyond -- pardon me -- that goes beyond Ex ParteYoung's --MS. ZINN: Yes.QUESTION: -- rules, that then there must be awaiver?MS. ZINN: No.QUESTION: All right. How can they do thatwithout a waiver?MS. ZINN: Well --QUESTION: Especially if they've asserted theirimmunity at the beginning.MS. ZINN: Because under this Court'straditional rules concerning equitable decrees, even adisputed injunction need not be specifically tied to the provisions of law for the --QUESTION: So you want us to write an opinionthat says after the State has specifically asserted itsEleventh Amendment immunity, its officials may negotiate aconsent decree which goes beyond the boundaries ofjurisdiction set forth in -- in Ex Parte Young withoutwaiver.MS. ZINN: The question of the scope of remedyis a different question from the Eleventh Amendment/ExParte Young question. The Ex Parte Young question is ajurisdictional question, but the question of the scope of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY proper remedy --QUESTION: Well -- well, you introduced thepoint of remedy. That wasn't part of my question. My --my question was whether or not, having asserted theimmunity in a -- in -- under the assumption that theimmunity has not been waived, the State officials cannegotiate a consent decree that goes beyond the usualrules of Ex Parte Young, it goes beyond the authoritygranted to the courts under Ex Parte Young, withoutrelying on the theory of waiver.MS. ZINN: For example, damages? Would that fitwithin your hypothetical? Because in that case withoutwaiver, no.QUESTION: You -- you really can't tell until the decree is entered whether or not it complies with ExParte Young, I would think, because it isn't necessarilyfought out on the -- in the -- in the trial of the caseexactly what the remedy will be.MS. ZINN: The -- the validity of consent decreeshould be -- as in an Ex Parte Young case, should bemeasured under this -- this Court's decisions, forexample, in Milliken and Rufo. Milliken says that theremedy must tend to or to remedy the violation proven. And Rufo says that when you have a consent decree, it mayaim even higher than that. Because in the course of -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: But maybe -- maybe there should be aspecial rule for Ex Parte Young cases. In the ordinarycase, going beyond the mere violation does not offend anyother provision of the Constitution, but the argument hereis, oh, once you go beyond holding the officer tocompliance with Federal law, once you go beyond that,you're out of Ex Parte Young and you're moving against theState and the Eleventh Amendment is a bar. So maybethere's a special rule with regard to remediation in -- inEx Parte Young cases.MS. ZINN: Milliken involved a State official,and it's one of the key cases about the scope of disputedinjunctions. And it says that remedial orders may gobeyond the exact scope, the precise scope of the violation at issue.QUESTION: Is this outside of Ex Parte Young? I-- I mean, the way I was thinking about it, which mightnot be right, is that what you were saying in the secondpart of your argument is that Ex Parte Young permits,without the consent of a State, an individual to sue aState official in his official capacity, asking for aninjunction on the ground that the official has violatedFederal law. That's what Ex Parte Young says.MS. ZINN: Correct. QUESTION: And now you get that injunction, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that injunction contains provisions that aren't all aboutFederal law. Some of them are about related State law. And I thought perhaps the way to look at it was, and thatinjunction does not violate the Eighth -- the EleventhAmendment. You don't need a State to give consent becauseit's all part of an effort to cure the Federal violationwith related matters thrown in.MS. ZINN: Correct.QUESTION: Ex Parte Young authorizes such athing.MS. ZINN: Correct. QUESTION: Now, is that last statement right?MS. ZINN: Yes.QUESTION: So then it's not outside Ex ParteYoung. You're giving us an interpretation of what ExParte Young means.MS. ZINN: Yes. QUESTION: And what is your authority for sayingthat Ex Parte Young validates the going beyond the Federalissues involved? You mentioned Milliken. Is that -- isthat authority for that?MS. ZINN: Milliken. Hutto v. Finney would beanother example. A district court need not sit back andhope that the State officials will comply with its properremedial order. It can enforce that order. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, I'm not talking so much aboutenforcement as about entering it in the first placeconsistently with Ex Parte Young.MS. ZINN: Well, this Court's decision inFirefighters generally sets out standards for entry of aconsent decree, and a decree is properly entered, as thisone was found to be, if it furthers -- if it serves toresolve a dispute within the court's subject matterjurisdiction, which is the case here -- this is a Federalquestion about the Medicaid Act -- if it is generallywithin the scope of the pleadings, which is true in thiscase, and if the remedy in the decree serves to furtherthe objectives of the -- in this case, the Medicaid Act,which is true about all of the provisions of the decree in this case.QUESTION: So you're really saying that itdoesn't go beyond Ex Parte Young. I mean, the -- thepremises of some of the arguments here that it does gobeyond it, in your judgment, is -- is in fact a falsepremise.MS. ZINN: That's correct. Our position is thatthe district court could have entered this -- this decreeas a disputed injunction if the State officials had notdecided to consent.QUESTION: When you had -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Would you help -- excuse me. May Iask one more question? Would you help me on one thing? Myunderstanding was -- and I -- I may simply be wrong onthis. My understanding was that the claim that this wentbeyond Young was not a claim that it -- it mandated Statelaw -- or mandated the performance of State lawobligations, but that it went further than it had to toenjoin the Federal violation by getting into details aboutwhat the State officers had to do or had to refrain fromdo -- from doing. Am I correct that it's -- it's not --the claim is not that it got into State law but that itsimply went beyond the scope of a proper remedial orderunder the Federal law? Is that correct?MS. ZINN: Well, I'd hate to put words into Mr.Cruz's mouth.QUESTION: I know. I should be asking --MS. ZINN: But I believe that is part of theirclaim. QUESTION: Okay.MS. ZINN: May I reserve the rest of my time?QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Zinn.Mr. Gornstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEIN,ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Enforcement of the decree in this case does notviolate the Eleventh Amendment for two reasons. First,any Eleventh Amendment objection was waived, and second,enforcement is permissible under Ex Parte Young.Now, the waiver issue arises in this casebecause the State officials are arguing that the relief inthe consent decree that is directed to them violates theEleventh Amendment, and it is that Eleventh Amendmentobjection that those same officials, together with theAttorney General, waived when they asked the districtcourt to enter the very relief that they are now objecting to on Eleventh Amendment grounds. And the reason that there is waiver is thatunder this Court's cases, when the Attorney General on the-- of the State on behalf of the State invokes a Federalcourt's jurisdiction, Eleventh Amendment immunity iswaived. Now, when the Attorney General in this caseentered into a consent decree on behalf of State officialsin their official capacity and then asked the districtcourt to enter that decree, he clearly invoked thatcourt's jurisdiction and waived any Eleventh Amendmentobjection to the entry of that judgment against those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY State officials.QUESTION: Suppose the Attorney General had notbeen involved and simply the State officials on their ownentered into this consent decree.MR. GORNSTEIN: First of all, you would have thequestion of waiver, and that is answered by the inquirythat Lapides and other waiver cases have -- haveinstructed, which is do those -- are those officialsauthorized by State law to conduct litigation on behalf ofthe State.QUESTION: So that would be a factual inquiry inevery case whether the particular official --MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, I would say -- I would sayit's a legal question --QUESTION: I understand. MR. GORNSTEIN: -- that typically in almostevery State, Justice Scalia, it would be the AttorneyGeneral who is authorized to represent the State inlitigation. QUESTION: Well, Justice Scalia can preserve hisown hypothetical. MR. GORNSTEIN: Right. QUESTION: But suppose that there was -- thatthe officials did not have the authority to waive theEleventh Amendment, but they did enter into a consent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY decree.MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes. Then you get to the secondargument in this case which is an Ex Parte Young argument,and the Ex Parte Young issue is that the consent decree inthis case is permissible under Ex Parte Young because itprovides prospective relief against State officials basedon the Federal Medicaid statute. And those are the threerequirements of an Ex Parte Young suit, that it be --QUESTION: This -- this carries you so farbeyond the theory of Ex Parte Young, and the theory of ExParte Young is you're not impinging upon State sovereignimmunity when you are simply requiring State officials toadhere to State law. They are acting ultra vires whenthey're -- when they're violating Federal law, and therefore, you're not impinging upon the State's sovereignimmunity.But now with the theory that you're expounding,you're not only holding them to compliance with Federallaw, but you're saying even when you're not acting ultravires, when you have a lot of perfectly legal options ofhow to comply with Federal law, you will -- you willchoose this option. And that -- that is, it seems to me,impinging upon State sovereign immunity in -- in a waythat -- that the mere theory of Ex Parte Young does notjustify. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. GORNSTEIN: In an Ex Parte Young action,State officials like all other Federal litigants are freeto enter into consent decrees that go beyond what isstrictly required by Federal law on one or more issuesbecause there is a tradeoff. They then get less relief orno relief on other issues that they may care about. Sothis is a system that benefits Federal court litigantsgenerally, and it is also one that benefits the State andits State officials.QUESTION: I'm not worried about the officials. Yes, the officials get a good deal. They -- they get ofthe suit. They get a -- a decree. But what about theState who on our -- on our current hypothesis, the Stateis out of the proceeding. The Attorney General is not there and here are these State officers who are givingaway a whole lot of -- of options that the State has, andthey're -- they're saying, yes, bind the State even thoughthe suit is just against me.MR. GORNSTEIN: First of all, we -- we presume-- this Court presumes that State officials, when they actin their official capacity, are acting in good faith toimplement the best interests of the State. Second of all, the State does benefit when itsofficials can enter into decrees that --QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, is -- is taking the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Attorney General out of it kind of a hypotheticalquestion? Do you know of any institutional decree,whether it involves schools, prisons, the Medicaid programwhich the State Attorney General isn't there?MR. GORNSTEIN: I don't know of any such case,and as I was telling Justice Scalia before, all theCourt's waiver cases up until now have been ones in whichthe Attorney General has represented the State and haswaived the -- has -- has been authorized by the State torepresent the State's interests in litigation. QUESTION: Might be improper for -- for the --for the trial court to go beyond strict compliance withFederal law, to -- to approve a consent decree that goesbeyond that without the presence of the -- I mean, maybe waiver is a necessary concomitant of -- of the theory ofEx Parte Young that you're giving us.MR. GORNSTEIN: No, I don't think it -- it is anecessary -- waiver is not a necessary concomitant becauseit is a component of an Ex Parte Young case. This Courtsaid, for example, in the Rufo case that State -- it hadno doubt that State and local officials, in order toresolve litigation, could agree to relief that goes beyondwhat's required by Federal law.QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, I want to clarify whatyou mean in your argument when you say go beyond. There th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY are -- and here are two possibilities. One, you throw in an entirely new obligation,and you say, you know, by the way, we'll -- we'll alsoagree to a program of pediatric podiatry, which isn'tcovered by the statute. We'll do that too just to showyou how good our faith is.A second possibility is we'll show you how wewill implement our agreement to abide by what weunderstand to be Federal law. We will throw in a how-to-do-it or a how-we-are-going-to-do-it clause. I understand your argument, when you refer togoing beyond the letter of Federal law and agreeing tothat in a settlement, to refer to a how-to-do-it kind ofagreement as opposed to a new substantive obligation agreement. I assume. Is that correct?MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes, but let -- let me explainfurther.QUESTION: I guess my question is --MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes. QUESTION: -- why do you acquiesce in thisphrase, going beyond Ex Parte Young? Have you ever --MR. GORNSTEIN: No, I --QUESTION: Has anybody seen a consent decreethat simply said, we'll obey the law?MR. GORNSTEIN: No. I didn't say it went beyond th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Ex Parte Young. I said it went beyond what was strictlyrequired by Federal law. And as this Court said in theRufo case, every Federal court remedial order that'sentered by a Federal court goes beyond what's strictlyrequired by Federal law.QUESTION: That's all --MR. GORNSTEIN: And Milliken permits that aslong as it's aimed at remedying a violation. But there's one step beyond Milliken here, andthat Rufo says that you can even agree to relief that goesbeyond what a court would order after a trial as long asthe relief furthers the objectives of the underlying lawbecause there you are operating with the consent of theState officials in -- in selecting that relief. QUESTION: You should have given a differentanswer to Justice Souter then because certainly pediatricpodiatry would further the objectives of the law toprovide the medical care to -- to children. MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, at some point it has toresolve a bona fide dispute within the subject matterjurisdiction of the court as well, and if there's noarguable violation of Federal law that the relief relatesto, then it falls outside of what a court should enter asa decree under Rufo.QUESTION: Well, you really haven't saved us a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY whole lot of trouble then. I -- I frankly thought thatone of the attractive features of your position was thatonce you have an order, that's the end of it. You don'thave to try the order when -- when you seek enforcement toparse out which parts of it go too far and which partsdon't go too far. You tell me there are some -- some thatcan go too far. We have to look to whether this ispediatric podiatry or -- or not.MR. GORNSTEIN: In general, once a decree hasbeen entered, there's no objection that can be made at theenforcement stage other than subject matter jurisdiction. But subject matter jurisdiction would include an inquiryinto whether what was at issue in the case was -- if itwas an arguable Federal claim or sought to further the objectives underlying an arguable Federal claim. That'sgoing to be rare that it won't do that, but if it doesn'tdo that, the State has a right to object to that onsubject matter jurisdiction grounds. By the way, the State also has the right alwaysto move for modification of provisions under this Court'sdecision in Rufo that are not arguably related to -- thatare not related to any arguable violation of Federal law. If it's just a frivolous underpinning to the suit, the --the State could always move for modification and get thatprovision eliminated under Rufo. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: The Attorney General was involved inthe case in Rufo. You said in all of the cases that youknow --MR. GORNSTEIN: No, no. I -- no. Rufo itselfwas a suit against local officials, but what Rufo said isthat State and local officials can enter into these --these kinds of agreements and that State officials andlocal officials could obtain modifications based onchanges in circumstances. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Mr. Cruz, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF R. EDWARD CRUZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. CRUZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:This case presents the basic question whetherFederal district courts are immune from the strictures ofsovereign immunity and Ex Parte Young when administeringFederal consent decrees. In this case, it is clear what Federal lawrequires. The Medicaid statute is very clear andeverything that Federal law requires, the State of Texasis doing.The dispute that the parties are having here isnot simply a theoretical dispute about whether -- what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY degree of connection there should be between a remedy and-- and an ongoing violation of Federal law. There is noviolation of Federal law, and that fundamentally is theproblem. QUESTION: But can I ask you this question? Yousay there's no violation of Federal law now. Does thatmean there was no violation of Federal law when thelawsuit began?MR. CRUZ: It does not necessarily mean that andno court has determined that. QUESTION: No, but isn't it -- isn't the -- inorder to determine the court's power to act, don't youhave to look at the facts at the time litigation started?MR. CRUZ: Well, under Ex Parte Young, the question is not retrospectively was there a violation ofFederal law, but -- but --QUESTION: No. I understand that, but still itseems to me your -- your jurisdictional inquiry wouldfocus on the situation at the time the litigationcommenced.MR. CRUZ: There is a strong argument that therewas not a violation of Federal law at the time thelitigation commenced, but that matter was neveradjudicated one way or the other.QUESTION: That's right because the State, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY effect, waived its right to adjudicate that.MR. CRUZ: What the State did is pursue anoption to settle the -- the matter and avoid anadjudication.QUESTION: But doesn't that mean there was atleast a potential violation of law that would give thecourt jurisdiction to enter a remedy, which might gobeyond merely saying, don't violate the law in the future,that because you may have violated the law in the past, Ihave the power to order you to do some things that may notin themselves be illegal?MR. CRUZ: We would agree that this case wasinitially properly brought under Ex Parte Young in thatthe complaint, under the terms of the Verizon decision, alleged a violation of Federal law. However, Ex ParteYoung is not simply a formulistic pleading requirement. It also is -- is, under this Court's decision in, amongother things, Green v. Mansour, a restriction on theFederal court's jurisdiction that -- that what there wouldhave to be for your hypothetical, Justice Stevens, tocarry through is not simply a determination that theremight be a violation of Federal law.QUESTION: Well, do you think in order to entera consent decree, the judge had to adjudicate that therewas a violation of Federal law? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. CRUZ: No, Your Honor. But in order for thecourt now to exercise the coercive authority of theFederal court and to order the State officials to engagein a very detailed course of conduct, the predicate thatjustifies the Young fiction in the first place is anongoing violation of Federal law.QUESTION: So you're -- you're telling us thatthe effect of this consent decree, what Texas achieved byit, is it comes into court and says, oh, let's -- let'snot fight about whether there was a violation or not,we'll accept a consent decree, and the effect of thisconsent decree is simply we'll fight about this samequestion later. Right?MR. CRUZ: If the agreement was --QUESTION: And you haven't given up anythingelse. You've just said, let's -- let's not fight aboutthis. Why would the other side ever accept such a consentdecree? It's crazy. MR. CRUZ: Well --QUESTION: You're just telling them, you know,just dismiss this case, and if you want to get us, bringthe same case later. Why would I enter into such aconsent decree?MR. CRUZ: The consent decree offered the otherside a great deal. For one thing, the State, as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY voluntary agreement, agreed to carry out an extensivecourse of conduct. And if you look at the actualrecord --QUESTION: Only so long as the State chose to doit because on your theory, you -- you create this oddity. They had power -- the court had power to enter the decreebut not to enforce it. Would you take the same position if this hadbeen a litigated judgment and the exact same decree cameout at the end of the line? And then the State says,well, this was an Ex Parte Young suit and even though welitigated and lost, we can still say all bets are offbecause at the enforcement stage, you have to prove thecase all over again. Now, are you making a distinction between aconsent decree and a litigated judgment, or do you acceptthat this -- if this case had been litigated and thatdecree entered, it could be enforced?MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, we're -- we'remaking both distinctions. This would be a more difficultcase if there had been -- it had been litigated and therehad been a determination of a violation of Federal law,but --QUESTION: Why? Why would it be more difficult? It seems to me this is more difficult. You agreed to it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. CRUZ: It would be more difficult becauseyou at least had the predicate for Ex Parte Young in thefirst place. You had a violation of Federal law.QUESTION: Well, but it seems to me that whenmatters are in doubt and a consent decree is entered,obviously with the consent of both parties -- that's whatit means -- that it is a question of Federal law. It's aFederal judgment. MR. CRUZ: It -- it is absolutely a Federaljudgment, but on the terms of the consent decree, therewas no concession of liability. No court at any time hasever found the State of Texas was violating Federal law.QUESTION: No. But your argument, as Iunderstood it a moment ago, is that you can't go beyond Federal law because there's no violation of Federal lawnow. And that would be exactly the same whether thepredicate was a -- a litigated judgment or a consentdecree.MR. CRUZ: In essence --QUESTION: So we're in -- it seems to me you'rein the same boat under Justice Ginsburg's hypothetical. MR. CRUZ: The second part of Justice Ginsburg'shypothetical about whether even if this were fullyadjudicated, would this content -- consent decree beproper, the answer is plainly no because this consent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY decree does not enjoin ongoing violations of Federal law. There are a number of provisions in this consent decree --QUESTION: So in other -- I take that to mean,yes, we would be making exactly the same argument --MR. CRUZ: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- if this had been a litigateddecree. We would -- we would say that --MR. CRUZ: Absolutely.QUESTION: -- that the order saying, A, you didsomething wrong, you violated Federal law, and B, in thefuture to avoid that, you've got to do the followingthings, A, B, C -- you would say so long as at the momentof enforcement we are not then violating Federal law inthe sense found in the judgment, they cannot order A, B, C, and D.MR. CRUZ: Under Milliken, the question would bethe relation --QUESTION: No. I want to know under you. (Laughter.) QUESTION: On your theory, isn't that going tobe your answer? MR. CRUZ: Our answer is going to be that the --the jurisdiction that this Court has created under ExParte Young and its progeny exists for one purpose, tovindicate the Supremacy Clause. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: No, but you're -- you're getting into-- into a general answer, and I want a specific answer. As I understand it, you would say that in -- thatfollowing the litigated case with an A, B, C, D order, youwould say that if -- if the State -- if the -- if theother side tried to enforce A, B, C, and D, you could comeinto court and say, we are not now violating Federal lawin the sense originally alleged. Therefore, A, B, C, D,and E cannot be enforced. Isn't that correct, that thatwould be your position? MR. CRUZ: If C and D were necessary to ensurecompliance with Federal law, then they would bepermissible remedies once there was a finding underFederal law.QUESTION: Well, all right. Let's -- let'scompromise on an answer to the question. Your answerwould be we can always object to A, B, C, and D. We mayor may not succeed, but we can always object to it, eventhough we haven't appealed it. MR. CRUZ: If there's an ongoing injunction --QUESTION: We didn't -- we didn't appeal saying,look, Supreme Court, they -- you know, they -- they nailedus to the wall on liability, but they do not havejurisdiction to order A, B, C, and D and E because theydon't have jurisdiction to enforce it. You didn't take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that appeal and yet you feel you can raise that later.MR. CRUZ: If the injunction is ongoing, thenthe State officials could come in at any point and say, C,D, and E are not necessary --QUESTION: Can I ask you what is the purpose ofdoing this? I mean, let's think of the Medicareprovisions or the Social Security provisions, theregulations, the statutes. They cover volumes. Think ofconsent decrees. Yours is only pages. I guess othersmight be hundreds of pages. And so what you're saying isthat after these have been entered, they've been enteredbecause there was a violation of Federal law in the viewof the plaintiff and the defendant agreed. Okay?Now, what you're saying is at any time, we go through these hundreds of pages and we try to figure outwhether each word in these hundreds of pages actually initself reflects the Federal law violation, of which,remember, there were , volumes, or the State lawviolation, of which there were , more volumes, andonce we figured that out, then you're going to say you cando paragraph but you can't do paragraph . Now, Ijust wonder what is the purpose of this exercise?MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, two responses. Firstof all, there was not an agreement that there was aviolation of Federal law. It's certainly true the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY plaintiffs --QUESTION: No. I -- I don't -- that's not --MR. CRUZ: -- consent decree explicitly --QUESTION: That's not answering my question atall. So would you please direct yourself to my question? MR. CRUZ: The second response -- your -- yourquestion refers to volumes of Federal law and State lawthat may or may not have been violated. This case is verysimple. It's one short section of Federal law.QUESTION: I'm not asking about this case. I'masking about the purpose of the exercise that you aresuggesting that the Constitution requires us to undertake. My suggestion was that it is -- I was trying to make itlook absurd to go through that exercise because it would put everybody to a lot of work for no real reason. Thatwas what I was trying to suggest. Now, I suggested it soyou would respond to it because I'm sure you don't agreewith that, and therefore, I'd like you to present theresponse. MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, the exercise ofrequiring a -- a violation of Federal law derives fromthis Court's cases beginning with Ex Parte Young andmoving on. QUESTION: You're saying the cases require it. Now, if that's so, that's the end of it. You're right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY But I had the impression a different case had a muchbetter solution to the problem that you raise, which isthat there's some provisions in this thing that reallyhave nothing to do with Federal law at all. And that'scalled Rufo. And what the -- what -- what you're supposedto do in that situation is you can make your argument. You go to court. You say rule (b). You say, judge, yousee this provision over here? This has nothing to do withanything. And if the judge is right, you win. Now, whyisn't that a much more practical approach for the problemthat you're raising?MR. CRUZ: Justice Breyer, under the FifthCircuit precedent, the means to challenge this sort ofdecree is precisely what we did, to challenge it. Underthe Lelsz v. Kavanagh case, the means to challenge it isto challenge the enforcement and --QUESTION: You mean you can never move formodification prior to an enforcement action?MR. CRUZ: Well, you can, and that's the secondpart which is the Fifth Circuit treated what we did as amotion to modify or vacate the decree. That's how theFifth Circuit interpreted what we did. The -- theplaintiffs came in at a year and a half --QUESTION: The Fifth Circuit -- excuse me. TheFifth Circuit said you had to -- you had to segment this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY decree into bites, and plaintiff had to prove each one ofthem as a violation of Federal law. That's worldsdifferent from saying, here's a decree, time has shownthat it's not -- that it's too onerous, so court, pleasemodify it. (b)() accepts the decree as valid andenforceable, but says that it should be modified in lightof our experience under it. Now, that's quite differentfrom saying you can't enforce it. You have to prove thecase all over again at the enforcement stage.MR. CRUZ: It is true that treating our -- ourargument as a motion to modify is not purely based uponchanged facts and law. It is in part because you have the years of compliance and the tremendous record the Statehas, but another fundamental element of it was a challenge that the terms of the consent decree go far beyond whatFederal law requires. And let me focus just for amoment --QUESTION: Why don't you make a virtue of anecessity and say that that is precisely your response toJustice Breyer, that you cannot do what you want to dounder rule (b)?MR. CRUZ: That --QUESTION: Why not? That's --QUESTION: For the reason that Justice Ginsburgstated, that all (b) enables you to do is to eliminate th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY provisions that -- that have been found too onerous, notto eliminate provisions that are not indeed terriblyonerous but go beyond what -- what the court hadjurisdiction to impose. It's a totally differentquestion. MR. CRUZ: My -- my --QUESTION: Right? MR. CRUZ: My hope --QUESTION: So that's your answer to JusticeBreyer. MR. CRUZ: My -- my hope would be --QUESTION: But that -- that leaves you withJustice Ginsburg's problem.(Laughter.) MR. CRUZ: My hope would be to make virtues outof either approach and to say that it could either be doneon -- under an effort to modify or a challenge ofenforcement, that either avenue is available. And theFifth Circuit treated it as both. I mean, that'sprecisely what the Fifth Circuit did. The -- the --QUESTION: Modification doesn't depend onchanged circumstances, does it, under that theory? You'resaying we want to modify it because we shouldn't haveagreed to it in the first place.MR. CRUZ: Well, we don't know what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY circumstances were when -- when this matter was enteredbecause there was no adjudication on the merits. But wedo know now --QUESTION: Well, but there are allegations offact that would have -- the allegations did allege a -- aviolation of Federal law, did they not?MR. CRUZ: If those -- they did, and if thoseallegations were true, then there are changedcircumstances because the district court was very clearthat there is absolutely no evidence that even a singleclass member has ever requested services and been denied.And that really is the nub of the dispute becausepetitioner --QUESTION: Yes, but that's not an answer to all -- the statute requires more than waiting for requests tobe made. MR. CRUZ: But -- but that really is thecritical dispute because the statute, the Medicaidstatute --QUESTION: As I understand the record, you'vemade marvelous and extensive changes in your practices,and that's why you're in such wonderful shape now. Butmaybe you wouldn't have been if the lawsuit had never beenfiled. MR. CRUZ: That's possible, and so this could be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY fairly characterized as a motion to modify because thereis not an ongoing violation of Federal law now. What the Federal law requires is that wheneveran eligible member requests screening, they receive it. Petitioners don't like that reading and what thepetitioners convinced the Federal district court to do inthis case is read the words where they are requested outof the statute. And all of this fight about what theproper baseline is, is it Federal law or is it theconsent --QUESTION: Well, but I want to know if you couldgo -- could you go through (b)? That's interesting.Now, imagine -- I'll give a silly example tomake it clear -- that there's a requirement in the consent decree you have to give every child a hair cut. AndFederal law doesn't require that, but there's a provisionin State law that the barbers' union got in. All right? (Laughter.) QUESTION: So every child has to have a haircut. So you find the decree and you go say, judge, I wantthis modified. Look what it is over here. They giveevery child a hair cut. That has nothing to do withFederal law whatsoever. We don't want to give every childa hair cut. Can you get the decree modified under (b)?MR. CRUZ: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Yes. All right. Well, then if youcould get it modified under (b), this isn't really asolution. You don't need your solution. You can go inunder (b).MR. CRUZ: And that's what the Fifth Circuittreated what we did. So we --QUESTION: All right. So then there's noproblem. We're all in agreement.MR. CRUZ: We will prevail either way.QUESTION: So if we think you have a right to goin under (b), is that the end of the case?MR. CRUZ: If -- if what we did is deemed that,because --QUESTION: Mr. Cruz --QUESTION: You have to assume that it's tooonerous, that everything that goes -- goes a bit beyondwhat Federal law demands is, quote, too onerous. Is that-- is that your theory of (b)?MR. CRUZ: It's not a bit beyond and -- and oneimportant caveat of (b) is most of this Court's (b)cases are in a context where the State or a State officialis not a defendant. QUESTION: Well, (b) is basically changedcircumstances or changed law, isn't it?MR. CRUZ: It is. And -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: But beyond that, Rufo said that whenyou're dealing with a State or a municipality, that the(b) is more flexible than it would be if you weredealing with a private party.MR. CRUZ: It -- it did. Rufo was easing thestandards for modification, and Rufo did not address theEleventh Amendment. That was not an issue that waslitigated, and the Court --QUESTION: Yes, but we're talking about (b). And I think the -- the -- you're saying, well, this isessentially the same thing. It isn't because what you'veconfronted us with is you said, yes, the court hadjurisdiction to enter this decree, but it had nojurisdiction to enforce it. That was your plain position, and that's not a (b) position. (b) is the court canenforce it unless and until you show grounds formodification. MR. CRUZ: We don't necessarily concede that thecourt should have entered this decree, but the point atwhich we litigated it is the point at which the Federalcourt began to exercise coercive authority of a Federalcourt over the State. And at that point --QUESTION: It didn't exercise authority till theplaintiffs came in and said, look, they're violating thedecree. They're not carrying out all their promises. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. CRUZ: But --QUESTION: You could have said, yes, we are.MR. CRUZ: But what --QUESTION: You didn't say that.MR. CRUZ: We did say that. We arguedextensively that we were carrying out our promises.And that actually highlights a point. One thingpetitioners argue a great deal is the unfairness, and thatwas a motivating factor in this Court's Lapides decision. But I would point out petitioners did not give anything upwhen they signed this agreement. It's not as if we couldsign an agreement with them and agree we're going tocomply with percent of Federal law.QUESTION: They gave up their lawsuit, and you're -- you're -- and you know, packed up and went home,and you're telling them that they -- that theyaccomplished nothing by doing that. They got to re-initiate the whole -- the whole legal process to get youto do what they want you to do.MR. CRUZ: Justice Scalia, they accomplished anumber of things. One, the State voluntarily engaged in anumber of changes as a result of that agreement. Two --QUESTION: Well, you can't say it wasvoluntarily. They did it because the decree required themto do it. That's coercive. I mean, you say it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY voluntary, but then why didn't you do it before thelawsuit started?MR. CRUZ: The State officials endeavored toimprove the program --QUESTION: To comply with the decree.MR. CRUZ: But the decree was drafted as aneffort to end this -- this litigation. QUESTION: Yes, but it imposed obligations onthe defendants which they had to perform in -- to avoidbeing held in contempt of court.MR. CRUZ: Your Honor, that actually opens thedoor to yet another reason why we do not believe thisCourt should hold that Ex Parte Young defendants canengage in commitments that extend far beyond Federal law because that open -- opens a Pandora's box to separationof powers problems. QUESTION: It's -- it's maybe far beyond. I'm-- I'm not sure that it is but it's permissible. Rufo wasconcerned with requirements that were not permissibleunder Federal law. And that's -- that's not this case. And you have the obligation, even under (b), to showthat compliance is burdensome and there's changedcircumstances, and you haven't shown that.MR. CRUZ: Justice Kennedy, no body of law,Federal or State law, requires virtually everything that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY in the consent decree. The consent decree requires datacollection, and there's no reference to that in Federallaw. The consent decree requires the State officials --QUESTION: These are just necessary proceduresto implement the program and to make it work well. MR. CRUZ: I mean, the consent decree --QUESTION: And they were agreed to you by yourclient. MR. CRUZ: The consent decree requires that theState officials train private health care workers incultural sensitivity. Now, that's not required by Federallaw. That's not necessarily to ensure compliance withFederal law. It is something quite simply --QUESTION: Well, suppose it were shown that the failure to do this caused serious flaws in theimplementation of the program. MR. CRUZ: The Federal law requires --QUESTION: The court surely has the authority --and the parties certainly have the right -- to stipulateto provisions that will make the consent decree effective.MR. CRUZ: A State official does not have theright to bargain away his or her constitutional authorityor the legislature's. If one might imagine ahypothetical. The legislature --QUESTION: But that's -- that's the issue. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, excuse me. Certainly the StateAttorney General has -- and by the way, I would like youto say a few words about the other -- the other basis andthat is the waiver basis. Certainly the State AttorneyGeneral does have the power to bargain away the State'ssovereign immunity if -- if you consider that bargainingit away. MR. CRUZ: Justice Scalia --QUESTION: Why -- assuming everything you saidis true, that this goes beyond what could have beenimposed under Ex Parte Young, nonetheless, you had theState Attorney General who agreed to all of this. It wasnot just these individual officers. The State AttorneyGeneral who had power to waive sovereign immunity signed this consent decree. Why shouldn't that be the end of thecase? MR. CRUZ: Justice Scalia, the premise of thequestion that the Attorney General had power to waivesovereign immunity is not correct under Texas law. Now,it is admittedly a question of Federal law, but Federallaw looks to State law. In answer to your question about waiver, we haveseven reasons why we believe the Court should not findthat there was a waiver.First, that this was waived below. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Secondly, there's no clear and unambiguouswaiver, as this Court's decisions require.Thirdly, there has been no waiver by thelegislature of immunity from liability in State court, acritical predicate for Lapides, and in fact, the UnitedStates in Lapides argued that all the Attorney Generalcould waive was forum immunity, not immunity fromliability -- immunity from suit at all.QUESTION: May I stop you at that point? Coulda State then simply say -- every State say our AttorneyGeneral has no authority to waive our sovereign immunity,and then you would have the highest legal officerappearing in Federal court on behalf of the State andrepresentations that that person makes count for nothing? Is that --MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, your -- yourhypothetical is in fact the law in the Texas, in that thelegislature has explicitly said the Attorney General maynot waive sovereign immunity in Government Code ..QUESTION: Then what was the attorney -- thenthe Attorney General was really deceiving the Federalcourt when the Attorney General said, this is a consentdecree that we worked out, we urge the court to adopt it. Now, if the Attorney General had no authority to enterthat consent decree, he should have told that to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Federal court, but there was no -- no such representation.MR. CRUZ: Justice Ginsburg, the AttorneyGeneral didn't deceive the court because the AttorneyGeneral never represented that this was a waiver ofsovereign immunity. Those words are not found in theconsent decree. The consent decree says the defendants'defenses are all preserved. This was an effort, unlikeall of the voluntary invocation of jurisdiction cases,where the State makes an affirmative decision, we want tobe in Federal court. In this case the State was hailedinvoluntarily --QUESTION: But nothing required the State toagree to this consent decree. I know you distinguishedthe case -- Lapides was -- you said that they -- the State made the move to get the case into the Federal court. Buthere, yes, the State is a defendant. Nothing in the worldcompelled it to enter the consent decree, to urge thecourt to accept its consent. So when a State AttorneyGeneral says to the Federal judge, Federal judge, we thinkthis is a sound decree, we want you to enter it, that'shardly being hauled before the court. That's a voluntarydecision. MR. CRUZ: The State acted in an attempt toavoid a long, protracted litigation. We were hailedinvoluntarily before the Federal court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: In Gunter, the State was also hailedinvoluntarily before the Federal court.MR. CRUZ: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, but Gunterwas an adjudication on the merits and found an ongoingviolation of Federal law and then enjoined that ongoingviolation. Had that happened, we wouldn't have a dispute. We don't --QUESTION: Well, you prevented it from happeningby entering into the consent decree.MR. CRUZ: But that could have happened at thestage of enforcement. Before a Federal court orders aState to do something, this Court has said that Ex ParteYoung is a fiction, that -- that the courts will pretendthe State official, who is not really a State official, is acting ultra vires for the limited purpose of vindicatingthe Supremacy Clause. That limited purpose is not servedwhen no court has ever found a violation of Federal law,and when there is in fact not a violation of Federal law.The reasons petitioners are litigating today isbecause if they had to demonstrate a violation of Federallaw, they could not do so. So what they would, instead,like is for the baseline to be the consent decree.QUESTION: Are you suggesting they filed alawsuit they didn't think they could win?MR. CRUZ: They filed a lawsuit that was filed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY before Judge William Wayne Justice --QUESTION: It was filed in good faith allegingviolations of Federal law, was it not?MR. CRUZ: It was -- it -- we presume it wasfiled in good faith and it alleged violations of Federallaw. We don't believe they could have demonstrated thenand we -- we absolutely don't believe they can demonstratenow any violations of Federal law. Both the districtcourt and --QUESTION: Then why enter a consent decree? Itjust doesn't make sense. I assume that whatever counselwas representing the State at that time thought there wassufficient grounds to justify entering into a consentdecree, unless you want to take the position that the attorney was acting totally ultra vires.MR. CRUZ: It was an effort to end thelitigation. It was an effort that ultimately failed. Imean, there -- there are two additional key reasons whythere's not waiver.QUESTION: No. But you're saying then that theconsent decree is basically a continuance. MR. CRUZ: It is a voluntary agreement and itallows -- it agrees that the district court is available,it's familiar with the law and facts and can -- the casecan be brought back to it if there's ongoing dispute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Right. We'll see -- a consent decreemeans we'll see you later.MR. CRUZ: Or we'll agree to this and that willresolve the matter.I will point out if signing a consent decree isa waiver of Eleventh Amendment immunity or sovereignimmunity, then plaintiffs' argument proves too much. Itmeans every consent decree is utterly immune from Ex ParteYoung. It means once a consent decree is there, therequirements of Federal law don't matter.QUESTION: Only with the State Attorney General.(Laughter.) QUESTION: You haven't made another argumentthat -- that I thought you -- you would make, and that is not applicable to the waiver argument, which requires thatthe State Attorney General or someone authorized to actfor the State is there. What -- what troubles me about --about the non-waiver argument made by the petitioner isthat some of these consent decrees are imposed upon --upon absolutely willing State officers who want to bethrown into the briar patch. A suit is brought against a-- a secretary of health and human services in the Statewho absolutely wants to do these wonderful things forpediatric care that are not required by Federal law. Andif the State Attorney General were not in the situation, I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY am very reluctant to think that this official can go inand say, yes, require me to do these wonderful things thatState law does not require, that Federal law does notrequire, but that I would like to do, signs the consentdecree, and then we're stuck. MR. CRUZ: That --QUESTION: But that's not this situation. YourAttorney General appeared and said, this is okay as far aswe're concerned.MR. CRUZ: But -- but that is a fundamentalproblem with these cases. It was a prior AttorneyGeneral, a prior head of the health department, and thoseprior officers under petitioners' theory had bargainedaway the legislature's authority. It's clear thelegislature couldn't pass a statute that said, we're goingto allow the Federal District Court for the EasternDistrict of Texas to run our Medicaid program. That wouldbe a fundamental violation of federalism and separation ofpowers. Nor could the Attorney General sign a contract todo that. Therefore, they should not be able to sign aconsent decree to do that unless it is necessitated by anongoing violation of Federal law. It is only theSupremacy Clause that justifies that.In addition, this course's voluntary -- thisCourt's voluntary invocation of Federal jurisdiction cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY have, by and large, not been Ex Parte Young cases. InLapides, in Gardner, in Clark, they were suits against theState. They were not Ex Parte Young cases, and this Courtwould be breaking new ground by saying an Ex Parte Youngdefendant who, under the legal fiction, is not the State,is simultaneously the State for purpose of being able towaive sovereign immunity by litigating. And as was pointed out in the earlier colloquy,the State was a defendant, raised the Eleventh Amendment,was dismissed on Eleventh Amendment sovereign immunity. And to say now that ambiguous and conflicting provisionsof the consent decree, signed by the State officials as ExParte Young defendants, can waive the sovereign immunityis to extend the Ex Parte Young fiction beyond --QUESTION: Well, surely they had attorneys,State attorneys, representing them, did they not?MR. CRUZ: They -- they did, Mr. Chief Justice. But those attorneys, just like the State officials, aretemporary officeholders, and temporary officeholders arein effect, as this Court recognized in Alden v. Maine andalso in Justice Thomas' and Justice O'Connor's opinions inMissouri v. Jenkins, there are serious separation ofpowers issues that are raised when one official bargainsaway the authority of another.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Cruz. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Ms. Zinn, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN F. ZINNON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMS. ZINN: Some of the arguments made are nottethered in -- tethered or tied to the record in thiscase. The district court, before enforcing the consentdecree, found violations of -- ongoing violations ofFederal law. That finding is found at pages -- at thebottom of page and in the appendix to the certpetition. And it -- it refers and relies on the Court'searlier extensive findings of fact.Second, there has been no contested motion tomodify filed in this case. There was no contested motionto modify pending before the district court or pending before the court of appeals, and this is an importantmatter for this Court to consider. Of course, a motion tomodify would allow State officials to present legitimateconcerns, if they have any, concerning the consent decreeto the district court so that the district -- with themhaving the burden of proof, so that they could have theirbest shot to show the district court what's wrong with theconsent decree under this Court's decision in Rufo. That-- that burden of proof gives the district court a fullrecord to base its decision on about whether or not tomodify the decree and it also creates an adequate record th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY for appellate review of those questions, which is notpresent at the moment. Indeed --QUESTION: Would a change in administrations bea change of circumstances that -- that justifies (b)being invoked?MS. ZINN: No.Indeed --QUESTION: Is there then a way to deal with theproblem that Justice Scalia raised, which is a seriousproblem I think? MS. ZINN: If a change in -- in administrationsresults in --QUESTION: Well, what they do is they go examine this decree and there all kinds of things in the decreethat may be very nice and really helpful to people, butactually the legislature would never pass them, and theyhave nothing to do with Federal law. Now, what he'slooking for is a remedy for that situation. I'm notsaying your decree has that problem. MS. ZINN: Yes.QUESTION: But it's a known problem, and what'syour solution to it?MS. ZINN: As has been pointed out, Rufo doescreate a more flexible standard for modification when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY consent decrees are involved in institutional reformlitigation of this type. That flexibility, though, doesnot sink down to the level of mere inconvenience. So justbecause it becomes inconvenient for a successoradministration to comply with the consent decree is notjustification for modification. But if the -- the newState officials can bring legitimate concerns to thedistrict court's attention, modification may beappropriate. Unless there are further questions, there's nofurther reply.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Zinn.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 