 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVIRGINIA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -KEVIN LAMONT HICKS :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM H. HURD, ESQ., State Solicitor, Richmond,Virginia; on behalf of the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner.STEVEN D. BENJAMIN, ESQ., Richmond, Virginia; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. HURD, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner STEVEN D. BENJAMIN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, Virginia v. Kevin LamontHicks.Mr. Hurd.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. HURDON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HURD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Before this trespass policy took effect, thefamilies in Whitcomb Court lived in the middle of an open-air drug market. Surely those who must rent from publichousing ought not be required by the law to live ingreater danger from criminals than those who rent from private landlords. And yet, that is the consequence ofthe decision below and its mistaken application of theFirst Amendment.This defendant is a common trespasser, notengaged in any expressive activity. The court belowstruck down the trespass policy only by indulging in anextravagant expansion of the overbreadth doctrine.QUESTION: Well, was -- was the State applyingsome State law notion of standing, because certainlyVirginia can have different rules for standing than the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal court might have.MR. HURD: There is absolutely no indication inthe record, Your Honor, that the State supreme court wasdoing anything other than applying what it thought wasthis Court's overbreadth jurisprudence.QUESTION: Well, but on -- on the matter ofstanding, would we necessarily assume they were applyingsome Federal standard?MR. HURD: Your Honor, you don't need to assumethat in this case. They -- they discuss the question ofstanding in their opinion, and they referred to thisCourt and this Court's traditional rule and theoverbreadth rule, never suggesting for a moment that theythought Virginia might have a more generous rule ofstanding than this Court has required.QUESTION: Did they cite our cases?QUESTION: There's -- there's no --MR. HURD: They did.QUESTION: There's no citation of any Virginiacase in the opinion, is there?MR. HURD: There is no citation when discussingthe -- the standing issue, the overbreadth issue at all. That's correct, Your Honor.They -- they cite this Court's cases, and thisis found joint appendix page . It says the Supreme th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court -- and I'm quoting now from the second completeparagraph -- the Supreme Court has held that in thecontext of a First Amendment challenge, a litigant maychallenge government action granting government officialsstandardless discretion even if that government action asapplied to the litigant is constitutionally permissible.They then cite this Court's decision in LosAngeles Police Department. They then go on to cite thisCourt's decision in Ferber and in Broadrick and in Goodingv. Wilson and in Dombrowski and in Thornhill, neversuggesting for a moment that Virginia has a more generousnotion of overbreadth standing --QUESTION: But if we were to hold for you onthat ground, the Virginia Supreme Court would be free tosay on remand, would it not, that it has decided to take a more generous view of standing?MR. HURD: It certainly could do that, YourHonor. The Virginia Supreme Court has historicallyadhered very closely in its interpretation of the Stateconstitutional standards to the standards laid down bythis Court under the Federal Constitution.QUESTION: But when we're not talking aboutsubstantive law, why is that really an -- an issue for us?MR. HURD: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: They can do what they want. It's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC their courts.MR. HURD: Your Honor, they -- they believe theyare required by this Court's jurisprudence to grant --QUESTION: Well, but they didn't say that here. I mean, they didn't say the Supreme Court requires thisand our standing doctrine would be narrower, but we feelwe must. I mean, we -- we just don't know.MR. HURD: Your Honor, I believe we -- we doknow based on the portions of the record I read. Theyrelied solely upon this Court's overbreadth standingjurisprudence.QUESTION: Well, they -- they did with respectto -- to substantive law -- the substantive doctrineoverbreadth. But at no point did they say, we would notentertain this matter if it were brought under State law, but we are required to do so by the Supreme Court'ssubstantive doctrine.MR. HURD: Your Honor, I -- I think of the --the recently decided case of Virginia v. Black crossburning where in that case the criminal defendant raisedclaims under both Federal and State law. It decided itunder the Federal. It did not decide it under the State.QUESTION: Mr. Hurd, that's not the issueanyway, is it, whether they would have had a narrowerinterpretation under State law? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HURD: No, Your Honor --QUESTION: The issue is whether -- whether theyadopted a broader interpretation under State law thanFederal law would require.MR. HURD: That's --QUESTION: Isn't that the issue?MR. HURD: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: There's no indication that they wereadopting a broader interpretation than Federal lawrequires.MR. HURD: That is correct. A -- a State maywell be able to adopt a broader interpretation of standingthan this Court requires, but it cannot adopt a narrowerinterpretation. It cannot disregard this Court'sdirection that you give overbreadth standing according to the Federal constitutional standards, according to thisCourt's standards. There's nothing in the record tosuggest at all that it was adopting a broaderinterpretation. It said that this Court -- I'mparaphrasing, of course. But it says this Court'sstanding rule -- its traditional standing rules do notapply in these overbreadth cases, and then it cites thisCourt's decisions.QUESTION: And if they were correct about whatour standing rules are, they would have to follow those th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC standing rules, wouldn't they? They could not apply anarrower --MR. HURD: That's --QUESTION: -- basis for standing, could they?MR. HURD: That is absolutely correct, YourHonor. The State supreme court has no discretion todisregard this Court's application of the First Amendmentthrough its overbreadth doctrine. Here, what happened --QUESTION: If they -- if they were wrong ininterpreting our cases, they still could have done exactlywhat they did.MR. HURD: They could have, Your Honor, butthere's no indication that they did.QUESTION: They didn't say so.MR. HURD: They didn't say so.QUESTION: So if we sent it back and then theysaid so, then we'd have to take the case and decidewhether they're right or wrong on the merits.MR. HURD: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes. I'm not sure why we -- why it'scalled standing. That's where I'm basically mixed up inthis case. The person has nothing to do with speech, theparticular defendant. It's sort of like a person who hasa gun under a gun statute that forbids it. And he wantsto say that this law is unconstitutional because it might th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC apply to people who were petitioning, and if it did, itwouldn't do it right. It might apply to people who werespeaking. It might apply to speech, just as the gun lawmight apply to people who have a gun in a theater in apart of a play. And he wants to say that this law isunconstitutional as applied to him because of that problemwith it. And in the gun case, it would be apparent thatthe law wouldn't be unconstitutional as applied to himbecause in most of its applications, it would beconstitutional and he has nothing to do with speech.And now you want to say, that's true here, too.MR. HURD: Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, why aren't you and he arguingon the merits of a constitutional matter, whether thisstatute is or is not unconstitutional because of the possibility that it could be badly applied in a freespeech area that isn't this one?MR. HURD: Well --QUESTION: Why isn't that the merits? Why is itstanding?MR. HURD: Well, Your Honor, there are a numberof problems with -- with Mr. Hicks' case, one of which isexactly the one you described. We think that there areseveral aspects of that. We think one aspect of standing.We think another aspect is that this Court's practice has th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC been not to allow overbreadth challenges to be brought incases where it was not a -- a speech-related statute or astatute governing something closely related to speech.QUESTION: Mr. Hurd, we don't normally decidewhether a statute is constitutional in the abstract, dowe? I thought we normally decided whether someone hasbeen unconstitutionally convicted. We don't go aroundbashing statutes in their totality. We say this personwas unconstitutionally convicted.MR. HURD: That's correct, Your Honor. And --and certainly --QUESTION: And that's why it's -- it's aquestion of third-party standing whether you can say I wasunconstitutionally convicted because if you applied thisstatute to somebody else, he would be unconstitutionally convicted.MR. HURD: It -- that is certainly our argument,Your Honor. Standing is one problem with Mr. Hicks' case.But even if he had standing, there's a problemhere of not meeting the requirement that allegedoverbreadth be substantial. In fact, the State supremecourt didn't address this prong of the overbreadthdoctrine at all. And it's clear, we believe, that even ifthere were some possible unconstitutional application ofthis policy, that the overbreadth would not be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC substantial. The legitimate sweep of this policy is verybroad. It sweeps up those who come to Whitcomb Court todeal drugs and batter women and damage property and stealand intimidate and try to make this property their turf.QUESTION: I didn't think it was limited tothose people. I thought it was a total ban on peoplecoming in without permission.MR. HURD: Your Honor, that is -- that is notexactly the -- what the policy says. The --QUESTION: Well, what does the policy ban?MR. HURD: The policy is --QUESTION: It doesn't just ban drug dealers,does it?MR. HURD: No, Your Honor, but in terms of -- ofthe legitimate sweep, if we tried to contrast the legitimate sweep of the policy --QUESTION: Well, I -- let's say it's legitimateto keep all the drug dealers and all the armed robbersout, but -- but how many other people does it keep out? That's what I was curious about.MR. HURD: Well, Your Honor, we believe that therisk that any legitimate speaker will be chilled is -- isvery small. In fact, you know, the policy was developedto chase away the ne'er-do-wells I have described, and ifwe're unable to remove the criminals, it would not be safe th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC for people to come and engage in speech.QUESTION: But doesn't the no trespassing signapply to everybody? It doesn't just apply to ne'er-do-wells, does it?MR. HURD: Your Honor, it -- it does not applyto -- just to ne'er-do-wells, and the problem is how doyou know until you actually catch them in the act ofdealing drugs?QUESTION: Well, it applies to -- it does notapply to someone who is coming to see someone in thehousing development, as I understand it.MR. HURD: That's correct, Your Honor. The --the policy is explained by Gloria Rogers, the housingmanager, on page of the joint appendix. There's aquestion and an answer at the bottom. If a nonresident --question -- if a nonresident is seen on privatized publichousing property and he cannot demonstrate that he iseither visiting a lawfully residing resident or conductinglegitimate business, is he an authorized -- anunauthorized person?QUESTION: Which, as far as the text of theordinance is concerned, legitimate business could includepamphleting.MR. HURD: It -- it certainly could, Your Honor.QUESTION: As far as the text is concerned. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HURD: Absolutely. Absolutely. It allcould be included under the concept of visiting residents,going door to door to visit them and hand them material.QUESTION: If -- if we agree --QUESTION: It wasn't the interpretation by oneof the administrators that leafleting was not ipso factolegitimate businessing, or pamphleting or whatever. Isn'tthat right?MR. HURD: Your Honor, we would characterizethat not so much as an interpretation of the writtenpolicy as an addendum --QUESTION: An addendum.MR. HURD: -- an addendum to it which requiresthe demonstration of legitimate purpose, which isdiscussed in the policy, which would require that demonstration be made to the housing manager to show thatthe leafleting is legitimate. That --QUESTION: Suppose -- and suppose I -- the --the Court were to agree with you that the speech analysis,particularly the overbreadth analysis here, was wrong. Does the case then go back to the Supreme Court ofVirginia in a posture where Mr. Hicks has the opportunityto challenge the ordinance as being unconstitutional forother reasons apart from the First Amendment? It's vague. It inhibits his right of -- of movement. These are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC streets that are the functional equivalent of a public,whatever. Does he have all of those issues preserved tohim on remand?MR. HURD: Your Honor, he certainly has this --this due process right to wander issue preserved. There'sa question that the State supreme court did not address,which is whether these streets and sidewalks are atraditional public forum or a nonpublic forum. And he hascertainly asserted the right to -- to be there -- theright to --QUESTION: And in the context of that, to saythat the ordinance is vague for other reasons.MR. HURD: That would be a substantive dueprocess challenge there. He also has raised below a -- avagueness challenge. It's a little different than the one he raises here. But he would have that available to himas well. So that the -- the only -- Your Honor, the --the only argument he raised below in the State supremecourt that would -- that would not be available to himupon remand would be the one decided by this Court. Andall the other issues he pressed below before the Statesupreme court he could press again.QUESTION: Mr. Hurd --QUESTION: Mr. Hurd, could we go back just toJustice Stevens' question for a minute? And I -- I just th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC want to -- I want you to comment on the significance ofthe -- of the -- the notice that you set out on page ofyour brief. The notice says: no trespassing, privateproperty, you are now entering private property andstreets, et cetera. That sounds to me as though it -- itmeans, as -- as a no trespassing sign normally would, thatif you are not a -- the landowner or a licensee of thelandowner specifically, you're not supposed to enter.Then it goes on to say, unauthorized persons,which I take it anybody who is not authorized to enter,will be subject to arrest and prosecution. So in answerto Justice Stevens' question, if -- if that notice, whichis posted all over the -- the area, is a statement ofpolicy, I assume it is excluding everybody --MR. HURD: No, Your Honor, it's not. QUESTION: -- who is not a resident.And -- and it then goes on to say that followingsome review for what may or may not be authority, peoplecoming in can be arrested and prosecuted.MR. HURD: No, Your Honor. The -- the policy isnot intended to convey the idea --QUESTION: No, but is that what this says? Ifwe -- if we stick simply to the notices that you've putup, isn't that, in effect, the burden of the notices thatyou've put up? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HURD: No, Your Honor, I do not believethat's the case. I believe that -- that the phraseunauthorized persons calls into question, well, who -- whois authorized and --QUESTION: Well, but before we get to that, itsays, no trespassing. And doesn't that normally mean thatif you are not the landowner or a licensee, you'retrespassing?MR. HURD: Your Honor, in the context of aprivate apartment complex, it would not mean that. Aprivate apartment complex or a public apartment complexwhere a tenant has a leasehold interest has the right toinvite people to come to that premises without having tohave the landlord grant permission.QUESTION: Is it the signs that are under challenge here, or is it the ordinance?MR. HURD: It is -- it is not the signs.QUESTION: It -- it may well be that theordinance is constitutional but the signs aren't.MR. HURD: It is -- it is the policy --QUESTION: That's possible.MR. HURD: It is the policy that is -- that ischallenged, not -- not the signs.QUESTION: But are you taking the position thatthe policy and the signs are different in their content? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. HURD: We're taking the position they mustbe read together, Your Honor.QUESTION: If you read them separately, are theydifferent?MR. HURD: A -- a person might be able to readthe sign in isolation and believe that they had to getsome permission to come in advance, but the people whocome to the -- to this housing complex and do solegitimately typically receive invitations from theresidents. So they understand. The residents understandwhat the policy is.QUESTION: Mr. Hurd, that's a curiosity aboutthis case, the fact background of it that perhaps you canclarify. You keep saying legitimate visitor. This man'smother and his child and the mother of his child all live in this project, and one would think that he wouldcertainly have a basis to visit his family.MR. HURD: Your Honor, two -- two points onthat. The -- the first point is had he not been barred,certainly coming to visit his family would be a legitimatepurpose. But once he is barred -- and he was -- he wasbarred under this --QUESTION: And we don't know why.MR. HURD: Well, the -- the record suggests onpage that there may have been some domestic violence in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the background. We do not know the specific facts ofthat. But we do know that that is referred to by GloriaRogers on page of the joint appendix. There's also areference on that same page to giving out falseinformation about addresses he allegedly lived at in thepremises. He did plead guilty twice to trespassing andwas convicted of damaging property.He does not challenge the particular reasons whyhe was barred, and if he wants to deliver diapers, heshould have thought about that before his misconductearned him this barment notice and he thereby forfeitedhis right to return.Besides, Your Honor, Justice Ginsburg, there'sno evidence anyone saw any diapers or that he was there onsuch an errand other than what he said. And when he asked Gloria Rogers to let him back on the property, he nevermentioned visiting the child or the child's mother.QUESTION: It's not disputed that his -- thatthey live in the project.MR. HURD: They do, and had he not engaged inmisconduct, the situation never would have arisen. But itcertainly cannot --QUESTION: Maybe they want him out too. Wedon't really know that either, do we?MR. HURD: We -- we do not, Your Honor. We do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not. The -- there was no testimony at trial from themother that she had asked him to come or that he hadbrought her diapers or -- or any of that. We have no ideawhether he is welcome there or not.But the -- the point I want to make is thatsurely it cannot be the law that a desire to visit one'smother or one's girlfriend trumps a barment noticeregardless of how bad the individual's prior conduct mayhave been. He did not challenge that barment notice bysaying, well, it wasn't bad enough. What we do know inthe record is that it was pretty bad: two prior instancesof trespass, damaging property, and so forth.In sum -- I see my time is -- is running out. I'd like to reserve some of it.In sum, we have families here living in desperate circumstances, marijuana for sale on BethelStreet, crack cocaine on Ambrose, heroin over on DeforrestStreet. The overbreadth doctrine was designed to remedysituations where a challenged statute chills the rights ofothers not before the court. Here it's not this trespasspolicy that chills the right of free speech, but thedangerous conditions at Whitcomb Court that the policy wasdesigned to alleviate.We ask that the judgment below be vacated.Thank you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hurd. And you wish toreserve the rest of your time?MR. HURD: Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:What makes this case distinctive as a FirstAmendment case is the presence of a general law notdirected at speech at all but directed at conduct that'sunder challenge and the absence of any expressive activitywhatsoever by the person seeking to raise the overbreadthchallenge.This Court's cases have entertained overbreadthchallenges as a means of alleviating the chill of FirstAmendment rights of persons who are not before the Court,but the Court has never entertained overbreadth when theconsequence of doing so would be to invalidate a generallaw that's primarily aimed at conduct and when the personwho's raising the challenge did nothing to engage inspeech or any expressive activity at all.The costs of an overbreadth challenge, thisCourt has recognized, are high because they prohibit the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Government from enforcing a law against conduct that isnot constitutionally protected. But those costs aremagnified when the law under challenge is not merely a lawthat directs --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, assume -- I know it'snot quite clear, but assume for the moment that Virginiahad clearly -- Virginia Supreme Court clearly said we'regoing to allow standing as a matter of State law, but --even though it wouldn't be allowed as a matter of Federallaw, and the case then came to us in that posture. Wouldwe then have authority to decide the overbreadth issue?MR. DREEBEN: I'm not sure that this Courtwould, Justice Stevens. It would then be in a posturemore analogous to the J.H. Munson case that was before theCourt in which the Court considered and Your Honor's separate opinion addressed the question of whether, whenthere was an independent State overbreadth analysis, couldan aggrieved State official then bring the case to thisCourt.What is clear on the current record is that theVirginia Supreme Court cited and relied on --QUESTION: No. I understand that. But I'm just-- I'm just wondering if it went back and they said, well,that's true, but it was a matter of Virginia law. Wethink we'll entertain a stand, and then they decide on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal grounds that it violates the First Amendment. Then my question is, could we review that holding, and if-- if we reviewed it in that?MR. DREEBEN: Well, the question there would bewhether the State was sufficiently aggrieved so as to havestanding under the principles announced --QUESTION: Some of our loyalty oath cases -- Iforget if it was Adler or Doremus. Doremus was FirstAmendment -- allowed us to relax our standing rules inorder to reach a substantive constitutional issue cited bythe State court.MR. DREEBEN: Well, the most relevant case isprobably the Asarco decision in which the Court concludedthat once the State court binds the State officials to aparticular ruling, that there may be the requisite case or controversy to allow this Court to decide --QUESTION: There's -- there's also --QUESTION: The same party can have standing toappeal.MR. DREEBEN: That's right. And --QUESTION: There's also a question, isn't there,Mr. Dreeben, of whether this overbreadth doctrine isessentially a part of the First Amendment or a part of thestanding doctrine?MR. DREEBEN: Well, it has two aspects, Mr. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Chief Justice. One aspect of it does relate to whetherthere is a case or controversy, and there clearly has tobe a developed enough case or controversy to allow ArticleIII to be invoked for this Court to announce FirstAmendment principles at all. And part of the overbreadthdoctrine responds to those concerns.But another aspect of the overbreadth doctrineis purely prudential, and this Court has adopted thoselimits as a matter of -- of prudential principles to avoidthe premature adjudication of hypothetical and abstractFirst Amendment questions.QUESTION: But it clearly relates to thedoctrine of standing, doesn't it, which doctrine says thatyou normally do not have standing to raise the objectionsof other people? You only have standing to raise objections to your own treatment, not to the treatment ofothers, right?MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. I wouldn'tdispute --QUESTION: And overbreadth changes that. Itsays in this one area, you can object to the treatment ofother people.MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think overbreadth is -- isan application of a more general principle that thisCourt has adopted on -- in various circumstances to allow th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a party who's before the Court and who is aggrieved toraise the rights of others. For example, in Batsonchallenges, the Court allows criminal defendants to raisethe rights of the excluded jurors.This is an example of third party standingdesigned to implement First Amendment norms, but theCourt has recognized that the costs of invalidating a law,when the person before the Court doesn't haveconstitutionally protected conduct, are high, and thosecosts are higher when what's being invalidated is notmerely a law aimed at speech, but a law aimed at access,general conduct, as is this law.QUESTION: But the irony of what you're sayingis that the Virginia -- Virginia Supreme Court mightundertake that cost, invalidate a Virginia statute on Federal grounds that we think are wrong and we couldn't doanything about it.MR. DREEBEN: That is probably true unless theCourt applies the Asarco principle to allow an aggrievedState official to bring the case here because its ownsupreme court has interfered with the implementation ofFederal law --QUESTION: See, but that's -- that's theproblem. I mean, this is exactly -- that's why I'm mixedup about the standing part versus the merits. It seems to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC me if it's a traditional question of standing, there --there are a group of people who are trespassing who havenothing to do with speech. And then there's some otherhypothetical people that might have to do with speech. And the question is can these people who have nothing todo with speech invalidate the statute because of the wayit applies to some other people? Now, in the FirstAmendment area, we have normally let people do that, butin other areas not.All right. So suppose the answer is not. Youcan't. That's their problem. Let them raise it.Now, Virginia says, we want to let any taxpayerraise it. If it were purely standing, any taxpayer couldraise it, but then what? I would have said that the firstholding would have meant it is not unconstitutional under the Federal Constitution to convict this person. And --and now, under -- under the guise of standing, they'regoing to come back and say, oh, no, it is unconstitutionalbecause we let this person raise the rights of someothers. That's where I'm confused.MR. DREEBEN: I think the answer to this paradoxis that the State court can adopt much broader principlesof law with respect to standing than this Court wouldimpose, and it can administer them even when it'sadjudicating Federal light -- rights. For example, a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC State could allow a purely advisory opinion to be issuedby its State supreme court challenging this law by anycitizen.QUESTION: Well, fine, let them challenge it.QUESTION: Okay. Does --QUESTION: But if you're right, no matter howmuch they challenge it, the simple fact is, if you'reright, it doesn't violate the Federal Constitution toconvict this person.MR. DREEBEN: That's true.QUESTION: So what's raising it going to gethim?MR. DREEBEN: Well, that -- that is anadjudication of the -- of the overbreadth challenge on themerits. It would be a determination that there is not sufficient real and substantial overbreadth to invalidatethis law, and we do think that that is a correct analysisand would suffice to reject the Virginia Supreme Court'sholding in this case.QUESTION: Okay, but you're -- I think you'resaying that -- that under Asarco, they can challenge thesubstantiality point, but they wouldn't necessarily beable to challenge the standing point which gets thisparticular defendant in a position to raise the issue inthe first place. Is that right? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: It's not exactly right, JusticeSouter, because I think this is an area analogous to theCourt's rules in criminal cases under Michigan v. Longwhere the Court has to decide, does this opinion rest on aquestion of Federal law or does it rest on a question ofState law? And in Michigan v. Long, the Court adopted apresumption that if what a State court does is cite andrely on Federal precedents, we will presume that it didwhat it did because it thought it was compelled to by theforce of this Court's decisions.QUESTION: We certainly -- that certainlyapplies when you're talking about substantive law whetherit -- it would be an extension of that to apply it tostanding.MR. DREEBEN: I think it would only be a modest extension because in this case the court did notseparately analyze the questions of standing as such fromwhether respondent could bring an overbreadth challenge,and the question wasn't posed with a --QUESTION: Why -- why isn't that a question ofstanding by definition?MR. DREEBEN: It -- what it --QUESTION: Overbreadth is an exception tostanding, and -- and so why is it anything but a standingissue? Substantiality of overbreadth is -- is a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC substantive issue, but -- you see my --MR. DREEBEN: Let me -- let me explain it thisway, Justice Souter. If this Court said the FirstAmendment overbreadth doctrine requires that State courtsentertain overbreadth claims like this one even when it'sa general law and even when the party before the court hasbeen convicted of conduct that doesn't involve speech,then State courts would be required to follow that ruleand could not adopt a different standing principle thatwas narrower and that would exclude respondent.And our reading of the Virginia Supreme Court'sopinion is that Virginia either thought or assumed that itwas required by this Court's cases to entertain anoverbreadth challenge. The proper response, if the Courtagrees that it's not the State court's obligation to entertain this overbreadth challenge, would be to vacatethe judgment, announce the correct First Amendmentprinciples, and remand the case to the Virginia SupremeCourt for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.QUESTION: But that would -- that wouldbasically be applying something like Michigan v. Longrather than Asarco, right?MR. DREEBEN: In this case, it certainly wouldbecause the State court hasn't relied on a clearlyinsufficient case or controversy in order to adjudicate th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal rights. There is, in fact, a case or controversyhere. The respondent has been convicted of a criminaloffense, and he is challenging the law under which he wasconvicted. So this case does not fall outside of the caseor controversy requirement even measured by Article IIIstandards.QUESTION: If we follow that course, we wouldn'tget to the substantive overbreadth, right? We wouldjust --Ginsburg.MR. DREEBEN: That -- that is correct, JusticeThank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben.Mr. Benjamin, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN D. BENJAMIN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BENJAMIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In , Richmond took a neighborhood and byordinance, deed, and a police authorization, made it sothat a person could not walk down the street or thesidewalk unless he could prove to the police that he wasauthorized to do so. The policy that the city implementedwas of such breadth that it included the public, residentsand nonresidents alike of this community, that it included th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC innocent people doing lawful things, and it includedprotected conduct, such as the distribution of literature.QUESTION: Are you suggesting that these streetswere still as if they belonged to the City of Richmondafter they were deeded to the housing authority?MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why is that?MR. BENJAMIN: They were still public. Theywere still public streets, regardless of the transfer --QUESTION: Why -- you know, clearly the cityintended that they no longer be public streets. Why didthat intention fail?MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, for the same reasonwhen Congress ruled -- or -- or passed a law saying thatthe sidewalks around this building were no longer to be used, for the same reason. The intent didn't matter. Thecharacter and the use and the form didn't change at all,and those were the criteria that mattered.QUESTION: That wasn't a law making thoseprivate sidewalks. What -- what about the streets to and from theentry to the Governor's mansion in Richmond? Are theypublic streets too?MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, they are, Your Honor.QUESTION: They are. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, sir.QUESTION: You can't exclude the public from --from marching right up to the Governor's front door?MR. BENJAMIN: You can exclude the public fromthe gate. There's a gate.QUESTION: From the gate, but there's a streetthat goes right from the gate right up, you know, circulardriveway, right up to the Governor's front door. That's apublic street.MR. BENJAMIN: That is not a public street, YourHonor.QUESTION: Of course, it's not a public street.(Laughter.)QUESTION: So it's --QUESTION: So -- so there can be streets owned by the State of Virginia or the City of Richmond that arenot public streets.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, sir.QUESTION: And the only issue is whether this isone of them.MR. BENJAMIN: Well, that street, Your Honor, Iwould call a driveway. That's what it is. (Laughter.)QUESTION: Well, the residents of this housingproject would call these streets their -- their driveways, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the -- the access to their particular apartments.MR. BENJAMIN: I disagree with you.QUESTION: Well, there are a lot of streets inCambridge which are called private ways, and nobody knowswhat that means.(Laughter.)MR. BENJAMIN: And that, Your Honor --QUESTION: A lot of stuff in Cambridge thatnobody understands.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Well, they have some original alleysin the District that are comparable I think.MR. BENJAMIN: That's true too, but you know, Ihave never, Your Honor, heard anyone with a grievance saylet's take it to the alley. It's always, let's take it to the street because --QUESTION: Well, I -- I take -- I take it thereare any number of -- of difficult and important issueshere. One is the character of these streets. We don'tknow very much about it in the record. The other iswhether, even if they are streets with some specialstatus, whether Ms. Rogers is the one who has the right tosay who can come and who can go. This is Ms. Rogers'neighborhood in a very interesting way.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But I -- I take it that all of thoseissues are open for you to argue if we were to agree withthe State that the Supreme Court of Virginia was simplywrong in its First Amendment analysis on overbreadth, andyou would have all of those arguments to confront and tosee if you can prevail on if we remand it to the SupremeCourt of Virginia.MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, that's correct. However, those same issues, of course, were before theVirginia Supreme Court. The -- the State, the petitioner,did not even challenge standing until the State soughtcert at this Court.The question presented concerning the closestissue to standing was whether Mr. Hicks was untimely inhis challenge to the barment-trespass policy. The Statein all of the State courts argued that Mr. Hicks shouldhave challenged his barment in some civil proceeding, andthat's the question presented on page of the jointappendix and that was what the Virginia Supreme Courtdealt with, it having been the only issue presented tothem on this at page .QUESTION: It doesn't have to argue it if theydecide it. We -- we will review a question that is eitherargued or decided by the State court. There's no doubtthat the Virginia Supreme Court decided the standing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC question, decided the overbreadth question, and you'resaying that we cannot review that decision because he wasnot the one that initiated the -- the matter? That's justnot what our law says.MR. BENJAMIN: I don't know, Your Honor, if itis true to say that the Virginia court necessarily decidedthe standing order, it not -- the standing issue, it nothaving been raised. But --QUESTION: They had a whole long discussion ofoverbreadth. I mean --MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, sir.QUESTION: What do you think that was about?MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor, that was on themerits. When the Virginia Supreme Court discussed themerits, they discussed whether there was overbreadth and whether it was substantially overbroad.QUESTION: But they didn't decide thatoverbreadth was an issue. They just went ahead anddecided if overbreadth had been an issue, this is how theissue would be resolved. Certainly they decided thatoverbreadth -- that is, the standing doctrine ofoverbreadth -- was applicable to this case.MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, I disagree with you. I don't think they decided that and I don't think itwas -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Then why did they go into thediscussion of whether this was overbroad? They must havethought it relevant.MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, because it -- it wasthe -- the immediate issue that confronted them. Theywere confronted with a policy that was unconstitutional inso many fundamental respects.QUESTION: But they dealt with only one. Mr.Hurd said, yes, your question of public forum or not wouldbe open, your due process vagueness argument would beopen. What wouldn't be open, if we ruled against you onthis First Amendment overbreadth thing, is -- that's all.Everything else -- the Virginia Supreme Court said this iswhat we're deciding and we're not getting to -- theydeliberately said we're not getting to public forum. MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, if the VirginiaSupreme Court did implicitly decide the standing issue,then it was a right that it had to accept this -- thiscase which was, as the Government concedes, and thepetitioner, a case and controversy. Mr. Hicks wasconvicted, and he did raise all of these constitutionalissues in defense of his conviction. And if the VirginiaSupreme Court implicitly reached the standing question,then as a matter of State law and State rights, it wasentitled to do that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Benjamin, certainly thedissenting opinion in the Supreme Court of Virginia talkedabout overbreadth. I mean, the -- the one -- I'm justreading a sentence here from appendix page: Thus, Iconclude that the defendant may only challenge thetrespass policy as it was applied to him. Now, that --that is overbreadth.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: So what is the answer then to theoverbreadth question? That is, the first questionpresented in the petition for certiorari, which wegranted, asks, as I read it, the question of whether aperson who does not engage in expressive conduct at allcan ask the court and can succeed in having the courtstrike down a statute as applied to him for the reason that it might be unconstitutional as applied to otherpeople engaged in expressive conduct.The example would be, favoring their side, thatyou have a gun statute. Any person who possesses a gun is-- goes to jail, and the defendant says, well, I didpossess a gun and I was trying to rob a bank, but maybethis statute would be applied to a person in a play, inwhich case it would be too broad. And they say it's likethat absurd example.All right. Now, why isn't it close enough to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the absurd example? They're also arguing that this is astatute that deals with drugs. It deals with ordinarytrespass. Very few of these people want to pamphlet orengage in expressive conduct. A handful might, but ifthey do, let's consider it, when this statute is appliedto them, which it never has been in their view.Now, what's your response?MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, my response is thatin the ordinary case, such as some of your hypotheticalssuggest, it would become instantly apparent that therobber, although claiming that the statute or the policyis overbroad -- it would become instantly apparent that hehad no basis whatsoever to bring this motion. If he evengot to a hearing, there would be an immediate failure ofproof, but it wouldn't get to a hearing because there would be a motion to quash the motion for lack of --QUESTION: There happened to be -- I didn't giveyou the whole statute. There were seven otherconstitutional errors in it, but I didn't mention thembecause they could be raised on remand.(Laughter.)QUESTION: So it's -- that -- that I'm trying tomake this --MR. BENJAMIN: In this policy I counted eightconstitutional errors. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC In this case, Mr. Hicks' conduct was expressive. Mr. Hicks meets Virginia's own test because he was goingto see his children, and there is no expressive action --QUESTION: You know, I -- I think it's a mistaketo put too much onto the First Amendment. The policeofficer stops me unlawfully and I say, I was on the wayhome to talk to my wife. I mean, this -- this -- it tendsto trivialize the First Amendment if you put so much onit. You have some very important substantive issues hereabout the right of freedom of movement to use the streetsand so forth, and it seems to me that for the -- for youto rest the case, A, on the First Amendment, B, under whatis a very questionable application of the overbreadthdoctrine. It -- it is not the right way to proceed inthis case.MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, I understand yourquestion, and Mr. Hicks at the inception was not outragedabout free speech and First Amendment issues. He wasoutraged about the fact that he had been banned forapparently nothing more, as the en banc Virginia courtfound, going back to see his family repeatedly. He wasupset and challenged the very barment proceeding and the-- the entire policy.QUESTION: May I just stop you there as a matterof accuracy? We don't know why he was debarred, but we do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC know that one of the charges was destruction of property. We don't know what property that was. So it's -- I thinkyou're painting a somewhat false picture to suggest thatthis was a loving father who was simply going to visit hischildren.MR. BENJAMIN: The en banc court at page ,footnote --QUESTION: Is this the court of appeals?MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Not the supreme court.MR. BENJAMIN: Not the supreme court, had found,Your Honor, that the -- the charge of damaging propertyhad nothing to do with his barment, and there was nothingin the record or in the evidence suggesting otherwise.The testimony at page of the joint appendix does not permit the inference urged by the petitioner. The inference at most urged -- that you could draw frompage , the testimony there is that the police quiteoften saw Mr. Hicks in the development and he gave them anaddress, and then Ms. Rogers would confirm that he did notlive there.QUESTION: Well, if you're going appeal to page, you're just out of the frying pan into the -- into thefire. Yes, it -- it doesn't mention destruction ofproperty, but it does mention domestic violence. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, what Gloria Rogers isdoing in that instance, although she has been asked thespecific question, how did Kevin Hicks come to be barred,she begins, as she does, giving a general answer in howpeople get barred. And in the -- she began with that.Then she went to Mr. Hicks' case, and then she went backto one of her own reasons of domestic violence.QUESTION: No. She's answering the question,please tell the court how he came -- how has he come andhave you banned him from the property. Yes. All right. Please tell the court how that came about. And she said,number one -- she gave two reasons. When the police see aperson in the development and they say they livesomeplace, they confirm with the office, and Kevin Hicksgave a false address. Secondly, because of the domestic violence in the development. I -- I take that to be aresponse to the question that was asked. So, you know, tothe extent we know anything about why he was banned, itwas either because he destroyed property or because heparticipated in domestic violence.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor. We had soughtdiscovery of the reasons that he was banned, and counselat page and had said that counsel needed todemonstrate why Mr. Hicks was barred. But RRHA counsel,the housing authority counsel, objected that the reason th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC why Mr. Hicks was banned was irrelevant because being aprivate property owner, the position was, they could bananyone at any time for any reason.QUESTION: Okay, Mr. Benjamin, I'm going to askyou to assume that I at least do not accept the view thatthe record shows that your client was there for anexpressive purpose that ought to be recognized by the --by the First Amendment. I don't ask you to stipulate thathe was banned because he was a criminal. I will simplyassume that he is in some middle ground, that he is notthere for expressive purposes. Assume we don't know whyhe's there.What's your -- your answer basically to thequestion put to you by Justice Breyer? Why is itnecessary, in order to protect the First Amendment, to allow a person in that position to -- to raise this kindof -- of issue with respect, say, to leafleters or peoplewho are there for expressive purposes? Why do we need torecognize this?MR. BENJAMIN: Because, Your Honor, as you --this very exchange illustrates how unworkable that verytest would be because reasonable people will disagree overwhether any given conduct is in fact expressive. If thevery fact that Mr. Hicks --QUESTION: Well, you're changing my hypo. I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC mean, I -- I said let's assume that we don't have apredicate for saying this person's conduct is expressive. I will grant you that there are always going to be pointson the margin in which we say, well, was he there forspeech or wasn't he. Assume he wasn't. What -- what isthe -- what is the best argument for recognizing his rightto raise a First Amendment claim?MR. BENJAMIN: Because the whole reason for theexception is the importance of First Amendment rights andvalues. To impose this sort of a test would defeat thepurpose and -- and the value, the opportunity for societyto deal with laws that sweep this broadly and infringeupon and violate people's --QUESTION: Why -- why don't you have an adequatebasis to deal with them under the vagueness doctrine, for example, that is open to you on remand, even if you losehere? Why do we have to turn this into a First Amendmentissue?MR. BENJAMIN: Because I think the VirginiaSupreme Court, when it saw the entirety of this policy,including not just the First Amendment issues, but thevagueness that permeates this policy -- I think that theVirginia Supreme Court decided, from a conservativeapproach, that it would deal with the most to it -- themost obvious deficiency and that is the complete th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unfettered discretion that -- that Gloria Rogers, thehousing manager, had, that every single police officerhad, and deal with it then while the policy was before it,instead of going on and settling other questions, insteadof requiring that challenges --QUESTION: But what you just said goes right tovagueness, that you have an administrator who says, I'mqueen. I'll let you in or I won't let you in. I don'tsee why you need the First Amendment hook to challengethat point.MR. BENJAMIN: Mr. Hicks didn't need the FirstAmendment. His issue from the very beginning began withthe -- the vagueness that permeates this, but it -- he --QUESTION: But -- but maybe it's not your fault,but that's what the Supreme Court of Virginia said, and in the course of doing so, it arguably -- and there's a veryserious concern that it misapplied Thornhill.QUESTION: Mr. Benjamin, I don't want to putwords in your mouth -- excuse me. I'm sorry. I didn't --I don't want to put words in your mouth, but is this whatyou're trying to say, that if the statute is so overbroadit would be unconstitutional if the person has standing tochallenge it? It doesn't matter whether he is -- hisdisability is -- is because it's not a First Amendmentissue at all or whether he's engaged in First Amendment th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC conduct which is perfectly prohibitable as to him. Ineither event, it doesn't matter why he can't challenge itas long as his -- as the statute itself is overbroad. Isthat what your position is?MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor, that is.QUESTION: All right. Then --(Laughter.)QUESTION: That's -- is there a -- is there arisk here? And I'm not asking it from one point of viewor another. I don't know. But if we accepted that, thereare trespass laws all over the country. And -- and would-- I don't know what they all say, but people who areconvicted of ordinary trespass -- and a lot of them applyto public property, et cetera -- could then come in andsay, look, these trespass laws, even though they've never been applied to stop expression -- except in my case, butI'm assuming it's not expression in my case. Assume it'snot. We have to set them all aside because they might beapplied to expression in -- in a way that'sunconstitutional. If I accepted the proposition thatyou've just accepted, have I got myself in that box?MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, I'm afraid I lost yousomewhat during --QUESTION: Well, in other words, if I take theproposition you've just accepted as your argument, am I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC then allowing people who trespass -- nothing to do withexpression -- to start attacking all the trespass laws onthe ground that if applied in the expression area, theywould be unconstitutional? And they haven't been appliedin that area.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: In other words -- I would be --MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: I would be accepting that.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes. And that -- that -- butit's not much of a risk.QUESTION: Because?MR. BENJAMIN: Because those challenges wouldfail almost immediately because it -- I know of no othercase where the trespass law has applied so pervasively to the entire streets and sidewalks of a community. QUESTION: But trespass on public property --there could be all kinds of situations, Federal buildingsand dozens of them, where in fact it's really appliedagainst people who are breaking in who have no businessthere, and they just don't apply it or it never has comeup whether they would apply it were somebody interested ina demonstration.MR. BENJAMIN: Yes, Your Honor, but the systemcan easily deal with frivolous motions because of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC requirements already built into the requirement. Overbreadth must not only exist and be articulable, itmust be substantial. And the system could deal with that,with sanctions if necessary.In this case it wasn't enough for a citizen tohave, in fact, a legitimate purpose to use the sidewalk. He had to be able to demonstrate that he had a legitimatepurpose. The legitimate purpose was by reference solelyto the subjective standards of any particular policeofficer or Gloria Rogers, the housing manager. There wasno housing authority handbook of what constituteslegitimate business. There was no clear meaning as towhat legitimate meant. Left unsaid would be whethersomeone could go onto these streets and sidewalks if theirbusiness was to argue and have it out with someone or to go meet with abortion activists. All we know from thispolicy is that before you can use these sidewalks, youmust be engaged in a legitimate -- whatever that means --business or social reason, which by its own terms --QUESTION: Those are all vagueness -- those areall vagueness points. They -- they really don't go to the-- right? You're making the vagueness argument now. MR. BENJAMIN: I am --QUESTION: You -- you would have us rule on avagueness ground as well, wouldn't you? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BENJAMIN: I would, but --QUESTION: I'd sort of like to separate thearguments that are going to vagueness and those that aregoing to overbreadth. The ones you're making now don't goto overbreadth, it seems to me. MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, you can't separatevagueness and overbreadth, and this argument goes directlyto the heart of First Amendment. QUESTION: Well, our cases have certainlyseparated vagueness from overbreadth.MR. BENJAMIN: I think that this Court has usedthe terms vagueness and overbreadth interchangeably and --QUESTION: Well, let's -- let's assume thatwe're up to the challenge. (Laughter.) QUESTION: It -- it seems to me that there aresome very important vagueness arguments in -- in the -- inthe classical sense of that term that your client can andshould make, and they're unrelated to the speech point. They're completely unrelated to it. They can play back inthe speech context just as well, but -- but the SupremeCourt of Virginia thought about this just in the speechcontext, and that's our concern. MR. BENJAMIN: I submit, Your Honor, that theVirginia Supreme Court was taken and impressed by the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC First Amendment implications that are produced by thevagueness. If you must have a legitimate business orsocial purpose -- and by those terms what's excluded as alegitimate purpose are lawful purposes like wandering orjogging because that's not a -- a business or socialpurpose, but also protected purposes such as distributingfliers, literature, or holding religious meetings. Thatdoes not -- that kind of conduct at least arguably doesnot fall within the rubric of business or social --QUESTION: No, but isn't it true -- but isn'tthe problem with your argument this: It is one thing tosay that a statute that ostensibly addresses speech islikely to have a serious overbreadth problem if it is veryvague in the way it does it, but it is a very differentthing to say that a statute that does not ostensibly address speech, that addresses conduct, walking across aline, becomes an overbreadth -- presents an overbreadthproblem simply because somebody who crosses that linemight want to talk. And you're arguing on the basis ofcases in the first category, speech with vaguelimitations, to tell us that we ought to -- that we oughtto consider everything in the second category a speechcase. Isn't that the -- the difficulty of your argument? MR. BENJAMIN: It is not, Your Honor, becausethis policy targeted streets in the first place, streets th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and sidewalks, which are -- a principal purpose of whichis for expressive activity. The policy itself was calledthe street privatization program. QUESTION: Well, that --QUESTION: But the --QUESTION: Mr. Benjamin, it may not beimmediately before us, but it seems to me it is the heartof your case. You are essentially saying that a publicauthority cannot create, for people who live in projects,a gated community. The people who live outside projectscan have streets, everything just like this, butgovernment can't create it for poor people. Is that --MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, they -- they can't --the Government can't do it by simply saying that thestreets are private and simply putting up signs because --QUESTION: Okay. If you're right on that, wedon't have to get to the speech issue. If you're wrong onthat, you have the problem that I just presented to you,don't you? MR. BENJAMIN: I don't understand. QUESTION: If -- look, if -- if you're rightthat the Government cannot, in their words, privatize thestreets, then that's the end of the case. Your guy can'tbe prosecuted for trespass in this instance, and that'sthe end of the issue here. If it turns out, on the other th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hand, that the Government can indeed do what it purportedto do here, then it seems to me your argument suffers fromthe problem that I raised. You're saying that even in acase in which the statute doesn't address speech butaddresses conduct, crossing a property line, there is aspeech implication and every one of those trespass casesbecomes a First Amendment overbreadth case. Isn't --isn't that correct?MR. BENJAMIN: I agree that the challenge can bemade if counsel sees fit to do so, but of course, he'sbound by the State's ethical requirements. And the -- theissue won't be there in most cases. There is no policythat is going to be as vague and overbroad, so pervasivein its effect on First Amendment freedoms as well as --QUESTION: You're saying when it gets very, very, very, very, very vague that's when it becomes a -- aFirst Amendment problem even though it -- the statutedoesn't address speech. Is that basically it? MR. BENJAMIN: Your Honor, yes.QUESTION: How could we administer that?MR. BENJAMIN: It's not -- what you administeris what has always been administered, the requirement of afinding of substantial overbreadth.QUESTION: Do we -- do we have any -- anyoverbreadth cases that -- that would support that? I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC mean, our overbreadth cases start with -- with a speechclaim and says, well, maybe you can stop my speech, butyou can't stop his. Do -- do you have any authorityfor --MR. BENJAMIN: I don't think that in Chicago v.Morales that there was any claim that the petitioners inthat case were involved in expressive activity.QUESTION: I thought they wanted to have aparade or a -- a --MR. BENJAMIN: That was --QUESTION: -- an assembly of some sort.MR. BENJAMIN: I think, Your Honor, that was inForsyth County. QUESTION: Oh. MR. BENJAMIN: We have cases such as Watchtower, for example, where admittedly in Watchtower, Jehovah'sWitnesses were engaging in expressive activity, but therewas nothing about the facts of that case or the ordinancethat suggested that anyone in nonexpressive activity wouldnot have been able to raise the substantial overbreadthchallenge. If it had been Girls Scouts, for example. QUESTION: No. I think that was a FirstAmendment. What about Morales? What -- what did Moralesinvolve?MR. BENJAMIN: That involved the Chicago anti- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC loitering statute. QUESTION: Street corner assembly.MR. BENJAMIN: Right. In a police -- a two-part test, the police --QUESTION: Their -- their right to gather andassemble. I -- that's sort of First Amendment stuff,isn't it?MR. BENJAMIN: I don't know that this Courtreached it on that point. It -- the Court did reachoverbreadth, but didn't decide on overbreadth because thestatute -- see, the ordinance explicitly by its terms didnot reach First Amendment freedoms or protected activitybecause you had to be doing something with no apparentpurpose.QUESTION: No, but the thing that the person wanted to do was to -- was to gather with his buddies onthe street corner. MR. BENJAMIN: Under that ordinance, it wasn'tillegal. That didn't violate the ordinance because thatwas an apparent --QUESTION: Yes, it did, and one of them was agang member. MR. BENJAMIN: It did not because if he wantedto do it for an apparent purpose of expressive activity,then it didn't violate, and so that was not a problem. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC In this case we have the extraordinary situationthat a person must have government permission, policepermission to walk a street, to use a sidewalk, and hisright to do this depends entirely upon the completelyunfettered discretion of the police and a governmentofficial. If someone wants to go onto that sidewalk andpass out literature, they must get permission. They mustget Gloria Rogers' permission, and she can give thatpermission or deny that permission in accordance withwhatever criteria she uses at any given moment.The First Amendment problems with this case aresubstantial and pervasive. The Virginia Supreme Court sawthat and dealt with it while it was there, seeing nothingredeemable about this policy whatsoever. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Benjamin. Mr. Hurd, your time is expiring even as wespeak. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: So the case issubmitted. MR. HURD: Thank you, Your Honor. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 