 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XRAYTHEON COMPANY, Petitioner ::v. : No. -JOEL HERNANDEZ. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C., on behalf of the Petitioner.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner. STEPHEN G. MONTOYA, ESQ., Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner STEPHEN G. MONTOYA, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, the Raytheon Company v. JoelHernandez.Mr. Phillips.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Petitioner, like thousands of other employersthroughout this country, has a policy that if an employeeis discharged for violating a workplace rule -- usuallythat involves serious misconduct in the -- in theworkplace -- then he becomes permanently ineligible to berehired by that particular employer. The court of appeals in this case correctly heldat Fed.App. a, note , that there is no question thatpetitioner applied this policy in rejecting respondent'sapplication. And the court of appeals also held thatthere's no question that this policy on its face is notunlawful. Nonetheless, the Ninth Circuit declared thateven in a case alleging only disparate treatment, the,quote, policy violates the ADA as applied to former drug th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY addicts whose only work-related offense was testingpositive because of their addiction.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, it -- the Ninth Circuitin its opinion on about page a in the appendix said,Hernandez raises a genuine issue of material fact as towhether he was denied reemployment because of his pastrecord of drug addiction. And I'm concerned that thecourt may have said there is a genuine issue of fact here,that it wasn't clear whether there was a no-hire policythat was either adopted or if it was used in this case,that there's something else at stake due to the differentresponses of the man who wrote the letter versus the womanwho actually made the decision, and that there's someissue of fact here. Now, if that's the case, maybe the rest of theopinion is just dicta. I don't know. MR. PHILLIPS: It's pretty clear that the restof the opinion is not dicta, Justice O'Connor. The --that portion of the analysis is -- is directed solely atthe question of whether or not the plaintiff had made outa prima facie case, and what the court said was, you know,is there any evidence from which anyone could draw theinference that there was discrimination because of adisability. And it recognized frankly that that was avery close question, that if you read even the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY statement made to the EEOC, you can read that in differentways. Maybe you should look at Bockmiller.But the truth is in making the prima facieshowing, all that you really needed to look at was thepolicy statement -- or the -- the response to the EEOC,and that would be enough, I think, to get you past theprima facie showing. It -- it is at page a where the court thenturns its complete attention, and it says, you know, so insum we hold that -- that Hernandez's prima facie case ofdiscrimination has been made out, and now we turn to thenext stage in the process, which is to look and seewhether or not there is a -- a non-pretextualjustification.QUESTION: I might agree with you that a no-hirepolicy, if that's what was used, is certainly notunlawful. But if there is a genuine issue of fact here,what -- what do we do?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if there were a genuineissue of fact, you -- you would -- you know, you'd remandto allow the case to go forward. There's clearly not agenuine issue of fact because if you -- once you get pastjust looking at the EEOC statement that was made by theemployer and -- and you're in the district court andyou're looking at summary judgment and the question is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY whether or not the action of the employer is pretextual,we only have the burden to come forward and say we had a-- a perfectly lawful reason for doing what we did.QUESTION: Well, aren't the two questions reallyseverable, whether the Ninth Circuit's treatment of theno-rehire policy was correct under ADA law, and second,whether the employer was entitled to summary judgment? I-- I think those are two different questions. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- yes, they are twodifferent questions, Mr. Chief Justice. I think theanswer is that I think we probably would have beenentitled to summary judgment even on the prima facieshowing.The only way the court of appeals got to its analysis -- the only way it could have gotten there underHazen Paper -- is to say that the pretextual basis -- thepretextual argument that was put forward by the employer-- we have to take that off the table because if that --if that policy is in this case, there is not a shred ofevidence that that policy was not applied in thisparticular case. And that's exactly what the court ofappeals said in -- in the footnote in its opinion. Itsaid that's unquestioned.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, I'm having the sameproblem that Justice O'Connor and the Chief expressed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY One thing is if we take this case, there's a no-hire rule.Can an employer have such a rule and apply it with evenhand? That's a question of law. But this case seems to be underneath messier. For example, this no-hire policy was unwritten. This is acompany that had a lot of written rules. That's animportant rule. Why was it unwritten? Why does Medinatestify we had a right, not that we'd apply it every case,but we had a right not to rehire someone who wasdischarged for cause? The -- the record is suspicious on, one, whetherthere was a policy; two, whether it was applied with aneven hand. That one can't tell. So why should a judgetake this as given that there was indeed such a policy and that it -- it was applied with an even hand? Don't thosequestions remain in the case? Even if you prevail on ifthey had such a policy and if they applied it with an evenhand, they would not be offending --MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, there's no question thatrespondent has asserted arguments that the -- that -- thatthere's a question as to whether the policy exists. TheNinth Circuit expressly held that the policy exists andwas applied in this particular case --QUESTION: Well, they held it in a footnote, andI'm -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. PHILLIPS: I don't take footnotes seriouslyin all court's opinions, Your Honor. (Laughter.) MR. PHILLIPS: Well, but I mean, it could nothave been more explicit in terms of dealing with thisparticular issue. Was the policy presented and was it --was -- did the policy exist and was it applied in thisparticular case? There's no question about that.And there's no testimony that raises any doubt. It may be that it's an unwritten policy, but the testimonyin the joint appendix at a, a, a, a, a, and a,which is the affidavit and deposition testimony ofBockmiller who was the decision maker in this case andMedina who signed the -- the statement, is consistent, that -- that there is an absolute policy and practice thatthis employer uniformly uses.QUESTION: We don't know from this record, forexample, whether someone who had sexually harassed afellow worker and for that reason was fired, whether sucha policy would apply -- has, in fact, been applied to sucha person, whether someone who assaulted a co-worker wouldalso be barred permanently from re-hire. If there is thefirm policy, then it's unquestionably legal, but -- butthere isn't in this anything except two employees who gavetestimony, no other examples, other than this very case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY to show that this has been applied across the board.MR. PHILLIPS: But Justice Ginsburg, therespondent had a full opportunity for discovery in thiscase. He was an employee for years. If he had knownof any instances in which this rule hadn't been applied,he could presumably have brought that forward. If hecould have discovered any instance in which this rule hadnot been applied consistently --QUESTION: I thought he said that he didn't evenknow the rule existed.MR. PHILLIPS: Actually he's not specific in --in regard to that. I mean, he's made that argument atthis stage in the proceedings, but there's nothing in therecord, certainly nothing during the deposition testimony, in which he says -- there's nothing in his affidavit.But -- but, Justice O'Connor, it's worth readingthe joint appendix -- I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. Iapologize. (Laughter.) MR. PHILLIPS: But, Justice Ginsburg, it's worthreading on joint appendix a. You know, this -- hisapplication would have been rejected had he been fired forstealing or fighting or anything like that. It'sunequivocal, absolutely uncontradicted testimony in thisrecord. There is no question -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, can I ask you aquestion that makes the assumption that you want to makefor the whole case, that the policy was just applied inthis case? Suppose a person, aware of the policy, right-- and has the history of this person, and say you wouldadmit he's qualified. I know there's some doubt aboutthat in this case. A qualified applicant, who has ahistory of drug or alcohol use and was fired for thatyears ago, writes a letter to the company and says I'mtotally aware of your policy of not hiring -- rehiringpeople who were previously discharged for cause, but Iwant you to know I am a rehabilitated person and thereforeI'm handicapped and I come within the statute. And Ithink the -- the rule against discriminating against handicaps requires you to make a special accommodation forme. Please do so. Now, why could you turn him down?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you could -- you couldcontinue to assert that the -- that our policy is ourpolicy and we're entitled to assert that policy. Now, you know, there are alternative theoriesthat could be brought forward. One -- one could be thatthe policy has a disparate impact, which wasn't litigatedin this case --QUESTION: And if -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. PHILLIPS: -- and also --QUESTION: -- a whole bunch of people. He says-- he admits he's the only person who fits. So he can'tmake a disparate impact argument. He just says you have aduty to accommodate under this statute and your failure toaccommodate is discrimination when you know that thereason for the policy doesn't apply --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there are sort of threeanswers to that in terms of the reasonable accommodationrationale. First of all, remember that this is not anemployee any longer who is in fact disabled. This is onewho's merely regarded as or has a record of. And thestatute specifically talks about accommodating the limitations of the employee. So there -- there are nolimitations here. So I think (b)() by its terms doesn'tapply. QUESTION: Is it your view there's no duty toaccommodate for applicants? I'm just trying to -- is ityour view that the statute does not require anyaccommodation for applicants as opposed to actuallyemployed persons?MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't -- I don't know thatthat doesn't require any -- anything with respect toapplicants or any accommodation with respect to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY applicants. I don't -- I -- I think what it doesn't do isallow you to look beyond whether there are limitationsthat need to be accommodated. And I don't think it -- andI don't think it is a reasonable accommodation within themeaning of (b)() to say that you're entitled to a secondbite of the apple. If you have violated a misconduct ruleand been discharged for that reason, whether it's drug-related or not, it seems to me clear under the statute --certainly it's clear under -- under (c)() -- that thatis precisely the situation in which the employer isallowed to discharge you and to impose on you a permanentban. QUESTION: Well, the discharge isn't in question. The question is whether a person who is nowhandicapped within the meaning of the statute and who waspreviously discharged for a reason that clearly does notjustify rehiring now, other than the fact you want to havea rule with no exceptions to it. I don't really -- I'm alittle unclear as to if you don't say the duty toaccommodate has no application to applicants as opposed toemployees, I'm a little unclear as to why this isn't likea rule in the gender discrimination cases, you can't liftover pounds or something like that.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because I think the reason th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY is is that in order to allow this employee to come backunder these circumstances, you have to -- you have todiscriminate in his favor because if -- if this were aperson who --QUESTION: That's right, and that's always thecase of -- of accommodation. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. QUESTION: It's always a discrimination in favorof the applicant.MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but that's why you have tolook at (c)(), which says specifically that you areentitled to treat former drug addicts precisely the wayyou would treat any other employee. So then the question I think is if this employee had been discharged originallybecause he was a sex offender or a sexual harasser and --and had a psychological reason for it, and he came back inand he said, I'm -- I'm cured, I'm fixed, I want to comeback to work now, the answer there might be one thing. Idon't know the -- you know, there may be a reasonableaccommodation issue there.But with respect to (c)(), which veryspecifically says that you're allowed to imposequalification standards that are the same where you're notgoing to allow that other employee to come in -- that's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the way your policy operates -- applying that rule fairlyto this situation means that this employee is not entitledto come in.I don't think it's a flat rule againstapplicants versus non-applicants. I think it's a (c)()-- (c)() rule that says that you are always entitledto treat the rehabilitated drug addict exactly the sameway you would treat anyone else who engaged in misconduct.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, I guess the NinthCircuit did not address at all the reasonableaccommodation question, did it?MR. PHILLIPS: I don't think it did address thereasonable accommodation issue.QUESTION: No. So I guess we'd have a hard timein getting into it, but it --MR. PHILLIPS: Any more than it --QUESTION: -- may be a serious question. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it might be and -- and Idon't think it would be in this case. As I say, I think(c)() is a complete answer to the reasonableaccommodation argument, and I think frankly (c)() is acomplete answer to the disparate impact argument, whichthe court of appeals also not only didn't get into, butfound had been expressly waived. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY That's why I think, Justice O'Connor, at the endof the day, what this case is about is Hazen Paper. Wehave a rule here that was unquestionably applied. Thereis not a shred of evidence that it wasn't applied.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Phillips, one of the thingsis -- doesn't quite fit is in the case of this veryemployee. He was given a test despite this firm no-hire-- no-rehire rule. They did give him a test in , andit turned out he flunked it badly. But everyonerecognizes that flunking in , when you're a littlerusty, doesn't mean you would have flunked in , whichis the critical time here. But why did the company, if ithas this firm -- firm, no-exception policy, no rehires, why did it give him the test to see if he was qualified?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because any employers who'sin the middle of litigation would be irrational not to tryto find some kind of a non-litigated solution to theproblem. And so we were looking for a non-litigatedsolution to the problem. Since he wasn't qualified in, it wasn't available to us to bring him back or totry to come up with some other kind of a settlement. Ithink it completely inappropriate to hold it against us totry to come up with a solution to this case that wouldn'thave required us to take the time of the court at that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY point. QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, looking at (c)(), Ithink that speaks to the -- what the company may do toemployees, not -- it doesn't speak to former employees --MR. PHILLIPS: Right. QUESTION: -- or applicants for employment.MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but, of course, Mr.Hernandez was an employee in . QUESTION: Right. MR. PHILLIPS: And we discharged him and then weimposed on him the same qualification standards that wewould impose to anyone that we discharged under thoseexact same circumstances. He is dismissed.QUESTION: I understand. MR. PHILLIPS: And he is permanently barred on-- on a going-forward basis. QUESTION: But I don't think (c) --MR. PHILLIPS: That language clearly coversthis.QUESTION: I don't think (c)() explains why youdidn't have a duty to accommodate him when he -- when hesought re-employment.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the answer to thatis (c)() would -- would trump the reasonable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY accommodation argument, if -- if it had been properlyraised and it were before the court. I think at the endof the day, we'd win that, but Justice O'Connor -- I gotthe name right there -- is clearly right that that issuewasn't resolved by the Ninth Circuit, and thereforeremains open. I mean, it is not an issue for this Courtat this point.I just want to make it absolutely clear that therule was applied -- I don't think there is any way thatyou can question that there is an issue of fact to beresolved as to how this rule was applied in thiscircumstance. In order to discount the applicability ofthe rule as the basis for Mr. Hernandez's rejection, you have to declare that Ms. Bockmiller flat-out lied, and shedidn't. Everything in the record in this case isconsistent with the idea that she looked at the summaryseparation, she concluded that there was no basis to goforward with this case, and she acted accordingly. Anemployee -- obviously, employers are allowed to use theirown employee's testimony. It cannot be that that's aninterested witness whose testimony is not entitled tocredit when it is absolutely uncontradicted. So we are not only entitled to have this ruleset aside, we're also entitled to judgment at the end of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the day. Thank you, Your Honors. I'd reserve the balanceof my time. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Phillips.Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:A policy -- a mutual policy of refusing torehire individuals previously terminated for seriousmisconduct does not constitute disparate treatment for purposes of the Americans with Disabilities Act even asapplied to an individual previously discharged for drug-related misconduct. The policy does not single out peoplewho are addicted or those who test positive for drugs fordisfavorable treatment. The policy treats all seriousmisconduct, whether drug-related or not, the same.As a result, an individual who is refused re-employment pursuant to that policy is simply not subjectto disparate treatment because of their disability.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, does the Government takea position on whether there's an issue of fact hidden in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY this case about whether there is a neutral no-hire policy?MR. CLEMENT: Justice O'Connor, in our brief wesuggested that it would be possible to grant summaryjudgment for the employer here on this record. I have toconfess, though, that that issue is of considerable lessimportance to the Government than the broader validity ofthis rule. One thing I -- I'll address why we thinksummary judgment might be appropriate, but I want toemphasize, though, that even if the Court thinks thatsummary judgment is not appropriate here, the properdisposition would be to vacate and remand.But it's very important to vacate the opinionbecause the theory of the Ninth Circuit, if you can divine one here, is that, all right, there's a pretextual casefor discrimination and the employer comes in and says, wedidn't discriminate on the basis of disability. Weapplied a neutral, across-the-board rule. And as I readthe Ninth Circuit opinion, what they say is that neutralrule is not a legitimate, nondiscriminatory basis for youremployment action. And they -- they do that as a matterof law, and that is a profoundly wrong decision as amatter of law, especially in a disparate treatment casebecause Justice Stevens suggested that maybe you couldhave a reasonable accommodation theory but that's not in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY this case. It is possible that the language of U.S.C.(b)(), which embodies the Americans withDisabilities Act disparate impact principles, could beused to challenge the neutral policy. But whatever elseis true, when an employer applies a neutral policy, it hasnot engaged in disparate treatment on the basis ofdisability.Now, if I can get back to the summary judgmentquestion. I think there's two reasons why we thoughtsummary judgment was -- would be appropriate for theemployer. One is as suggested by Mr. Phillips. Infootnote , after the court of appeals finishes with its pretext analysis, it seems to suggest that there's reallyno dispute that both sides agree that this policy wasinvoked. And I think in -- in looking through the lowercourt record, it doesn't seem like the gravamen of therespondent's case was that the policy doesn't exist. Itwas more a -- a suggestion that whether or not you have apolicy, as to me in particular that's not the reason forthe discharge, and the best evidence of that, of course,is the letter that George Medina sent to the EEOC.QUESTION: You mean the best evidence supportingthe plaintiff. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. CLEMENT: Yes, the best evidence that theplaintiff has is that letter to the EEOC from Mr. Medina. And, of course, that letter suggests that it was morecomplicated than simply application of a neutral policy,and it's for that reason that the EEOC issued a -- a causeto sue letter.Unfortunately, though, Mr. -- Mr. Medina was notthe ultimate decision maker in this case. That was JoanneBockmiller. And the record is clear -- and this is atjoint appendix a and then a. It's clear that Ms.Bockmiller did not participate in the preparation of thatMedina letter.QUESTION: Then why did the company --QUESTION: I don't know that -- I don't knowthat that's enough, though, to defeat summary judgment. Ajury is entitled to disbelieve any witness I believe, eventhough perhaps the -- you don't show any bias on the partof the witness. MR. CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, that'snot the way I read this Court's decision in Andersonagainst Liberty Lobby, which seems to suggest that simplythe possibility that the jury will not disbelievetestimony even if there's no other evidence that drawsthat testimony into question -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: But there is. MR. CLEMENT: -- it's not enough. QUESTION: You mentioned Medina, Medina'sletter, which says, look, we -- we refused to hire thisperson because he didn't show -- he didn't show that hewas no longer an addict.MR. CLEMENT: And I think that if the Medina --certainly if Medina were the decision maker or even one ofthe decision makers in this case --QUESTION: But didn't the company designate himto put in the response to EEOC?MR. CLEMENT: They certainly did, but the -- thefacts of this case are that Bockmiller was the ultimatedecision maker. And in Hazen Paper, this Court suggestedthat in these kind of disparate treatment cases, whatyou're looking for is if --QUESTION: What is the relative position in thecompany? I had the impression that Medina was a higherlevel employee than Bockmiller.MR. CLEMENT: I think that's correct, JusticeGinsburg, but at the end of the day, he just wasn't thedecision maker. I think, though, I -- I've made our positionclear, which is when you have a case where there's an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY ultimate decision maker who suggests a neutral policy wasinvolved, our position would be a -- a straight statementby somebody who was not involved in -- directly in thedecision making process shouldn't preclude summaryjudgment. I do want to be clear, though, that that reallyis the less important issue for the -- from theGovernment's perspective because the Ninth Circuit'sdecision in this case does embody the position that thiskind of neutral policy, assuming it exists for a moment,is somehow per se unlawful as applied to drug addicts. And I think, again as Justice Stevens suggested, there maybe ways that a plaintiff could try to go after such a neutral policy. They could suggest that it -- that undera reasonable accommodation theory, a reasonableaccommodation must be given. But if that were broughtforward, I think an employer would have an opportunity tosay, no, that reasonable accommodation imposes an unduehardship. In similar fashion -- and I would say this. Ithink if you look at the statute as a whole, the provisionof the statute that most specifically speaks to a neutralqualification criteria that is alleged to have a disparateimpact on individuals with a disability is -- is U.S.C. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY (b)().QUESTION: Well, there's no disparate impactcase here. That was not raised, was it?MR. CLEMENT: No, that was not raised.QUESTION: I don't know what about thereasonable accommodation theory. The Ninth Circuit didn'taddress that. MR. CLEMENT: They --QUESTION: Was that a claim?MR. CLEMENT: No, that was never addressed inthe lower courts.QUESTION: No. That's what I thought. So wedon't have to get into that.MR. CLEMENT: You don't have to get in, and wewould suggest that you not definitively resolve thereasonable accommodation issue or the disparate impacttheory.But that doesn't mean that it's sort of harmlesserror if the Ninth Circuit opinion stays on the bookbecause the Ninth Circuit assumes that the answer to thequestion on reasonable accommodation is that you couldnever justify such a policy. You'd always have to grant areasonable accommodation.The Ninth Circuit opinion assumes that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY would be a disparate impact even when there's not or evenif the employer could justify the policy as job-relatedand consistent with business necessity. I wanted to be responsive to Justice Stevens'question, though, even though I think this Court shouldultimately not reach it. With respect to reasonableaccommodation, there's no question that reasonableaccommodation applies in the application process. And soif you have -- for example, if you're going -- an employerwants to give a application test for the job, and puts itin a facility that's not wheelchair accessible, thatreasonable accommodation would have to be given, and thatwould be a reasonable accommodation in the hiring process.I do think, though, that subsection (b)() addresses very directly a neutral qualification standardthat's alleged to screen out an individual with adisability or to tend to screen out an individual with adisability. And with respect to that claim, that wouldtrigger the employer's burden to come forward and showthat the requirement was job-related and consistent withbusiness necessity.One of the real sort of ironies, if you will, ofthe Ninth Circuit's opinion is on the same page of theopinion and in consecutive footnotes, after they -- they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY clearly hold that the disparate impact theory is not inthis case, they also fault the employer for not justifyingthe neutral rule as consistent with business necessity. But the business necessity defense, as its status as adefense, suggests is not some sort of free-floatingobligation on the employer, especially in a disparatetreatment case where the employer has already pointed to aneutral and legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for theiractions. The business necessity defense comes into a casewhen a plaintiff has properly preserved a claim undersubsection (b)() and triggers the obligation of theemployer to come through.I would like to also point out, though, that welargely agree with Mr. Phillips that there is -- there is much in U.S.C. (c)() that suggests that there maybe a basis for an employer to maintain this kind ofneutral policy, and I think an employer may be able to usethat section as a defense. I would agree with Justice Stevens that itdoesn't speak directly to this situation because all itdoes is allow -- with respect to current drug users whoaren't entitled to any protection under the act, itclarifies that an employer can apply a neutralqualification standard, and it doesn't matter whether the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY underlying misconduct has its roots in -- in drug use ordrug addiction. And I think it doesn't directly say it,but implicit in that provision is the idea that anemployer can use uniform and neutral sanctions forviolations of those uniform conduct rules. The difficult question becomes whether or notthere's something special about a bar on re-employment,when you say that if you violate our conduct rules notonly are you terminated, but you need never darken ourdoor again. And I think with respect to that kind ofpolicy, there are two -- the act, in a sense, points intwo different directions. On the one hand, the act drawsa clear distinction between current drug users who are --who are not protected by the act and draws a distinction between recovered addicts who are protected by the act. In --in any event, the Court can reconcile those competingpolicies in a subsequent case.QUESTION: Thank you very much, Mr. Clement.Mr. Montoya, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN G. MONTOYAON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. MONTOYA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In the Ninth Circuit's opinion, the court made th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY it emphatically clear that there were two predicates forits decision. One was a traditional discriminatory impactanalysis, what Raytheon's intent was upon dismissal. Andthis is all very clear, reprinted at page a and a ofthe appendix. The court says that Mr. Hernandez has,quote, presented sufficient evidence from which a jury canconclude -- could conclude that he was qualified for theposition he sought in and that is application wasrejected because of his record of drug -- drug addiction. Period. Additionally -- and then it goes to the questionof whether or not this alleged uniform practice is, infact, valid under the Americans with Disability Act. Sothere are two grounds for the decision. And moreover, because this could be a mixed motive case, even if this Court concludes that the allegedoral practice is valid, the case would still have to beremanded because you -- even if the employer had a validreason to terminate Mr. Hernandez, if it also had a mixedmotive and the other motive was invalid, it was -- he wasalso terminated and based upon his history of drug andalcohol addiction, the case has to be resolved by a jury. And the question --QUESTION: Mr. Montoya, I'd like to go back tothe opening statement you made because you -- you said th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY this was a legitimate disparate impact case, but lookingon that same page in the footnote, the Ninth Circuit isagreeing with the district court that because Hernandezfailed to timely raise disparate impact, this has got tobe a disparate treatment case.MR. MONTOYA: Your Honor, I misspoke. If I saiddisparate impact, I meant to say discriminatory intent. The question of Raytheon's intent. Did it apply thisalleged uniform practice or did it discriminatorily intendto terminate Mr. Hernandez because he has this record ofdrug and alcohol addiction? They're distinct bases.QUESTION: You don't mean terminate. You meanrefuse to hire.MR. MONTOYA: Refuse to hire, yes. I -- I --and -- and both --QUESTION: I mean, that makes good sense, buthow do you reconcile that with footnote -- footnote ? It says, there is no question, the court says, that Hughesapplied its automatic policy, this policy, in rejectingHernandez's application. I mean, I -- it boggles themind. MR. MONTOYA: Your Honor, that is a -- I -- Ican't resolve that.QUESTION: You want us to give text more weight th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY than footnotes.MR. MONTOYA: I do, Your Honor --QUESTION: That's not unreasonable.MR. MONTOYA: -- because that footnote isdirectly contrary to the record. In fact, in thedistrict --QUESTION: Maybe the law clerks wrote thefootnotes and the judges wrote the text. (Laughter.) MR. MONTOYA: I won't speculate on that, YourHonor. But I -- I will say that I disagree with mylearned friends representing Raytheon that we admittedthat this oral practice was applied to Mr. Hernandez in this case because we don't even think that the practiceexists. The reason why we don't think the practice existsis because in Raytheon's first official written statementin this very case, Raytheon doesn't mention it. Itdoesn't mention a practice. It doesn't mention a rule. It doesn't represent -- or it doesn't indicate thatthere's a policy. It just says there's a right, which isvery different. QUESTION: But the Ninth -- the Ninth Circuitagain, Mr. Montoya, in footnote simply says there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY question that Hughes applied this policy in rejectingHernandez's application.MR. MONTOYA: I know it says that Justice --Chief Justice Rehnquist. I think what the Ninth Circuitmeant in that footnote is that there's no question thatRaytheon claims that it applied that. And I think whatthe Ninth Circuit was trying to get at was that even ifRaytheon's story is true, Raytheon still doesn'tnecessarily win because Raytheon's alleged practice couldbe violative of the ADA as applied to Mr. Hernandez inthis particular case. But the question of discriminatoryintent remains. Moreover and just as importantly, the questionof whether or not this alleged practice exists remains. This is an oral -- this is a right that Raytheon alleged. There's no -- no evidence that this rule was ever appliedto anyone else.QUESTION: We -- we didn't take the case to --to determine whether -- you know, to determine that. Imean, I -- the court of appeals proceeded on theassumption that it did exist, and -- and the reason wehave the case is that it is a very important propositionof law, which the Ninth Circuit adopted, that where youhave such a policy, it will not be applicable to someone th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY who's a rehabilitated drug addict.MR. MONTOYA: Yes, that's --QUESTION: That's the reason we took the case,and you're telling us we can't get to it because --because in fact the Ninth Circuit was just wrong thatthere was the policy at all.MR. MONTOYA: That is correct, Your Honor, and Ibelieve that that is a question of disputed material fact.QUESTION: Did -- did you raise this in your --in your brief in opposition to certiorari?MR. MONTOYA: Yes, we did, Your Honor. QUESTION: That particular question? MR. MONTOYA: Yes, we did. We believe that thequestion presented in the petitioner's cert petition is hypothetical because it's contingent upon at least twodispositive material factual disputes, the question ofdiscriminatory intent and the question of whether or notthis uniform practice actually exists.QUESTION: Well, but the Ninth Circuit, I takeit, was entitled to proceed on the assumption that thefactual determination might turn out as -- as Hughes saysit is, and it then went on and gave instructions as to howthe case ought to be resolved. And we certainly can reachthat if we think it's in error. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. MONTOYA: Yes, you can. However, I thinkthat in order to reach that, you have to make a factualassumption that might be incorrect, and I think that itwould be premature for the Court to render that assumptionor to make that assumption at this juncture because itcould be that if this case were remanded to the trialcourt, jury instructions would render that aspect of thisCourt's opinion moot. For example, a jury could answeraffirmatively whether or not --QUESTION: Did the court of appeals exceed itsauthority under Article III in making the statements it --it did with respect to the lawfulness of the terminationpolicy? MR. MONTOYA: Your Honor, I think that it -- it certainly reached the borders of Article III. Maybe adeclaratory judgment action could have been filed --QUESTION: So you think that in some later casethe Ninth Circuit would -- would say that this is notbinding on other panels?MR. MONTOYA: Well, it would depend upon thefacts. If the assumed facts were identical, then perhapsit would be binding. However, those facts are clearlyassumptions in this particular case.QUESTION: Well, if -- if facts might be proven th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY from the record, courts of appeals routinely givedirections to the trial courts as to how the law is to beapplied, don't they?MR. MONTOYA: That's true, Your Honor. However,that makes this case much less worthy of this Court'sconsideration at this juncture because even though theNinth Circuit is perhaps closer to the district court andhas more judicial resources to resolve those types ofdeclaratory questions, those questions might, once again,be rendered moot in this particular case if the juryconcludes that there was no oral practice and that in factit was made up, or if the jury concludes thatnotwithstanding any oral practice --QUESTION: Well, that's all right, but we would still have achieved what we set out to achieve, and thatis to determine whether the statement of law that theNinth Circuit opinion sets forth is correct or not --MR. MONTOYA: That -- that --QUESTION: -- that if there -- if there is afiring solely by reason of policy, it is nonethelessinvalid as applied to a rehabilitated drug addict. That'san important proposition. We would resolve that one wayor other, even though your case might continue on. Sowhat? We don't care whether your case continues on. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. MONTOYA: Well, in -- in that -- in thatevent, Justice Scalia, the answer --QUESTION: I mean, you care a lot. I know that,but that's -- that's not what's important to us.MR. MONTOYA: I understand. And -- and the answer to Raytheon's petition inthat event would be a resounding yes. The ADA does grantpreferential rehiring rights to an employee who wasterminated for misconduct if four conditions are met. Themisconduct was related to a disability as defined by theADA. The disabled individual in question is rehabilitatedfrom the disabling addiction that this case concerns. AndRaytheon is unable to establish undue hardship as anaffirmative defense. Raytheon is unable to establish business necessity as an -- as a affirmative defense.QUESTION: Undue hardship being under theaccommodation requirement? MR. MONTOYA: Yes. QUESTION: But now, the -- the court of appealsnever got to that.MR. MONTOYA: Well, they -- they didn't get toit using that terminology. However, they did get to it insaying that this uniform rule violated the ADA as appliedto Mr. Hernandez in this particular case. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, but surely, if they had meantthe -- the part of the -- the part of the act thatrequires accommodation, they would have said so. MR. MONTOYA: Well --QUESTION: I mean, you're really kind ofrewriting the court of appeals' opinion, it seems to me. MR. MONTOYA: Well, Your Honor, I don't knowwhether you'd call it a reasonable accommodation or arelaxation of the qualification requirement because the --the ADA, under (b)(), does apply to qualificationstandards, employment tests, or other selection criteriathat screen out or tend to screen out an individual with adisability or a class of individuals. And that's what theNinth Circuit, by any other words, was talking about in this case. There's a -- an alleged, a highly disputedqualification standard that screens out this particularindividual, Mr. Joel Hernandez.QUESTION: What disability would you beaccommodating?MR. MONTOYA: You would be accommodating thedisability of disabling addiction to drugs and alcohol.QUESTION: He doesn't have that disability.MR. MONTOYA: Well, but the ADA --QUESTION: He used to have it but he doesn'thave it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. MONTOYA: But the ADA -- under thedefinition of disability set forth by the ADA, JusticeScalia, someone with a record of a disability is in factdisabled under the statute.QUESTION: He is in fact disabled, but -- butwhat -- what disability of his are you accommodating?MR. MONTOYA: His former -- you're relaxing aqualification standard that would -- that would hinder theentrance of a reformed alcoholic who was disabled underthe statute into the job market, which is the purpose ofthe ADA, not to segregate disabled individuals who canwork from the job market.QUESTION: But when he comes back years later,he's not disabled. I mean, I just don't see how it fits. MR. MONTOYA: Well, it -- it -- JusticeO'Connor --QUESTION: It doesn't fit.MR. MONTOYA: -- it doesn't fit in --QUESTION: No.MR. MONTOYA: -- to the traditional reasonableaccommodation analysis. QUESTION: No. MR. MONTOYA: However, it does fit into thestatute, to the language of the statute, (b)(), thosequalification standards that screen out. Under the ADA, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY those have to be relaxed. Whether you call the relaxationof those standards reasonable accommodation or whether youcall it something else, substantively it's the same thing. It is an accommodation of a qualification standard or arelaxation of a qualification standard based upon aparticularized inquiry regarding an individual applicant. That's what the ADA expressly demands in the language ofthe statute itself, and that's what the Ninth Circuit wastalking about in this case when it said Raytheon's allegeduniform practice violated the ADA. QUESTION: And that's what the Solicitor Generalsays is not really presented in this case, though.MR. MONTOYA: Well, it's hard to say that it'snot presented in this case, Justice Stevens, because the Ninth Circuit addressed that very issue.QUESTION: Well, they didn't address section, though.MR. MONTOYA: Well, it didn't cite , but it-- it --QUESTION: They didn't cite it, and they saidit's not a disparate impact case, too.MR. MONTOYA: And I -- I think what the NinthCircuit meant by that, Justice Stevens, is that we're nottalking about a class of individuals treated disparately.We're talking about one individual who was treated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY discriminatorily. And the ADA also --QUESTION: He's only discriminatorily treatedbecause he's a member of a -- of a specially definedclass, namely, reformed alcoholics and -- and drug-addicted persons. That for that record makes him adisabled person. He's kind of in a unique class.The -- the court of appeals really did not focuson this part of the case.MR. MONTOYA: Well, Your Honor, even thoughthere's that language regarding disparate impact, itnevertheless ruled the way it did and said that this --and -- and in fact, the -- the Ninth Circuit --QUESTION: But the ruling that it adopted, as Iunderstand the statute, really deprived the employer of an opportunity to -- to set forth any of the affirmativedefenses that would be available, business necessity, andso forth.MR. MONTOYA: Well, Your Honor, the employer hadthe ability to assert those affirmative defenses in itscomplaint in the district court, which is part of therecord in this case, and it did not. Undue hardship,business necessity, direct threat, all of those --QUESTION: They don't need to assert thosedefenses if someone was claiming a failure to accommodate,and if that was not what was before the house, they'd have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY no incentive to do that.MR. MONTOYA: Well, clearly, Justice Scalia, Mr.Hernandez was challenging this rule that screened him out,and if in fact --QUESTION: But why do we even get to that? Thisis -- this case is so puzzling on -- for many reasons, butone thing is Medina or Medina said he didn't come up withone shred of proof that he's no longer an addict, and weare permitted -- being an addict is not a disabilitywithin the ADA, being an addict. Being a reformed addictis. So said this employer, look, he sent a letter -- hesent a letter from his church pastor. He sent a letterfrom Alcohol Anonymous. Maybe that shows that he's nolonger an alcoholic, but there's not one thing here that says he's no longer addicted to cocaine. And there -- andI don't -- I didn't find anything either that said that.MR. MONTOYA: Well -- well, Your Honor, I thinkthat if you construe the facts and the inferences in Mr.Hernandez's favor, as you must, Mr. John Lyman's letter,who is the AA sponsor, says that he is in recovery fromaddiction. And if you construe the inferences in Mr.Hernandez's favor on a motion for summary judgment, Ithink that that would also include his addiction fromother substances as well.QUESTION: Even though this is -- this is solely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY from someone who knows him from the alcohol program. Isn't the most logical assumption if he's got a letterfrom an AA counselor, that what they're talking about isalcohol addiction?MR. MONTOYA: Yes, Your Honor. However, becauseAA offers a rehabilitation program for any type of alcoholor substance abuse, I don't think it would really matterin this case if you construe the facts and the inferencesin favor of Mr. Hernandez, as you must, because he was thenon-moving party in the context of a motion for summaryjudgment. QUESTION: The inference you want us to construein his favor is that alcohol means things other thanalcohol. Is that --MR. MONTOYA: Well -- well --QUESTION: Is that a favorable inference, or isit a wild leap into the -- into the dark?MR. MONTOYA: I -- I don't think it's a wildleap into the dark, and I think it's supported by the textof Mr. John Lyman's letter.QUESTION: Where is that letter so we canlook --MR. MONTOYA: It is appendix a, JusticeGinsburg, and it says, Joel attends AA regularly,participates in discussion when appropriate, and is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY maintaining his sobriety, and is in all a good and activemember. Mr. Hernandez is maintaining his sobriety. QUESTION: Sobriety.MR. MONTOYA: That is a general statement. Andthere are many --QUESTION: Really? I -- I -- you -- you referto somebody who's a recovered drug addict as he's nowsober?MR. MONTOYA: Yes, clean and sober.QUESTION: Gee, I don't think so. I think soberis -- refers to drunkenness.MR. MONTOYA: I -- I think it can refer toany --QUESTION: You say a drug addict is stoned. Youdon't say he's --(Laughter.) MR. MONTOYA: Well, I -- I think -- I think thatif someone is not on drugs, someone can be described asclean and sober. Sober means --QUESTION: But in the next paragraph, it says,Alcohol Anonymous has been demonstrated the best recoverytool for alcoholics.MR. MONTOYA: That is true, Justice Ginsburg. QUESTION: And it says he's -- he's committed tothis program, demonstrates his willingness to accept th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY responsibility for his recovery.MR. MONTOYA: But this letter -- this letter isunequivocal that he was in recovery. This letter isunequivocal that he was maintaining his sobriety, and I --and I contend that it is reasonable to believe thatthere's more than -- alcohol is just one form of drug, andalcohol is a drug that impacts sobriety. There are otherdrugs that impact sobriety, and cocaine impacts sobriety. I think that the clear import of this letter is that he isclean and sober in all respects and is takingresponsibility for his recovery in all respects.And the point that Justice Ginsburg brings up isnot a point that the trial court gave any credence to. It's not a point that the court of appeals gave any credence to. And that is really the type of argument thatI would contend should be presented to the jury. And --and that's especially true in this case because Raytheonclaims --QUESTION: Whether or not summary judgmentshould be granted is a question of law, not -- not aquestion of fact. And so the same arguments can be madein -- in every court that's considering it I think. MR. MONTOYA: That is -- that is correct. However, depending upon the weight of the evidence,some -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: The weight of the evidence hasnothing to do with summary judgment. MR. MONTOYA: Well -- well, if -- if there's afactual dispute, Justice Rehnquist, then the summaryjudgment is no longer -- then summary judgment is nolonger appropriate.What I perhaps should have stated is that this-- this letter renders summary judgment inappropriate inreference to the question of whether or not Mr. Hernandezis maintaining his recovery.QUESTION: I thought you were going to say thatthe -- what the plaintiff claimed is a witness. Theplaintiff says, I've had this whatever the -- the momentwas. I reached rock bottom or whatever you called it, and I woke up one day and said no more and ever since thenI've been clean. So the -- so the -- the plaintiff did --that was the only proof. That might not be veryconvincing, but it was a statement --MR. MONTOYA: That -- that is true. That ispart of the record. And moreover and more importantly,that is unrebutted below. At no time in this proceedingsdid Raytheon ever question Mr. Hernandez's rehabilitation. On July th of in his affidavit, Mr. Hernandez saidthat he embraced Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior andforeswear drugs and alcohol. That is in his affidavit. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY That is unrefuted. And more important -- and just as importantly,Raytheon didn't subject him to an IME. Under rule ,hey, you say you're -- you're rehabilitated? Prove it. Let's send you to a physician to let him ascertain that. The question of rehabilitation is in fact a question offact that was not contested in the proceedings below, andin fact --QUESTION: Well, all that adds up to the factthat he was not disabled when he reapplied. He wasn't. MR. MONTOYA: That is correct. QUESTION: And -- and nobody is arguing that hewas. He wasn't disabled. So he doesn't fit under thestatute --MR. MONTOYA: Well --QUESTION: -- as a disabled person. He wasn'tregarded as because he wasn't asked to take a test oranything. I mean, he just doesn't fit under thedefinition of disability in the statute. So --QUESTION: But he had a record of disability,which makes him disabled within the meaning of thestatute.MR. MONTOYA: Yes, that is true, JusticeStevens. And Justice O'Connor, in fact, in GeorgeMedina's letter, he says that there's a complete lack of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY evidence indicating successful drug rehabilitation,indicating that Raytheon believed that he was stilladdicted. And not only does Raytheon say that once in afootnote in its position statement, it also says it again. Mr. --QUESTION: Of course, if he's still addicted,then he's not protected by the act.MR. MONTOYA: Well, they -- it's a false beliefthat they believe he's addicted. And -- and if he'sregarded as taking drugs and alcohol and is -- and isdisabled as a result of that addiction, then he isregarded as disabled under the act, which is exactly whatRaytheon said in writing in its first official statementregarding this case. QUESTION: Mr. Montoya, in your -- you say nowthat you question the existence of such a rule, and yetyou've had an opportunity for discovery in the districtcourt and you didn't try to pursue any kind of disparateimpact. I -- I don't see that you ever asked anyquestions about, well, let's look at this rule. Do youapply it to people who were let go for stealing orwhatever other reasons? You never, never tested the rule.MR. MONTOYA: Your Honor, the rule was tested inthe context of the deposition examination of the only twowitnesses that Raytheon produced who testified about the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY rule: Bockmiller and Medina.And, first of all, no one knew the genesis ofthe rule where -- or -- or not -- they didn't evendescribe it as a rule. In the depositions, they describedit as a practice, and they didn't know the origin of thepractice. They didn't know how often it had been applied. They didn't know why it hadn't been written down.And moreover and -- and very importantly, thisoral practice contradicted Raytheon's written practices. For example, under Raytheon's written rules, a temporaryemployee who tests positive for drugs and alcohol, quote,will have their assignment terminated and will not beeligible for assignment or for regular employment for thesucceeding months. So Raytheon has a written rule that is actually contrary to its alleged oral practice, whichimpeaches the testimony regarding the existence of thewritten rule. If a temporary employee tests positive fordrugs and alcohol, the temporary employee is terminated,but can reapply even for permanent employment -- temporaryor permanent employment within months. That impeachesthe very existence of the alleged oral practice. Infact --QUESTION: I still don't understand why youdidn't follow up those two depositions withinterrogatories, saying what is the origin of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY practice. How long have you had it? To whom have youapplied it? The company certainly would have records ofthe people that they've discharged for cause, how many ofthem had applied to be re-hired.MR. MONTOYA: That's true, Justice Ginsburg. However, that's a two-edged sword. Raytheon also didn'tadduce any evidence of its application to any otherindividual and that would actually be Raytheon's burden. If we, as the Ninth Circuit concluded, established a primafacie case, then it's Raytheon's duty to rebut that primafacie case with some form of evidence. The only evidencethat Raytheon produced in reference to this oral practicewas the testimony of Bockmiller and Medina, and theydidn't adduce any applications of this rule either. So ifyou look at the totality of evidence, actually thatdeficit in the record cuts against Raytheon and in favorof Mr. Hernandez.QUESTION: Mr. Montoya, I -- I hope -- you don'thave much time left. I hope you will -- just give me ananswer to the only question in this case that I careabout. And I don't care about all these factualcontroversies. They can be sorted out later.What is your response to the question of whether-- assuming that this company fired your client -- orrefused to rehire your client because he had been fired th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY for misconduct. Okay? It has a right to do that, and --and it is not a -- an instance of disparate treatment. What is your response? MR. MONTOYA: Your --QUESTION: Is it anything other than the -- theneed for accommodating a disability? Is -- is that theonly reason why it is unlawful?MR. MONTOYA: No, that's not the only reason. If -- if I understand your question, Justice Scalia, it'snot only a question of reasonable accommodation, it's alsoa question of whether or not he's the most qualified. It's also a question of whether or not he constitutes adirect threat or his rehiring would give rise to an unduehardship or was justified by a business necessity. QUESTION: But that's -- that's all -- those areall categories under the need to accommodate. Right?MR. MONTOYA: Yes, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: Apart -- apart -- assuming that --assuming that I don't think that issue was raised in thecase, is there any other reason why it would have beenunlawful, assuming that they were simply implementing apolicy? MR. MONTOYA: Yes, Your Honor. Based upon(b)(), the screen out or tend to screen out, thisscreened out this particular individual, and in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY respect, Justice Scalia, I believe that this case is veryanalogous to the Court's opinion in PGA v. Martin whereyou have a uniform rule that someone claims is not subjectto any exception. I think that this rule violates theADA, as the Ninth Circuit concluded because this rule isthe antithesis of a particularized inquiry that the caselaw demands a disabled applicant or a disabled employeereceive under the Americans with Disability Act.If Your Honors have no further questions, I'llthank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Montoya.Mr. Phillips, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. It seems to me that there are two ways to lookat this case. One is you can simply take the court ofappeals at its word, which is to say we think there's aquestion for -- that -- that defeats summary judgment on aprima facie case, but when we get to the question of whatthe policy is of the -- of the employer in this case,there's no dispute about that, the employer's policy wasapplied, and then address the question of whether or notthat policy is valid under the ADA.I have not heard Mr. Montoya yet attempt to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY defend that -- that holding in the face of a disparatetreatment theory in this case. He puts in disparateimpact under (b)(). He puts in reasonableaccommodation, (b)() and (b)(). Those are notissues that were decided below. They were not the theoryof the court of appeals. This is a decision that has extraordinaryimplications because thousands of employers have preciselythis rule. It is important for this Court to declare thatthat rule is valid. On the secondary question -- and that is, canthe Court get to that question? I think there's no doubtthat the Court ought to just follow the court of appeals'logic on that. But if the Court wanted to look at whetheror not there is a question of fact as to whether or notthis person was discriminated against because of hisdisability, I submit to you that the record does notpermit a jury to make that finding under this Court'sdecision in Reeves. Bockmiller was the decision maker. Shetestified, without contradiction, that she never lookedpast the summary sheet that said he was discharged becauseof conduct, and that was it. And she didn't have to lookbeyond that.Medina testified, without contradiction, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that is the policy that applies. She applied it in theright way. We do it consistently. It would have made nodifference whether he was a thief or whether he wassomebody who used drugs. We applied it that way.Mr. Montoya and his client had years todiscover whether that policy existed, whether it hadexceptions, whether it was applied in any other particularway, and there is not one shred of evidence -- he didn'teven ask those witnesses if there were flaws in the waythey applied it. That is absolutely across the board.The only -- and -- and then, you know, this is apolicy that exists. Thousands of employers use preciselythis policy, which is why frankly it probably isn'twritten down. And so at the end of the day, there is nothingon the other side of this except the one statement thatwas sufficient to justify getting beyond the prima faciestage of this case, but that is not sufficient to justifytaking this to a conclusion or to raise an issue of factas to whether or not he was discriminated against becauseof his disability. He was acted against because heviolated the company policy. That policy is valid underthe ADA, at least as it's been litigated at this point,and for that reason the Court should reverse and enterjudgment in our favor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY If there are no other questions, thank you, YourHonors. Phillips.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 