 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGEORGE H. BALDWIN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -MICHAEL REESE :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GEN. HARDY MYERS, ESQ., Attorney General, Salem, Oregon; on behalf of the Petitioner.DENNIS BALSKE, ESQ., Portland, Oregon; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. HARDY MYERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner DENNIS BALSKE, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGEN. HARDY MYERS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument nowin No. -, George Baldwin v. Michael Reese.General Myers.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. HARDY MYERSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MYERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:When a state prisoner decides to attack hisconviction on the basis of a claimed violation of Federalconstitutional right, your cases have held that he mustfirst alert the state courts he is raising a Federalclaim, if that claim is to be exhausted for Federal habeaspurposes. But what the prisoner must say to the statecourts to tell them he is raising a Federal claimcontinues to be a - a troubled area of Federal habeas law. It is one that has divided the circuits and is producingvery different analyses and results.Some cases are holding that the prisoner mustmake some explicit citation or reference to the Federalsource of his claim. Some cases are holding that aFederal claim has been fairly presented even when - eventhough what the prisoner is saying to the state courtscould as - as - as reasonably be interpreted as stating a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. state law claim. And some courts have held that a Federalclaim is fairly presented even when the statement of theclaim is clearly a claim under state law only.This continuing - and in this - in this case -QUESTION: Well, we're reviewing a Ninth Circuitholding, which seems fairly open-ended. How would youcharacterize the Ninth Circuit rule?MR. MYERS: Your Honor, I was about to describeit is a transformation of the responsibility of the stateprisoner to present his claim, a transformation of thatinto a responsibility of the - of the state court - statecourts to, in effect, step into the shoes of the stateprisoner and complete or try to complete an incompletelypresented claim.This - this overall division among the circuitsand this case from the Ninth Circuit, we think, YourHonors, illustrates or confirms very strongly the need forfurther clarification by this Court as to exactly whatmust be said by -QUESTION: Well, do you agree with your opponentshere on at least some of the ground rules that wouldsuffice? I mean, is it enough to cite a Federalconstitutional provision or a Federal statute or otherprovision describing the right as Federal? You're both inagreement that would do? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MYERS: Yes. We believe that is so, so longas -QUESTION: How about if you cite at least a - areported case that has decided the claim on a Federalbasis? You make your claim and cite a case that -MR. MYERS: Yes -QUESTION: - clearly has decided the claim on aFederal basis. Is that - you're both in agreement thatwould do?MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honors, so -QUESTION: And what if a - a claim is spelled outthat necessarily must be based on a Federal right to existat all?MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor, that is part of thetest that we propose -QUESTION: Why yes? I don't understand that. I mean, why is it necessarily a Federal claim? It'snecessarily a Federal claim only if it's a valid claim. It might be an erroneous state claim.MR. MYERS: Well, we are referring tonecessarily, Your Honor, in the sense that the - thesource of the claim, that is its Federal source, is -QUESTION: Who -QUESTION: But the - the -MR. MYERS: - is unmistake - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: He hasn't read the state constitution. He - he makes a due process claim. Now, you're - you'regoing to say, since there is no Due Process Clause in thestate constitution, but there is in the FederalConstitution, we must assume it's a Federal claim. Why? It may be an erroneous state claim.MR. MYERS: Your Honor, we think that the statecourt -QUESTION: And I don't want to have to go throughthe trouble of figuring out whether there's a valid stateclaim. I - I mean, this is going to require a Federalcourt every time there's such a claim to go through statelaw and determine whether there is anything to this understate law. Why should - why should we do that? Why, Imean, why aren't your first two requirements enough? Lookat - cite a Federal case, cite a Federal provision. Is -is this an enormous burden?MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor, and we would be quitecontent -QUESTION: So why do you want to add anything toit? I - I don't - I don't really understand going beyondthat.QUESTION: Let me ask you the other - thecontrary question. Suppose the - the prisoner alleges, Ihad a lawyer who didn't even graduate from law school, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because I had such a law - lousy lawyer, I lost the caseand I'm in jail, and I would be innocent if I were not injail, but he doesn't cite any cases or any constitutionalprovision. Would that have - present a Federal claim?MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor. Inasmuch as -QUESTION: You don't think so?MR. MYERS: Not - not necessarily -QUESTION: Yeah, but if he added, and therefore,it violated the Federal Constitution, then it would be aFederal claim?MR. MYERS: Your Honor, it would - the - aFederal source of the claim would have been identified,but, of course, whatever further clarification the Courtmight consider adopting or adopt, the balance of thestatement of the claim also has to meet the requirementsof fair presentation.QUESTION: But why - why doesn't the state judgeknow he's raising a claim of inadequate assistance ofcounsel that violates the Federal Constitution? Doesn'tthat give the state judge a fair opportunity to decide theFederal question?MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor, because thedescription of the claim that you just gave, apart fromwhether it's factually adequate or whatever could as -could equally address, or state a claim under state law. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, certainly -QUESTION: But that anybody knows -QUESTION: - but the question is whether itstates a Federal claim that has been exhausted. Doesn'tit also state a Federal claim?MR. MYERS: Not necessarily, Your Honor.QUESTION: I - I thought the Federal standards -and I was going to get into this, but let's do it inrelation to Justice Stevens' hypothetical - I thought theFederal standards and the state standards for adequateassistance of counsel were - were in substance the same,and in, you know, in Oregon. And - and if they are thesame, why is it unfair to the state or to the state courtsto construe a - a - a statement like the one JusticeStevens just read, as stating a Federal as well as a stateclaim? The court is going to do the same thing no matterhow it construes it.MR. MYERS: Your Honor, when state judicialauthority is invoked to address a claim before it, it's ofparamount importance for that court to know whether it isaddressing a state claim -QUESTION: No, my -QUESTION: Well, we - we need to lay down a rule,I think, that is - can be applied generally and not justto Oregon, so that, of course, a peculiarity of Oregon law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ought not to control what we're trying to do in making amore general statement.MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor, and I would like to -QUESTION: May - maybe I didn't make my - mypoint. My - my point was, if a claim is stated as amatter of fact, which under the law of the state and thelaw of the United States is governed by identicalstandards, what is unfair about construing that as aFederal as well as a state claim, regardless of what labelis put on it?MR. MYERS: And, Your Honor, as I was saying afew moments ago, it - the answer to that goes to the fact- or rests on the fact that the state court's authority toaddress a state law-based claim is very different, ofcourse, from its authority to address a Federal law-basedclaim. It has the ability to judge and decide the statelaw claim any way it - it thinks is correct under statelaw. It must, of course, in the relation to a Federalclaim, follow the precedents faithfully of this Court -QUESTION: No, but I'm - my - the - the - my - myquestion assumed that the - that the substantive lawgoverning the claim was the same under - under the statesystem and under the Federal system. So my assumption isthat you're going to get the same result, and the resultis going to be equally right or equally wrong, regardless th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of - of - of whether you construe it as a state claim anda Federal claim.MR. MYERS: But, Your Honor, the - the - theauthority issue is crucial, because if the state courtdoes not know whether it, in fact, has a state law claimbefore it, it does not know whether it has the prerogativein that case to change the rule.QUESTION: Suppose -QUESTION: Well, it -QUESTION: - Oregon had said in prior decisions,as states sometimes do in dealing with constitutionalprovisions, we interpret inadequate assistance of counselin our state to be strictly in tune with the way theSupreme Court interprets inadequate or ineffectiveassistance of counsel. That is, our state standard is thesame, identical, to the Federal, so there isn't any doubtabout there being a difference between the state law andthe Federal law. The - the state supreme court has said,we take our lead from the Federal definition.MR. MYERS: Your Honor, I - I would still assertrespectfully that the - the - the clarity with which theclaim is presented in terms of making clear whether thereis a state claim or a Federal claim present is still ofgreat importance, because the state court can still changeits decision with respect to the state claim if it is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. state claim.QUESTION: Sure it can, but the question is, whatdoes it know when it sets out to adjudicate the case? Isit fairly on notice at day one on a premise like JusticeGinsburg's that the claim is equally state or Federal? And it seems to me that on a premise like hers, of coursethe state can fairly say the law is the same, doesn'tmatter at this point whether - whether I call it state orwhether I call it Federal, so it's fair to assume it'sboth. If the state court, let's say the state supremecourt, later on says, we think we'll change our rule, thenall the state court has to do is to say, the claim iseither good or bad under Federal law and this - the resultis now going to be different under state law. But thestate courts at each stage on a premise like JusticeGinsburg is fairly on notice of what it has to decide. There's no unfairness to it. That's the point that we'regetting at, and I - and I don't understand your answerwhen you say it's important for them to know the source ifthere's no unfairness.MR. MYERS: Well, Your Honor, with respect, we dothink that there is unfairness if it is not absolutely andexplicitly clear to the court that a Federal claim isbeing presented by a state court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: You mean because it's just nice toknow?MR. MYERS: No, because it -QUESTION: It doesn't make any difference in thelaw. It doesn't make any difference in - in the standardsby which they would go about adjudicating it.MR. MYERS: But it could, in the sense that theymight want to change their position or interpretation withrespect to state law.QUESTION: Yes, but that - the change in positionto allow the claim. But we're only concerned with casesin which the state has denied relief. If you could - ifthe state grants relief, there's no exhaustion problem. He got the relief.MR. MYERS: That's true, Your Honor.QUESTION: And so if he's denied relief withoutknowing whether it's Federal or state, is there anypossibility that if it were refiled, and clearly namedFederal Constitution as the background, he would thengrant relief?MR. MYERS: I'm not sure, Your Honor. I don'tthink so.QUESTION: I don't see how it could possiblyhappen. If the rules are the same, he made aconscientious examination, they claim, and said, you lose. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. If he came back and added the words, cited some Federalcase, he'd still lose. So why hasn't the state had a fairopportunity to consider that claim and the interests ofFederal is in par not, why are they not accommodated bythat - by just saying, if you - if you made a claim that'sclearly Federal on its facts and you've had a chance todecide it, why - why shouldn't that - that not count - besufficient exhaustion?MR. MYERS: Well, because we think at - again,Your Honor, we think - not only do I still feel theauthority issue, very respectfully, is important, but alsoour whole approach toward fair presentation of Federalclaims places a choice on the petitioner to make as towhether or not to assert a Federal claim.QUESTION: General Myers, doesn't the burden onthe habeas court have anything to do with this? If - ifthis hypothesis is adopted, the habeas court will have to,I suppose, consider the facts and determine whether thatstatement of facts makes out a Federal claim or not, thingone. Thing two, the Federal habeas court will then haveto examine state court, a state law, to assure itself thatstate law and Federal law, with regard to this matter, areexactly the same.And all of this is in order to save the habeaspetitioner what burden? The burden of saying Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. claim when he files his - his complaint. What - does itseem to you a close question who should bear that burden?MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: How often are these habeas -MR. MYERS: There is -QUESTION: - petitioners represented by counselin Oregon? Is this - are - is counsel regularly appointedfor Federal habeas petitioners?MR. MYERS: For Federal habeas?QUESTION: Right.MR. MYERS: Yes, I - well, like indigent Federalhabeas, yes, I believe so, Your Honor. QUESTION: You don't know that?QUESTION: In - in the state courts?MR. MYERS: Oh, I'm sorry. I - I -QUESTION: In - in the Federal court you thinkthey're routinely appointed by the state?MR. MYERS: No, not -QUESTION: A Federal habeas petitioner?MR. MYERS: In Federal court, no, Your Honor. They - they are -QUESTION: No.MR. MYERS: They would -QUESTION: It would be up to the Federal rules.MR. MYERS: - they would probably be Federal, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. yes. But they are -QUESTION: And must - must the petitioner seekinghabeas relief also fairly present the factual basis forthe claim?alone?MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Was that done here?MR. MYERS: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: And did the state point that outMR. MYERS: No, Your Honor. In the - in thehabeas proceedings in the district court, we focusedsolely on the issue of the adequacy of that - of theidentification of the claim as Federal in nature.QUESTION: Well, but if the petition contains nofacts, you wouldn't point that out? I - I don'tunderstand.MR. MYERS: Your Honor -QUESTION: Why wouldn't you say, but there are nofacts? MR. MYERS: Your Honor, in this case, we made achoice to concentrate or focus on the issue of the - ofthe sufficiency of the - of the identification of theclaim as Federal, and we maintained that as the focus andthat was the - the focus of the petition, of course, for -QUESTION: And you want us to decide this case on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the assumption that facts were presented when indeed nonewere?MR. MYERS: In this case, yes, Your Honor,inasmuch as we have not appealed from - we have not madethat an issue below and appealed from it. We have askedfor review solely confined to the issue of the adequate -the adequacy of the - of the sufficiency of the - of theidentification of the claim as Federal in nature. If Icould --QUESTION: May I - may I go back to the questionQUESTION: Just to make it clear where - whereyour - what your rule is, the very asset Justice O'Connorsaid, does it suffice if you cite a constitutionalprovision, a case, a - a formulation. And then we hadanother discussion, but that was only part of your test,because you also, I take it, assert that you - that thepetitioner must set forth the factual basis for its claim- for his claim? MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: So that that's a two-part test. It -and it seems to me that in some cases it's going to befairly obvious what the facts are and in some cases it'sfairly obvious what the legal standard is, and depending. In the case that Justice Stevens puts, where he alleges th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. just the facts that his - that his lawyer was not even alawyer and - and indicates why it was ineffective, but -but doesn't cite a Federal provision, it seems to me anyjudge knows you have to have adequate assistance ofcounsel under the Sixth Amendment, and that in the caseput by Justice Stevens, it is simply a formalisticrequirement.Now, it may be that you're going to say,although it's formalistic in some cases, it's necessary torun the habeas system that we have this rule. Is - is -is the latter your position?MR. MYERS: It - well, Your Honor, we don't -yes. We don't believe that it's formalistic inasmuch as aclaim so described could equally describe a violation of,conceivably, I suppose, state statute, but certainly astate constitution. And I think it's at the very heart ofthe whole notion of - of - of Federalism or comity, asapplied in habeas, that this Court enforce the realitythat we have state constitutions that are offeringprotections -QUESTION: We certainly enforce it with respectto people raising claims in our Court. We require veryspecifically that they refer to a specific source ofFederal law before we will even decide it.MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor. I would - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: How does the case decided, theFitzgerald case, which is cited in page of the redbrief, it was just last term, when - when this Court saidthat the Court would consider a state court decision asrelying on Federal grounds sufficient to support thisCourt's jurisdiction, if under the state's decisional law,the state and the Federal constitutional claim are treatedidentically, the content of the right is treatedidentically.That - that decision from just last term says,you've got a claim out there and it's a constitutionalclaim and the Federal law and state law are identical, thecontent of the law is identical, we will treat it asFederal. That was a decision just from last term.MR. MYERS: I - I may have misunderstood the -that interpretation, Your Honor, because I thought thiswas still a very much open question as to whether -QUESTION: This was not in the habeas context.MR. MYERS: Yes, I understand. And in the habeascontext -QUESTION: And it - what I read to you is - isfrom the decision itself. The Court will consider a statecourt decision as relying upon Federal grounds sufficientto support the Court's jurisdiction. That is, when thestate courts have in other cases declared that they will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. apply the same analysis in considering the stateconstitutional claim as the Federal courts would, I thinkin that case it was equal protection. But the - the Court- that was critical to the Court's deciding that case lastterm.MR. MYERS: Well, if I am understanding itcorrectly, Your Honor, I would very much advocate for theCourt not extending - I'm understanding it correctly - notextending that - that doctrine or view, if you will, intothe habeas context. QUESTION: It had to do with jurisdiction, notwith pleading. There was pled in the case a violation ofFederal law. There was no doubt that the person beforethe Court was claiming a violation of Federal law. Whatthe case held was that there is jurisdiction because the -we will assume that the state court made a ruling on aquestion of Federal law where it relies on state law thatlooks to Federal cases. That's quite different from thepleading question that you have before you.QUESTION: May I ask you what you understand tobe the purpose of the exhaustion requirement?MR. MYERS: It is, Your Honor, to assure that thestates have a meaningful first response - opportunity toconsider Federal attacks on their convictions, and to -QUESTION: Do you - do you think the hypothetical th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that I gave you would give a state court a meaningfulopportunity to decide the Federal question?MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Then it would seem we would follow theexhaustion requirement is satisfied.MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: May I go back to the question ofappointment of counsel? Is counsel routinely appointedfor state petitioners in the state courts of Oregon -MR. MYERS: Yes, Your Honor, by statute -QUESTION: - for state habeas -MR. MYERS: In the post-conviction reliefprocess, yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. MYERS: Always, by statute. There is onefurther reason also I'd like to mention to the Court fornot adopting a view that generally says, if a statecourt's interpretation of a particular assertion of - of a- of a right, and the Federal interpretation are the same,therefore the Federal claim has been presentedautomatically. And that is that I think that represents avery transitory rule for the Court to adopt inasmuch asthe state interpretation of its own law could change at agiven point in time, and thus, in a given jurisdiction,what was congruent ceases to be congruent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. This Court's interpretation of Federal law couldchange so that, again, where there might have beencongruencies before, they - they have now becomeincongruent, and -QUESTION: Don't you think it's likely thatFederal judges sitting in the state would be aware ofthose changes?MR. MYERS: Yes, I think they would be aware ofthem, Your Honor. But also to come back to a point thatJustice Scalia made, it - there could be also renewed andfurther issues as to whether there has been a change,whether they are congruent or not congruent -QUESTION: But are you thinking of changes thatare favorable to the claimant or favorable to the state?MR. MYERS: Well, I think it could go either way,Your Honor.QUESTION: But certainly if it's favorable to theclaimant, it couldn't cause any harm. It's only if youmake it narrower that it would make a difference.MR. MYERS: Yes.QUESTION: I guess in every case where theFederal habeas court has some doubt whether a Federalclaim was raised, the Federal habeas court, that is, whereit is not explicitly stated, the Federal habeas court willhave to inquire into state law to see whether it is indeed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. congruent with Federal law. Isn't that right?MR. MYERS: Yes, that's correct. Any event, withthe present state of the law within the circuits, and inlight of the Ninth Circuit's decision, Your Honors, wevery much hope that this Court will take the opportunityin this case to both reaffirm that it is the petitioner'sresponsibility to set forth, to choose and to set forthhis Federal claim as Federal, and that you will providefurther guidance as to how that must occur. That furthersclarification can certainly work to serve all theinterests that are at stake here, a true meaningfulopportunity for the states to be able to - to have thefirst opportunity to decide the Federal questions.It can reduce the amount of litigation that isoccurring around the exhaustion issue, and, I think - and- and save precious resources, and I think, Your Honors,that a clear, further - a further clarification of therule will actually serve the interests of petitioners bymake - bringing meritorious Federal claims to - todecision more - sooner and more consistently.QUESTION: What was wrong with the NinthCircuit's position, at least with respect to theintermediate appellate court? That is, it's reviewing adecision of a court below. That court below has Federalwritten all over it. Why isn't that a - a reasonable th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. assumption that the - that the intermediate appellatecourt where there is jurisdiction as a matter of right,it's reviewing a decision, it's bound to read thatdecision?MR. MYERS: Actually, Your Honor, in the petitionfor review in Oregon, the decision of the court below isincluded, but that in this case was a summary affirmanceof the - of the trial court's decision.QUESTION: Well, you're talking about the court -the Supreme Court of Oregon. I think Justice Ginsburg wasasking about the Oregon Court of Appeals.MR. MYERS: Yes, that's -QUESTION: The - the appeal from the trial courtto the court of appeals.MR. MYERS: I beg your pardon, Your Honor. Well,insofar as that stage is concerned, the - the - the papersthat were submitted to the court of appeals did not adviseor tell that court that a Federal question was beingraised, a Federal claim was being raised. There wassimply a claim of inadequate assistance of appellatecounsel, but there was no indication that - whether thatwas a state claim, state law-based claim or a Federal law-based claim.And both state and Federal law-based claims ofinadequate assistance of appellate counsel had been - had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. been raised in the - in the - in the petition at the trialstage.QUESTION: Do you wish to reserve the rest ofyour time, General Myers?MR. MYERS: I do. Thank you.QUESTION: Very well.Mr. Balske, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DENNIS BALSKEON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BALSKE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:We have a narrow question of fair presentationhere, and it isn't a great effort for the courts, I don'tbelieve, in Mr. Reese's case, to go searching to find thathe did fairly present. We start out by going to the PCRpetition itself, which alleges the violation both underthe state and Federal Constitution. It mentions the Sixthand Fourteenth Amendments. And then, when the -QUESTION: You're talking about the trial court,correct?MR. BALSKE: Yes, I am. And when -QUESTION: You have to - you agree you have topresent the claim all the way up through the state?MR. BALSKE: I do, I do. And when the trialcourt decides it, we go right into the Oregon clear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. statement rule. Oregon post-conviction is designed to letthe appellate courts know the basis of those trial courtrulings, so we have the clear statement rule under..QUESTION: Well, there were - there were two -there was a petition and an amended position, as I recall. MR. BALSKE: Correct.QUESTION: Correct me if I'm wrong.MR. BALSKE: You're right.QUESTION: And the - the original petition didnot recite the - the factual basis to support the claim. That was only in the amended petition, and the amendedpetition was not - the amended petition, I - I take it,please correct me if I'm wrong, was - was the one in whichthe allegation of conflict of interest and the precisereasons for it was cited. That seems to drop out of thecase because then it's not - that amended petition, whichcontained the factual basis, is - is not incorporated orcited to the court of - the state court of appeals.MR. BALSKE: Well, well the - the way it works inPCR is the court, under the pleadings, decides the casebased on the first amended petition. That's the one thatstates the legal basis of the claim under the Federal andstate Constitution. That's the one that the judgment ofthe state trial court made and - and relied on. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. So under the clear statement rule, then, when itmade its decision and cited a Federal ground, underOregon's clear statement rule, we have a decision onFederal grounds at that -QUESTION: No, you're - you're - you refer to aclear statement rule. Is that a rule of Oregon law -MR. BALSKE: Yes.QUESTION: - or a rule of Federal law?MR. BALSKE: That is a rule of Oregon law, andthat -QUESTION: And what does - what does it - whatdoes that - what's the case for it, and what does it say?MR. BALSKE: It's not a case, it's astatute. QUESTION: Okay.MR. BALSKE: It's .. It's at the state'sbrief in the appendix at page , and it reads as follows,quote, the order making final disposition of the petitionshall state clearly the grounds upon which the cause wasdetermined, and whether a state or Federal question, orboth, was presented and decided.And in Mr. Reese's case, the trial courtfollowed that rule and filed a memorandum of opinion thatcited that its decision of the ineffectiveness claim wason Federal grounds only. And then Mr. - then Mr. Reese th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. appeals.QUESTION: Did - did - did the order of theOregon trial court specify the facts upon which theFederal claim was -MR. BALSKE: No.QUESTION: - was based?MR. BALSKE: No. But again, that's not beforethe Court in the issue presented, and that issue waswaived by the state in the Ninth Circuit. They abandonedany position that Mr. Reese's claim wasn't sufficientlyfactually based, and we're presented with the question offair presentation, whether or not he indicated -QUESTION: Well, all right, but it wasn't, okay? I mean, I'm in an appeals court, I've a lot to do -MR. BALSKE: Right.QUESTION: - thousands of cases. There arejudgments of all sorts below. I don't read the judgmentswhen I have thousands of cases. I look and see, what isthis individual complaining about?MR. BALSKE: Right.QUESTION: So I look to see what the argumentsare that he's making that the lower court made a mistake. Now, if I was in the Supreme Court of Oregon, and Ithought, but I lost this, that you shouldn't have topresent it in the Supreme Court of Oregon, but the rule is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you do.MR. BALSKE: Right.QUESTION: All right? Well, I'm there as a busyjudge, I look at it, he makes no mention of the Federalclaim, goodbye, that's the end of it. I don't look up atthe Federal claim. So - what - what - why - how could wehold to the contrary?MR. BALSKE: There - let - let me help you there. If you will turn to the - page of the joint appendix,what you're going to find there is the petition for reviewto the Oregon Supreme Court. And when you get to page ,and and across, what you see is it follows thestandard form, it's in proper form, nothing more.But when you turn the page, as a busy judgeyou're scanning, as you're talking about, and you look andyou say, what's it about, is this a state case or aFederal case, look on the first page, , index ofauthorities, constitutions. Only one, the FederalConstitution, four constitutional amendments cited, Fifth,Sixth, Eight, Fourteenth -QUESTION: But all that tells me is thatsomewhere in this brief they're cited, that's the table ofauthorities they cite. That isn't what the argument is. MR. BALSKE: And - well -QUESTION: So if I'm going to look to see what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the argument is, I'll try to turn the page and -MR. BALSKE: A judge -QUESTION: - where does it say he's making theargument -MR. BALSKE: You're not going to look for anargument because you're an Oregon Supreme Court judge, andunder the Oregon Supreme Court rule, I'm - yeah,.()(A)(v), the petitioner only presents a briefargument if he wants to, it's optional. You don't putargument into a petition for a review, so -QUESTION: Do you have to have your reasons whythey're wrong and so on?MR. BALSKE: Yes, and in -QUESTION: Where is that?MR. BALSKE: - that's where we turn to the nextpage, , statement of legal questions presented onreview. We - we see on the page across from the FederalConstitution, ineffectiveness - ineffective assistance ofboth trial court and appellate court counsel. The nextparagraph, statement of reasons for reversal of court ofappeals. Again we see ineffective assistance of bothtrial court and appellate court counsel.So, it - we're scanning it, we're busy, we'rejust trying to decide whether we're going to review thecase. We're not deciding it on the merits. We've got a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Federal case. We've got a Federal issue. It's presentedby Mr. Reese.QUESTION: I see.QUESTION: I - I couldn't possibly tell from thiswhat - what the case was about, other than some free-floating ineffective assistance of counsel case.MR. BALSKE: And that -QUESTION: And - and are you saying that Oregonrules make it optional as to whether he's going to tell mewhat the case is about?MR. BALSKE: Yeah, what - well, whether you'regoing to brief it, whether you're going to present legalargument. It's optional under -QUESTION: But there are no facts. I mean, ifyou're in the Federal habeas court, why aren't you justout right there for having no facts?MR. BALSKE: Because the state waived thatdefense in this case. I'm - I - that's just the way -QUESTION: But it - but the point is -MR. BALSKE: I'm sorry.QUESTION: - as I understand my colleague'squestion, if the judge sees that there are no facts setout, why doesn't the judge just say, you're out of here?MR. BALSKE: The judge might say that, but thejudge would say that in the context of a Federal question, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a Federal issue presented of ineffective assistance ofcounsel under the Federal Constitution.QUESTION: But think he would say that on thebasis of Oregon procedural law that -MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: - you - you just haven't saidanything.MR. BALSKE: Well, I don't - well, it'sconjecture what they would have decided or thought. What's critical here is what was presented, the questiontoday is what was presented versus -QUESTION: Okay. What - what - what is thehardship for a - for a petitioner in PCR Oregon -MR. BALSKE: Sure.QUESTION: - to either say, I'm relying onsection, you know, article XIV of the United StatesConstitution, or I'm relying on some Federal case. Imean, that - that just seems a very minimal requirement.MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: What's - what's hard about that?MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: Could - can you answer that?MR. BALSKE: I - I can answer it by saying thatthe prisoners are pretty ignorant. Their lawyers in thestate post-conviction system, bless their souls, are not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the sharpest lawyers in the world.QUESTION: Well, you - how sharp do you have tobe to figure that out?MR. BALSKE: Well, tell you what, let me give youthe perfect example in this case. Turn to page of thestate's brief for its application of the rule. Here's howsharp you have to be. Now, I think if you read the coverof the brief, we see that five lawyers, including theattorney general of Oregon have -QUESTION: No, where - are - are you reading fromsome - in the brief?MR. BALSKE: Yes. I'm sorry. Please look at thetop and then look at number IIA and read their language,alert the state court to the Federal legal source of theclaim by, A, citing to the Sixth Amendment, quote, myappellate attorney violated my right to effectiveassistance of counsel under the Sixth Amendment. I'msorry, you didn't pick that up. It's page -QUESTION: Go ahead.MR. BALSKE: If Mr. Reese followed the formulawritten by the attorney general, he would fail their test,because the right to ineffective assistance of appellatecounsel comes under the Fourteenth Amendment, not theSixth Amendment. But the state's attorney generals, whoare writing the test for you, can't even get it right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. How is a poor indigent prisoner going to know how to saythe right number? I mean -QUESTION: Touche.(Laughter.)MR. BALSKE: I - I think, Justice O'Connor -QUESTION: I - I think it's - it's - it's commonto, you know, you've heard of the incorporation doctrine,which is that the Fourteenth Amendment incorporates andapplies to the states the first ten amendments, or atleast portions of the first ten amendments. MR. BALSKE: But -QUESTION: So it is not inaccurate to say that -that it's a Sixth Amendment right, which has been appliedto the states via the Fourteenth.MR. BALSKE: I thought when we're talking aboutappellate counsel, though, the Sixth Amendment doesn'tcover it, because the Sixth Amendment doesn't give you theright to effective counsel on your appeal, only at trial. And the Fourteenth Amendment equal protection and dueprocess are what actually cover them. So, if - if you'reclaiming ineffective assistance of appellate, not trial,appellate counsel, it is Fourteenth Amendment, it's notSixth Amendment.QUESTION: What would happen if the Oregonconstitution happened to contain the right in the same th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. number amendment, like the Sixth was - they were bothSixth Amendment. Then you have to say Sixth Amendment ofthe Federal Constitution?MR. BALSKE: Well, the - it - the trouble here,the heart -QUESTION: Or is this - is this one of the onesthat it doesn't contain it in the Oregon constitutionSixth Amendment so this is one of the ones that, bynecessity, must refer to.MR. BALSKE: No. This isn't one of those,because that's at article I, section , it doesn't. Sothis isn't the easy case, this is a -QUESTION: But the - the court of appeals -MR. BALSKE: - tougher case.QUESTION: - thought that the only way in whichthis claim was properly presented was if they adopted, thecourt of appeals adopted the rule, that the state court isdeemed to have read and understood the proceedings in thetrial court. Am I - am I right about -MR. BALSKE: I think they said that and -QUESTION: - that formulation of the rule?MR. BALSKE: I think they said that, and I don'tthink you have to go that far to find that Mr. Reesefairly presented his claim.QUESTION: Well, do you defend that as the test? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BALSKE: I'm -QUESTION: It - it's a - do you defend -MR. BALSKE: No.QUESTION: - the Ninth Circuit's -MR. BALSKE: I don't.QUESTION: - articulated test?MR. BALSKE: I do not defend the Ninth Circuit'stest. I only defend the judgment.QUESTION: In your -MR. BALSKE: I only say to you he fairlypresented the claim in this case.QUESTION: Right. In - in your opinion, as alawyer who, I take it, is involved in these things -MR. BALSKE: Yes.QUESTION: - is there really a big problem ofdifferences among the lower circuits - among the lowercourts? To what extent do we have to find a rule? I takeit the rule now is called fair presentation?MR. BALSKE: Correct.QUESTION: And there are dozens of ways it couldbe done. And so the court is just like - supposed to lookat the individual circumstance, say was it done, was itnot done? Here you think it was done because the wholething's two pages, they refer to the Federal Constitutionin the - in the citation of authorities, and they have no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. particular, et cetera. All right. Now, is there aproblem or isn't there a problem among the circuits inapplying this fair presentation test?MR. BALSKE: Well, if the - the - there aredifferences in the circuits, so I can't disagree -QUESTION: Is it - are they real differences interms of what counts or -MR. BALSKE: Well, I -QUESTION: - are they just differences in -MR. BALSKE: - I don't think they are in thesense of, although I know this Court likely views theNinth Circuit as quote, unquote, a liberal circuit ofsorts, when you read their opinion here, they were beingvery conservative. They're saying Duncan v. Henryapplies. Under Duncan you must state it at every level ofthe proceedings. I mean, they -QUESTION: But that - that's a Ninth Circuitcase, isn't it, the - Duncan against Henry?MR. BALSKE: Yes, it is. It is.QUESTION: It's not a case from this Court?MR. BALSKE: No, I was talking about -QUESTION: But - but the only -MR. BALSKE: - they were applying your DuncanQUESTION: But the only way in which they could th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. decision. sustain their judgment was to adopt this rule of - thatthe appellate court has the duty, or is presumed to haveunderstood what happened in the trial court. You seem toagree that your case doesn't have to turn on that. TheNinth Circuit, I thought, said that the case turned onthat proposition. Otherwise, it was not going to make it.And - and I just have to - I can't speak for mycolleagues -MR. BALSKE: Right.QUESTION: - but the - the petition that you readme at the appendix, where that just cites the Federalconstitutional provision and then says ineffective ofcounsel - ineffective assistance of counsel - does notgive the court any clue as to what it's supposed to do -MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: - other than to review a record.MR. BALSKE: Well - sorry.QUESTION: And - and - and I had thought theexhaustion requirement was designed to give the court someassistance in determining whether or not it showed -should spend more time with the case in order to reviewthe record, in other words, said that counsel had aconflict of interest because of marriage or something. Itwould have been - it would have - it would have beentriggered - a - a - a more specific review by the district th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. court. And it just - by the - by the state appellatecourt - and it just didn't have that information.MR. BALSKE: Well, what the purpose of theexhaustion rule is to give him a fair opportunity todecide it. And when you're talking about petitions forreview, it's a little different because it's not yourbrief on the merits where they're actually deciding -QUESTION: But we get thousands of cases aroundhere that just says Fifth Amendment, ineffectiveassistance of counsel. That gives us very, very littlehelp.MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: Sixth Amendment.MR. BALSKE: - here - here we're talking aboutineffective assistance of counsel. We're talking about itwith an Oregon statute that required the Oregon court toeven tell the appellate courts whether it had been decidedunder the state or the Federal Constitution. And herethey said this was decided under Federal. And then whenhe uses ineffective, I know that that's less thansatisfying, but in Oregon too, if you look in the state'sbrief, I think, at page , footnote , what you're goingto find there is Oregon's - the State of Oregon's positionon what a inmate means when he says ineffectiveness.There it says that in applying article I, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. section of the Oregon constitution, quote, Oregoncourts often refer to inadequate assistance of counselinstead of ineffective assistance of counsel, the termusually employed by the state and Federal courts inapplying the analogous provision of the FederalConstitution.So as the Oregon courts are reading thepleadings, the definition we're looking at, ineffectiveassistance of counsel, the term usually employed by thestate and Federal courts. We're giving, factual partsaside, which aren't with this case at this point, legalonly, the Oregon courts were fairly presented with theFederal question because -QUESTION: Well, it seems to me that argumentthat you're making now that inadequate is the buzzword fora state claim, ineffective for a Federal claim, is atleast in tension with your argument that - that in - withrespect to ineffective assistance of counsel, the state -the content of the state standard and - is identical tothe Federal. So these labels don't mean anything if thecontent is identical, so how -MR. BALSKE: Right. Well, I - all I'm, I guess Iinartfully stated it. I - the position I wanted toconvey, and I didn't, is that we started out with a clearFederal claim, and when he used ineffective twice more in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. his appeals, he did nothing at all to dispel anybody ofthe fact that it was a Federal case. It started outFederal and he had allegations under state and FederalConstitution. It got decided Federal and then he saidineffectiveness. He gave no indication that he wasnarrowing the case at all.And a good contrast is another Ninth Circuit enbanc case, Peterson, because Peterson raised it just likeMr. Reese initially, under both constitutions. He raisedit again that way in the appellate court. But when he gotto his petition for review, he indicated that, to theOregon Supreme Court, that he was going on the stateconstitution, because he only said in his petition forreview that this violated article I, section of theOregon constitution.That's a contrast, and much - and he, as theNinth Circuit held, did not exhaust his state remedies,because he didn't give the Oregon Supreme Court the fairopportunity, because what he did was he took their eyesand led them over to the state constitution. And Mr.Reese didn't do that.QUESTION: Well, if you - you say that the NinthCircuit approach to this was wrong, which - which seems tobe anchored in, if it's clear that the court of firstinstance relied on the Federal ground, that stays with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case all the way up. You - you reject that, or you say,you - you are asking us to affirm the judgment, not thatreasoning. What is your reasoning? What is enough?MR. BALSKE: Sure. My reasoning is that it'sfairly presented when a state inmate clearly articulatesit under the Federal Constitution, and then continues toappeal that judgment without indicating in any waywhatsoever that he's relying on anything but the FederalConstitution.QUESTION: But may I -QUESTION: Then I don't see how that differs fromthe Ninth Circuit -QUESTION: That's the Ninth Circuit.QUESTION: - because you have to start with thecourt of first instance, and you seem to be saying thatthe court of first instance relies on a Federal groundthat stays with the case.MR. BALSKE: That - I - that's true. I agreewith that portion of it. I guess maybe I -QUESTION: I thought you said before that youwere not defending the - the Ninth Circuit's approach.MR. BALSKE: I -QUESTION: Now you tell me you are. I thoughtyou were relying upon the statement in the - in the briefto the supreme court that he was relying upon - upon the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Federal Constitution.MR. BALSKE: That's correct.QUESTION: And I was going to ask you if you'rerelying on that now, why didn't you rely on it in yourbrief in opposition? The question presented by the statewas, does a state prisoner alert the state's highest courtthat he is raising a Federal claim when, in that court, heneither cites a specific provision of the FederalConstitution nor cites at least one authority that hasdecided the claim on a Federal basis? Why - why didn't -MR. BALSKE: I did -QUESTION: - you respond to that -MR. BALSKE: I did, but I -QUESTION: - by simply saying the question is notpresented because, in fact, he did cite a specificprovision of the Constitution? MR. BALSKE: I did, but I didn't -QUESTION: I mean, we're wasting our time here if- if you want us to decide whether this brief -MR. BALSKE: It's -QUESTION: - you know, contains the - the SixthAmendment or not. The question we granted cert on is,does he alert it when he neither - neither cites aspecific provision of the Federal Constitution nor citesat least one authority? I - I mean - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. here.the EIO? MR. BALSKE: I understand.QUESTION: What - we're just spinning our wheelsQUESTION: You - you said you did raise that inMR. BALSKE: But, yeah -QUESTION: Where?MR. BALSKE: - it's argued in -QUESTION: I need to go back to it.MR. BALSKE: It's in section III of my brief.QUESTION: I've just looked at it. I - I didn'tsee it.MR. BALSKE: Okay.QUESTION: I didn't see it presented veryclearly. It seems to me -QUESTION: All right. Anyway, what you're askingis - that's why I started at the beginning. I thought thequestion was - I thought what the Ninth Circuit did wascite a case called Lyons, and in Lyons they say you dohave to either cite a particular provision of the FederalConstitution or a case that's clearly a Federal case. Andthen they held that the brief you pointed out to me didnot do that. Then they said, but anyway, that brief isgood enough because in the lower courts or other courtsthey had cited the Federal Constitution explicitly. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Now on that question, I would think they'rewrong, aren't they? Because, as I started out, you can'texpect judges to start going back and filing - lookingthrough all the briefs they filed in the lower courts, orthe opinions below.MR. BALSKE: Well, I -QUESTION: That was, I thought, the question.MR. BALSKE: Well -QUESTION: And on that question, do you - what doyou want to say? I mean, if you're -MR. BALSKE: Well, I guess what I want to say isthis. I think - if the rule that I'm - I'm notnecessarily espousing a rule, I'm trying to say that myclient, Mr. Reese, fairly presented. But in saying thatMr. Reese fairly presented, I don't think that ourapproach is going to place a great burden on the courts byany stretch, because all you have to look at is hispleading in the state court that started it, where he saysSixth and Fourteenth Amendment. Then you just look at hisbrief in the court of appeals and his petition for review,and the answer is there. And -QUESTION: So - so - so now you're - you're -what you - in order to win your case, you're going to haveto give us a standard, and your standard is, it seems tome, that state appellate courts are bound to look at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. pleadings in the lower courts.MR. BALSKE: I guess you're seeing my focus beingback in the state courts, and I'm looking at Federalcourt. I'm looking at when the petitioner files hispetition and the state steps forward and says failure toexhaust. Petitioner's counsel then has the burden ofcoming forward and saying, take a look at what was in thebriefs and what was presented, not what was in the mindsof the state courts when they looked at them -QUESTION: No, but the exhaustion rule -MR. BALSKE: - but what did he present?QUESTION: - depends upon whether or not thestate appellate courts had fair notice of the claim.MR. BALSKE: Yes.QUESTION: And that's - that's what we're tryingto discuss here and -QUESTION: That sounds -QUESTION: - and it - and - and the - and theonly way you can save your case, in the posture that comesto us, as I see it, is that that state appellate court isbound to look at the pleadings in the - in the court offirst instance.MR. BALSKE: Well, what we have here -QUESTION: And - and that is a rule. I mean -MR. BALSKE: Well - well, here's - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - you - you - if you're going to saveyour judgment, we're going to have to do it with a rule. MR. BALSKE: Well, and I think with the rule,here's - here's the caveat to the rule, so to speak, andit's that comity goes both ways. In other words, we'rerespecting the state courts have given him theopportunity, but we're also going to respect the state'scourts own rules and statutes that they use when they'relooking at petitions and appeals. And here we're lookingat Oregon. When you look at Oregon, we turn the page toOregon, we have the statute that I read early - earlier,the plain statement, clear statement rule. So -QUESTION: But that just goes to the trialcourt's judgment, doesn't it?MR. BALSKE: Well, that goes to the - the -specifying the basis of the judgment in the trial court -QUESTION: Yeah.MR. BALSKE: - whether it's a state or a Federalissue.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. BALSKE: And in this case, in his writtenopinion, he does that.QUESTION: But how does - how does that bear onthe appeal process?MR. BALSKE: And then in the appeal process, I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - the - the - the reason you have the clear statement ruleis so the appellate courts will know what the trial courtdid, not -QUESTION: Well, then, you're really - you reallyare supporting the Ninth Circuit's judgment, aren't you -opinion? The - the Supreme Court of Oregon should havelooked at the trial court's decision, even though it's acourt where the review is discretionary from the court ofappeals.MR. BALSKE: The - the court of appeals mostcertainly would have seen it and the - the Oregon SupremeCourt was on notice by his petition, I mean, the petitionfor review itself -QUESTION: You - you want -MR. BALSKE: - is ineffective assistance ofcounsel.QUESTION: You want to withdraw your - yourassurance earlier that you are not defending the - theNinth Circuit's basis for reaching its result, but justthe result?MR. BALSKE: Well, I guess, you know, I didn'tthink that I needed the Ninth Circuit's and I - I must beconfused now, because I think I just -QUESTION: I - I'm certainly confused. I don'tknow whether you are. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BALSKE: Well, I think I can -QUESTION: Is - is -MR. BALSKE: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I don't think you need the NinthCircuit if you're saying the following. Let me tell youwhat I think you're saying and you tell me -MR. BALSKE: Yeah.QUESTION: - whether I'm right.(Laughter.)QUESTION: At the court of appeals level, wedon't need the Ninth Circuit rule because the court ofappeals was reviewing a trial court judgment includingfindings and statement of law and there it was right inthe statement of law referred to, Federal. Number two, wedon't need the Ninth Circuit rule when we get to theOregon Supreme Court because we've got a petition and thepetition says Federal, refers specifically to four Federalamendments, doesn't refer to any state court, any statelaw or any state constitution. So you don't need theNinth Circuit rule for that purpose. Is that what you'resaying?MR. BALSKE: That's what I'm saying.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Well, then you have the problem -QUESTION: May I ask you - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: - of the Ninth Circuit. Yes?QUESTION: Excuse me, may I ask you anotherquestion? Is - is it your view that there's a differencebetween the state rule on inadequate assistance of counseland the Federal rule on the ineffective assistance ofcounsel?you want -MR. BALSKE: Well, yes, in this sense of - didQUESTION: Well, if there's a difference, wouldyour client not have had the obligation to - to exhaustthe state rule as well as the Federal rule? Because thatwas a remedy for the basic wrong you're complaining of.MR. BALSKE: I guess I didn't follow yourquestion. Could I ask you to repeat it?QUESTION: Are inadequate assistance as a matterof state law the same as -MR. BALSKE: Right.QUESTION: - ineffective assistance as a matterof Federal law?MR. BALSKE: Well, at the trial level, trialineffectiveness, they are different clearly. They have atest that's called inadequate for state counsel. Theycall it ineffective under Strickland -QUESTION: It is just a difference in names or adifference in substance? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. BALSKE: It's a difference in substance whenyou're talking about trial court ineffectiveness. In - inour case when we move over -QUESTION: I see. You're talking aboutappellate.MR. BALSKE: - now we're talking about appellateineffectiveness.QUESTION: Yeah.MR. BALSKE: They've got one test that wasdiscussed during earlier questions, and what they do isthey interchangeably use the words ineffective andinadequate. They don't use any one term all the time, butthere's just one test. That's Oregon law.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: If you -QUESTION: Mr. Balske, could you cite me the -the portion of your brief in opposition that you thinkmost clearly presented -MR. BALSKE: Yes.QUESTION: - the - the issue that -MR. BALSKE: Sure.QUESTION: - that you are now relying on at theSupreme Court level to wit that the Federal Constitutionwas cited in the brief to the Supreme Court?MR. BALSKE: Right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Where -MR. BALSKE: Well, I think it will be in - I didit in three parts, and the third part would have been that-QUESTION: This is the brief in opposition -QUESTION: The brief in opposition -QUESTION: - to certiorari.QUESTION: - to the petition for cert.MR. BALSKE: Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry. I'm not eventhinking.QUESTION: Once I've granted -QUESTION: It's orange.QUESTION: - on - on this question, it's too lateto tell me the question is irrelevant.MR. BALSKE: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I - I like to know it's irrelevantbefore I vote to grant cert.MR. BALSKE: Right. I - I, you know, I honestlydon't remember what I argued at all in that brief. Ihaven't looked at that in preparing for this and Iapologize, but I -QUESTION: If - can you tell - tell me, if I wereto accept your position about the Ninth Circuit rule, howdoes it differ from what I wrote in dissent when I thoughtthat we - you - you shouldn't have to go to the supreme th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. court of the state, if you - if you remember? If you don'tremember, that's all right.MR. BALSKE: I mean, I know that -QUESTION: I mean, what's bothering me about itis it sounds like a reasonable position, but it alsosounds like a position I agreed with in dissent, whichmeans it isn't the law, the opposite is the law.MR. BALSKE: Well, at - I don't disagree thatO'Sullivan says that it's got to be presented to thehighest court of the state. And my position is simplythat he did so in this case.QUESTION: If there had been an - an objectionpreserved in the Ninth Circuit that whatever else, thisdoesn't tell us what the facts were, would not that havebeen a - a ground for saying you didn't exhaust?MR. BALSKE: That would have been a biggerproblem for me than this problem, yes, because although hesaid, and part of his saying was under the Oregon Balfourprocedure when he didn't have a lawyer, he said, my lawyerand I disagreed on what issues to raise. One thing thatMr. Reese didn't say factually was what those issues were,and that would be my problem if their position were thatfactually it wasn't clear enough.QUESTION: So - so they - they have abandoned anobjection one - one would think would be the logical first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. one, he doesn't have any facts, out the door. MR. BALSKE: Yes, I - that's true. They didabandon it.QUESTION: Do we have to ignore that too?MR. BALSKE: I think you should, and I've arguedin my brief that you should because they dropped it fromthe case and abandoned it, and because the only issuepresented is the issue of whether or not he fairlypresented it. So I would espouse that, whether you haveto or not, obviously your decision.QUESTION: But if this - if this Court is goingto give any guidance, certainly that should be the - thefirst one, shouldn't it?MR. BALSKE: Well sure. The first piece -QUESTION: So, what your case is about -MR. BALSKE: - and - and I think that is fairpresentation law. You have to supply sufficient facts andthe law upon which you rely. Here they didn't object tothe insufficiency of facts, but the rule wouldn't be anydifferent than it was before under Picard.If there are no more questions, thank you verymuch.MR. CHIEF JUSTICE: Thank you, Mr. Balske.General Myers, you have three minutes remaining. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. HARDY MYERSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. MYERS: Your Honor, so two quick comments orpoints. First, this case illustrates the fallacy of anykind of doctrine which says that a appellate court cantell what issues have been chosen to be asserted to it,put before it, by going back and looking at the decisionof a - of a lower court. Here, the trial court in Oregondisposed of one of the Federal inappellate assistance ofcounsel claims, citing Jones against Barnes, but it hadbefore it state law claims of inappellate - ineffectiveassistance of counsel, as well as Federal. The trialcourt didn't mention the state claims, but they were alldismissed as well by the judgment that was ultimatelyentered at the trial court level.So both state and Federal claims were dismissed. You couldn't tell by looking at the trial court judgmentwhat the - what the prisoner was choosing to actuallyassert among those dismissed claims at the court ofappeals level. He could as well have been asserting hisdismissed state ineffective assistance of counsel claim.QUESTION: General Myers, do you have anyresponse to the - to the new point raised - it was new tome anyway - that - that this in fact, the Federal claimwas raised in the petition? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. MYERS: No. Yes, I do, Your Honor. QUESTION: What - what is that? I'd really liketo know that.MR. MYERS: It - at page - of the jointappendix, which you may have already been referring to -QUESTION: Yes.MR. MYERS: - the petition for review is setforth. And if you go to the argument portion, Your Honor,which is at the very - second paragraph of the argumentportion, I think that's going to be on page .QUESTION: Yes.MR. MYERS: You'll see the last - second sentenceof the second paragraph: Moreover, since petitionerasserts he was coerced and threatened by counsel to waivehis right to trial by jury, petitioner believes his Fifth,Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendment rights have been -QUESTION: I see, I see.MR. MYERS: - have been violated. So - so theineffective assistance of trial counsel claim wasspecifically Federalized, if you will, and that's the -that's the only place where those Federal citationsappear.QUESTION: Okay.MR. MYERS: Your Honors, again, the - the stateof the law in this area, we think, can fairly be described th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. as still disturbed, a term I used earlier, and we verysincerely hope that this Court will use this case both inrelation to the Ninth Circuit decision to reaffirm that itis the state petitioner, not the state courts, who havethe responsibility to assert - fairly present the claim,and secondly, to go for further - and further clarifyspecifically what state prisoners must do in order toclearly indicate the Federal source of their claim -QUESTION: If you prevail, I hope you're notunhappy with what you get, because you're going to havepetitions in which there's a huge laundry list of cases. We have to then qualify that by saying there has to be afair and concise statement of the legal and the factualbasis for the claim.MR. MYERS: Your Honor, indeed, the fact thatFederal - or that the Federal source of the claim is usedis not the end of the fair presentation issue, becausethere's still going to be the ongoing requirement ofadequately identifying your substance of your claim, touse the terminology of this Court, the - the legal theoryas well as the adequacy of the fact.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralMyers. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 