 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - -X UNITED STATES, Petitioner : : v. : No. - MANUEL FLORES-MONTANO : - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner. STEVEN F. HUBACHEK, ESQ., San Diego, California; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT On behalf of the Petitioner STEVEN F. HUBACHEK On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTPAGE On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument nowin -, the United States v. Manuel Flores-Montano. Ms. Blatt. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court: Customs officials have the responsibility toprotect the Nation's borders against the entry of dangerousor unwanted items. Consistent with that fundamental andsovereign necessity, customs officials have historically hadthe power to open containers and conduct a thorough searchof items without a warrant, probable cause, or anyparticularized suspicion. QUESTION: Well, now in this case, I suppose theGovernment did have reasonable suspicion. MS. BLATT: That's correct, but we did not rely onit and the evidence was suppressed on -- based on the NinthCircuit's rule that a gas tank cannot be removed and openedwithout reasonable suspicion. QUESTION: Can you make us, i.e., I'm not sayingthis pejoratively, but can this Court be required to decidewhat might be a hypothetical question, it seems to me, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. dog barked and therefore they had grounds for thinking theirwere drugs in the gas tank, and he kicked the gas tank andit was hollow, and no one disputes those facts. But youwant to decide -- us to decide this case, as does the otherside, as if those facts didn't exist. It sounds to me likea hypothetical question, almost in the direction of anadvisory opinion. What would we have decided if those factsdidn't exist? But they do. So how does that work? MS. BLATT: Well, I don't think it's an advisoryopinion in that the evidence has been suppressed. But,Justice Breyer, let me directly answer your question on whythe case is here. In , the Ninth Circuit held that theConstitution is violated if customs officials remove andopen a gas tank without reasonable suspicion, and in thatcase there was reasonable suspicion, making the case verydifficult to challenge. The Government legitimately wanted to challengethe case in a -- in a -- in a case where the officersactions could not be subject to a potential Bivens liabilityfor violating the clearly established law of the NinthCircuit. At the same time, customs officials viewed theNinth Circuit's decision as posing an immediate and presentdanger to their ability to protect the border, and theythought it imperative to try to challenge a -- bring up acase that challenged that rule as soon as possible. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. So two weeks after the Ninth Circuit's decisionwas decided, respondent drove across -- drove across theborder with a gas tank full of pounds of marijuana, andthe Government, we think legitimately, told the districtcourt, and there was no secret at any time in this case,including at the petition stage, that we were not going toput on evidence that there was reasonable suspicion, eventhough the dog alerting and the solid-sounding tap of thegas tank, we could have established or presumably could haveestablished that that was reasonable suspicion. And both the district court and the Ninth Circuitsummarily affirmed the -- suppressed it and then affirmedthe suppression, because there was not reasonable suspicion,and that's why this case is here. The customs officials see this case as a threat to their ability to deter and detectsmuggling at a container that is relatively large and thatis commonly used -- in fact, it is the most common containerused along the Mexican border -­QUESTION: Can we go back to your -­MS. BLATT: -- to conceal contraband. QUESTION: You gave a Bivens justification for whatis extraordinary. I mean, it's not a violation of article for us to decide it on your basis, but still, this Courtdeals with concrete cases with actual facts and not withabstract questions. So is it -- is it your notion -- is it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. correct that what the Ninth Circuit says becomes clearlyestablished law so that an officer would genuinely be -- besubject to Bivens liability when this Court hasn't addressedthe question? MS. BLATT: No, but we didn't want to have to tellthe men and women who were in charge of enforcing the borderthat they should be subject to a potential suit, at leastbeing named in their personal capacity in a lawsuit. Itseemed more appropriate from our perspective to try to bringa case as soon as possible where we think we could haveproven reasonable suspicion, but it squarely fit within theNinth Circuit's rule that reasonable suspicion was required. QUESTION: I suppose you could also say it's aquestion of resources. The Government does not want to have to put on witnesses, get officers up from the border, havethem sit in court, go through the motion to suppress, sothat you have a very real interest simply in expeditingtrial procedures by taking the course you did. I don't knowif that helps you on this article problem or -­MS. BLATT: It -- it helps to explain why wethought there was a paramount interest in getting the caseas soon as possible. We didn't want to divert resourcesaway from the border into having to prove our reasonablesuspicion. In fact, there's already been serious fallout interms of trying to prove reasonable suspicion when we search th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. gas tanks, because the Ninth Circuit has said that all ofour discovery on how we train our dogs has to be produced,and this is extremely sensitive information. QUESTION: This is a -- I wasn't doubting theGovernment's motive here. I think you have excellentmotive, though maybe Bivens, maybe it was a littleoverconcerned about the Bivens, maybe it wasn't. But whatI'm interested in is the law. That is, this isn't the firstcase where this has happened, not necessarily involving theGovernment, and I'm not sure how the law's supposed to work. Parties come in and they say, we would like you todecide this issue. I'm sure they would. But in order toget to that issue, we have to assume out of the case certainfacts that everyone agrees are there. MS. BLATT: Well, that -­QUESTION: Have you ever looked this up? Are thereany -- have you come across this kind of a problem? MS. BLATT: I think it's -- it's clearly an -- asJustice Ginsburg said, it's not an article problem. Letme say, Justice Breyer, there's no finding that there wasreasonable suspicion, nor do we put on any evidence thatwould have permitted that. QUESTION: No, all there is, is there happens tobe, I think, in the record, undisputed facts that the dogbarked and that they kicked the gas tank and it was hollow. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, I -- wait a minute -­QUESTION: Anyway -­QUESTION: I think the kick of the gas tank or thetapping showed it was full, not hollow. QUESTION: Full, whatever, whatever, whatever -­QUESTION: Am I right? MS. BLATT: Yes, it was -­QUESTION: Showed -- showed whatever it wasn'tsupposed to show. QUESTION: Exactly. And I think the dog doesn'tbark, he just alerts. Is that right? QUESTION: All right. MS. BLATT: That's right. But let me just say as a-- QUESTION: I know we have an agreement on that. MS. BLATT: -- as a prudential matter -­QUESTION: Are we sure that there was reasonablesuspicion? MS. BLATT: No, there's no -­QUESTION: Or is it just possible that there was -­that there reasonable suspicion? MS. BLATT: There's no finding, Justice Scalia. Itis our position that we could have put on proof that thisconstituted reasonable suspicion by putting the dog'shandler on and the agent explaining what a -- what a solid- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. sounding tap means. We didn't do that, so there's nofinding, but let me just say -­QUESTION: But the Ninth Circuit would requireevidence of the training of the particular dog and so forth? MS. BLATT: Well, at least that the defense istitled to discovery on that so that the -- the handler. Butlet me just say, Justice Breyer, as a prudential matter, Ithink that that is a legitimate concern at the petitionstage when we petitioned, and there was no secret that weintentionally brought this case for the purpose of having itreviewed. But the case has been briefed, there's noquestion about standing, and we think it's appropriate toreach the issue. Twenty-five percent of all drug seizuresalong the Mexican border are hidden in gas tanks, that we'venot only found marijuana, cocain, heroin, currency,methamphetamine, there have weapons and ammunition -­QUESTION: Does it matter how -- how much you haveto take apart of a car to make a search? Does that enterinto the ultimate resolution in the Government's view or dowe look at how easy it is to remove a gas tank and look atit? Does that matter? MS. BLATT: Well, it might matter, but it certainlydoesn't matter where the -- the compartment or container inquestion is designed to be removed and put back together bymechanics. A gas tank removal is something that can be done th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. within a reasonable time and that -­QUESTION: How much time does it take? MS. BLATT: Well, in this case, once the -­QUESTION: To take it off and put it back? MS. BLATT: Well, in this case it took under a halfan hour, but, Justice O'Connor, I want to stress that inother cases, depending on the type of car, it might take anhour or two hours, and the last thing we want is our customsofficial to be on a Fourth Amendment stopwatch and tellingthe mechanic to rush. So they need -­QUESTION: On the percent figure, you say percent of all seizures from vehicles? Does that include percent of seizures where you search the person or? MS. BLATT: No, it's -­QUESTION: What's -- the percent is a percentageof what? MS. BLATT: Twenty-five percent of narcoticsseizures in terms of amount of seizures along land borders. That doesn't include seaports -­QUESTION: Oh, percent in terms of quantity? MS. BLATT: In terms of number of seizures. Itdoesn't necessarily mean how much volume, but it's a lot,given that the gas tank is one of the largest containers. QUESTION: But included in that base is seizuresfrom the person where somebody has it in their pocket and so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. forth? MS. BLATT: Yes, that's correct, but -­QUESTION: Well, the gas tank here had pounds init, didn't it? MS. BLATT: Eighty pounds of marijuana with fivegallons of gas, and that's an enormous amount, and thiscould have been another -- another -- other dangerous items,it doesn't have to be just marijuana. And they have seen itall. At the same time, someone does not store personaleffects in their gas tank. It's just a repository for fuel. And this involved far less of an intrusion on privacyinterest than the type of searches that can happen and dohappen at the border, such as the traveler's baggage and thepassenger compartments in the vehicle. QUESTION: May I ask of you if the Government hasprocedures in place for the cases in which inadvertentlythey damage the car or -- or maybe the thing might blow upon some occasion or something like that? What -- what'sremedy does the citizen or the maybe an alien or the citizenhave in that situation? MS. BLATT: Any time there's damage to any types ofproperty at the border, the person is handed a claims form,which is processed through customs, first under the FederalTort Claims Act. Now, there's an exemption for claimsarising out of the tension of properties by customs under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. U.S.C. (c), but assuming that happens, customs can pay,and does pay, up to $, under the Small Claims Act, under U.S.C. . And Justice Stevens, there's anotherstatute, a customs-specific statute, U.S.C. , thatwould permit customs to pay up to $,, but therestriction is for -- it has to be for non-commercialproperties, so that would be personal property that customsdamage. So there's -­QUESTION: I would think there are a lot of cases,repair bills are getting pretty expensive now, where $,wouldn't cover it, the damage to a car. MS. BLATT: Well, that may be, Your Honor, but thiscase doesn't involve claim of damage and -­QUESTION: No, I just -- but it's -- it's sort ofin the background as we're asking whether it's reasonable inthe -- in the -- in an ultimate sense, and I just -- that'sone of the things that I'm concerned about is -­MS. BLATT: Well, sure, a gas tank is about $,$ item, and it's conceivable that any search can resultin damage. Now, respondent has never claimed -­QUESTION: You mean to repair it or to replace it? MS. BLATT: Well, you're right. You could have -­you could have -­QUESTION: When you say $, to reconnect it,it's about $? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BLATT: That's right. You would -- no, theitem itself probably costs under $, but you would havelabor costs. QUESTION: Well, that's not true. I recently hadto get one, and it's quite expensive, I can tell you. (Laughter.) MS. BLATT: Well, depending on the car, the onesI've seen have been under $, but you would haveassociated labor costs and maybe other parts. But the basicpoint is that this is a container, it's a paradigmatic typeof item that can be opened up by the -- at the borderwithout any particularized suspicion. And -­QUESTION: Ms. -- Ms. Blatt, may I just go backbefore you go on with your argument to follow up on JusticeStevens' question? You spoke of the $, limit as beingfor damage or, I guess, destruction of non-commercialproperty. Does -- does the non-commercial mean, as I wouldassume it would mean, that a truck or lorry that is drivenas a -- as a carrier would not be covered, damage to thatwould not be covered by the $, coverage? MS. BLATT: That's right. And property is -­QUESTION: So if the -- if the -- if the truck, Imean, if the commercial truck catches fire as a resultbecause there's a spark in the gas tank and everything goesup in flames, in effect there's no redress? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BLATT: Well, I don't know too many commercialimporters that don't have insurance that would cover damageby customs, but the important thing is -­QUESTION: No, but the customs isn't going to payfor it. MS. BLATT: Customs is not going to pay for that. QUESTION: But this would happen in a -­MS. BLATT: But -­QUESTION: -- reasonable search too, wouldn't it? MS. BLATT: Excuse me? QUESTION: I'm -- this would happen in a searchwhere there is probable cause as well, it could happen,couldn't it? When there's -- when there's reasonablesuspicion, the same thing could happen, couldn't it? Andyou also wouldn't have to pay for the truck? MS. BLATT: Well, that -- that's absolutely true,but -­QUESTION: Right, and you would also -­QUESTION: And that would -- and that would notrender what was otherwise a reasonable search unreasonable,would it? MS. BLATT: It would depend. As long -- assumingthey're acting reasonably in carrying out the search, it'sstill reasonable and -­QUESTION: The mere fact that there's no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. compensation for actual damage, accidental damage to -- tothe truck would not render the reasonable searchunreasonable if there were suspicion, right? MS. BLATT: That's correct. QUESTION: And the reason -­QUESTION: So why should it do it here? MS. BLATT: There have been thousands ofdisassemblies at the border -­QUESTION: But isn't -- isn't the point that in -­in the -- in the hypothetical that Justice Scalia puts, withthe probable cause, we start with the assumption that theoffices are in there acting reasonably. The question inthis case is posed by Justice Stevens' question. Would thepotential for damage -- is it reasonable to go in there inthe first place without probable cause? So that is adifferent issue, isn't it? MS. BLATT: Well, no, I think it's reasonable tosearch property at the border by virtue of the fact it's atthe border, and given the Government's overriding interestand the person's reduced expectations. But Justice Souter,there has been no known or reported instance of thishypothetical risk materializing at the border with respectto a customs search. QUESTION: Ms. Blatt, you mentioned, you started togive a number, , searches, fuel tank searches, and then th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you gave a number earlier about how many gas tanks turnedout to have contraband or something. Do you know whatpercentage of those gas tanks were -- was there disassemblyand what percentage were done by a less intrusive means bythe dog and the tapping on the fuel tank? MS. BLATT: Well, all gas tank seizures, whichthere have been thousands, have to be done by removal anddisassembly of the tank. There are, you could call themsearches, because that's what they are, of gas tanks thatdon't involve removal and disassembly, if you usesophisticated equipment such as density busters and X-rays. But all these seizures that are occurring at the border, inorder to get to the drugs, you have to unscrew the boltsthat are holding the tank to the undercarriage of thevehicle and remove the tank and open it up. QUESTION: Is the practice then to just go straightto that procedure and skip the dog and the tapping, or dothey go through the whole thing? MS. BLATT: Well, they have dogs at all the majorports of entry, but the dogs don't always alert, so Iwouldn't say it's necessarily skipping, but the dog may notalert. They also at some of the facilities have what areknown as fiber optic scopes, which are extremelysophisticated and effective equipment. Unfortunately, percent or higher of all tanks have, in the filler tube, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have an anti-siphoning valve that blocks the entry of thescope into the tank, but they will try that if they have it. It's not always available. It's an extremely expensivepiece of equipment. It costs $, per unit. But if theyhave that, presumably they try that first, and if it'sblocked, then they put the car up on a lift and unscrew themetal bolts that are holding them that -- to the metalstraps that are holding the tank and they'll remove thetank. And then from there on it's pretty straightforward onhow to open up the tank. QUESTION: But if we -- if you prevail in this caseand they don't have to do that, they can just say it's goodenough to go right to the disassembly and we don't have tobother with dogs and maintaining dogs and anything else? MS. BLATT: Yeah, that's right. Our position iswhere the procedure imposes only a modest intrusion oninterests protected by the Fourth Amendment, the officersdon't have to exhaust every least intrusive method. QUESTION: Obviously that would be the result if wewere to support the Government's view here, and I thinkwe're interested in knowing how often people's gas tankswould be disassembled if the Government's view prevailshere. How many times percentage-wise would people crossinga land border expect to have their gas tank removed if theGovernment prevails here? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BLATT: It's -- it's -­QUESTION: I mean, let's say , cars cross theborder point in an hour. What percentage of those will havetheir gas tanks removed? MS. BLATT: Not very many, Justice O'Connor. Letme give you these statistics. There have been millionvehicles that passed through this country's borders lastyear, and over the last four years, four years, there havebeen , gas tank disassemblies. QUESTION: Yeah, but you didn't have this ruleestablished that you didn't need reasonable suspicion. Whatwe're asking you to speculate on is if the Governmentprevails and we say, fine, you can take the gas tank off,you don't have to have any degree of reasonable suspicion. Then how many will there be? MS. BLATT: Exactly the same. It has always beenthe rule up until the Ninth Circuit that we could take aparta gas tank without reasonable suspicion. Customs officials--QUESTION: Have any of the other circuits followedthe Ninth Circuit's -- other circuits have that -- whichhave land borders? MS. BLATT: No, no, they've always been able totake apart a gas tank on something less than reasonablesuspicion. But Justice O'Connor, it is true that as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. practical matter customs does not take the time or energy totake -- to call the mechanic, pay for the mechanic to takeapart the gas tank unless their suspicions are focused onthe gas tank, and it will usually be because of the dogalerts, or the more common situation is it -- that they'rejust not sure whether that gas tank has been altered. Maybea bolt looks different than another bolt or it looks likeit's been unscrewed, and it may be the person had their gastank worked on, but they're just not sure, they have someconcern about the person's travel plan story and so they -­they want to go ahead and make sure the gas tank's notcontaining contraband. QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose you prevail. Arethere any regulations or -- or procedures under which you'llkeep statistics and data, so that say over -- suppose youprevail, then over the next five years we can -- we can lookback and see that there have been , searches andcontraband has been discovered only percent of the time orsomething? MS. BLATT: Yes, they keep statistics on seizuresof narcotics and what are known as positive and negativeseizures. And in the last four years of the , gas tankseizures that have happened, to percent of those havebeen what are known as positive hits or there's been apresence of contraband, and so to percent of those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. have been so-called negative searches where the tank isreassembled and the motorist sent on their way, and I -- wewould expect that those statistics to continue, that theyhave limited resources and they conduct a search when theythink it's appropriate and necessary. QUESTION: But you don't know of the , whatpercent were without any suspicion? MS. BLATT: No, but there's never been any kind ofrequirement. I -- I think we can -­QUESTION: All right. So -­MS. BLATT: -- confidently say their suspicionswere focused on the gas tank, whether or not that that wouldhave convinced a court that it was reasonable under -­QUESTION: Yeah, I see. MS. BLATT: -- this Court's definition I think isunclear. QUESTION: Are there any rules or administrativeprocedures in the customs that would say -- that would applyin respect to suspicionless searches of gas tanks? Forexample, random searches, do it once a month or here's -- wehave a random program or we check up to see how it's goingor -- are there -- are -- is it just each customs agent forhimself when -- if you win, is it each customs agent forhimself with no check whatsoever? MS. BLATT: No, well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Or are there internal administrativechecks that would be a kind of substitute for a judicialcheck? MS. BLATT: There are extensive training of customsofficials -­QUESTION: But what does it say -­MS. BLATT: -- about how to go about searching acar, where to look, where -- where smugglers typically hidetheir drugs, and what type of evidence they may leavebehind, and that's what the agent is looking for. Theagents are also trained though, Justice Breyer, to rely ontheir experience and intuition and hunches, and over timeborder officials gather extensive experience about whatthey're looking for. QUESTION: When -­MS. BLATT: They also can consult with a supervisorif they have a question about whether a search shouldactually be done. QUESTION: So, for example, you have a customsagent whose experience leads him to believe that parentswith small children are more likely to be smuggling heroin. Now, this would be an odd customs agent. Is there anythingin the system that would discover that this is the personwho's doing all the suspicionless checks and something'sgone wrong here, so there's -- do you see what I'm looking th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for? MS. BLATT: Well, his -­QUESTION: I'm looking for some way of -­MS. BLATT: -- supervisor would be aware of thesearch, but with a to percent success rate, thatpossibility seems rather remote. QUESTION: But then you have the suspicion searchesin that percent. I'm trying to figure out if we haveeach customs agent for himself to conduct whateversuspicionless searches he wants, and you have a few of the,perhaps in every organization there are a few unusual oneswho cause some problems, are there any internal checkswithin the system, because you're going to not have ajudicial check? I wonder if there are any administrativeways. MS. BLATT: There may be checks where people canfile complaints, I don't know. But the same officer couldbe instructing that the spare tire compartment be takenapart or that a tire be taken out or that every scrap ofluggage can be taken off or that the person could emptytheir wallets, their shoes, their purses, their clothing,and put the person to a considerable inconvenience. But a gas tank is not a container, Your Honor,that there's some sort of heightened expectation of privacy. It stores fuel. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So assume that if there's any de factocheck, there's more likely a check on the gas tank thanthere is on emptying your wallet and taking your shoes offand everything else, namely the expense that it causes tothe customs service in time -- in terms of the time of itsagents, and I suppose you have to pay these mechanics thatcome and do it. MS. BLATT: Yeah, it's about -- cost runs about acost of $ to $ per visit, but Justice Scalia, there arealso, very consistent with your point, hundreds of cars in alane that this inspector has to get through, and they alwaysare concerned about moving through the legitimate trafficand legitimate trade. They want to get people in, they wantto get people past the border. At the same time, they'reextremely concerned about what's in -- what people might beconcealing in their vehicles, and a vehicle is an extremelylarge container and a gas tank is a relatively largecontainer, and given that it is percent of all drugseizures have been hidden in the gas tank, they have anessential interest in being able to not only detect it whenthey think it might be there, but also deter it. It has been customs' experience over many, manyyears that smugglers are looking to exploit any weaknessalong our border security efforts, and they will readilyplace their drugs where they're least likely to be detected. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Does that mean, for example, that youcould rip out all the upholstery because you can hide drugsinside the upholstery? MS. BLATT: Well, ripping out the upholstery wouldfirst present a question of what kind of intrusion there ison -- under the Fourth Amendment or an interest protected onthe Fourth Amendment, and there may be a significantdeprivation of a property interest. Now, we would probablycontend that we could rip whatever upholstery was reasonablynecessary to conduct the search. QUESTION: I thought -- I thought you would, andmaybe I'm recalling your brief incorrectly, but I thoughtyou -- you made a distinction between the kind of intrusivebodily search like a strip search and said that's the onlyone where you would need reasonable suspicion. All others,all that involve only property and not the person, the ruleshould be at the border, anything goes, no reasonablesuspicion required. Is that the position the Government istaking? MS. BLATT: There's a small nuanced caveat to that. We think we can search property without suspicion and usewhatever force is reasonably necessary. At the same time,Justice Ginsburg, the Constitution still applies withrespect to the property and the search has to be carried outin a reasonable manner, and if someone took a giant axe and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. starting whacking away at leather upholstery, that wouldvery well constitute an unreasonable search. But this case doesn't involve a claim of damageand respondent has never said that he was deprived of asignificant possessory interest in his gas tank. Rather,what happened, it was taken apart and it could have beeneasily put back together. QUESTION: But your -- your answer to my questionabout property is, as long as you're not wantonlydestructive, you can -- any -- anything that's in the car asdistinguished from a person? MS. BLATT: That's our -- that would be ourposition, but I'm saying it also involves a very distinctfactor, and that is that there's a deprivation of asignificant property interest if the item is going to beobliterated or its value going to be destroyed, and that'snot the contention made in this case or the type ofdeprivation of a privacy -- of property interests you wouldhave with a gas tank. But sure, if you took a vase andsmashed it when you could have looked in it, or let me justsay if you wanted to open up the trunk -­QUESTION: Well, but not just on the -- the -- ifyou smash it unnecessarily, but suppose the only way to getbehind the fabric in say a seat cushion or something likethat is to cut it open. It -- does your policy apply to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that situation too? MS. BLATT: Well -­QUESTION: Because I don't suppose you have aseamstress who sews up the seat right away. MS. BLATT: Right. Well, we would look at firstwhat the type of deprivation is, and if it's a teeny littletear that can be easily repaired, maybe there's not asignificant deprivation. QUESTION: But suppose it's something that cannotbe repaired. MS. BLATT: Let's -­QUESTION: You have to cut up a seat -- a seatcushion. What -- what do you do? MS. BLATT: Let's suppose that there's asignificant deprivation. It would at least be reasonablefor the court to look at what kinds of alternatives wereavailable to the Government. As a practical matter, JusticeStevens, we -- customs officials have long, skinny metalprobes which are like needles that they use to searchupholstery, so if it's fabric you wouldn't even see it goingin and out. If it's leather, you probably are going to geta tiny hole. Now, whether that would constitute asignificant deprivation -­QUESTION: I see. MS. BLATT: -- might turn on the facts and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. circumstances, but these are wonderful pieces of equipmentthat customs officials use all the time to look insideplaces that are hard to see, and they use them exactly onseats. But to be sure, Justice Stevens, customs getscomplaints about upholstery. They let a dog into a car andthe dog scratches the upholstery or the agent's going inthere and searching and he steps on something. These kinds of things happen at the border andcustoms have to -- have a job to do and they've got to usewhatever force is reasonably necessary. But I think thesecases are separate because they involve some arguablysignificant deprivation of the owner's possessory interestin that piece of property. If it's a leather seat and it's torn, the value's gone down. But the Ninth Circuit applies a rule that doesn'tlet customs officials open up a container even where theycan put it back without damaging the tank, and so we thinkthat case is quite distinct. Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve the balanceof my time. QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Blatt. Mr. Hubachek. Am I pronouncing your namecorrectly? MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN F. HUBACHEK ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. HUBACHEK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: The Court's decision in Montoya established thatfor a search other than the routine border search,reasonable suspicion was required. QUESTION: Well, Mr. -- Mr. Hubachek, Montoyadiscussed that in the context of a search of the person. It-- it said we reserve judgment on whether a strip search ofhis body --- it was talking about people, not gas tanks. MR. HUBACHEK: Absolutely, Mr. Chief Justice, butfour courts of appeals have unanimously applied the analysisin Montoya to searches of property or effects under theFourth Amendment. The Ninth Circuit's decision in Molina-Tarazon is consistent with those cases in that it appliedthe Montoya paradigm to the search of the gas tank and theseizure of the gas tank. QUESTION: Well, would you say that a ship comingin at a port in our country from elsewhere cannot besearched thoroughly without reasonable suspicion? MR. HUBACHEK: A ship could be searched thoroughlywithout reasonable suspicion. I -- but -­QUESTION: But a land vehicle coming from, forexample, Mexico at the land border crossing cannot be? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -- the distinction that Iwould draw would be the point -­QUESTION: What is the difference? MR. HUBACHEK: -- of disassembly. I don't thinkthat you can disassemble conveyances that come to theborder. QUESTION: You think that if the ship came in thatthe gas tank could be removed and examined for presence ofillegal goods? MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I don't think that it would bereasonable to disassemble a ship either, particularly inlight of all of the various methods that are available. Idon't think it's supported historically either. You know,the initial statutes that the Solicitor General cited in the brief don't support any sort of disassembly of conveyances,the -- particularly the statute. What it talks aboutis allowing customs officials on board to look around, tomark items, to take records and so on and so forth, and thenwhen items are being passed through customs, then thecustoms officer -­QUESTION: But in today's world, the figures, thestatistics are staggering about how many narcotics arebrought into our country by way of the use of gas tanks. Imean, that's an incredibly large figure. MR. HUBACHEK: And I certainly would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And -- and what are we supposed to doabout that? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice O'Connor, I think thatwhat we're supposed to do about it is to use the methodsthat are tried and true by the customs service itself. Ifthe customs service itself wants to move away fromdismantling-type searches into searches that involve the useof the -- their technology -­QUESTION: Well, they have to dismantle to get intoa gas tank where it -- the opening will not permit the entryof a -- the little looking device. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, sometimes -- maybe in thebrief I was too excited by all this technology that'savailable, but I think that sometimes it's important tostart back at the initial things. Molina-Tarazon, forinstance, the case that developed this rule, foundreasonable suspicion based upon mud spatterings on thebottom of the tank. Carreon, the Tenth Circuit decision,found reasonable suspicion in large part based upon the factthat certain bolts were shiny. So -­QUESTION: Mr. Hubachek, now you say, you give theimpression that all courts of appeals have agreed with theNinth Circuit. Ms. Blatt gave the impression, at least tome, that the Ninth Circuit was alone on this. What is thestate of decisions, say in the Fifth Circuit, which has so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. much land border like the Ninth Circuit? MR. HUBACHEK: Mr. Chief Justice, no court but theNinth Circuit has addressed this specific issue here, thedismantling of gas tanks. The Fifth Circuit, though, hasheld -­QUESTION: Is it not done along the Texas border? MR. HUBACHEK: I'm sure it is done, but there justhasn't been a case that has arisen. QUESTION: But there hasn't been a reported casewhere it was challenged? MR. HUBACHEK: That's correct. But however, theFifth Circuit has decided that intrusive searches ofproperty are subject to the Montoya analysis and thatreasonable suspicion is required in a drilling case calledRivas. And in that case, you know, they used a drill todrill into the vehicle. QUESTION: Is -- is it the -- you -- you describedthe search as intrusive, but as I understand it, yourobjection is not to the intrusion, your objection is to thedisassembly. MR. HUBACHEK: Yeah, yes, that's correct. QUESTION: So -- so the -- the -- I -- I assumeyour objection rests on either or both of these grounds,either the value of the property, which is either lessenedor placed at risk, or the inconvenience to the driver and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. passenger while the -- while the intrusion or thedisassembly goes on. Which is it? MR. HUBACHEK: I would say it's both of those and Ithink that the -- of course, the Court's Soldal decisionestablishes that a meaningful interference, even if there'sno privacy interest at all, still implicates the FourthAmendment. But certainly there are issues with respect tovalue. If my gas tank has been dis -­QUESTION: All right, you know, what is the issueon value? They'll put it back together again, there'sapparently no record that -- that these things blow up allthe time. MR. HUBACHEK: Well -­QUESTION: So -- so what is the -- the propertyconcern? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that there a number ofconcerns. Number one, do -- if I resell the car, do I haveto disclose that the gas -- the fuel system wasdisassembled? I mean, what if I have a warranty? Does thatexclude things from a repair by the warranty because it'sbeen worked on by someone who's not authorized by Ford orwhatever company owns the car? Are there issues withemissions? You know, this is a vehicle that we'retalking about and the systems are much more complicated now. I just read yesterday a regulation indicating if you have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. . gap, you have to have a sensor that can determine if youhave that much leakage, . inches, that you have to have asensor that determines that kind of leakage. Would itviolate the terms of your lease to have some unauthorizedperson or some person you don't know about to go ahead anddisassemble -­QUESTION: Your -- your clients weren't worriedabout all that apparently. I mean, I don't think poundsof cocaine was good for the gas tank either, was it? (Laughter.) MR. HUBACHEK: No, I'm sure that it's not, andcertainly you'd have to -­QUESTION: Is that -- is that the only kind of -- Imean, I take it you concede there's no privacy interesthere? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -­QUESTION: And -- is that right? MR. HUBACHEK: It -- it certainly is -- is not atremendous privacy interest. QUESTION: Well, is there any? QUESTION: Well, all right. So there's no privacyinterest and all there is is an interest that you don't wantthe Government hurting your property, which is conceivablein an interest. But on the other hand, they say no privacyinterest, conceivable the Government will hurt your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. property. Every day of the week we deal with governmentpeople might hurt our property. And on the other side, percent of all the drugs that come into the United Statesoutside -- by land, come in in gas tanks, so this is anoverwhelming interest for letting you do it. After all,they search your suitcases, they search my pockets, theysearch every piece of luggage, they -- they search anythingyou're bringing in, and it's not an unusual thing at aborder. So -- so, how -- how do you respond to this stronginterest on their side and no privacy interest and verylittle property damage risk on the other side? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I don't agree that there'svery little property damage risk based on the -- the otherthings that I've just mentioned. Plus there's also theissue of the security of the individual, which was focusedon in Molina-Tarazon, you know, what confidence do you havethat this crucial system in your vehicle is going to bereliable when it's been taken apart -­QUESTION: Well, presumably the person filling thegas tank with drugs had to disassemble the tank to put thedrugs in there, so apparently willing to take that risk -­MR. HUBACHEK: But -­QUESTION: -- but not willing to let the customsservice do the same thing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUBACHEK: Right. Well, people who smuggledrugs in gas tanks are willing to take a lot of risks, butthe average traveler who comes to the border and is facedwith the possibility of random disassembly of their gas tankis not going to be willing to take those risks. QUESTION: Well, how -- how often does that happenthat an innocent person has his gas tank person random -­randomly disassembled? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, there's -- one of theweaknesses of this record is -- is that although the customsservice claims that it's important for them to be able to dorandom disassemblies, they haven't established any sort ofprogram under which they do random disassemblies, but therewere several hundred gas tank disassemblies in which therewere no drugs found. QUESTION: Well, we were told that percent or percent of the time nothing is found, or percentsomething is. That -- that's my understanding of theGovernment's submission. MR. HUBACHEK: Right. And I think that thatsupports the notion that when they act upon suspicion andtheir experiences, we've heard detail this morning that theycan be effective. That doesn't mean though that it'sessential to have the ability randomly to disassemble basedupon those suspicions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: They're not talking about randomly. They're -- they're talking about -- I -- I think -- I thinkMs. Blatt said hunches. I mean, there, you know, there -­there are just some intuitions that agents get that may notrise to the level of what a court may acknowledge is anarticulable suspicion, and they shouldn't -- they shouldn'thave to worry about whether they have to prove that or not. I -- do you really think they're going to do it when -- whenthere's no reason whatever to do it? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, that -- that's the problemwith absolute discretion. Any -- any officer across theUnited States can make the rules for that particular day. But I think that it's important to bear in mind that thesehunches have, you know, there are many -­QUESTION: But we're talking about border searcheswith customs officials who are trained and they have limitedbudgets. Why do they want to pay the cost of having amechanic disassemble an engine unless they have a goodreason for doing it? I mean, it's inconceivable to me thatthey try to run up the number just to run up the number. It's too expensive. They don't have that kind of money. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that any seizures thatthe Court has required there actually be founded suspicionare troublesome for the officers. I mean, if they pullpeople over randomly, that's time that's taken away from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. other activities that they could be undertaking, so there'salways a natural disinclination to do that. But thatdoesn't change the fact that this Court has repeatedly in -­QUESTION: But -- but not as easily observed andnot as easily recorded by supervisors. I mean, it seems tome if you have an agent who repeatedly has a -- cars backingup at the -- at the gate that -- that he's controlling, andwho repeatedly comes up empty on -- on gas tank searches,that fellow's not going to be there very long. I mean, it,it's easy to observe somebody who's abusing the system, itseems to me. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, again, I think that it'simportant though that officers not be able to actarbitrarily across the United States. It's not -- it's not necessarily going to be limited to one officer so that we'llalways be able to weed them out.QUESTION: In -- in your answer to Justice Souter'squestion a few minutes ago, you said that not only was theproperty interest important, but the inconvenience was a -­was a factor, and I don't know that we've ever said muchabout that that would -- would support it. Certainlythere's going to be some inconvenience any time you cross aborder, and this thing, if it takes half an hour, is thatreally a Fourth Amendment factor? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -- I think it's a factor, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. but I don't think it's as important as the other factorswe've talked about, the potential diminution in value, thelack of security upon the -- the individual who's drivingaway in a vehicle that's been altered by unknownindividuals, and the fact that, you know, that -­QUESTION: When you -- when you -- once you -- you-- the -- the trunk is fair game, any luggage is fair game,fancy Gucci shoes might be fair game, it seems to me thatthe fuel tank, if we're looking at it from the point of viewof the -- the -- how much damage there might be or the cost,is -- is a lesser thing than personal items, and also thatthe privacy interest is much stronger in what we already saycan be done without suspicion. MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I agree that the suspicion -­that the privacy interest in the gas tank is not as high asthe other items that you've mentioned. However, it still istrue that when you put your Gucci shoes on, you're planningto take them off, so if an officer takes them off to look atthem, that's not a problem. If they open up your luggage,your luggage is expected to be opened, and in fact, requires that you furnish an opportunity to open up thatluggage. But no one expects that their gas tank when theybuy a new car to a tremendous expense that they put theirfamily in, no one expects that that part of their vehicle isgoing to be open like they know that their luggage is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: One other question is whether it isunreasonable to -- to require them to expect it if they'rerunning their car back and forth across the border? I mean--MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -- don't think that it's -­QUESTION: What -- why is it wrong? What -- whattest do you -- do you urge as to -- as to when -- when asearch by border agents cannot be done? What -- what is thecriteria? MR. HUBACHEK: I think when it involves disassemblyof property and -­QUESTION: Anything that involves disassembly. So-- so what about taking the cap off of a -- off of a bottlethat's there. Is that -- is that disassembly? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think the cap off the bottleis similar to the luggage. You would just open up the capand that -- that's what's expected to happen, but no one -­QUESTION: What if the bottle's sealed? I mean,you know, it's -- it's -- it's a sealed bottle? MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I guess -­QUESTION: You have to break the seal. MR. HUBACHEK: That could result, I mean, that maybe necessary -­QUESTION: That can't be done? MR. HUBACHEK: That may -- it may be situations th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. where that shouldn't be done without -­QUESTION: Suppose it's the same as a -- supposethere's a terrorism problem and -­QUESTION: Wow. QUESTION: -- they say that we want to search everyfifteenth truck that comes in, there might be anthrax orbombs or whatever and we want to give the agents the powerto look thoroughly into these big trucks even withoutsuspicion. Now were you saying the Fourth Amendment wouldstop that? MR. HUBACHEK: If we're talking about a specificthreat, where there is, you know, a specific -­QUESTION: No, no, non-specific threat, it's thepresent situation. The Government simply says, we'reworried about our borders, they're not secure, and we wantto look at the trucks, that we want the -- the customsagents to be able to look at trucks that are coming in. They may have dangerous items on -- in -- on board, and wewant them to look whenever they want. It's at the border,just like your purse, just like your valise, just like yourbag. Now, what -- what's your view of -- is your case thesame, different, or what do you think of that case? MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I think -- I don't think that ­- that suspicionless searches under those circumstanceswould be reasonable because there's not been any showing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that random searches or disassemblies of gas tanks would beat all effective. In Delaware v. Prouse, this Courtdisapproved the process of pulling over people randomly tocheck registrations, both because it was not demonstrated tobe effective, but also because it was not demonstrated tohave any sort of deterrent effect. QUESTION: All right, so in your view,suspicionless searches of trucks, whether for bombs,anthrax, weapons, or drugs all stand or fall together? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that -- I think thatthere -- at least with the every cars, there would bemore of a deterrent because then they would know that everyfifteenth car is being searched, but there is no program inplace now, there was nothing offered below, in fact, therewas no evidence offered below -­QUESTION: That's a different question. Myquestion was, do they stand or fall together? MR. HUBACHEK: Right. I -- I think that the -­that our case is stronger than your hypothetical. QUESTION: Delaware against Prouse had nothing todo with the border. I mean, that was on a highway -- inlandhighway in Delaware. The Fourth Amendment has always beenmuch relaxed at the border. MR. HUBACHEK: No, I -- I agree with that, Mr.Chief Justice, but my point from Delaware v. Prouse is that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in -- in examining a random program, the Court looked to twothings. It looked to whether or not it was demonstrated tobe effective. It's not demonstrated to be effective here. And it also looked to whether or not there was going to be adeterrent effect from it, and there was no -­QUESTION: But -- but you just can't transplant acase involving a car on a highway inland to the border. MR. HUBACHEK: No, I understand. My point is -- isthat the empirical evidence was important in the Delaware v.Prouse case, and that's how this Court distinguished it inSitz, which is a case that the Solicitor General cited insupport of the notion that the Court shouldn't look to otheralternatives. QUESTION: What -- what do you do about UnitedStates v. Ross when -- when you're urging your -- your -­your disassembly point? MR. HUBACHEK: Well -­QUESTION: Now that -- that was a case involving aborder search statute, not -- not the one at issue here, tobe sure, but nonetheless what we said, to quote it, iscertainly Congress intended custom officers to open shippingcontainers when necessary and not merely to examine theexterior of cartons or boxes in which smuggled goods mightbe concealed. During virtually the entire history of ourcountry, whether contraband was transported in a horse-drawn th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. carriage, a roadster, or a modern automobile, it wasbeen assumed that a lawful search of a vehicle would includesearch of any container that might include the object of the-- of the search. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I -- I think that -­QUESTION: Now, why isn't that applicable here? MR. HUBACHEK: I think that it -- actually, it'sconsistent with our position, because the statutes that Rosswas talking about were the statutes from and thatI was referring to earlier, and what they allowed was thecustoms officers to go on board the ships to mark things andto make their records and so on and so forth, and then thepackages would then be opened by the customs officer, andthe first Congress thought this was a very significant act,because not only did they require the customs officer toopen up the packages, but they had to have two reputablewitnesses, merchants outside the customs service, to observethose. So that was a very significant event. But nothing in those statutes allowed disassemblyof vessels. It, in fact, it did authorize -­QUESTION: Well, now, your -- your -- your positionis -- is -- is any container, you're not just talking aboutgas tank, you say nothing can be disassembled. So if I havesome gizmo that is assembled and is not meant to be openedagain, you say if I bring that across the border the customs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. agent can't look into it. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, they can look into it with allof the -- the various abilities that they have. If theyhave -­QUESTION: They can't open it. MR. HUBACHEK: If they have reasonable -­QUESTION: They can't -- they can't open it. MR. HUBACHEK: If they have reasonable suspicion,they can. QUESTION: No, but without reasonable suspicion. I'm -­MR. HUBACHEK: No, I don't think they can open upthe gizmo without reasonable suspicion, but they still haveall of the abilities they have to bring to bear on that, allthe -- the experience, all of their technology, all of theirability to examine things. QUESTION: I think I -- I -- I lost what you weresaying when you started referring to the gizmo. If -- if Ibring in -- if I buy a valuable statue in Europe and I haveit elaborately crated so it won't be hurt in transport, whenit gets to New York, can they open the crate to see what'sinside? MR. HUBACHEK: Yes, they can, and that would beconsistent with the statute, which said that you couldopen up the packages. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: All right. So the difference betweenthe crate and the gas tank is, I take it, your concern thatafter they've put the gas tank back together, there may besome risk that it won't function or that the emissionssystem will be affected? I mean, is that where you draw theline between the crate and the tank? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that the -- the linethat I'm drawing is -- is the line that was drawn by thefirst Congress when they said that you can open up packagesand they didn't provide any additional authority on boardthe vessels -­QUESTION: Well -­MR. HUBACHEK: -- to disassemble -­QUESTION: Yeah, but you're -- you're arguing aconstitutional restriction here. Your -- your argument isnot that Congress has not provided the authority. Yourargument is Congress can't provide the authority. So what,it seems to me what Justice Souter is asking is, if Congresscan provide the authority to uncrate the statue, whatconstitutional prohibition is there to uncrating the gastank? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, of course, in their brief, theSolicitor Generals argued that that statute is -- does goalong with the constitutional protection, so I think thatthe fact that the same Congress that passed the Fourth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Amendment had this narrow view of what you can open,packages with the two witnesses there. And they were alsoobligated if there was -­QUESTION: No, but, I mean, we -- we didn't havethis problem in or , and the question is, what isthe difference in principle for constitutional purposesbetween opening up, disassembling my crate, anddisassembling the gas tank? And the only thing that I canthink of is, based on what you've said so far, is theconcern that maybe the gas tank won't work or I'll have todisclose it to a subsequent purchaser, or the emissionssystem will be hurt. Do you have anything else todistinguish in principle between the -- the uncrating andthe opening of the tank? MR. HUBACHEK: Well -- well, yes. There's also thenotion of the -- that was relied upon in Molina-Tarazon, thesecurity of the individual who's in the vehicle, and there'salso the -­QUESTION: Well, the security is -- is the -- isthe concern that maybe the tank won't work or -- or are yousaying maybe -- maybe the -- it'll blow up? Is that whatyou mean by the security? MR. HUBACHEK: Right, yeah. QUESTION: Okay. Well, the individual, I assume,is not in the car when they take the tank out, so we're th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. talking simply about property damage. When they uncrate thestatue, they might knock the hand off, but they can stilluncrate the statue. What -- anything else in principlebetween the two situations? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that crates areintended to be open. If, you know, you packed it carefullyand ultimately you intend to unpack it, so you intend topack the -- the crate. I don't think it's reasonable thoughto disassemble a valuable piece of property that has safetyimplications -­QUESTION: So it depends on my intention? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think what -­QUESTION: I intend the crate to be opened, butwhen I buy a gas tank I don't intend it to be opened? MR. HUBACHEK: Right. I think that that's --that's -- if there's -­QUESTION: But that's not the expectation ofprivacy test. MR. HUBACHEK: No, I think it's -- it's theproperty -­QUESTION: So this is a new test, I take it? MR. HUBACHEK: No. Soldal establishes that even ifthere is no invasion of privacy, there is still a FourthAmendment intrusion if there's a seizure of property. Thisis a meaningful interference with the -- your enjoyment of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the possession of your property. QUESTION: No, but the distinction between the twocases, I take it, now is the intent of the owner of theproperty that is disassembled. In the one case, the ownerultimately intends the crate to be opened up. In the othercase, he does not intend the gas tank to be opened up. Is,is that it? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I don't think it's asubjective test. I think it would be -- we're talking aboutreasonableness under the Fourth Amendment and -­QUESTION: Well, if that -- it can't be that hedoesn't -- well, expected to be opened up. If it's -- ifit's a container where things can be carried, one of thethings that the Government said in its brief is that ifluggage is free and then this will become the container ofchoice, and we know that in a very high percentage therehave found drugs there. So it is a container, we know it'sbeen used as a container. Why should it not be treated likeany other container? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think it's different fromany other container because it's part of a vehicle that wasnever expected or intended by its designers to be takenapart in this manner. But I would also say that there'sbeen years of history in which, you know, courts ofappeals have applied Montoya to searches of property. If th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. smugglers were changing their patterns in response to thosedecisions, this -- the Tenth Circuit rendered its decision years ago, the Fifth Circuit rendered its decision years ago. The Government offered no evidence below thatthere have been changes in smuggling patterns based uponthose courts' decisions applying a reasonable suspicionstandard. QUESTION: Yeah, but those -- those cases it didn'tinvolve gas tanks, if I understand correctly. MR. HUBACHEK: That's -- that's correct. Theydidn't involve gas tanks, but they involved vehicles, andbasically the theory was is that if smugglers -­QUESTION: May I -- may I ask you a hypothetical? Supposing Congress passed a statute specifically authorizinggas tank searches and providing in the statute that afterthe search shall be conducted, the -- there will be twopeople on hand, one, Mr. Goodwrench, and one Mr. ValueAppraiser, and they would have to give a good certificate,both of them have to give a certificate that the value ofthe car has not been impaired by what has been happened, andif it has, the amount of value will be reimbursedimmediately by the Government to the owner. Would that be aconstitutional statute? MR. HUBACHEK: Well, I think that, you know, sinceultimately we're talking about reasonableness, that would th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. address some of the objections that I've made today, but Istill think -­QUESTION: Would it -- would it cure enough of themto be constitutional is the question? MR. HUBACHEK: I don't -- I don't think that itwould, because I still think that that's beyond what theFirst Congress envisioned and that's a -- our best guide towhat the Fourth Amendment was intended to mean. They didn'tauthorize the disassembly of the ships that were coming intoport. They didn't say that, you know, if you took two shipbuilders on board. What they said was, you can take apartthe packages, things that are intended to be opened, but youhave to have two witnesses, and if it turns out that there'snothing in there, you have to -- the customs officer wouldhave to pay -­QUESTION: My hypo gave you your two witnesses. MR. HUBACHEK: I -- I understand, Your Honor. QUESTION: If percent of the people with the gastanks that were searched have the contraband, what you'reasking us to do is to protect the expectation of the other percent. I -- I suppose that's the rule, but it -- whenthe percentages get these high, it -- it seems to me to putthe exclusionary rule somewhat into question with referenceto the border. Suppose it was percent. Do we still haveto protect the percent of the people? I mean, I guess th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that's the law. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice Kennedy, there's noshowing that adopting the rule that we're asking for wouldhave any effect on the effect -- effectiveness of the bordersearches. There's no evidence offered below that, you know,the -- if you deprive them of the ability to do randomsearches that there will be even one more person who wouldget through. So I think that if they -­QUESTION: Well, that works the other way around aswell. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, that's true, but it wouldstill vest the absolute discretion across the border for anycustoms inspector for no reason at all to disassemblevaluable property. That's inconsistent with the history ofthe Fourth Amendment, it's inconsistent with the Nation'searliest statutes, it's even inconsistent with section ,which applies directly to entries from contiguous countries,and that -­QUESTION: Well, for -- for no reason at all theycan -- they can conduct searches of -- of the person, right,without any suspicion? That's okay. MR. HUBACHEK: That's correct. QUESTION: The Gucci shoes and everything else. But somehow when you -- when you reach this -- this magical,what, disassembly of a vehicle, that that has some special th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. constitutional status. I -- I find that quite implausible. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, Justice Scalia, I think thatthe importance is, is that it is very -- we're asking for astandard that's -- comports with what was adopted in and , and the statute that's currently applicabletalks about allowing the customs inspectors to look insidethe vehicle by providing a key, not by providing a lift orproviding tools, but by providing a key. That's what'sreasonable, that's what's routine, that's what's should beprotected by the Fourth Amendment. QUESTION: Do you -- do you question the -- theGovernment gave an example, I think from fiscal year . They said fuel tanks were disassembled and put backalong the southern border without incident, that is, noexplosion and no malfunction in the vehicles for thetravels. MR. HUBACHEK: I don't have any additionalinformation about those. I mean, I don't know if thatviolated those individuals' leases, whether they felt a lackof security as was discussed in the Molina-Tarazon case,whether their warranties were any way affected, they simplydon't have any information. QUESTION: But it would be a graver concern than awarranty if the vehicle might blow up after. And -- butthere doesn't seem to be any evidence of that, that there's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. a high risk that that would occur. MR. HUBACHEK: Well, there's no risk -- apparentlythere's no evidence of anything blowing up, but that doesn'tmean that individuals' security was implicated as they droveaway from the border knowing that their valuable propertyhad been altered by unknown government functionaries. If the Court has no further questions, I'llsubmit. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hubachek. Ms. Blatt, youhave three minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. JusticeKennedy, you asked about the percent figure, and in theappendix to the petition at a, that percent figurerelates to vehicle drug seizures, so what customs meant byseizures was from the vehicle. That wouldn't include stufffound in someone's pockets. Justice Breyer, you asked about how we tracksearches. There's apparently a nationwide computer trackingsystem where customs tracks all of their searches, bothpositive and negative, and when there's a positive reportsearch, it's called a seizure. When there's a negative,it's called an incident report, and the agent is in factrequired to document what his reasons were -- were for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. conducting the search, and the supervisor must read that,and if there was a problem developing about improper use ofhis resources at the border, the agent would be eithertrained or disciplined. QUESTION: Are those public documents? MS. BLATT: I would doubt it. I don't know,Justice Kennedy, but given that it includes the reasons forconducting the search, but I -- I just don't know. I knowit's called the TECS, but I don't know whether that's publicor not. QUESTION: Is it public that such a thing exists? Is there -­MS. BLATT: I've just made it public. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But -- but -- I mean besides your wordfor it. I trust you implicitly, but I'd like to be able tocite something other than you. (Laughter.) MS. BLATT: I -- I'd have to go -­QUESTION: Okay. MS. BLATT: -- on the Internet or something likethat, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: I don't want to cut you off if you hadsomething else to say. MS. BLATT: No, that was -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: I just want -- I do think it's correctthough, is it not, that what really we're asked to decide iswhether you have the power to make random searches? I knowthat they're costly and unlikely, but I think it -- it's --it's not unlikely in today's world that you might decide youwant to search every one-hundredth vehicle or ever twenty-fifth vehicle to let the world know that even if they hireRonald Coleman they might get searched. That is correct,isn't it? MS. BLATT: That's correct, Justice Stevens, andit's quite conceivable if the country ever went on a redalert that the commissioner of customs might say, or ifthere was some vague intelligence about smuggling in pick-uptrucks, they might want to do very extensive searches ofpick-up trucks. Now whether they'll actually ever come tothat I hope not, but yet, this -- the -- the border power -­the power to conduct a border search is one without anyparticularized suspicion. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Blatt. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 