 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XBENEFICIAL NATIONAL BANK, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -MARIE ANDERSON, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners.BRIAN M. CLARK, ESQ., Birmingham, Alabama; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners BRIAN M. CLARK, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, the Beneficial National Bank versusMarie Anderson.Mr. Waxman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The complaint in this case alleges that anational bank charged excessive interest. This Court hasheld repeatedly and consistently since thatsection of the National Bank Act of provides boththe exclusive standards governing the interest that a national bank may charge and the exclusive judicialremedies for any violation.And as a result, any claim that a national bankcharged excessive interest necessarily arises underFederal law, whether that claim is brought in State courtor Federal court. Any well-pleaded complaint wouldreflect that, and therefore, any claim of usury against anational bank, whether pleaded well or mistakenly ordeceptively, falls within the original jurisdiction of theFederal courts and may either be filed there by a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC plaintiff or removed there by a defendant.QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, normally when the FederalGovernment creates a cause of action that preempts Statecauses of action, it attaches an element to that cause ofaction that does not exist under some of the State causesof action. Let's say, it -- it creates a cause of actionagainst the owners and -- and managers of nuclearfacilities, but the cause of action must be based onsomething more than mere negligence. It has to beintentional malfeasance or gross negligence. Okay?Now, what if somebody comes in and brings acause of action in State court, alleging mere negligenceby the owners of the nuclear facility? Is it yourposition that that case is removable even though itwouldn't -- it wouldn't survive a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim under -- under Federal law?MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, with respect, Idon't think that I would concede the premise of yourquestion, that is, that a Federal cause of actionordinarily has an additional element.QUESTION: All right. Well --MR. WAXMAN: But leaving that aside --QUESTION: Leaving -- in my hypothetical --create one --MR. WAXMAN: Your -- your hypothetical actually th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is an example of a very peculiar instance in which, withrespect to nuclear incidents, Congress has imported in --has federalized the cause. It created an express Federalcause of action --QUESTION: Right.MR. WAXMAN: -- and said expressly that Statelaw standards will apply and it will be the law ofwhatever State the incident occurred.QUESTION: But take my hypothetical. What doyou do in my hypothetical? Is it removable or not?MR. WAXMAN: If -- if --QUESTION: Yes or no.MR. WAXMAN: If -- if any -- I hope I canremember your hypothetical. The --QUESTION: The hypothetical is you plead a State law cause of action that does not claim all of theelements which are necessary for the Federal cause ofaction. So it's clear on the face of it that it isdismissable.MR. WAXMAN: It is definitely removable. Itdefinitely is completely preempted if it comes within thescope of a cause of action that has been determined to beexclusive. Now, that's --QUESTION: It's very strange to say that you canremove something that on its face does not constitute a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal cause of action.MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, there may -- inpreemption cases, there are line-drawing problems at themargins about whether something is or isn't preempted. This is a heartland case and the example -- thehypothetical you're giving is let's say that State ofAlabama or the State of Delaware created strict liabilityfor excessive interest. The Federal statute says it hasto be knowingly under section . There is no question --no question -- under this Court's decided cases that aclaim that a national bank charged excessive interest,with whatever state of mind or lack of state of mind, isgoverned exclusively by Federal standards and an exclusiveFederal cause of action and that --QUESTION: Right, but the question is whether the consequence of that is that the State law cause ofaction must be dismissed by the State court because it'spreempted, or rather, the consequence is that you canremove into Federal court a pleading that plainly on itsface does not -- does not claim a Federal cause of action.MR. WAXMAN: Well, the --QUESTION: It just seems very strange to me.MR. WAXMAN: The -- the pleading -- thecomplaint in this case on its face does satisfy theFederal cause of action and -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I understand that. I understandthat. We're -- we're not talking about what happens here. But I -- with regard to the general principle that youwant us to set forth.MR. WAXMAN: I think --QUESTION: That's -- what's -- what I'mconcerned about. Is it that all cases automatically come,or is it only those that -- that set forth a Federal causeof action?MR. WAXMAN: It has to be one that if wellpleaded -- I mean, a -- on a removal -- on a notice ofremoval, the Federal court is obligated, like any courtdetermining its own jurisdiction, to read the complaint asif it were well pleaded. And if, when the court reads thecomplaint, it says there is a Federal question necessarily presented in here which has been inartfully not pleaded,the court then proceeds to adjudicate on the merits thatclaim. If the answer is no, if the answer is, hey, thisguy pleaded a claim under State law and I have wellpleaded it and it still doesn't raise a Federal question,then you remand.And it's that -- that's sort of -- I didn't meanto quibble with you, but the principle that we suggest isvery straightforward is simply an application of thisCourt's decided jurisprudence, under arising-under th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC jurisdiction, that removal jurisdiction follows originaljurisdiction.QUESTION: Mr. -- Mr. Waxman, is what you'resaying essentially there is a Federal claim or there is noclaim? Certainly the plaintiff doesn't want there to beno claim. If there is a claim, it is necessarily Federal.MR. WAXMAN: Yes.QUESTION: And that's what makes it removable. It is treated as though it were well pleaded, when, infact, it's badly pleaded.MR. WAXMAN: Indeed. And the -- the perplexingthing about this case is the sort of almost Kafkaesquesituation that we have that's exemplified by the amicusbriefs on both sides where this particular instance wherethe plaintiff says usury under State law even though the Supreme -- this -- this Court has decided, since yearsafter the act was passed in the Civil War, that there isno such State claim, we now have a -- a group ofplaintiffs' lawyers from California urging this Court toestablish a right to plead something that in their owncase they say is only, quote, defensively preempted.QUESTION: If they had --MR. WAXMAN: And no one has -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: If they had pled it correctly, theycould still be in State court, but the defendant could th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC remove. In other words, this is not -- although it's aFederal claim -- it arises only under Federal law -- itcould be brought in State court or Federal court.MR. WAXMAN: Correct. There is concurrentjurisdiction as there -- as is the norm, as this Court hasexplained. And there are instances in which these casesare litigated to the merits in State court and instancesin which they're litigated in Federal court either becausethey're brought there by the plaintiff, as the plaintiffcould have here, or they're removed there as thedefendant.And the other principle that this case reflects,as I said, is not just the importance of parity in Federalquestion jurisdiction between giving plaintiffs anddefendants parity in invoking the Federal courts if they choose, but the requirement that this Court has statedover and over and over again that in -- in determining itsown jurisdiction, the Federal court will construe thecomplaint as well-pleaded.QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, one thing that troublesme about -- about the proposal that you make and that theGovernment makes is that it seems to me in the LMRA casethat established this principle and in the ERISA case,which is the only other case that has -- has held to thesame effect, those cases refer to this as being an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC extraordinary, an unusual event. But I don't think it'sgoing to be an unusual event if we say that whenever thereis created a Federal cause of action, and at the sametime, State causes of action are preempted, it may beremoved to Federal court. I don't think that will beunusual at all.And I sort of looked upon the -- the LaborManagement Relations Act case as really sort of a -- aplatypus, I mean, a very strange case in which the courtsjust didn't want these labor things to go into Statecourts because they didn't trust State courts. And sothey said, boy, we're going to have Federal courts createthis whole new law of -- of contracting, of collectivebargaining. That's how I always regarded it. And nowyou're telling me it's really just a little piece of a much broader proposition which is not at all -- not at allnarrow.MR. WAXMAN: No. Justice Scalia, I think itactually is very, very narrow. And we can go through indetail, but almost all of the statutory schemes thatthe -- the State's amicus brief cites are not, in fact,examples of complete preemption. But it -- it comes uponly in the instance where there is not only substantivepreemption by Federal law and the creation of a Federalcause of action, but the determination that that cause of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC action is, in fact, exclusive. And that is the difficultand close question that this Court --QUESTION: Well, was -- was that true in theFarmers' and Mechanics' case? The -- the Court certainlysaid that when you're suing for usury, that was all youcould get with the -- that wasn't, of course, a -- aremoval case at all, was it?MR. WAXMAN: No, it wasn't a removal case. Andin fact, depending on when in it was decided, theremay or may not have been --QUESTION: There wasn't Federal -- there wasn'tFederal question jurisdiction.MR. WAXMAN: -- there may not have been removal.QUESTION: But it is not a white horse case foryou, that one.MR. WAXMAN: I think it is a -- if I understandthe reference, I think it is a white horse case in thesense -- in this sense, Mr. Chief Justice. We're notcontending that the act evinced an intent to makethese causes of action removable, even if pleaded underState law, because there was no general Federal questionjurisdiction, and it wasn't provided in the law.The relevant question and the relevant questionthat this Court deemed to be close in Metropolitan Life inthe ERISA context is whether -- okay, fine, Federal law th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC has substantively preempted the field or by conflict orwhatever. Is the creation of the Federal cause of actionof such force that it should be deemed to be exclusive?And that, I think, is what this Court decidedfirst in Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank by saying to theborrower in that case -- the borrower was maintaining thatunder New York State law, it was entitled to void not --to forfeit not just the interest, but the note. And thisCourt said, look, New York State law has nothing to dowith this. This is a claim of usury by a national bank. The Federal standards are exclusive, and the Federalpenalty expressly will not permit forfeiture of the note. Only the interest.QUESTION: But -- but certainly under the -- thestatute itself did not preclude the possibility of that action having been brought in State court.MR. WAXMAN: Not at all. And in fact, it wasexpressly contemplated. Then as now, these actions can bebrought and are often brought in State courts. All thatthe --QUESTION: So can -- suits. The two casesthat we have so far where we have recognized that there isonly a Federal cause of action, that cause of action couldhave been brought just as well in State court, but it's upto the defendant to remove it. So we're not talking about th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC an exclusive Federal forum.MR. WAXMAN: That -- that's correct, JusticeGinsburg. And the same is true for the types of ERISAclaims that were at issue in Metropolitan Life.QUESTION: And -- and I suppose one reason -- Iwas surprised when I went through. I thought there wouldbe a whole lot of exclusive Federal cause of action,and -- and there are very few. But I suppose one of thereasons we don't get it very often is just what JusticeGinsburg said. There are other provisions where there'san exclusive Federal forum.MR. WAXMAN: Correct. For example, theCopyright Act.QUESTION: Which is -- which is not this case.MR. WAXMAN: The Copyright Act certainly is an example of complete preemption, but there's a statutoryprovision that --QUESTION: Okay, why didn't we express this --this principle before instead of -- instead of adhering sonarrowly? I mean, even the ERISA case, it didn't expressthis -- this broad theory. It says, this is -- this isvery much like the section , and the legislativehistory referred specifically to , and therefore wecome out the same way. Pretty -- pretty narrow.MR. WAXMAN: Here's -- here's why, Justice th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Scalia. The very difficult -- this Court made clear inMetropolitan Life, if it wasn't clear before, that itwasn't going to infer from congressional silence verylightly that when Congress created a Federal cause ofaction, it meant it to be exclusive so that it woulddisplace State causes of action. There's a very strongand longstanding presumption to the contrary.But that difficult question was decided in thecontext of section of the National Bank Act beginningin for reasons that are explained in this Court'sopinion and in the Comptroller's report that theGovernment cites that precipitated the enactment ofsection , which is that this was war legislation. Thiswas a -- the creation of the national banks was hoped byCongress and President Lincoln that it would provide the means with which the Government could continue to fund thewar, and national banks would knit the country togetherwhen the war was finished.And the one thing that comes out of the historyof this case and is reflected in this Court's opinions isthat they feared, based on their experience with the firstbank of the United States and the second bank of theUnited States, that jealous States, States that werejealous of their State-chartered banks, which were issuingpaper at the time, would engage in predations against the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC national banks that were created at the very same timethat section was enacted and, in essence, smother thisimportant Federal infant in its crib.QUESTION: I started to call you General Waxman.(Laughter.)MR. WAXMAN: Thank you.QUESTION: Like the old days.MR. WAXMAN: R-.QUESTION: Assume -- assume that I -- I agreewith you that -- that on -- on complete preemption,this -- this case passes muster.But assume also that in writing an opinion, I --I want to say something to indicate why we do not have agathering snowball here. I mean, we -- first, we had thelabor management reporting. Then we got in some ERISA cases. Now we recognize this.Is there any criterion that you see in -- in atleast the cases on those three points so far, that --that -- or any language that points to a criterion forwhen preemption, particularly field preemption, forexample, becomes complete and when it doesn't?MR. WAXMAN: Yes. There has to besubstantive -- Congress has to supply the exclusivesubstantive standards. It has to create a cause of actionto remedy violations of those standards, and this is the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC hard part. And it also has to make clear that that --that judicial remedy is, in fact, exclusive, that is, thatit will not permit the existence or operation of State lawcauses of action, even those that import the Federalstandards and my --QUESTION: Okay. Why in other cases? Again,assume you -- you made your point on -- so far as thisstatute is concerned. Why in other cases aren't courtsgoing to be, in effect, remitted to doing what the -- theCourt tried to do here, and that is, say, let's find outwhat Congress had in mind? And we don't find anything inthe legislative history that makes it clear, and thereforeit doesn't apply.MR. WAXMAN: You -- you have to find out whatCongress had in mind, but I think this Court has made clear in Metropolitan Life that it is going to be therare, rare, rare day when the Federal courts will inferfrom congressional silence that a Federal cause of actionis to be exclusive.And the other examples in -- in which -- in theFederal law in which there is, in fact, completepreemption, the FELA or the Carmack Amendment as anexample, Congress has gone ahead and expressly made thoseactions nonremovable.May I reserve the balance of my time? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Waxman.Mr. Roberts, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:For more than years, it has been clear thatthe National Bank Act provides the exclusive cause ofaction for a claim of usury against a national bank. Because the National Bank Act provides the sole availableavenue of relief, any claim that a national bank hascommitted usury can arise only under that Federal law. The National Bank --QUESTION: Can I ask you the same question that I asked Mr. Waxman? What if -- what if the pleading makesa claim of usury, but it does not contain all of theelements necessary to make out a Federal cause of action? Is that removable?MR. ROBERTS: A failure to state a claim onwhich relief is granted does not deprive the Federal courtof jurisdiction over the claim. So the simple failure tostate a claim wouldn't prevent it from being removable ifthe -- if the claim was within the scope of the Federalcause of action, if it was a colorable claim. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Now, if -- if the claim --QUESTION: Well, it's not colorable. I mean,one of the elements is just not there.MR. ROBERTS: If -- if the claim was notcolorable --QUESTION: It -- it claims usury when -- whenwhat they charged was percent and that would not violatethe Federal statute.MR. ROBERTS: Well, here -- here we -- we don'thave that situation, Your Honor.QUESTION: I understand that. I want to know --MR. ROBERTS: That --QUESTION: We -- you're -- you're asking us toset forth a new general proposition, which we haven't setforth before. We've -- we've treated and ERISA as --as distinctive cases. Now you want a general proposition. I want to know what does this general proposition cover.Is the State court going to have to -- or is --before removal is granted, is the court going to have todecide whether a cause of action is properly stated, or --or, you know, whether -- whether it could be dismissedon -- on a motion to dismiss?MR. ROBERTS: When it's removed, the Federalcourt decides whether there's jurisdiction under Federallaw, whether there's arising-under jurisdiction, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC decides whether the -- the complaint is properly pleaded,the true nature of the complaint states a claim underFederal law. And --QUESTION: So if it doesn't, then it stays inState court.MR. ROBERTS: If it doesn't, then it can remandthe State -- the case back to State court, but it wouldhave decided, in essence, that the claim should bedismissed at the same time by deciding --QUESTION: What happens -- what happens if thecause of action is for misrepresentation under State law,and the misrepresentation is that the interest rate waslawful and the plaintiff alleges it was unlawful becauseit was usurious?MR. ROBERTS: Well, to the extent that the State claim requires the decision that a -- a determination thatthere were excessive interest charges by a national bank,then the claim would fall within the scope of the cause ofaction. But that wouldn't mean that there couldn't beclaims for misrepresentation that --QUESTION: Well, in -- in my -- would thisremovable? This is the only thing in the complaint.MR. ROBERTS: The complaint --QUESTION: It seems to me this might be likeGully in that it -- the -- the nature of the cause of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC action was really a State cause of action even though itinvolves an inquiry into what the Federal law --MR. ROBERTS: The State cause of action is justmisrepresentation.QUESTION: That's it.MR. ROBERTS: Then that would not be removable.QUESTION: It's unlawful, and the onlymisrepresentation is it's unlawful and it's unlawfulallegedly because it's usurious.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. I don't think that would beremovable, Your Honor.QUESTION: There were related claims here thatwere strictly State claims.MR. ROBERTS: That -- that --QUESTION: But they fell into --MR. ROBERTS: Yes, but the existence of pendentState claims doesn't defeat removal jurisdiction just asit doesn't defeat original jurisdiction. There werependent State claims in the Metropolitan Life case, yet --QUESTION: And they'd come up under . Theywould travel with the --MR. ROBERTS: Exactly, Your Honor. Thesupplemental jurisdiction statute, , expresslyprovides for Federal court jurisdiction in thoseinstances. They would come with -- with the claim to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal court.QUESTION: But if you had this same complaintand it didn't have the usury claim and it just had thoseState law claims, then there's nothing removable.MR. ROBERTS: That's -- that's right, YourHonor. The -- the misrepresentation claim and thesuppression claim are both species of fraud claim underState law. They don't come within the -- the scope of thecause of action in the National Bank Act, and they're not,on their own terms, arise under Federal law and they wouldnot be removable.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, can I go back to youranswer to Justice Scalia's question? I wonder if youreally meant the answer you gave.Assume a case in which the plaintiff alleges that percent is usurious as a matter of Alabama law, andunder Federal law it must be at least percent, say. AsI understand it, that would be removable because he'smaking a usury claim and would be dismissable, that is,under your -- your theory of the case. But I thought yousaid that would have to be dismissed in State court.MR. ROBERTS: What -- what -- I tried todistinguish between failure to state a claim, which Iagree the simple failure to state a claim is -- is not aground for lack of Federal jurisdiction, Your Honor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: If you fail -- you failed to state aFederal claim, but you do state an Alabama claim.MR. ROBERTS: There is no Alabama claim becausethe only claim can arise under Federal law. So it -- soit is removable and then the Federal court would assertFederal jurisdiction, which it has over the claim anddismiss it.QUESTION: And the Federal court would dismiss,yes.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. But -- butthat was the initial question that I -- that I understoodJustice Scalia to be asking.But then he said, if it's not colorable on theface of the complaint, what happens then? But I don'tthink it makes a practical difference.QUESTION: Well, that's my -- my hypothetical. It's percent and the Federal law clearly says anythingunder percent is not usurious. What happens with thatcase?know --MR. ROBERTS: The critical -- you have toQUESTION: I've given you all the facts.MR. ROBERTS: There still -- there still couldbe a colorable claim under --QUESTION: Well, is it a colorable claim or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC isn't it when it doesn't allege a --MR. ROBERTS: We don't know what the rate --QUESTION: -- percentage rate that's usuriousunder Federal law?MR. ROBERTS: You don't know what the rate is,Your Honor, under Federal law without -- without morefacts about the complaint because the National Bank Actprovides the -- the possibility the national bank cancharge any of three rates. But the --QUESTION: And one was a State rate.MR. ROBERTS: -- the fundamental -- thefundamental point is that -- that it's removable ifthere's jurisdiction in the original jurisdiction of theFederal court.QUESTION: Well, I still don't understand your answer. My -- my hypothesis is the Federal law says nocause of action unless it's over percent. He pleads percent and he -- and he says this violates State law. He says that and the defendant comes in and says, well,there's no State law cause of action. It's a Federalclaim. I want to remove it. Does the judge remove it ornot?MR. ROBERTS: If -- if there is -- if the claimproperly pleaded states a claim over which there's Federaljurisdiction, if it was pled as a claim under the National th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Bank Act --QUESTION: No, it's -- that is a matter of Statelaw in usury and --MR. ROBERTS: No.QUESTION: -- and you say there is no suchanimal. But then do you get to remove it or don't you? Idon't understand your answer.QUESTION: I don't think there's authority toremove it, if --QUESTION: The answer is yes, isn't it? You canremove it.MR. ROBERTS: You can --QUESTION: He might be able to remove it becausehe doesn't have confidence in what the State judge willdo.MR. ROBERTS: No -- no, Your Honor. You canremove it if there's -- if there's original -- would beoriginal jurisdiction over the complaint. And thatdoesn't matter whether it's characterized as a -- as acomplaint under State law, which doesn't -- doesn't existbecause it's been entirely displaced, or if it's properlypled as a -- as a claim under Federal law. You could justas easily ask if they state the claim --QUESTION: I -- I still don't know whetheryou're telling me yes or no to my hypothetical. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROBERTS: I'm telling you that if the -- ifthere's no colorable claim --QUESTION: Well, I've told you what the claimis. Is that colorable or not?MR. ROBERTS: Well --QUESTION: He says percent. Federal law is percent, and Alabama says I'll -- I'll do it on percent. Can he remove it or not? He -- I would thinkhe could remove it and get it dismissed, but I'm not sureyou agree with that.QUESTION: The question -- can I ask you astandard on this? I mean, I thought the standard is toask this question. Is this -- i.e., the State claim --the kind of claim in respect to which Congress intendedthe Federal action to be the exclusive substitute therefor? If the answer to that question is yes, you canremove it even if it doesn't state a Federal cause ofaction. Now, have I got it right what your argument is ornot?MR. ROBERTS: Yes, that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Then the answer to Justice Stevens,if I have the right standard, would be yes, becauseCongress did intend the Federal cause of action to be anexclusive substitute for those State actions which allegethat percent is usurious. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: How does this removal statute read? I mean --QUESTION: Is that right or not?MR. ROBERTS: The -- the removal statute givesthe -- gives the -- the Federal courts -- gives thedefendant the right to remove to a Federal forum any claimthat arises under the laws of the United States --QUESTION: Arises under the law.MR. ROBERTS: -- and so -- so the question iswhether it arises under, whether there's originaljurisdiction in the Federal court.QUESTION: And could we please answer JusticeBreyer's question?QUESTION: I want to know if I'm right or not --MR. ROBERTS: Yes.QUESTION: -- because I'm not asking just tohear my standard. I'm asking --MR. ROBERTS: I'm -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. Yes.QUESTION: I'm right, okay, in your opinion.MR. ROBERTS: Yes, you're right.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Okay, and by the same token, ifJustice Stevens' question had been asked about a subjectthat is not under the banking act or labor management th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reporting or that part of ERISA which has been held to becomplete preemption, I take it your answer would be thatif a -- a claim was pleaded that omitted one element ofthe Federal cause of action in the State court, and youdidn't start with the assumption that there was completepreemption for extraneous reasons, it wouldn't beremovable.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. If there -- if I understandthe hypothetical, it's not a situation where it arisesunder the exclusive cause of action for usury under theNational Bank Act.QUESTION: Right. We don't start with theassumption of complete preemption. What he states is, infact, a Federal claim but for one element. Is thatremovable?MR. ROBERTS: Yes.QUESTION: He leaves out an element.MR. ROBERTS: The Federal -- the Federal claimwould be removable to -- to Federal court, yes.QUESTION: But it's not a Federal claim. He'sleft out one element. Would that be removable?QUESTION: Answer yes or no, and then sit down.MR. ROBERTS: Yes. Yes, Your Honor, it'sremoval.Thank you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Roberts.Mr. Clark, we'll hear from --ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN M. CLARKON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. CLARK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Federal jurisdiction is necessarily limitedjurisdiction. Federal removal jurisdiction is limited bystatute to those cases that arise under the Constitutionor laws of the United States. Plaintiffs have brought nocause of action on the face of the complaint that arisesunder the -- the Constitution or laws of the UnitedStates. As such, there's no Federal jurisdiction underlong-held jurisdiction --QUESTION: Oh, but it's a claim of usurious interest charged by a national bank.MR. CLARK: It is a --QUESTION: So under the theory of theGovernment, that is a Federal claim.MR. CLARK: Under the theory of the Government,it -- the claim, as pled, is under Alabama Code section--. And any interposition of Federal law at all isnecessarily interposed by the defendant in this case. Andunder this Court's decisions in Gully, which was aNational Bank Act case, Caterpillar, MetLife, Franchise th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Tax Board, the imposition of a Federal defense does notcreate --QUESTION: This is not a Federal defense, Mr. --Mr. Clark. This is like -- suppose you have a case inState court and the plaintiff says, we're both from theState of Alabama. Defendant removes it, says, I wasfrom -- I am, was from Georgia. Now, doesn't thedefendant have a right to remove that case even thoughplaintiff pled it as though it were a case that could beonly in State court? Said we're both from --MR. CLARK: Are you talking about where the --where the -- a -- a complaint is pled by -- by an -- by aGeorgia plaintiff against an Alabama corporation, it willbe removed because --QUESTION: Plaintiff is from Alabama. MR. CLARK: -- because there's diversity?QUESTION: Plaintiff says defendant is fromAlabama.MR. CLARK: Right.QUESTION: Defendant removes because defendantis, in fact, from Georgia.MR. CLARK: Right. Well, in that case you havea -- you have a -- you have factual inaccuracy in thepleading. In this case, we're not talking about theirbasis for removal is not some factual inaccuracy of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC pleading, it's that they're saying that your legal theory,plaintiff, which you, under the well-pleaded complaintrule are allowed to choose your own legal theories, you'vedecided to travel on the Alabama statute --QUESTION: You're not allowed to choose a theorythat doesn't exist.MR. CLARK: Well --QUESTION: The notion is that there simply is noclaim under State law for usury against a national bank. It doesn't exist. No such claim. If the plaintiff choseto stand on such a claim, it would have to be dismissedbecause the only exclusive claim for relief -- although itcan be brought in State or Federal court, the exclusiveclaim is one under Federal law. That's the argument here.MR. CLARK: The argument that they are making is that there's no claim is -- is misstating. There is aclaim.What -- what Your Honor is discussing is theprinciple of ordinary preemption. Whether or not thatAlabama State law claim may proceed is a question ofordinary preemption as to be -- to be distinguished fromcomplete preemption. And the Court held in -- inCaterpillar that -- that a case may not be removed on aFederal defense, including the defense of preemption, evenif the defense is anticipated by both parties. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Of course. And there's one case -- Iwas surprised you didn't cite it in your brief. It'svery -- makes that point very nicely. The Rivet caseagainst Regions Bank, which was featured on the otherside -- you didn't mention it at all in your brief.MR. CLARK: That's an ordinary -- ordinarypreemption case -- case also.QUESTION: That -- that distinguishes between aclaim for relief and a defense. And that case involved adefense.MR. CLARK: Right, and --QUESTION: The defense of preclusion.MR. CLARK: Right, and that's exactly what theyhave in this case, a mere defense in this case. And --QUESTION: Because?QUESTION: Do you -- do you disagree thatsection of the National Bank Act provides the solesource of the cause of action?MR. CLARK: It does not provide the sole sourceof the cause of action that the plaintiffs have pled inthis case, and that's the difference here is -- is thesource of sort of organic law as to where the -- where thecomplaint comes from.Assume there were -- the defendants neverbrought up this -- this claim or this defense of Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC preemption. The Alabama case would -- the Alabama usuryclaim would go forward under Alabama law and would bedecided under Alabama law. So it's important to -- to seethe distinction between -- between what's being -- what'sbeing pled and a defense to what's being pled.Now, as -- as was stated --QUESTION: Wait. Don't leave that point becauseyou're -- you win if you're right on that. I mean, youwin if your particular claim is not preempted by thisFederal statute, you win -- and they admit it -- if thisparticular Federal statute is not intended by Congress tobe the exclusive vehicle for bringing the kind of claimthat you have brought. So now, explain to me. You justsaid it isn't. Why isn't it?MR. CLARK: Why isn't -- Your Honor, why isn't -- why isn't the -- the cause of action we'vebrought --QUESTION: Why, in your opinion, is the Statecause of action that you brought -- you say it is not truethat Congress intended the Federal cause of action as theexclusive vehicle, excluding your kind of claim.MR. CLARK: Well --QUESTION: They say it did. You say it didn't.Now, all I want to hear is your arguments forsaying it didn't because they pointed to a lot of Federal th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC cases going back to which say usury claims are to bebrought under the Federal statute. The State power inrespect to a national bank has no power. Okay? Now, yourreply to that is what?MR. CLARK: As this Court stated in theCaterpillar case under note , the question of the breadthof the --QUESTION: I don't see what Caterpillar couldpossibly have to do with it since it isn't a bank case.MR. CLARK: Well, but the question of thebreadth --QUESTION: Is it?MR. CLARK: -- of the remedy provided --QUESTION: I'm not asking you that. I asked youto tell me about banking law.MR. CLARK: Right.QUESTION: I want to know is it the case in yourview -- you concede it. You seem to contest it. I'llrepeat it for the third time.Is it the case that this Federal cause of actionis intended by Congress as the exclusive vehicle excludingyour State cause of action under the Supremacy Clause ofthe Constitution?MR. CLARK: Under Supremacy Clause --QUESTION: Is the answer to my question yes or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC no?MR. CLARK: That is -- yes, that is what thosecases hold. However --QUESTION: Okay. Well, then --MR. CLARK: -- however --QUESTION: -- then you can't make the argumentyou just made.MR. CLARK: However, the question of whether ornot a claim is preempted ordinarily is a -- a whollydifferent question from whether or not there'sjurisdiction in the Federal courts.QUESTION: All right. You -- you really want --you conceded you have no State claim. It's preempted bythe Federal statutes. Is that right? Is that what you'reconceding?MR. CLARK: We -- it appears that there is no --there is no State claim on the usury.QUESTION: All right. There is no State claim. So then the question in this case is even though youconcede, as I take it you have -- I don't know if youreally mean to.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But -- but I take it you just didconcede that the Federal cause of action is the onlypossible cause of action that your client could have. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CLARK: Well, if the -- if my client -- ifwe decided to travel under the Federal cause of action --and what this goes back to is the well-pleaded complaintrule. Plaintiffs in -- in cases are allowed to choosetheir remedies. And in this case the plaintiffs chose aremedy under the Alabama usury statute, be --QUESTION: The problem with it is your complaintisn't well-pleaded if the only source of law is Federal,which you conceded on your brief and again here. There isno well-pleaded Alabama claim because the Alabama claim orthe State law claim doesn't exist. The only claim thatexists against a national bank for usury is a Federalclaim.MR. CLARK: Well, and again, that is adefense -- the claim -- as the Court said in MetLife, the touchstone is not whether or not preemption is obvious,but the question is whether or not that creates removaljurisdiction.QUESTION: No, but the -- the --MR. CLARK: And that has to appear from the faceof the complaint.QUESTION: But I --QUESTION: But the face of a well-pleadedcomplaint. And there's a difference between preemption asa defense to a claim that is well pleaded and here where th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you have badly pleaded a complaint that can arise onlyunder Federal law that simply can't arise under State law.MR. CLARK: The problem with that test is it'snot a -- it's not a test. It adds another layer of -- oflitigation to -- to almost any claim. And what you'regoing to have is, instead of following a well-pleadedcomplaint rule that for years has served this Court,you're going to have all manner of State law causes ofaction all of the sudden removed and then you're going tohave this litigation over -- over, well, does it state acognizable cause of action under -- under State law or isit part of --QUESTION: We have one simple question. HasCongress provided for exclusive Federal law to govern thisclaim? That's not a complicated question.MR. CLARK: Congress has not provided forexclusive Federal cause of action to govern an Alabamausury claim.QUESTION: So then you are not conceding --QUESTION: Then you just withdrew yourconcession.(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- complete preemption as opposed toordinary preemption.MR. CLARK: As a matter of ordinary preemption, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and maybe --QUESTION: You're conceding ordinary preemption,but not complete preemption.MR. CLARK: Exactly. And if I -- if Imisunderstood the question, then I misunderstood thequestion.QUESTION: I'm sorry. It probably was --MR. CLARK: As a matter of ordinary preemption,it may very well be that -- that --QUESTION: Congress --MR. CLARK: -- the State Law claim andCongress -- and Congress intended that.QUESTION: Let him finish answering the questionthat somebody else asked.QUESTION: Oh, I'm sorry.MR. CLARK: But as a matter of completepreemption, under -- under what I was saying in theMetLife and the Caterpillar case, those do notjurisdiction make. In the Gully -- Gully case itself, itsaid a suit brought upon a State statute dues not ariseunder an act of Congress because prohibited thereby.That is exactly the situation that we have here. We have a State law cause of action. We have thedefendant interposing a defense saying, your State lawcause of action is prohibited by that -- by that -- by the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal act, and now we want to create removaljurisdiction because of that.It's interesting. This Court has alwaysfound --QUESTION: Mr. Clark, I'm -- can we go backto -- you just cited Gully and maybe I have it wrong, butI thought that that was a suit to collect a State taxunder State law.MR. CLARK: Yes.QUESTION: That the source of law that wasapplied to the private actor was State law, the State tax.MR. CLARK: Yes.QUESTION: And here, the source of law thatwould be applied is Federal law, not State law.MR. CLARK: The -- the source of law pled in the complaint is Alabama State law. Now, the fact that it maybe ordinary -- ordinarily preempted is something that --that the defendants can raise and the State courts candecide. And the State courts have often -- often decidedmatters of Federal preemption.QUESTION: I just --QUESTION: May I ask -- may I ask this onequestion? It seems to me there's a slight difference inthe text of section and . And section reads as adefense, and if that's all there were here, I would th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC understand your argument completely.But I think one can read section as creatingan affirmative Federal cause of action, and one can arguethat that's the only cause of action that can beprosecuted. Now, if that's true, would there not be --would it not -- not -- would you not have to say then thatthe affirmative remedy in -- under the Federal statute isexclusive?MR. CLARK: Well, in -- in -- there are manyFederal statutes that would run concurrently with Stateregulation of -- of business. And if -- if the questionis, is the fact that there's a Federal remedy provided, inaddition to the State remedy -- does that provide --provide removal jurisdiction, the answer would be -- wouldbe no to that question.QUESTION: It's not only that there's a Federalremedy provided, but it's been construed to be theexclusive remedy.MR. CLARK: Right.QUESTION: That those are the only remedies thatone can get.MR. CLARK: But again, I would --QUESTION: Doesn't that distinguish it from someof these other hypothetical cases?MR. CLARK: Well, again, I would go back to this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court's concept of federalism wherein the -- the Statecourts are allowed to make that call. And in Avco, whichestablished the -- this platypus of -- of field preemptionor complete preemption is very limited to -- to thoseactions construing the collective -- collective bargainingagreements. And then it was reluctantly extended by thisCourt in the Metropolitan Life and Taylor cases, and --QUESTION: Well, the argument of the Governmentis that this is another one of those rare cases. That'stheir whole point.MR. CLARK: But if this --QUESTION: And if it is, then you're just wrongabout it being only a defensive maneuver.MR. CLARK: This -- if this is another case, itis a wholly separate and -- and distinguished -- distinct way to go because the National Bank Act carries with itnone of the indicia of the intent of Congress tocompletely preempt that the LMRA does.QUESTION: But it's been interpreted by a numberof cases to have precisely that effect.MR. CLARK: To have ordinary preemptive effect,which --QUESTION: No. No. That was not theinterpretation. You want us to overrule earlier casesabout -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CLARK: Absolutely not.QUESTION: -- the meaning of the National BankAct?MR. CLARK: No.But in the -- in the LMRA context, you havespecific jurisdictional grant to the district courts ofthe United States. Then when ERISA came along, withTaylor you have -- you have specific legislative historysaying that this is to be interpreted under the Avco rule,which is to -- which is to -- to have a body of Federallaw deciding all cases, no matter where brought, under --under ERISA or deciding all cases under collectivebargaining.In this case, there's no -- in National BankAct, there's no -- there is no body of Federal law that could ever arise, and it's because the nature of theNational Bank Act is really more of a hierarchy of Statelaws. It says, National Bank Act, you can -- you cancharge either the interest rate in the State in which theclaim is brought, you can charge the interest rate in theState in which the bank is located, or you can charge --and there's a default Federal interest rate. So whatyou're going to have here is sort of a patchwork of Statelaw decisions concerning the State -- State law ofDelaware versus Alabama versus Kentucky versus Michigan. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm still trying to get back to my --I'm beginning to see what I think your answer is, butplease don't agree with me if you really disagree.All right. First, if I were to ask thequestion, is there Federal law in the area? Yes. Ask thequestion, does Federal law preempt State law? Yes.MR. CLARK: Ordinarily.QUESTION: Yes, here. Yes, well, you'll sayright here, but wait.So you -- if I ask this question, is thisState -- Federal cause of action -- did Congress intend itto preempt a State cause of action substituting theFederal cause of action therefor? I think now you'reprepared to say the answer to this question is yes.MR. CLARK: Ordinarily preempt. QUESTION: But you will answer the followingquestion no. Is there an intent here by Congress thatthis Federal cause of action that preempts the State causeof action by substituting an exclusive Federal remedy --is there an intent of Congress to allow removal when it'spleaded? The answer is we have no evidence of that.MR. CLARK: The answer to that question is no.QUESTION: And what they're saying on theirside -- and now this is exactly the issue between them andthe lower courts. And indeed, there's language that's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC unclear in the lower cases -- is that we need evidence ofthat latter point. That's what you're saying. Andthey're saying no.MR. CLARK: Well --QUESTION: They're saying, look, all you have tohave are the first three things I mentioned. Stop afteryou decide that Congress has created a Federal action withthe intent that it provide an exclusive substitute forthis State action. Stop there. Don't ask for any furtherevidence of anything. One, because you'll never get it.Congress never thinks of this sort of esoteric issue. Andsecond, because there's just no reason.Now, okay. Now I get the -- the clash, and nowI can get the answer.MR. CLARK: I'm sorry if I -- I misunderstood your question before.QUESTION: No, no. It's my fault. I didn't getit.MR. CLARK: And in fact, in the -- in JusticeBrennan's concurring opinion in the MetLife/Taylor case,he said, you know, that -- that congressional intent isthe touchstone here, and that this Court would be wellserved not to infer removal jurisdiction unless there issome clear evidence of congressional intent to do so likein an ERISA case or like in the LMRA case. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Clark, I should perhaps haveasked this question of the other side, but they're notgoing to have a lot of time left when they get back up.I assume that it -- it is a given that merelysetting forth all of the elements of a Federal cause ofaction in a complaint is not enough to provoke removal. That is to say, if there is both a Federal cause of actionand a State cause of action which has the same elements,if you plead those elements, which would constitute aFederal cause of action, but you protest that you are notasserting a Federal cause of action, you are onlyasserting a State cause of action, that would not beremovable. Would it?MR. CLARK: No, it would not be. And that --QUESTION: Okay. So we're -- we're talking about a -- a distinctive rule here that where you setforth the elements of a -- of a cause of action that youdo not assert to be a Federal cause of action, we aregoing to allow it to be removed nonetheless. Right?MR. CLARK: If -- if what the defendants arearguing, it would be a new rule. And it -- it is adeparture from --QUESTION: But may I understand this furtherpoint? What Justice Scalia's described seems to me quitecommon. You have State human rights laws. You have th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Federal human rights laws. The same facts that I wasdiscriminated against. If I make my choice that I want tobring it under, say, New York law rather than Title VII,that's my prerogative. And the defendant certainly can'tremove that case by saying, well, you could have pleadedthose same facts as a Title VII case. Quite different. That's where there's concurrent lawmaking authority, bothState and Federal.Here the argument is there is no State lawmakingauthority. There is no parallel source of law, State andFederal, and that's what makes it different from theordinary case where you plead the facts and they wouldstate a claim under either State law or Federal law. Thepleader has her choice.MR. CLARK: There -- there is concurrent lawmaking authority. However, because of the SupremacyClause, the courts have held that -- that there isordinary preemption in this case. But that does notanswer the question whether or not should -- there shouldbe removal jurisdiction in the case.And it's -- in other words, the Alabamalegislature certainly has the right to make -- make lawregulating Federal banks. In fact, this Court decided wayback in that national banks are subject to State lawregulation. And in fact, the quote from the case th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC something like in their daily activities, they'reregulated much more under --QUESTION: But not usury. I mean, you -- it's aquestion of how you characterize this, but I think youagree that on the question of usury, the Federallegislation is conclusive and it was done, indeed, for thevery purpose of having national banks escape from whateverjealous, mean legislation the State might pass.So the only law -- I mean, the choice would beif you want to say, yes, I want to stick with Alabama law,no Federal , for me, that case must get dismissed. You can't get past the door because there is no suchclaim.MR. CLARK: If -- if the preemption, ordinarypreemption, is -- is applied, it -- it would -- applied as it has been, it would be dismissed.However, that is a wholly separate question fromwhether the case arises under Federal jurisdiction. It isa question of ordinary preemption that the State courts --QUESTION: Why would a plaintiff want to bringus a suit that inevitably must be dismissed?MR. CLARK: Well, and -- plaintiffs havedifferent reasons for pleading the things they do. Underthe well-pleaded complaint rule, of course, it's theirprerogative to rise and fall on the causes of action that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they choose to plead.However, I go back to the MetLife case which theCourt said it's not the obviousness of preemption defensebut the intent of Congress. And I think in answer to thequestion over there, is why -- why go that extra step?Well, because this Court has decided in MetLife that thatextra step is necessary to stop this slippery slope downwhere every case that is removed out of a State court, younow have this other layer of -- of litigation over, well,is there another cause of action and -- and perhaps thatwe have to find some -- we have to litigate over whetherit's an exclusive cause of action.And the answer to that is this Court hasprovided, for right or for wrong, since that wefollow the well-pleaded complaint rule and it follows the language in the -- at the end of the Gully opinion sayingthat what you need is a clear bright line limitation. Andonly where we find some clear congressional intent, suchas in the LMRA situation, such as in the ERISA situation,do we make this extreme and extraordinary grant of fieldpreemption or complete preemption or whole preemption.If there are no further questions, I will sitdown.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clark.Mr. Waxman, you have minutes remaining. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, the answer to yourquestion is yes, if there are --QUESTION: What was my question?(Laughter.)MR. WAXMAN: Your question was if -- if you --you said this would take time, and it will. You pleadedall the elements of a Federal cause of action, but italso -- it also satisfies a State cause of action. If theFederal cause of action is not exclusive except in thatrare instance, it is not removable.Justice Breyer, yes, indeed we say that you stopat point . That is, you determine whether or not this isthe rare instance in which there's not only substantive preemption but exclusive Federal remedies. And the reasonyou stop is because we have Federal question jurisdiction. It says that removal is tied to original jurisdiction,and therefore, the question is, does the complaintwell-pleaded necessarily state a cause of action? JusticeHolmes indicated in a statement that is oft repeated and,if it's anything, is under-inclusive, as this Courtindicated I think in Merrell Dow, that a suit arises underthe law that creates the cause of action. If the cause ofaction is exclusively Federal, in that rare instance, it's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC under arising-under jurisdiction.Justice Kennedy I think asked what for me is themost difficult question in this Court's sometimes notfully explicated arising-under jurisdiction, which is thequestion that was addressed in Merrell Dow and inparticular in footnote in this Court's opinion inMerrell Dow, which is if you have a State cause of actionmisrepresentation, but it has embedded with it as anecessary matter a conclusion about whether Federal lawwas or was not satisfied, does that State claim ariseunder Federal jurisdiction?In Franchise Tax Board, this Court repeateddicta that suggests that the answer is yes. And in Smithversus Kansas City Title and Trust, this -- this Courtseemed to indicate yes. But in Moore versus Chesapeake --the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, the Court suggested thatthe embedded Federal question has to be central to theState cause of action and really important.And the result, as I -- as I think things standnow, is we have a very long footnote in this Court'sopinion in Merrell Dow that says many people havedifficulty resolving our jurisprudence in this area, butin the Merrell Dow context, where there was a State tortclaim that could -- may I finish my --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Waxman. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 