 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XTHE BLACK & DECKER DISABILITY :PLAN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -KENNETH L. NORD :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:LEE T. PATERSON, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalf of the Petitioner.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioner.LAWRENCE D. ROHLFING, ESQ., Santa Fe Springs, California;on behalf of the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF LEE T. PATERSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner LISA S. BLATT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner LAWRENCE D. ROHLFING, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFLEE T. PATERSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, The Black & DeckerDisability Plan v. Kenneth Nord.Mr. Paterson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LEE T. PATERSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PATERSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Ninth Circuit has adopted a treatingphysician rule in ERISA cases which requires the planadministrator to either accept the opinion of a treatingphysician or to reject that opinion by specific legitimatereasons based upon substantial evidence. The Ninth Circuit says that this rule gives special weight,deference, and a presumption to the opinions of treatingphysicians.The failure to follow this rule has two effects. First, a finding that the plan administrator has aconflict of interest which mandates de novo review, andsecondly, on de novo review, that the plan administrator'sdecision was not reasonable.The Ninth Circuit's --QUESTION: Now, the Secretary has adopted some th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC requirements of explanation of reasons where thephysicians differ in their views. Has -- has theSecretary done something of the sort?MR. PATERSON: The Secretary has adoptedregulations, which were effective in January of ,which require a plan administrator to obtain the opinionof an expert medical professional to -- to advise himregarding medical opinions and to be able to provide anexpert medical opinion to the claimant if he requests it. That would not apply, of course, to this case since thisclaim was filed in .QUESTION: And is there a requirement to givereasons if there is a difference of views between thetreating physician and the expert?MR. PATERSON: No. There is no requirement to provide reasons to -- or between the two physicians'opinions. There has always been a requirement under ERISAand the regulations that a plan administrator explain thereasons for his denial of a claim.QUESTION: And this claim was denied?MR. PATERSON: This claim was denied.QUESTION: Were the reasons given in this case?MR. PATERSON: Yes, they were, Your Honor. Theywere given by the plan administrator in writing to theclaimant. He told the claimant that he was, in fact, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC denying the claim based on the opinion of Dr. Mitri.He told them he was denying the claim because hedid not meet the plan definition of total -- I'm sorry --complete inability to perform the job of a materialplanner.He told them that part of the reason for denyingthe claim was the fact that the plan administrator hadasked the claimant to please have his treating physicianscomment on the opinion of Dr. Mitri. He did that twice. He did it in writing. And in neither case did therespondent respond with any -- from the treatingphysicians -- with any response from their -- the treatingphysicians.And he also did it on the basis that JanmarieForward's opinion, who was a human resourcerepresentative, was not -- did not change his opinion. Sothere were those --QUESTION: And -- and under the Secretary'srules, if there is in fact a conflict of interest, it canbe weighed in making that ultimate resolution by thecourt?MR. PATERSON: No. There's -- there's nothingin the -- if you mean the Secretary of Labor's rules,there's nothing in the Secretary of Labor's rules whichrelates to any weighing of a conflict of interest by the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC plan administrator. There is a -- a provision in the caseof Firestone v. Bruch in which the Court in that case saidthat if the plan administrator --QUESTION: This Court has suggested that aconflict of interest can be weighed.MR. PATERSON: This Court said that in Firestonev. Bruch.And -- but the question in that case that hasbeen not -- it has not been decided in that case and whichhas created a conflict of interest of -- I'm sorry -- aconflict among the circuits is the question of what doesit mean to weigh. Does it mean to weigh the conflict ofinterest, or does it mean to conflict of interest againstthe reasonableness of the decision?The Second Circuit has said it means to weigh the conflict of interest as provided in Restatement ,and after you weigh the conflict of interest, you thenmove on to the reasonableness of the decision.The Ninth -- the Ninth and the Eleventh Circuitshave said it means that you weigh the decision, and if you-- the conflict -- and if you find there is a conflict,then you find that the decision of the plan administratoris presumptively void.And the remainder of the circuits have adoptedsomething called the sliding scale test where you weigh th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC both the conflict and the -- the reasonableness of thedecision at the same time.This Court commented on that issue, I believe,in Rush v. Moran when the Court said, how can you givedeference to the opinion of a treating physician -- I'msorry -- of a plan administrator at the same time that youare looking for conflict of interest?We would submit, if I may, Your Honor, that theway to do that is to first look for conflict of interestin -- in the -- the way that Restatement does that. You first test for conflict of interest. If there's noconflict of interest, then this potential conflict ofinterest, what this Court called a potential conflict ofinterest, goes away. It is a nothing. It has no effectwhatsoever.QUESTION: You didn't tell us -- you didn't --QUESTION: As to your case, what -- whatdifference does it really make? The Ninth Circuit in aportion of -- of its opinion which is not being reviewedhere --MR. PATERSON: I didn't mean to --QUESTION: -- and -- and in Regula seems to setup a two-tier system or a dichotomy of an administratorwho is a fiduciary and an administrator who's not. Ishould think -- tell me, maybe I'm incorrect -- that your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC position is that the treating physician rule is aninappropriate approach in either instance.MR. PATERSON: There's no question about that. I didn't mean to argue for a difference in -- in thestandard of review. We haven't -- we haven't brought thatto this Court on a petition. I merely meant to respond toJustice O'Connor's question.QUESTION: But I take it your point is that in-- in either context, the treating physician rule isinappropriate.MR. PATERSON: Absolutely. There's no questionin our -- in our position to this Court that the treatingphysician rule is an inappropriate rule under either -- ofany of those tests.QUESTION: Am -- am I --QUESTION: If you are correct in -- in thatregard, it would go back to the Ninth Circuit and therewould still remain the question on which you didn't seekreview, and that is, just how do you handle this conflictof interest? I presume the Ninth Circuit would go back towhere it was.MR. PATERSON: I believe that that's correct,Your Honor. What would happen is we would go back towhere we would have been if the treating physician ruledidn't exist. The Ninth Circuit would be using its th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC presumptively void test, would look to see if the -- theclaimant had produced any probative material evidence of aconflict of interest, which actually affected the decisionas opposed to just a potential conflict of interest. Ifthey found that, they would find that the decision of theplan administrator was presumptively void. If they didn'tfind that, then that issue would drop from the case andthey would then test the -- the decision of a planadministrator based on abuse of discretion standard.QUESTION: But their analysis would be differentin one respect, I take it, and that is in -- in the caseas they considered it first, the -- the refusal to followa treating physician rule was taken itself as evidence ofconflict. Is that correct?MR. PATERSON: Yes. The Ninth Circuit held that the refusal to follow a treating -- the treatingphysician's opinion or to fail to rebut that opinion byspecific legitimate reasons was a material probativeevidence of a -- tending to prove an actual conflict ofinterest which -- which affected the --QUESTION: So the result might be different.MR. PATERSON: I -- we would certainly -- wecertainly intend it to be different if -- if we can.QUESTION: Did -- did they say presumptivelyvoid? I -- I had thought that what they -- what they said th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was if they found an actual conflict, they simply wouldgive no deference and would review de novo as though thequestion was up to them.MR. PATERSON: The -- the test in the literatureis called the presumptively void test. I don't believethe Ninth Circuit calls it the presumptively void test. They -- they call it the Atwood test, the Atwood v.Newmont Gold test.QUESTION: I don't care what they call it. Iwant to know what the consequence is. I thought theconsequence held by the Ninth Circuit was that if they didfind the actual conflict, they would give no deference tothe plan administrator's decision and would review thequestion de novo as though it was up to them.MR. PATERSON: Yes, and in that sense it would -- they would be void. I think the presumptively voidissue comes in this sense, Your Honor. When the -- if theclaimant comes forward with material probative evidence ofa conflict tending to show a conflict of interest underthe Ninth Circuit's test, the Ninth Circuit says thatthere is a rebuttable presumption created and that theburden is then on the plan administrator to come forwardwith evidence and to rebut that material probativeevidence that there is an actual conflict of interest.QUESTION: But we take the case on the theory th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that that's governing in this case? I mean, you didn't --MR. PATERSON: Yes.QUESTION: -- seek -- seek review of it. It'sjust the treating physician rule that you want us to talkabout.MR. PATERSON: That's correct. I -- I don't --I've been asked these questions, but we're not arguing theissue of standard --QUESTION: It is difficult for me to get to thething when I have a kind of basic confusion in my mind,which I have. I don't understand this conflict ofinterest thing from start to finish. That is to say, why-- why is it -- why is it any different to have a trusteein -- in this kind of a case who hires an insurancecompany to look to see whether the people are disabled or not than to have a trustee who hires an insurance companyto run the whole plan?And anyway, why is that different from a trusteewho, say, runs a classical trust and has to decide -- callit a spendthrift trust -- whether to give the beneficiary$, this month and have less in the -- in the corpus orto give him $ this month and have more in the corpus,which might, by the way, grow to help other beneficiaries?So I -- I don't understand it basically and I'veread enough to know that I really don't. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PATERSON: Thank you, Justice Breyer. I --I hope that I can -- I can help.In section of the Restatement of Trusts, ittalks about a potential conflict of interest, thepossibility of a conflict of interest. And this -- thisCourt talked about that in Firestone v. Bruch. Thatpotential conflict of interest is not a conflict ofinterest. It's just the possibility. And any courtreviewing any trustee, ERISA or not, if they thought theremight be a conflict of interest, would look for thatconflict of interest and see if there was --QUESTION: What could it consist of?MR. PATERSON: It might consist in an ERISA caseof some direction from the president of the company to thetrustee to cut back on benefit costs.QUESTION: I see. I see.MR. PATERSON: That would be -- then he wouldnot be representing the -- the members of the plan and hewould be breaching his fiduciary duty.QUESTION: What if there's no such directive,but the plan is set up in such a fashion that it'semployer-funded and the higher the benefit costs are, the-- the more the employer pays, and hence the less profitsthe employer has?MR. PATERSON: That's -- I'm sorry. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Is that just a potential conflict ofinterest or is that an actual conflict of interest whenthe plan administrator is -- is an agent of the employer?MR. PATERSON: Under this Court's rule -- ordecision in Firestone and in -- under the Ninth Circuit'sdecision, that is only a potential conflict of interest. There has to be material probative evidence of an actualconflict of interest which affected his decision.QUESTION: It's using conflict of interest in a-- in a strange sense, it seems to me.MR. PATERSON: It -- well --QUESTION: There's certainly a conflict ofinterest there. He's supposed to represent the employees,but he's an agent of the employer, and the more he givesto the employees, the less there is for the employer. Iwould call that a conflict of interest, but -- but that isnot, for purposes of these cases, a conflict of interest.That is a potential conflict.MR. PATERSON: That is a potential conflict ofinterest.QUESTION: It seems to me they're not reallytalking about a conflict of interest. They're talkingabout -- what should I say? Evidence that -- that thetrustee was not acting in the -- in the employees' bestinterest. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PATERSON: And I think that should be the --the criteria that the court has to look for in each ofthese cases to decide whether the trustee is actuallyconflicted or not.QUESTION: Can we get back to the question thatyou did raise? Why should there be a difference in theSocial Security standard, which does apply this treatingphysician rule and disability? Both -- the question inboth cases is whether this person is unable to work.MR. PATERSON: There is a -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: Yes.MR. PATERSON: There's a tremendous differencein the Social Security standard as formulated by theregulations of the Social Security Administration and theNinth Circuit's treating physician rule in Social Security cases as formulated by the Ninth Circuit and ERISA cases. Perhaps I can point out a couple of those things.First, the Social Security Administration has aregulation, which it has adopted, which provides for a setof criteria to be reviewed by the administrative lawjudge. Those criteria include the -- looking at thephysician's -- the treating physician's opinion,determining whether that opinion is well supported byclinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, seeing ifit's not inconsistent with other substantial evidence, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC looking at the length of the treatment relationship andthe frequency of the examination, and other criteria.Once the administrative law judge goes throughthose criteria and determines each one of those positivelytowards the treating physician, he then may, or she maythen, if they wish, provide conclusive weight to theopinion of the treating physician.The Ninth Circuit's rule is completely differentthan that. The Ninth Circuit's rule says that if a personis a treating physician, then the plan administratoreither has to accept that rule -- that -- that opinion orhas to rebut it. A treating physician under the NinthCircuit rule could be a -- somebody at a local well carecenter and you walk in and get a shot. That makes you a treating physician. Now you have an opinion which you --which, under the Ninth Circuit's rule, gives you a -- apresumptive weight.QUESTION: But I take it, you would not be happywith -- if we said, well, the Ninth Circuit went too far,but it should be set up just like the Social Securitybecause, as I understand it, this employee did get SocialSecurity disability.MR. PATERSON: Well, we don't know that for afact, Your Honor. There is a statement in the -- in thestatement of facts by the respondent in their opposition th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC brief. There is no evidence in front of this Court. Thefirst time I ever knew about that was when I read therespondent's brief. If that is true, he should file -- heshould refile with the administrator and attempt to usethat evidence to get his claim reopened. But there is noevidence that I'm aware of in front of this Court on thatissue.QUESTION: So that's -- that is open to him torefile and say, look, I've got Social Security?MR. PATERSON: Yes. He may go back to the --the plan administrator -- this case is still open becauseit's on appeal -- and tell the plan administrator I havethis new evidence. It shows that I have been disabledsince July the th of and I would like you toconsider that evidence. And the plan administrator will do that.QUESTION: I suppose there's something to besaid for the proposition that if you have this privatesystem, you don't necessarily want to bring in all thebureaucratic trappings of the Social Security reviewprocess.MR. PATERSON: Well, I think that's absolutelyright, because one of the congressional purposes in ERISAis to encourage employers to adopt voluntary disabilityplans. And the Social Security administrative regulations th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC were -- are regulations which have been adopted by theSocial Security Administration. In this case, theDepartment of Labor which is the correlative to the SocialSecurity Administration for ERISA plans is opposed to theERISA, or to this --QUESTION: But -- but you -- you wouldacknowledge that the Social Security determination isevidence for the plan administrator to consider eventhough it's using a -- a mandated standard of respect forthe treating physician's determination which does notexist under the plan?MR. PATERSON: I think it is evidence. I thinkthe first thing the plan administrator would do is to lookat the medical opinions which were submitted along withthat report and look at the actual decision of the administrative law judge.QUESTION: But he'd make -- make the samedecision. I mean, if he didn't believe the treatingphysician and didn't have to believe the treatingphysician, as the Social Security Administrator has to, toa greater degree anyway, he'd come out the same way. Ijust don't see how it's evidence in a -- in a proceedingthat does not give the same weight to the treatingphysician.MR. PATERSON: It might or might not be. But it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC if -- if it is -- if it does show that there's adifference in the condition of the -- of the claimant, itshould be presented to the plan administrator to give hima chance to make the decision.QUESTION: It's a different record before theSocial -- the ALJ.MR. PATERSON: That's correct.QUESTION: It's later in time.MR. PATERSON: With the permission of the Court,I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Paterson.Ms. Blatt, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERQUESTION: Ms. Blatt, did the Secretary consideradopting a rule like CA has imposed?MS. BLATT: No, Justice O'Connor. What theSecretary has done has -- is -- has not opposed -- imposeda treating physician requirement or otherwise constrainedplan administrators in the way --QUESTION: Yes. I know the Secretary has not. Did the Secretary consider alternatives?MS. BLATT: They didn't consider a treatingphysician rule, but what the Department of Labor did do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC was impose a series of requirements to ensure fair andaccurate decisionmaking. So plans must conduct a full andfair review of a claim, and they have to consider allevidence submitted by the claimant. And before making anymedical judgments, they have to consult with a health careprofessional with the relevant training and experience.QUESTION: The question was when they did that,did they even think of the treating physician rule? Didanybody say to the Department, maybe we should have one? No, I don't think we will.MS. BLATT: No. There's no evidence that theyconsidered it. But they did overhaul their regulationsfor and did impose a lot of requirements, and theytook a very different approach. They didn't do anythingthat constrained plan administrators in weighing evidence. Instead, they said, you have to consider all the relevantevidence and make an independent judgment. And then theyfinally required that the specific reasons have to begiven for any denial in a manner that's calculated to beunderstood by the claimant. And in the Department's view,what that means is it has to be in sufficient detail topermit meaningful judicial review for an abuse ofdiscretion.But the Ninth Circuit takes a very different andcategorical approach that singles out treating physician th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC evidence and has a requirement that reasons have to begiven if the administrator is not going to defer to thatevidence.QUESTION: Maybe the Ninth Circuit was trying tospark for ERISA the same thing that the courts did forSocial Security. The Social Security -- whatever the ruleis, the treating physician rule -- that started with thecourts and then the -- the Commissioner said, okay, we'lladopt it as part of our regulations. But didn't it beginwith the courts?MS. BLATT: It began with the courts, and they-- most of them did impose some requirement and someoutright rejected it because they thought Congress hadentrusted the ALJ as the finder of fact with theresponsibility to weigh conflicting evidence. And theCommissioner, in order to bring uniformity in this massivenationwide Government program, adopted a less aggressive,deferential rule in its regulations.But the Department of Labor has not adopted anysuch rule. Rather, the Department of Labor's regulationsare consistent with the background presumption that thetrier of fact has the responsibility in each particularcase to weigh conflicting evidence based on her judgmentof the relative merits of the evidence. And -- but theDepartment of Labor, as I said, has a very different set th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of requirements that don't -- that leave -- that areconsistent with that background rule and don't constrainplan administrators.QUESTION: Does the -- do the Departmentregulations have some sort of a threshold test for whetherthere's a conflict of interest or is that just notaddressed?MS. BLATT: No. The Department of --regulations don't speak to the question of a conflict atall. What this Court said in Firestone was that aconflict must be weighed as a factor in determiningwhether there's been an abuse of discretion.QUESTION: And Firestone, as I recall, justrecognized that the plan administrator can wear two hats,be employer some times and -- and a fiduciary at others. MS. BLATT: That's right. But under Firestone,if the employer both funds the plan and administers theplan, we think that's the type of conflict that can beconsidered as a factor in whether there's been an abuse ofdiscretion.QUESTION: So Firestone was using conflict ofinterest in -- in a different sense from the sense inwhich it was used here.MS. BLATT: The courts have differed widely, inthe wake of Firestone, of what this Court meant in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Firestone. The majority of the lower courts have nottaken the Ninth Circuit's approach. They have said it'sstill an abuse of discretion review, but there's a moresearching inquiry into whether there's been an abuse ofdiscretion if the plan administrator is operating under aconflict.Now, that is not --QUESTION: By which it means not evidence thathe was instructed to -- to keep down costs, but the merefact that the employer is both the funder of the plan andresponsible for administration of the plan.MS. BLATT: That's correct.QUESTION: That alone is a conflict.MS. BLATT: That's the type of conflict that canbe considered as a factor in conducting whether there's an abuse of discretion.Now, however that plays out in a given case, ourpoint is that you shouldn't have a special rule that'slimited to treating physician evidence. And we think it'sinappropriate under ERISA for three reasons, and I thinkI've already said two of them --QUESTION: What does treating physician evidencehave to do with a conflict? That's -- that's what Ireally don't understand.MS. BLATT: Nothing. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: How does it show a conflict at all?MS. BLATT: Nothing. If there was some failureto defer or inadequate explanation -- first of all,there's something wrong with the treating physician rule. But even if there was some inadequate explanation suchthat the court could not conduct meaningful judicialreview, the standard consequence of that, Justice Scalia,is a remand back to the administrator for furtherexplanation, not a de novo standard of review.But that's not the question presented in thiscase. It's rather the propriety of a judge-made rule thatsingles out treating physician evidence and elevates thatevidence over other evidence.Now, again, it's inconsistent with thebackground presumption about the trier of fact -- the responsibility of the trier of fact to weigh conflictingevidence. We think it's in significant tension with theregulations that the Department of Labor did promulgatewhich do not constrain plan administrators.And finally, the third reason, is that ERISAleaves to employers, private employers, the decisionwhether to provide benefits and, if so, the discretion todevise the form and structure of plans. And a judge-maderule is inconsistent with these discretionary andvoluntary aspects of ERISA because it tells plan th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC administrators across the board how to weigh conflictingevidence in claims arising under varying and separateplans.QUESTION: Would it be relevant evidence, as Mr.Paterson suggested it would be, that this man now hasSocial Security disability benefits?MS. BLATT: The regulations require the planadministrator to consider all evidence submitted by theclaimant, and it -- it would be relevant if -- dependingon what it said. But this Court in Cleveland hasexplained that the Commissioner of Social Security appliesa variety of evidentiary presumptions, not only thetreating physician rule but the most prominent one is thelisting of impairments such that the Social SecurityAdministration may make a finding of disability even though the person in fact may be able to perform theessential functions of the job when judged under differentlegal settings. And I think the issue in -- in Clevelandwas whether there was reasonable accommodation, and theCommissioner doesn't consider that when -- when she makesher determinations under the Social SecurityAdministration. But it's just -- it's one piece ofevidence that would be before the administrator.And if there are no further questions, we wouldask that the judgment of the Ninth Circuit be reversed. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Blatt.Mr. Rohlfing, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE D. ROHLFINGON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ROHLFING: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In answer to Judge -- Justice Scalia's questionabout conflict of interest, the lower courts, in the wakeof Firestone Tire & Rubber Company v. Bruch, have grosslyconfused the concept of conflict of interest, dollar-for-dollar conflict of interest, with actual bias. And that'sthe problem with the Ninth Circuit's approach, theEleventh Circuit's approach and the other circuits'approach, is when we have evidence of conflict ofinterest, the courts are requiring evidence of actual bias. And I don't believe that that's the standard thatthis Court intended in the Firestone Tire & Rubber case.Now, the other --QUESTION: In Firestone -- is -- is it aconflict of interest if I set up a trust for my childrento pay their college education, and then I have to makedecisions. Suppose I hire a trustee and that -- or I hiresomebody to run it, and I'm going to put more in if theyneed more, less, if they need less. So the trustee has tosay whether to pay for the $ a month or a week or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whatever, a day's spending money or not, and the more hepays, the more I'm going to have to put in. Is -- is thatconsidered, under -- under traditional trust law, aconflict of interest?MR. ROHLFING: Only if the trustee's continuedemployment is -- is contingent upon your satisfaction.QUESTION: But if it is, if -- if I say you're atrustee, I can fire you when I want, then the courts, justin that -- like Scott on Trusts and so forth, would saythat's a conflict of interest?MR. ROHLFING: Because you retain too muchcontrol over the -- the disposition of the trust corpus. In these voluntary plans, a plan administrator really hasa choice. The plan administrator can elect to retaincontrol --QUESTION: No, I understand that. I'm justtrying to figure out what classical trust law would havebeen. So you're saying it's the same. It should betreated the same.MR. ROHLFING: The more egregious case, YourHonor, would be the facts of -- that would be similar tothe facts of this case is if the balance of the trustreverted to the trustee if they didn't spend all the moneyon your children's education. That would be an even moreegregious -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And then -- then classical trust law,Scott on Trusts, says that's a conflict of interest and --and what happens? Then courts review it all if you set upa trust like that?MR. ROHLFING: Well, Scott on Trusts, theRestatement of Trusts, all refer to those decisions asvoidable at the election of the beneficiary, and the courtwould review that decision de novo.QUESTION: Mr. Rohlfing, the -- the petitionerdidn't raise any question about the -- the conflict ofinterest. And so we're here on the petition which raisesonly the treating physician rule, and as Justice Kennedypointed out, you could have the treating physician rulewhen you have a separation of the trustee and the -- thecompany. So if you could get down to the treating physician rule, I think it would be helpful --MR. ROHLFING: Yes.QUESTION: -- since it's the only questionthat's raised.MR. ROHLFING: Yes, Your Honor.The Ninth Circuit did articulate the NinthCircuit rule in the context of conflict of interest. So Ithink it's important to keep that focus in mind.But the treating physician rule that wasarticulated by the Ninth Circuit in both this case and in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the Nord -- and in the Regula case was not a weightedrule. There was not a thumb on the scale as petitionerhas put it. Rather the rule that the --QUESTION: Well, why -- why isn't it a thumb onthe scales when it requires substantial evidence to -- torebut? That sounds like a thumb to me.MR. ROHLFING: It -- it doesn't requirerebuttal, Your Honor. It requires rejection forsubstantial reasons.QUESTION: Well, whatever term you want to useit, unless you've got substantial evidence to override thetreating physician's opinion, the treating physician'sopinion is supposed to control, and that sounds like athumb.MR. ROHLFING: I think that this Court's jurisprudence and the jurisprudence of other courts inother contexts have stated that concepts of abuse ofdiscretion, arbitrary and capricious, and substantialevidence, are really very similar concepts and there arevery fine, thin lines between those concepts.For instance, a decision that was made withoutthe support of substantial evidence, I would submit, wouldbe an abuse of discretion. If no reasonable person wouldconclude, as the plan administrator did conclude, i.e., itlacked substantial evidentiary support, that would be an th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC abuse of discretion. The court would readily reverse thattype of determination.And that's exactly what the Ninth Circuit saidin -- in reviewing the record as a whole, as this Court'sjurisprudence in Universal Camera, for instance --QUESTION: Is it clear that that's what theNinth Circuit means by substantial evidence? I mean,that's what substantial evidence means in administrativelaw under the Administrative Procedure Act. It means justthat minimal amount of evidence that's necessary to get acase to the jury in a -- in a civil trial. But is thatwhat the Ninth Circuit means by -- or do they meansubstantial evidence? You know what I mean?(Laughter.)MR. ROHLFING: Well, unfortunately, the -- the court didn't bold-face or italicize its -- its use of theterm, substantial evidence.QUESTION: Yes. I'm under the impression thatthey mean substantial evidence.MR. ROHLFING: I think the -- the court inreviewing a rule motion practice, reviews the decisionof the district court de novo, and it's entitled tosubstitute its own judgment. The parties at the districtcourt agreed --QUESTION: But rule judgments, summary th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC judgment, that is purely a question of law.MR. ROHLFING: Correct.QUESTION: So the -- the fact that it isreviewed de novo doesn't have much bearing on this sort ofa case, it seems to me.MR. ROHLFING: Well, the -- once the NinthCircuit concluded that the district court had erred inrejecting the procedural treating physician rule, the needto articulate specific and legitimate reasons, and hadconcluded that Black & Decker operated under a conflict ofinterest, and Black & Decker represented to the NinthCircuit that it not -- it need not even considerplaintiff's evidence, the Ninth Circuit exercised itsdiscretion to reverse and pay the case. And that is aquestion that petitioner clearly did not seek cert on. QUESTION: But what about the treating physicianrule itself, which he clearly did seek cert on?MR. ROHLFING: Yes.QUESTION: What is your position on that?MR. ROHLFING: Your Honor, section of the-- of the statute and the regulations that were in effectwhen Mr. Nord filed his claim required the statement ofspecific reasons in order to reject a claim.QUESTION: This -- we're now talking about anERISA claim, not a Social Security claim. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROHLFING: An ERISA claim. The statute andthe regulations require a statement of specific reasons. And the lower courts have described the statement ofspecific reasons as encouraging a meaningful dialoguebetween the person claiming benefits and the planadministrator. And it would seem that a mere statement ofconclusion, we've accepted Dr. Mitri and we've rejectedyour physicians, is not a meaningful dialogue. It'snot --QUESTION: I don't even think they have to saythat. The reasons for rejecting the claim is we'rerejecting the claim because you are not disabled orbecause your disability does not -- you know. Isn't thatthe reason for rejecting the claim? It isn't arequirement that they -- that they review the evidence in the case.MR. ROHLFING: Well, they are required to reviewthe evidence. That's the petitioner's position.QUESTION: Yes, but do they have to give astatement? I mean, you know, the Administrative ProcedureAct requires a -- a statement of -- of reasons for the --in some detail. But I don't know that this requirement isanything -- I am rejecting your claim because you filed ittoo late. I am rejecting your claim because in myjudgment you are not disabled. Why isn't that an adequate th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC statement of reasons?MR. ROHLFING: Well, too late would be a -- aspecific reason for rejecting a claim.QUESTION: Well, but you wouldn't have to reviewthe evidence of why it's too late. Well, you know, so andso said he got it then. So and so said you got it earlierthan that. We believe so and so. You didn't have to saythat. You say we're rejecting it because in our view youfiled it late. And it seems to me it's the same thingwith a disability. We're -- we're rejecting it because wedo not -- we do not believe that -- that the disabilityyou have claimed in fact exists.MR. ROHLFING: And the problem with -- with thatparticular analysis, Your Honor, is that we don't knowwhether Black & Decker in this particular case put the same thumb that it's complaining about the Ninth Circuitput on the scale, that they didn't put the thumb on thescale for Dr. Mitri. And for all of the reasons thatpetitioner and its eight private amici have argued andalso the Solicitor General's office has argued, puttingthe thumb on the scale and not weighing evidence evenlywould be just as bad if it was done the other sidesilently.QUESTION: But I don't understand what that hasto do with the question that's -- that's presented to us. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Case A, that there's a treating physician who's a longtimepersonal physician and his opinion is given to theadministrator. Case B, the employee says, you know, I'mgoing to see a back specialist and he goes to a backspecialist who's never seen the man before. Should therebe a difference in those two? I mean, that's -- that'swhat you're here to argue.And -- and Dr. -- was it Dimitri or Mitri?MR. ROHLFING: Mitri.QUESTION: Mitri was a specialist in this area. The treating physician was not. It -- it seems to me thatit's -- it's perfectly plausible to say that we give thespecialist even greater weight. So what -- the treatingphysician rule, it seems to me, quite arbitrary.MR. ROHLFING: It -- it is arbitrary if it's simply putting weight on the scale. But the Ninth Circuitcast the treating physician rule as merely a statement of-- of specific reasons that are legitimate under thestatute and that are supported by substantial evidence inthe evidentiary record before the Court.But the -- the treating physician rule doesn'tdistinguish between -- strike that. I'm sorry. The --the treating physician rule does distinguish betweenphysicians that have different levels of probativeevidence. The physician with more information, the long- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC time treating physician, has a greater source ofinformation upon which to express an opinion than does theone-time consultative examiner.And that's really illustrated in the facts ofthis case where Dr. Mitri stated that Mr. Nord should beable to perform a certain level of work. And hisintentional use of the word should implies that mostpeople or a substantial number of people with this levelof impairment can engage in this level of activity, inthis case sedentary work interrupted by standing andwalking.QUESTION: So you are now saying, it seems tome, the opposite of what you were contending earlier. You're saying that substantial evidence means more thanjust the amount of evidence that would enable a jury to find a particular fact. Because if that's all thatsubstantial evidence meant, you wouldn't need a -- atreating physician rule. That rule would exist for anyphysician that the -- that the plaintiff brought in. Ifhe brought in a non-treating physician and there were nosubstantial evidence on the other side in the -- in theAdministrative Procedure Act sense of substantialevidence --MR. ROHLFING: Yes.QUESTION: -- the plaintiff would win. Right? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROHLFING: That's correct.QUESTION: So the treating physician rule is a-- is a useless rule. You should call it the anyphysician rule. If the plaintiff comes in with someevidence and there's no evidence on the other side, theplaintiff wins. That's certainly not what the NinthCircuit means. And -- and as you were just describing it,it's not what the Ninth Circuit means.It means that if you have a treating physician,you need substantial evidence on the other side beforewe're going to -- we're -- we're going to let you overturnthe treating physician's determination. Isn't that reallywhat's going on here?MR. ROHLFING: I think the Ninth Circuit did usethe -- the phrase that the opinion of Dr. Mitri was overwhelmed by the other substantial evidence of record.So you're right.QUESTION: Well, but -- but that characterizesit on a very fact-specific basis. It also referred to the-- is it -- Regula case in which it -- it said there isthe treating physician rule. I think you have to defendthat rule as a rule, if applicable, in the generality ofcases.MR. ROHLFING: The general application of thetreating physician rule that's reflected in both the -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this case and in the Regula case is that the court usedthe rule only at the conflict-of-interest level ofinquiry. It didn't instruct -- in Regula, it did notinstruct the lower court to weigh the evidence in anyparticular manner. Rather, it instructed the lower courtto allow Delta Air Lines in that case to come forward withevidence that the conflict of -- conflict of interest didnot infect its decisionmaking process. Again, it allowedrebuttal evidence of actual bias rather than the pureconflict of interest that the Ninth Circuit found toexist.QUESTION: Well, what is the connection betweenthe treating physician rule and the concept of actualbias? The -- the two don't seem to have a lot in commonso far as I can see.MR. ROHLFING: I think that the courts areconfused below, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, I'm confused too.(Laughter.)MR. ROHLFING: The courts have created thishybrid animal that's asking whether conflict of interestexists and then using actual bias to -- to animate its --its decisionmaking process. And that's the problem.QUESTION: I think I can explain the confusion. It doesn't make any sense, but I think I can explain it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The Ninth Circuit is simply saying, look it, anyreasonable person would give the treating physician'sopinion substantial weight over somebody who's not thetreating physician, and if the plan administrator does notdo that, and since he's presumably a reasonable person, hemust biased. Isn't that what's going on? The NinthCircuit has simply said, obviously the treating physicianwins in the -- in the usual case. And any planadministrator who says he doesn't win must be biased.MR. ROHLFING: I think --QUESTION: And that's not true in my view.MR. ROHLFING: I think what the Ninth Circuit issaying is that when we have expert opinion and all elsebeing equal, given the fiduciary status of the planadministrator, that the treating physician should receive . percent and tip the scale slightly in favor. It'sthe fiduciary status. It's the conflict of interestanalysis that really animates the court's inquiry into --into this --QUESTION: So -- so why doesn't this just --QUESTION: What -- what if you have a -- atreating physician who presents a paragraph to the planadministrator saying, you know, I've treated this fellowfor months and I think he's incapacitated? Then youhave an expert, you know, another physician weighs in on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the other side and puts in about six or seven paragraphs. I put him through some tests, this and that, and I thinkhe is -- he's not disabled. How does that come out inyour view under the treating physician rule?MR. ROHLFING: Well, the question then would bewhether the -- the tests that the independent medicalexaminer, the one-time examining physician, eithermirrored the test results of the treating physician orprovided an independent clinical basis. And under themature treating physician rule, every court has held thatindependent clinical findings that are divergent fromthose of the treating physician is always a basis forrejecting the treating physician's opinion.But that's not the facts of this case. Dr.Mitri agreed --QUESTION: Well, does -- does the Ninth Circuitrecognize that the treating physician rule can be rebuttedin that manner?MR. ROHLFING: Yes, it does.QUESTION: You say other courts have. Does theNinth Circuit?MR. ROHLFING: In the -- in the treatingphysician rule that exists in the Ninth Circuit in aSocial Security context, it is absolutely clear thatindependent clinical findings are an independent basis for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC rejecting the treating physician's opinion.QUESTION: But it can't be rejected in thisfashion. The treating physician who's a generalpractitioner doesn't know anything in particular. Not aspecialist with the brain, he says this man has a brainembolism. That's all he says. Doesn't say anything else. Doesn't give any more details. And somebody -- and -- andthe -- the employer goes to a brain specialist and thebrain specialist says, again, nothing more than thispatient does not have a brain embolism. That would notsuffice in the Ninth Circuit, would it? You would have totake the opinion of the attending -- of the treatingphysician.MR. ROHLFING: If there's no objective testresult from any physician, an MRI or a CAT-scan? QUESTION: Both of them -- both of them havecome in with conclusory statements. Why shouldn't Ibelieve the conclusory statement of the expert whoexamined the person rather than the -- the generalpractitioner? What the Ninth Circuit says is, you have tobelieve the -- the treating physician.MR. ROHLFING: I don't believe that anyreasonable person would accept a -- an intern's -- or ageneral practitioner's opinion that the person suffersfrom a brain embolism without an objective test showing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the existence and presence of that embolism.QUESTION: Well, then what purpose does theNinth Circuit rule say? The Ninth Circuit says thetreating physician is employed to cure and has a greateropportunity to know and observe the patient as anindividual. I mean, that's -- that's its rule.MR. ROHLFING: That's -- that's the test.QUESTION: Well, given the confusion about it,why isn't it the -- sorry.QUESTION: And we don't in -- in the law ofevidence -- I'm trying to think of an analogy where wehave some special rule for a particular kind of -- ofperson. We have expert testimony generally, but -- butthis is not so confined. I've never seen a rule likethis.MR. ROHLFING: Well, it really depends on howyou view juries would -- would review divergent expertwitness opinion. If you assume that -- that a jury wouldnot tend to give a source of evidence more weight than aevidentiary source that had a less -- lesser pool ofevidence or information, less probative information, thenI think that you're right. But I don't think that that'swhat juries do. I think juries look at it in a reasonablefashion and think an expert with more percipientinformation is going to get more weight. And -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Rohlfing, why are we gettingjuries into it when I thought the genesis of this was theNinth Circuit said, in Social Security the courts createdthis treating physician rule?MR. ROHLFING: That's correct.QUESTION: And the Commissioner liked it somuch, the Commissioner embraced it as her own. And so nowwe're going to do the same thing for ERISA.And that's why when you complicate it with thisbias or conflict, there's no conflict in the SocialSecurity. And as I read -- that's -- that's a piece ofthis decision, but as I understood it, what the NinthCircuit was saying, as far as the treating physician rule,is it was a good idea in Social Security and it's equallygood here.MR. ROHLFING: That's exactly what the courtdecided, Justice Ginsburg. And I think that your analysisis correct. The court looked at the treating physicianrule and -- and said it -- it creates tools for the courtsto use engaging the reasonableness of administrativedecisions in that context.QUESTION: But then -- then you started to talkabout juries and in the Social Security context, it's aguide for the ALJ, not a jury.MR. ROHLFING: I was speaking more generally th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC with Justice Kennedy. I apologize for bringing in aninapt analogy.But I do think that the -- the logic andfundamental underpinnings of the treating physician ruleengaging any expert witness testimony is that the broaderpanoply of information available to, in this case, atreating physician justifies, all else being equal, allelse -- assuming the same set of objective tests, that thephysician with the greater source of information isentitled to slightly more weight.QUESTION: Since the Secretary of Labor doesn'tagree with you, why isn't it better for courts to leavethat kind of a decision to the Secretary of Labor?MR. ROHLFING: The Solicitor General argues in-- in its brief that -- the Government's brief, that it has primary jurisdiction to develop the regulations andflesh out the body of ERISA law. But this Court has longheld that development of the body of Federal common law iswithin the jurisdiction of the courts.QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I'm not suggesting a --a primary jurisdiction rule. What I'm suggesting is thatthe -- the Labor Department is a lot closer to thesituation at the trial level than an appellate court,including this one. And I -- I simply would have thoughtthat the -- that the Department of Labor was in a better th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC position just to make a practical assessment of either theneed for the rule or the probable value of the rule than-- than a court is likely to do. And -- and when thatkind of expert judgment is available, why isn't it simplysensible for a court in a common law capacity to say,we're going to leave it to the -- to the party -- to the-- to the agency that is in a better position to make thejudgment?MR. ROHLFING: Well, Justice Souter, the -- theproblem with that is that the -- the Secretary of Laborhas not even addressed the conflict of -- of interestissue and that is the --QUESTION: But the conflict of interest issue,you just told us, is not the reason for adopting the rulehere.MR. ROHLFING: But it is --QUESTION: It has a -- it is -- it is beinggiven significance in the conflict issue, but I thoughtthat was not the reason the rule -- I'm going back to youranswer to your question to Justice Ginsburg. That isn'tthe reason the rule was developed in Social Security, andthat wasn't the reason the rule has been adopted here.MR. ROHLFING: It isn't the reason the rule --it is the -- the focal point of the rule in the ERISAcontext. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Whose money is at stake in the SocialSecurity cases?MR. ROHLFING: Yours and mine.QUESTION: The Government's money, really. Andif the Government wants to be particularly generous to theclaimant, I guess the Government can be if it wants toadopt a rule that's very favorable to claimants, which ithas done in the Social Security field.But it's not the Government's money at stake in-- in this case and -- and in all of these ERISA cases. It's either the trust's money or the employer's money, andit's supposed to be dispensed according to the agreementthat the parties have entered into. It seems to me it's adifferent situation, and I don't think the Government hasas much leeway in deciding to be generous as it -- as it does in the Social Security field. I just don't see --don't see the parallel between the two at all.MR. ROHLFING: The parallel between the twoexists on what questions are asked and what answers aregiven. The structure is -- is far different. Congressenacted Social Security as social policy. Black & Deckeradopted its disability plan to attract employees as partof an employment package. And there -- although it'sBlack & Decker's money, it has still promised benefitsunder certain circumstances and then has, for -- for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC reasons that we still aren't -- don't know, concluded thatdespite the -- the clear opinions of the treatingphysicians and the ambiguous opinion of the independentmedical examiner, concluded that Mr. Nord did not sustainhis burden of proof, and despite the clear evidence fromthe human resources specialist that Mr. Nord could notperform his usual and customary work --QUESTION: Why was it so clear? First of all,if you take the treating physician -- was given anopportunity to comment on the expert's opinion, on Dr.Mitri's opinion. Here it is. Not one word from eitherthe treating physician or the -- what is it? Theorthopedist who was -- who was called in by the treatingphysician. So the expert stands out there all alone withno comment on it.And then as far as the human resources person isconcerned, it was Mr. Nord's counsel, was it not, thatwrote up that evaluation for her to answer yes or no,right?MR. ROHLFING: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. I wrotethose interrogatories because I read Dr. Mitri's opinionwhen he said Mr. Nord could only lift pounds, and Ilooked at the human resources specialist's statement ofbona fide occupational job qualifications that theoccupation required lifting pounds and a number of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC other factors, including the recognition of Dr. Mitri thatMr. Nord suffered from a significant pain syndrome. Ibelieved that -- that Ms. Forward would answer thosequestions all in the negative, that no, Mr. Nord could notperform his usual and customary occupation. She didn'tanswer the questions all in that manner. But she didanswer the last question in the negative, that Mr. Nordcould not perform the work of a material planner with thepain that he was enduring.QUESTION: Well, I think -- I think if you gaveanybody that question, somebody is in terrible pain, canthey relate to others -- it's not as though this was somekind of a neutral evaluation form. It was a loadedquestion that you asked her.MR. ROHLFING: Well, the -- the question wasn't framed, though, as terrible pain. It was occasionalmoderate pain, Your Honor.QUESTION: Let's find the question. Where isit?record. MR. ROHLFING: The question appears in theMR. PATERSON: It's at L-L.MR. ROHLFING: Thank you, Mr. Paterson.L and . The -- the sixth question that wasasked of Ms. Forward -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: and of?MR. ROHLFING: Yes, in the large petitionlodging. I can read the question in full.Dr. Mitri describes Kenneth Nord as sufferingfrom degenerative disc disease and a chronic myofascialpain syndrome. You have indicated in your employer'sstatement provided to Metropolitan that the work of amaterial planner requires continuous interpersonalrelationships and frequent exposure to stressful jobsituations. Assume that Kenneth Nord would have amoderate pain that would interfere with his ability toperform intense interpersonal communications or to actappropriately under stress occasionally, up to one-thirdduring the day. Could an individual of those limitationsperform the work of a material planner?And the answer marked is no. And Ms. Forwardsigned that.QUESTION: As I understand that question, it --it asks him assuming he can't do his job for one-third ofthe day, can he do his job? What -- what answer would youexpect? I mean, if -- if you just said assuming he hadmoderate pain, could he do his job, then -- then youranswer would mean something, but you asked, assuming hehas moderate pain that prevents him from doing his job athird of the day. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ROHLFING: Significantly interferes.QUESTION: Yes, all right.MR. ROHLFING: Well --QUESTION: I mean, I'd give the same answer. You -- it seems to me you -- you had a hypothesis thatdoesn't help your case.MR. ROHLFING: In -- in asking a -- a questionof a vocational expert or a human resources specialist,assuming the person suffers from moderate pain, could theyperform their job, then we've left it up to the witness toanswer the question, what does moderate mean? And so whatI did was define moderate.QUESTION: But you didn't ask moderate. Youdidn't ask just moderate pain. You said, moderate painthat would interfere with his ability to perform intense interpersonal communications.MR. ROHLFING: But not preclude.QUESTION: So it wasn't moderate pain in theabstract. It was moderate pain in a quite concretecontext that would -- moderate pain that would interferewith his ability to do his job.MR. ROHLFING: Yes, Justice Ginsburg -- in myexperience if you don't define the terms of art in -- inquestions to vocational specialists, you're not going toget the answers that are helpful. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You didn't -- you didn't leave itavailable for her to say, I don't think that moderate painwould interfere with his ability to conduct interpersonalrelationships. That was not available for her to say.MR. ROHLFING: That was certainly available toBlack & Decker to solicit that type of information. Shewas -- she was a Kwikset employee, a wholly ownedsubsidiary of Black & Decker Corporation. They didn't ask--QUESTION: Well, we're not examining theirevidence. We're examining yours. The issue is what doesyour evidence prove. It doesn't seem to me it provesmuch.QUESTION: Perhaps you could address why your --the -- the treating physician didn't comment at all on the experts.MR. ROHLFING: The treating physicians didn'tcomment on the -- the opinions of Dr. Mitri because Ididn't ask them to. I read Dr. Mitri's report assupporting the proposition of disability. His liftinglimitations were less than the lifting required of thejob. The standing and walking that he needed was notpermitted in the facial job description. And I made a --and I actually argued affirmatively to the Ninth Circuitthat Dr. Mitri's opinion, properly read in the context of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the -- the employer's statement that Ms. Forward hadfilled out before at the request of Metropolitan, actuallysupported the proposition of disability rather thansupporting the proposition of no disability that had beenadvocated.And I would hasten to point out that this plandoes not contain an accommodation clause. It doesn't sayif you can perform your job with accommodation, thenyou're not disabled. It doesn't say that. And if we'regoing to use contract analysis in -- in determining theeffect of the plan language on the ultimate issue ofdisability, the failure to include accommodation as anaffirmative prong of the -- the inquiry in the issue ofdisability is fatal to Black & Decker's case because theonly reason that Ms. Forward's answers to the first four questions could be supported is if Black & Deckeraccommodated it.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Rohlfing.Mr. Paterson, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF LEE T. PATERSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PATERSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.The Ninth Circuit's treating physician rule is acategorical rule based upon the assumption that a treatingphysician's opinion is superior to other medical opinions th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in the record. In the Regula case, at page , theNinth Circuit got to the issue of -- of the treatingphysician rule prior to the time it even began to discussthe conflict of interest. And it held the treatingphysician rule requires deference, as it applies underERISA, and that the treating -- the plan administrator inthe Ninth Circuit must defer unless there are -- he hasgood enough reasons not to defer.The court then later on in its opinion addressedthe issue of conflict of interest.This Court in -- last year in Ragsdale v.Wolverine when -- stated that categorical generalizationsfailed to hold true that the justification for thecategorical rule disappears. In the facts of this case,that categorical justification disappears both in the individual facts of the case and as a general propositionfor all other cases.In the facts of this case, respondent went toDr. Hartman, his internist, with back problems. Dr.Hartman referred him to two specialists, Dr. Zandpour andDr. Ali, both of whom examined him, tested him, anddiagnosed his condition. Both Dr. Ali and Dr. Zandpour,based upon the tests they conducted, provided a diagnosisof mild degenerative changes of the lower lumbar spine.The employers sent the respondent to another th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC specialist, Dr. Mitri, a neurologist, who agreed with theopinions of Dr. Zandpour and Dr. Ali, but also looked atthe job duties of respondent. Dr. Mitri opined that hecould perform the duties of a material planner if he wasallowed to stand up and walk periodically.Just focusing on these four physicians'opinions, it's clear that the opinions with the mostweight are the three specialists, Dr. Zandpour, Dr. Ali,and Dr. Mitri, not the treating physician, Dr. Hartman. However, the Ninth Circuit's rule requires the planadministrator to give deference, special weight, and apresumption in favor of Dr. Hartman's opinion even thoughhe referred respondent to specialists for evaluation andeven though he has no apparent expertise in back injuriesor back pain.In the facts of this case, the categoricalgeneralization is not true.In addition, the amicus, American MedicalAssociation, has brought before this Court its statisticspublished in its own publication, the Journal of theAmerican Medical Association. Those statistics state that percent of treating physicians misrepresent symptoms,diagnosis, and severity of illness when their patientssubmit insurance claims. There's no justification for acategorical rule that treating physicians' opinions are th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC entitled to special weight, deference, and a presumptionin ERISA disability benefit determinations when theprofessional organization of the treating physiciansadmits that treating physicians often makemisrepresentations when their patients are filinginsurance claims.There's no support for a categorical rule thattreating physicians' opinions are more reliable than othermedical opinions either in the facts of this case or inthe -- the ERISA context in general. In every case, theERISA plan administrator should weigh not only the sourceof the opinion, but also the experience, the testing, thetreatment, and the credentials of the -- of the physician.We respectfully submit that this Court shouldreject the Ninth Circuit's treating physician rule and remand this case back to the Ninth Circuit.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Paterson.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 