 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XGREEN TREE FINANCIAL CORP., NKA CONSECO FINANCE CORP., Petitioner :::v. : No. -LYNN W. BAZZLE, ETC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.CORNELIA T.L. PILLARD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner CORNELIA T.L. PILLARD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, the Green Tree Financial Corporationversus Lynn W. Bazzle.Mr. Phillips.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:First in Volt and then again last term in WaffleHouse this Court made clear that, quote, arbitration underthe Federal Arbitration Act is a matter of consent, notcoercion. It is that core Federal principle that wasviolated by the South Carolina Supreme Court in this case. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Phillips, now, the contractpresumably can be interpreted in accordance with the lawof the State with jurisdiction.MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, to be sure, Justice O'Connor,but this contract was not interpreted in accordance withthe understanding of the parties, with -- with respect tothe parties. Ultimately, you have to look for theparties' consent to this kind of an agreement, and whatthe South Carolina Supreme Court was quite clear about --QUESTION: Well, there was no express provision th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in the arbitration agreement saying that you can't haveclass-wide arbitration.MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, there was no expressprovision to that effect, but if you look at the SouthCarolina Supreme Court's decision in this case what itsays is, first, the parties were absolutely silent withrespect to class arbitration. That's not surprising. I've never read a class arbitration clause in anycontract, and I'm told that no one's ever even attemptedto draft a class arbitration clause.But second of all, the -- the court went furtherthan that and said what was going to inform its judgmentabout how to interpret or how to apply this particularsituation, it wasn't anything with respect to the languageor understanding of the parties. What it was was, without any contractual directive whatsoever, stated twice, thecourt simply coerced Green Tree to defend a classarbitration proceeding.QUESTION: Well, but the --QUESTION: Well, how does that -- how doesdiffer from Volt, Mr. Phillips? There, the contractdidn't say anything about the court staying thearbitration, and yet we said in our opinion that that wasa permissible thing for a -- that once the law ofCalifornia had been invoked, that was a permissible thing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to be done.MR. PHILLIPS: In -- the difference between thiscase and Volt, Mr. Chief Justice, is there the partiesagreed that the arbitration itself would be controlledsolely by California law. That was the consent of theparties.QUESTION: Well, they said the place where theconstruction was -- was taken.MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and that was understood bythis Court, and by the lower courts as a matter of Statelaw, to embrace California law.QUESTION: But didn't -- didn't the -- didn'tthe agreement here say it would be governed by the law ofSouth Carolina?MR. PHILLIPS: The -- the underlying contract is governed by South Carolina law, but the arbitrationprovision itself is governed exclusively by the FederalArbitration Act.QUESTION: Well, is your -- your argument thatif the South Carolina court is unreasonable ininterpreting State law, then it comes up here? I -- Ijust don't understand how we get this -- this question.MR. PHILLIPS: It seems to me there are two waysyou can get to this question. In this case, there was noeffort by South Carolina Supreme Court to apply South th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Carolina law. What they did -- they're not looking forthe consent of the parties. They're looking to coerce aresult based on their view of efficiency and equity whichinvolves the interests of completely third parties tothis -- to this situation, not the parties to thisparticular agreement. If --QUESTION: Why do you -- I'm sorry, I thoughtyou were done.MR. PHILLIPS: If, in fact, South Carolina hadpurported -- if the South Carolina Supreme Court hadpurported to try to interpret this agreement as in somesense reflecting a -- a consent by the parties to aclass-based arbitration it would be a much, much closercase.QUESTION: Well, what --MR. PHILLIPS: That's not the standard that thecourt applied here.QUESTION: What if the South Carolina court in asomewhat different case had said this arbitration is goingto be governed by our State rules of discovery. Theparties have said nothing about it, but they just say, ifyou're going to be bound by the laws of South Carolina,that's what you're going to do. Is that bad?MR. PHILLIPS: No, that's not bad at all,Mr. Chief Justice. The difference between that, of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC course, is that is what you expect when you -- when youconsent to a bilateral arbitration arrangement. When yousay, we're going to proceed to resolve this dispute in anefficient and economical fashion, you understand that thatmeans arbitration, however the -- however that gets playedout and, indeed, generally speaking, you would expect thatto be a question for the arbitrator, more than you mightas a matter of State law.The difference here, of course, is we're talkingabout making a decision that's binding, or at leastpurports to be binding on literally thousands of otherindividuals who are not parties to this agreement, andthis goes --QUESTION: And who are not -- and who are notobjecting so far as I know.QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: Well --QUESTION: Green Tree is the one who'sobjecting.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, we don't know whether theyobjected or not. All we know is that they received noticeand took no action as a consequence of it, but --QUESTION: Why -- please.MR. PHILLIPS: If you -- if you flip this casearound, in this situation, where the -- where the unnamed th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC members potentially are going to receive $, to $,of windfall recoveries, my guess is they're not going toobject, but what if the case had gone the other way. Whatif the arbitrator had issued a $ nominal damage award foreach member of this class. Does anyone seriously doubtthat the next day any of those unnamed class members couldshow up and say, excuse me, I have a right under mycontract to choose my arbitrator in an agreement betweenmyself --QUESTION: Yes. Yes, one might doubt it iftheir claim was worth $, and it would cost them more togo into court to make the objection. The -- the classaction vehicle in some cases will make an action possiblethat wouldn't be brought before an arbitrator before.The --MR. PHILLIPS: Can I -- can I respond to that,Justice Ginsburg, because you see, it seems to me thatthat simply reflects the manifest hostility to thearbitration agreement as it's been -- as it's been writtenby the parties here.I mean, basically what we're talking about is,we have a dispute. It involves what will largely be a fewthousand dollars, potentially. I mean, the entirecontract here involved $, of -- in one case and$,. You expect the disputes are going to be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC relatively small, and you expect that the parties aregoing to choose an efficient method of trying to resolvethose cases and move on, and -- and they waive their rightto a public, or judicial review, because the theory is,win or lose, it's worth taking the risk.When you take that kind of a situation and youconvert it into a $ million fine, nobody would agree tothat ab initio.QUESTION: Do you --QUESTION: That's true. That's true, but what'sbothering me is exactly this point. I can understand yourargument to this point. A State, I don't think couldpossibly, consistent with section , interpret the wordarbitration in a contract to contain all the bells andwhistles of a court proceeding, because that would transform the arbitration into a court proceeding, andtherefore they would have, in this subtle way, not onlyhave shown hostility to but destroyed the arbitrationcontract, but what about this one. Is this hostile toarbitration?I have no doubt that Green Tree wouldn't haveagreed, in all likelihood, had they known what was goingto happen, and to that extent it is hostile toarbitration, but the consumers on the other side mighthave said, oh, we rather like it, in which case from their th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC point of view it isn't hostile to arbitration, so sort offrom one side it is, and from the other side it isn't, andhow do we decide whether, overall, it is or it isn't?MR. PHILLIPS: It seems to me that the linchpintheory of the case ought to be the -- the point I startedwith, Justice Breyer, which is, you look to determinewhether there is the consent of the parties or whether --QUESTION: No, but what we don't know here iswhether there is or there isn't. We have silence, andlike many contracts that are silent, you have to impute anintent, and what South Carolina did is --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, what South Carolina did --QUESTION: -- is, they imputed an intent.MR. PHILLIPS: -- they imputed an intent.QUESTION: And they did it by a rule that says that since the other parties in our minds would havejumped for joy, and you, your client would have weeped indismay, we in that situation interpret the contractagainst the drafter, which happened to be your client, sothey chose the other side and thereby concluded that itwas not hostile to arbitration, though it wasn't in theinterest of one of the parties.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it also doesn't reflect theconsent of both of the parties.QUESTION: Well -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: Both parties have to consent,Justice Breyer. That's the nature of consent.QUESTION: You -- you --MR. PHILLIPS: You simply can't have unilateralconsent.QUESTION: The reason, as I understand it -- thereason, as I understand it, you say there isn't consentwas the reason you gave in your answer to the ChiefJustice, that, in fact, they had agreed to be bound bySouth Carolina law with respect to the interpretation ofthe contract, but not with respect to the arbitrationclause itself, and my question is, how do you draw thatline? There's nothing, per se, inconsistent betweenapplying the FAA and applying some State law. That has tobe done.MR. PHILLIPS: Well --QUESTION: So why do you draw --MR. PHILLIPS: -- South Carolina Supreme Courtdrew that line. The South Carolina Supreme Courtspecifically held that the parties agreed that thearbitration clause would be governed exclusively by theFederal Arbitration Act, and the --QUESTION: No, but I mean, you say governedexclusively by the FAA, in the sense that the FAAnaturally is going to trump any inconsistency with State th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC law, but here, there isn't a clear inconsistency withState law, and the FAA is always applied with some Statelaw in mind. You have to have some procedure, and so on,and -- and therefore I -- I don't know how you can drawthis nonporous line between the FAA and arbitration on onehand and State law on the other.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there are two ways to getthere. First of all, as a matter of just South Carolinalaw we know that South Carolina's arbitration provisionscompletely go by the wayside as a matter of State law. Munoz held that several years ago. If the FAA applies,there is no State law that is residual to it. It isdetermined by the Federal Arbitration Act, which meansthat the arbitrator is going to make certain kinds ofdecisions.But the -- I think the key line here is thatarbitrators are absolutely free to fashion whatever rulesthey think are appropriate for resolving disputes in abilateral situation. The question is, where does thearbitrator get the authority to reach out to literallythousands of other parties in order to resolve theirrights?QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, first, you're not --you're not urging that there's any inherent inconsistencybetween the arbitration and class action. You concede in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC your brief, I think, that if the parties agreed, yes, youcould have a class action in arbitration.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, although, Justice Ginsburg,there is not a single example that I could identify of anyparties ever agreeing to go into a class action througharbitration.QUESTION: Have there been no class actionsin -- in arbitration?MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?QUESTION: Have there been no class actionsin --MR. PHILLIPS: Other than this one?QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: There are in California, butthat's -- that's it. California and South Carolina are the only places, and the reason is, is that what youcreate is this extraordinarily hideous hybrid kind of aproceeding.QUESTION: Does the AAA have no rules about --MR. PHILLIPS: No.QUESTION: -- class actions? It's justsilent --MR. PHILLIPS: Not as far as I know. I mean,they didn't file a brief in this case, but as far as Iknow AAA doesn't have rules specifically dealing with it. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC They find it to be, as I understand it, quite burdensometo try to figure out how to deal with it. If you thinkabout it, this -- you're -- you're taking a dispute thatby its nature is supposed to involve a few thousanddollars, converting it into $ million. The costs inthis case alone --QUESTION: Well, suppose --MR. PHILLIPS: -- were $,.QUESTION: If the parties had chosen, say, a NewYork forum -- I thought an arbitration agreement issupposed to be a forum for action laws.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that's part of it.QUESTION: If they said nothing about classaction and they chose New York as a forum, New York has aclass action vehicle. They could get -- the plaintiffs could get a class action, is that not so?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, the difficulty withthat is that there's -- there's no State law in general --I mean, there are no statutes out there that provide forclass actions with respect to arbitrations. That's whythis is a hostile --QUESTION: But it -- it -- then arbitration issomething other than a mere choice of forum, because --MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, absolutely. The FederalArbitration Act creates a substantive law of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC arbitrability. To be sure, it incorporates and embracesdecisionmaking by the arbitrator. It recognizes somelimited role in some circumstances for State law, althoughagain South Carolina doesn't do that, but there -- thereis nothing that provides a mechanism for converting yourordinary bilateral --QUESTION: Can I -- can I interrupt with thisquestion, Mr. Phillips? Supposing you had the -- GreenTree had agreements with a large -- large number ofconsumers, and suppose of them filed separatearbitrations, they all went before the same arbitrator. Could the arbitrator have entered an order saying, I thinkit would be efficient to have all these cases triedtogether, so I'm going to enter an order requiring you todo so?MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I think if the parties allagreed to have it resolved by the same arbitrator --QUESTION: Well, supposing the -- supposingGreen Tree objects. Could he nevertheless do it?MR. PHILLIPS: No. I think in that situationwhat you're then doing is depriving us of our right underthose agreements to choose our own arbitrator.QUESTION: Oh, but here -- here the SouthCarolina arbitrator, which you -- you certainly consentedto his appointment, went ahead and did pretty much this. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: Well --QUESTION: Not -- not as sweeping --MR. PHILLIPS: This in a vengeance, I will say,Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Well, but what is your -- what isyour principle objection to Justice Stevens' hypotheticalwhere the arbitrator simply says, I've got of these andI'm going to just try them together?MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I have a substantial --substantially less of an objection to that kind of aprocedure because it doesn't adjudicate unnamed parties'rights, or purport to adjudicate those rights. At leastyou have a real dispute that already exists --QUESTION: But --MR. PHILLIPS: -- which can justify in some sense consolidation. I still think you have to respectGreen Tree's right --QUESTION: But then -- but you say your -- yourobjection would have been cured if the arbitrator hadwritten a letter to every plaintiff and gotten an -- awritten okay, that would have made it okay?MR. PHILLIPS: No, because the -- thearbitration process requires the filing of claims andgoing through it.QUESTION: Well then, what's the difference th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC between that and my -individual case?MR. PHILLIPS: Because we don't know whetherthere is, in fact, a dispute between the parties in theabsence of some effort by the plaintiffs to come forward.QUESTION: Well, they know there's a commonissue in all these cases -- I mean, they -- they all hadthe same legal issue involved, didn't they?MR. PHILLIPS: But -- but it -- just because youmay have a right doesn't mean you necessarily care toassert your right. Again, it's -- it's easy to look atthis case and say, well, gee, there's an opportunity topick up $, in windfall, or $, in windfall, but youknow, an arbitrator could just as easily have rendered adecision here that said, this is a pure technicality, it'sentitled to $ in nominal damages, and the class-wide relief ought to be $,, and attorney's fees ought to bea third of that, which is $ --QUESTION: And -- and --MR. PHILLIPS: -- and I guarantee you they wouldnot be willing or prepared to -- I'm sorry, JusticeKennedy.QUESTION: Please, finish your answer.MR. PHILLIPS: They would not be prepared toabide by that. Every one of the unnamed members wouldsay, I never had an opportunity to -- to participate in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the selection of the arbitrator who has resolved mysubstantial rights. There's no basis at all to bind meunder these circumstances, and I'm going to show up andmake a claim.QUESTION: Well, the obvious solution to thatwould be to read into their contract the idea that theyhad agreed to that situation provided they're fairlyrepresented, et cetera, and if they don't like the result,they can arbitrate that, too.MR. PHILLIPS: But see, Justice Breyer, we -- wekeep making up more and more and more, and none of thisis -- is at all linked to any kind of consent among any ofthese parties.QUESTION: I want to ask about consent. At whatpoint and how did you first object to the class action? Did -- did you instruct the arbitrator that we consentedto your appointment for individuals A, B, and C, but notfor other --MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.QUESTION: We -- we do not consent.MR. PHILLIPS: We do not consent to that.QUESTION: And when did you do that?MR. PHILLIPS: We raised that as --QUESTION: After the first --MR. PHILLIPS: -- as early and often -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- the idea of class action.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, and the South CarolinaSupreme Court specifically addressed the question ofwaiver and found that we never waived our right withrespect to that.QUESTION: But you did select the arbitrator. It was your arbitrator.MR. PHILLIPS: It was our arbitrator withrespect to the dispute with the Bazzles and the Lackeysand the Buggses, to be sure, but we did not agree to anarbitrator to resolve any disputes involving unnamed thirdparties --QUESTION: Well, it leaves this open, and Imean, I agree with you that it is -- whether you did --whether this or is not the proper interpretation of what the parties intended is certainly disputable, and if it'sdisputable, why shouldn't the arbitrator decide that?MR. PHILLIPS: See, I don't think it is disputedwhat the parties -- what the parties intended, JusticeBreyer.QUESTION: Well -- well, wait. You -- I'm goingto hear in about minutes or so a pretty good argumentthe other side, too --MR. PHILLIPS: Except that --QUESTION: -- so that my question is, where you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have a contract that says, interpretations of thecontractor should be arbitrated, and where, in fact, whatwe're arguing about today is how one part of the contractshould be interpreted, how did we get here? Why wasn'tthat referred to the arbitrator?MR. PHILLIPS: Because the question of whetherthe arbitrator has the authority to resolve the rights ofunnamed third parties is not a question for the arbitratorto decide. That's a question for the court to decide.QUESTION: Why?MR. PHILLIPS: Because it goes --QUESTION: I would have thought the meaning ofa --MR. PHILLIPS: It goes to the core of thearbitrator's jurisdiction and authority to decide. QUESTION: No, but wait. There is a case,including one I just wrote, I think, for the Court whichmakes very clear that what you send to the arbitrator -- Imean, there are dozens of cases where you have a phrase ina contract, and that's in dispute, and the parties haveagreed we send disputes about the meaning of the contractto arbitration, you send that to the arbitrator.I mean, the only things that you don't arewhether there's the arbitration contract is itself valid,et cetera. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Breyer, I think on thequestion of whether the arbitrator has jurisdiction --QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: -- and authority to decide therights of a party, that is a question for the court todecide --QUESTION: Okay, is there any -- is there any --MR. PHILLIPS: -- not for the arbitrator.QUESTION: Is there any case you could cite -- Imean, I read most of them when I -- when I wrote theopinion in the Howsam case. I don't think you can thinkof one.MR. PHILLIPS: But Howsam dealt with thespecific problem of the procedures to be followed withrespect to a bilateral --QUESTION: Oh, are we talking about that here?MR. PHILLIPS: No, we're not talking about theprocedures to be followed in a bilateral agreement. We'retalking about what you have to do --QUESTION: Well, I --MR. PHILLIPS: -- to resolve the rights of thirdparties who are not signatories --QUESTION: Why should --QUESTION: At least as to the other contracts --MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: -- the ones that get sucked into thismassive litigation, it is certainly a jurisdictionalissue --Scalia.MR. PHILLIPS: That -- that's my point, JusticeQUESTION: -- if not as to yours. Yours, you --you agree to the arbitrator and whatnot, but -- buttake -- take somebody else who --MR. PHILLIPS: And anything the arbitrator didto us --QUESTION: I'm sorry, I don't understand themeaning of when you say it's a jurisdictional issue, whenyou agree to somebody else's statement it's ajurisdictional issue. What I have in front of me is acontract. It says, in this phrase, disputes will be arbitrated, there is a question, what does that mean, thatword arbitration in this contract, and then I know thatthe parties have agreed to arbitrate the meaning of thedispute, all right -- of any phrase --MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but --QUESTION: -- including that one.MR. PHILLIPS: Right.QUESTION: So -- so how did we suddenly get intocourt, was my question?MR. PHILLIPS: Because, Justice Breyer, the -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the contract says that -- that it binds us and you, and usand you are defined as Green Tree and the -- and thespecific named participants in this proceeding. Itdoesn't say word one about the rights of all of the otherindividuals in this --QUESTION: But the other individuals --MR. PHILLIPS: -- and the South Carolina -- I'msorry.QUESTION: The other individuals are not herecomplaining. I mean, they're probably glad they gotthe , bucks --MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, they're not here complainingtoday, but Mr. Chief Justice, you're going to have toresolve the question of whether or not you can interpretan arbitration agreement in a way that allows these kinds of proceedings for the -- for the generality of cases, andwhat do we --QUESTION: If you're concerned about the thirdparties, how does it differ from a court-declared classaction where the safeguards are the class members havenotice, and there's a notice here that is clearer thanmost notices, and if they're -- if they say that they wereinadequately represented, they could collateral attack onthat basis. Why should those States' laws be anydifferent in an arbitral forum than in a court forum? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if you were going to allowa class action in an arbitral forum you would certainlywant those -- those protections to be built in. My pointis, is that the way you get those kinds of protections toexist in the ordinary class action is because the Statecoerces the litigation. The ordinary rule is that youcannot represent third parties, and the court hasidentified as a matter of its power situations in whichit's going to embrace that approach, but that doesn't getyou past the contract problem.QUESTION: But the court can't do it as it --the Federal rules have a class action provision --MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.QUESTION: -- and the Federal rules can't affectsubstantive rights, only procedure, so the class action device, classes are certified every day in -- in Federalcourt --MR. PHILLIPS: But --QUESTION: -- and they're not changing thesubstance of any contract that they're declaring in acontract setting, a class action.MR. PHILLIPS: The -- the difference there,Justice Ginsburg, is that here we're talking about asituation where the full authority of the arbitrator isdefined by the consent of the specific parties to the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC agreement, and these parties don't have the authority tobind nonparties. The Court said just last term inWaffle House --QUESTION: They're not in court by reason of acontract.contract.MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I'm sorry, Your Honor?QUESTION: They are not in court by reason of aMR. PHILLIPS: That's correct, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Here, they are before the arbitratoronly by reason of a contract.MR. PHILLIPS: That's correct, Your Honor,and -- and --QUESTION: But isn't the difficulty -- and I --I -- I'm still having trouble getting over this. Isn'tthe difficulty that -- one -- one thing you said a secondago is -- is really not accurate, I don't think.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I apologize --QUESTION: They don't consent to every jot andtittle of the means by which the arbitration will beconducted.They consent in a gross kind of way toarbitration or nonarbitration, and -- and that's -- that'swhat their consent makes the difference between, but theydon't consent to every consequent detail that enters into th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the actual conduct of the arbitration, so why should wedraw the line where you want us to draw the line asopposed to drawing the line a little further and saying,if you consent to arbitration and a State says, notinconsistently with the FAA, arbitration can be done on aclass basis if there are common issues and so on? Whyshould we draw the line to exclude that?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there are two answers tothat. The premise of it, which is that the FAA doesn'thave anything to say about this, but the core principle ofthe FAA is that there is supposed to be consent of theparties, so we ought to be looking to the expectations ofthe parties to determine what rights you're going toadjudicate as a matter of arbitration.QUESTION: You're -- you're saying, this is so far from anything that would have been contemplated --MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.QUESTION: -- as a detail to be filled in later,and that's why you draw the line --MR. PHILLIPS: That's -- that is exactly right,Justice Souter, and if you look at the South CarolinaSupreme Court's opinion it doesn't talk about anythingthat has to do with consent. It talks about equity andfairness and judicial economy, all factors that influencethe rights of third parties who have nothing to do with th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the arbitration agreement that's before the arbitrator.QUESTION: I thought the South Carolina SupremeCourt said there's a -- there's a silence in this contractand we're going to construe it against the drafter. Youconcede that you could have arbitration in a class format,and so that South Carolina said it doesn't -- thiscontract doesn't say one way or the other and we'llconstrue it against the drafter.MR. PHILLIPS: The -- but what the SouthCarolina Supreme Court said was, we're going to promotejudicial economy and we're going to do it without acontractual directive to do so.To be sure, the court said we -- we do not findlanguage so clear here -- because you know, what they'rebasically worried about is, does this absolutely prohibit the possibility of class arbitration. Is there languagein there that says, under no circumstances will we everhave class arbitration. I would have read the -- thisagreement to have actually said that, but they didn't saythat.What they said is, well, we think it's -- wethink it's ambiguous, and therefore we'll construe itagainst you, but all that gets you to the point is thatthe contract says nothing about this, and the problem withtrying to square that with the FAA is that the animus for, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC or the -- the motivation for acting under the FederalArbitration Act is the consent of the parties, not simplycan you manipulate the contract in a way that gets youto --QUESTION: But it -- but it is true, is it not,that everybody in the class has consented to anarbitration with Green Tree --MR. PHILLIPS: No. No.QUESTION: Not to a class action arbitration, but to an arbitration.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, has -- well, hasconsented -- yes, has signed an arbitration agreement --QUESTION: But not with these arbitrators.MR. PHILLIPS: But not with this arbitrator,that's correct.QUESTION: But I thought that --MR. PHILLIPS: We had --QUESTION: But they have consented to the --MR. PHILLIPS: And we have a right in it, andit's worth pointing out we still have a right, withrespect to each one of those third party claims, to haveour choice of arbitrators. We picked this guy for thesethree or four claims. As Justice Kennedy observed, wewent --QUESTION: But is it really reasonable to assume th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that if he knew he had a thousand different arbitrationscoming up he'd want a thousand different arbitrators?MR. PHILLIPS: Sure.QUESTION: With the same issue in every case?MR. PHILLIPS: Sure. Why not?QUESTION: Because --QUESTION: Don't they wear -- wear out afterjust one case, then?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the -- the point is that --QUESTION: You might not want to put yourcompany's entire future in the hands of one arbitrator.MR. PHILLIPS: Of a single arbitrator --QUESTION: Yes.MR. PHILLIPS: -- with no right to judicialreview --QUESTION: Makes some sense.MR. PHILLIPS: -- Justice Stevens. The problemis, why would we make a judgment at the outset of thisprocess that says, we are going to enter into the mostinformal decisionmaking process with no right to judicialreview and with $ million at stake.QUESTION: Where -- where is it --MR. PHILLIPS: No one would. It would bemadness.QUESTION: Where is it in the record that you th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC first made your objection to the class action, and doyou -- does that objection say that we have not consentedto the arbitration as to these other parties? Is that howyour objection was phrased, and where can I find it in therecord?MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Kennedy, I'm going tohave to answer that on -- in the rebuttal.QUESTION: All right.MR. PHILLIPS: I'll give you the specificcitation when I step up here. If there are no otherquestions, I'll reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Phillips.Ms. Pillard, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CORNELIA T.L. PILLARDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. PILLARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Green Tree first protested by asking thearbitrator to decide whether the case could go forward asa class. They did not object to his power to decide, butthey asked him to decide and I -- I think the relevantdocument is on page of the joint appendix, which isGreen Tree's memorandum to the arbitrator.There is nothing in the FAA that preempts aState court or arbitrator from applying ordinary State th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC contract law, the doctrine of construction against thedrafter, to read a contract to authorize classarbitration. As a legal matter, the consent of theparties is determined under State contract law by applyingthe doctrines of contract law to resolve ambiguities wherethey exist.QUESTION: What doctrine of state contract lawled you -- led to this result, the doctrine of construethe instrument against, contra proferentem against theperson who drafted it?MS. PILLARD: That's exactly right, JusticeScalia.QUESTION: Now, can -- can that produceanything? I mean, suppose one side claims the contractsays nothing about it, but one side claims, you should pay all the costs of the arbitrator, all right. Is -- is aState court going to decide that question by simplysaying, well, the contract says nothing about it, but todo it that way would be against the interests of thedrafter, so yes, it's in the contract?MS. PILLARD: The --QUESTION: And my next question is going to be,what if the other side comes in and says, you ought to payme $ million, and the other side says, gee, there'snothing in the contract about that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC (Laughter.)QUESTION: Can the State court say, well, it'sagainst the -- it's against the interests of the drafterso it must be there in the contract?I mean, that seems -- this seems to me just asweird --MS. PILLARD: You apply --QUESTION: -- to -- to pluck out a right to aclass action for no other reason than that it is againstthe interests of the person who drafted the contract. It's weird.MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, the -- theargument is that the arbitrator has the authority underState law to interpret the ambiguity in the contract, andit's not weird at all in this case, where, since in South Carolina, arbitrators have had the authority toconsolidate arbitrations, and the leading cases, Champ,the case on which Green Tree relies, Episcopal Housing,which is the First Circuit case, the -- the cases thatlook at whether this is allowed, advert to -- I'm sorry,Episcopal Housing was itself a consolidation case, but thecases that allow class arbitration advert to theunderlying rule in the jurisdiction --QUESTION: There's a big difference --QUESTION: What are consolidation arbitration -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC what do you mean by that? You mean when the samearbitrator has more than one case involving the sameissue?MS. PILLARD: The same arbitrator can takedifferent disputes under arbitration clauses and bringthem together where --QUESTION: When he's been selected for thevarious issues. I mean he -- he's been selected in -- inall of the various cases. The parties have agreed to thisarbitrator. They just haven't agreed to have them alldecided in one proceeding, is that right?MS. PILLARD: That's right. They're all -- but,that's one of the versions --QUESTION: But that -- that's a long -- that's along way off from compelling somebody who hasn't agreed to this arbitration.MS. PILLARD: It -- it's not at all. First ofall, I disagree with the premise of your question, JusticeScalia, that they haven't agreed to this. Where thecontract permits it, what Green Tree and the -- the classmembers, absent and named class members agreed to was acontract with the potential for a class proceeding, withthe potential for a class proceeding.This -- under the Southland cases, since --since years ago cases have been going forward -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: That begs the question. I mean, thatprecisely begs the question. I mean --MS. PILLARD: They --QUESTION: -- that's what we're debating,whether they -- whether they agreed to that or not, and tosay that they agreed to it because they agreed to itdoesn't get us very far.MS. PILLARD: This is an FAA preemption case,but the FAA has nothing to say here. The act doesn't sayanything about class arbitration, and the FAA ousts onlyState law that is hostile to arbitration.QUESTION: All right, well, why isn't thishostile? It seems to me that is the question.MS. PILLARD: It's not hostile --QUESTION: Well, wait, let me give you an example. You would agree that the State couldn'tinterpret silence as follows. The word arbitration inthis contract, since it's silent, means that thearbitration will take place at the bottom of a coal minewith no air, okay. We agree, right?MS. PILLARD: Right.QUESTION: All right, and what the other sidehas said is, you know, in respect to one of the parties,this is the same thing. Of course my client would neverhave agreed to arbitration if he knew that a class action th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC lawyer could find a provision in the contract that nobodythinks really hurt them but, in fact, we didn't live upto, and then obtain $ million in a judgment before anarbitrator, of which he gets three and the rest isdistributed.Now, look, that's what we were trying to getaway from. That's why we went to arbitration and not thecourt. Of course we wouldn't agree to such a thing, andof course reading such a thing into the silence is thesame as putting us at the bottom of that coal mine, or atleast close enough so you cannot say that it is neutral asto whether or not arbitration is good or bad or likely tooccur, or Volt was neutral or pro-arbitration. This Staterule is not neutral, it is hostile to it.Now, that's basically their argument, as I understand it, and I'd like to hear the reply.MS. PILLARD: I think, Justice Breyer, thatmisapprehends what we mean by hostile to arbitration. Hostility to arbitration refers to State rules that aresuspicious of or undermine the ability of an arbitralforum to resolve a dispute, and saying that a case isgoing to proceed on a class basis is a far cry from sayingthis case is going to proceed at the bottom of a coalmine, where parties' rights would actually be -- would notbe able to be fulfilled. That's the outside edge. This th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court has -- has always said, well, arbitration can't goforward if the parties can't get meaningful relief, and --and I think your coal mine case would be such a case.But what we mean by hostile to arbitration isnot whether one or the other party to the arbitrationwishes that they, in the end, once the dispute arises,that they weren't before an arbitrator. No. What we meanis, whether State law reflects a suspicion about thecapacity of arbitration to resolve a dispute, and ifanybody --QUESTION: Could they -- could they then have aState law that says, and the party that invokes thearbitration in the contract will receive from the otherparty a bonus of about $, for having done a goodthing? See, that's equally ridiculous as to my example in the coal mine, and all I've done is make sure that thearbitration -- it's not -- it's not -- you see, itsatisfies your test.MS. PILLARD: I -- I don't think it does,because it's -- well, because it's -- it's targeted at thearbitration, and if the State had such a rule one couldlook at, what's the purpose, what's the legitimate purposeof that rule --QUESTION: They love arbitration. Oh, butforget my ridiculous example. Go ahead with your -- with th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC your -- with your explanation.MS. PILLARD: It seems the -- well, that is --is the focus. The focus has to be whether the State law,not looking at ex post, once the parties are -- areunhappy with the broadly worded contract --QUESTION: Okay, I've got that. Then do youthink -- the other question that's bothering me -- thatwas one, and there's one other, is that we have the wordsin the contract here, and the words are, the dispute, anyclaim, including what the contract means, or the validityof the arbitration clause, et cetera, shall be resolved bybinding arbitration, by one arbitrator, selected by us,with consent of you, okay.MS. PILLARD: Yes.QUESTION: That's the phrase.MS. PILLARD: Yes.QUESTION: Now, there obviously is adisagreement as to the meaning of that phrase. Well, whyshouldn't that be arbitrated?MS. PILLARD: Exactly, and it was.QUESTION: All right. Then what we should do inthis case is say, forget what the North Carolina SupremeCourt says --QUESTION: South Carolina.QUESTION: South Carolina, sorry. I got it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC right the first time -- South Carolina Supreme Court. Forget what they say. The question is, what did theparties mean, and therefore send it back to the arbitratorfor that determination, not influenced by the SouthCarolina opinion in front of us. Now, is that the correctresolution, then?MS. PILLARD: No, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: Because?MS. PILLARD: Because the arbitrator already didlook at this clause and decided that the -- that thelanguage of the arbitration agreement allowed him todecide.QUESTION: I thought the first case was a casewhere the South Carolina Supreme Court, Bazzle or one ofthem was -- the South Carolina Supreme Court said what it meant, not the arbitrator. The second case, which was infront of the arbitrator, was the arbitrator beinginfluenced by what the South Carolina Supreme Court hadsaid.MS. PILLARD: The -- the Bazzle case did not goup to the South Carolina Supreme Court before --QUESTION: Then it's the other, it's Lackey theSupreme Court --MS. PILLARD: The cases came up to the SupremeCourt together -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MS. PILLARD: -- after both decisions were made,and as an initial matter the Bazzle case went to the trialcourt, which decided as an initial matter that the -- inthe Lackey case the -- the arbitrator made the decision asan initial matter, looking at the language of the contractand determining, without any prior judicial instruction onthe matter --QUESTION: Not an instruction, but -- but was henot guided or influenced in some way by the Supreme Courtdecision?MS. PILLARD: Green Tree tries for the firsttime in this Court to dispute that the arbitrator inLackey made an independent decision --QUESTION: Yes.MS. PILLARD: -- that the contract authorizedclass arbitration. That argument is a complete redherring. Their own brief to the South Carolina SupremeCourt repeatedly asserted that in Lackey the arbitrator,quote, took it upon himself to determine the propriety ofa class-wide arbitration and certify a class. That's atpage of their South Carolina Supreme Court brief. Theysay again and again -- their question presented refers tothe arbitrator deciding the class action issue himself. That's question presented -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: That was in -- that was in Lackey. In Bazzle, did the arbitrator, after the, what I'll callreferral from the State trial court, did the arbitratorthen say, as an -- as an independent matter, I ratify, Iconfirm, I -- I agree that the contract should beinterpreted this way, or does it -- or did he just say, Iam following the order of the court?MS. PILLARD: We don't have either precisely,but let me tell you what I think is relevant to that. Thearbitrator in Bazzle did also consider the issue. Theissue was placed squarely before the arbitrator when GreenTree moved him to decertify the class to grant that GreenTree did fight this, a --QUESTION: Wait, wait, wait. Why -- why -- whatissue was placed before him when they moved to decertify him?MS. PILLARD: They moved to decertify --QUESTION: The issue of whether he would bein -- in violation of the order of the South CarolinaSupreme Court?MS. PILLARD: There was no order of the SouthCarolina Supreme Court at that time.QUESTION: No.MS. PILLARD: There was only the order of thetrial court, which read the contract to allow class th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC arbitration. Then it -- the class was certified and sentto the arbitrator, and then the issue was before thearbitrator should he decertify the class, and Green Treeargued that -- that they should.Moreover, in Green Tree's motion to vacate theaward, after the arbitrator in Bazzle made the arbitrationaward, they characterized the arbitrator as having madethe decision that the class could proceed in arbitration.QUESTION: I'm sure they did, so -- but myimpression is they appointed in Bazzle, the district courtappointed a class, or certified it.MS. PILLARD: Certified a class.QUESTION: All right, it was after that thatthey go to the arbitrator in Lackey, and now what they'retelling us is, the arbitrator in Lackey, knowing that the district court had appointed the class in Bazzle, thenappointed the class in Lackey, and what they say, I takeit, is well, that's not independent, he just thoughtthat's what he's supposed to do.MS. PILLARD: Right, and -- and I very muchdisagree with that characterization of the record, andI'll try to help to make it clearer.First, as I pointed out, in their own briefs inthe South Carolina Supreme Court, they characterized theLackey arbitrator as having acted independently. There is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC no -- no record support for Green Tree's currentassertions that the arbitrator did not make an independentdecision. There is nothing in the record that supportsit, and it is not the case.The arbitrator said that he determined that aclass action should proceed based on his careful review ofthe broadly drafted arbitration clause prepared by GreenTree. That's --QUESTION: Is there any history, Ms. Pillard, ofthis in South Carolina, or is this the first time? Havethere been class proceedings before arbitrators in thepast?MS. PILLARD: I'm not aware that there are,Justice Ginsburg. I'm not aware of any reported decisionson that. There have been class arbitrations in -- in the -- one of the largest economies in the world for --for years, and there have been a smattering of classarbitrations in other places, and I -- I --QUESTION: Ms. Pillard, when -- when a classaction is instituted, it seems to me it amounts to aninterpretation not just of -- of these contracts that werein front of this arbitrator, but also of the othercontracts that have been brought into this arbitration,and what I find it difficult to see is how anyinterpretation of one of those other contracts would -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would allow them to be brought into this from thestandpoint not of this company -- this company at leastselected this arbitrator for these cases, and you couldsay, well, they didn't select him for the other cases,which may be a good point, but let's talk about thecustomers, the plaintiffs.They didn't select this arbitrator for any case,not even -- not even for their own case. They have hadfoisted upon them not some Federal district judge who has,you know, the -- the army behind him, but -- but somearbitrator that, you know -- who knows who, that they --they never selected at all. How can you possibly drawthem into this -- how can you possibly say that thatcontract is reasonably interpreted to allow them to bebrought into this -- into this arbitration?MS. PILLARD: I have two answers to that,Justice Scalia. First, there's no question that if, undera contract that had a forum selection clause that said,any disputes under this contract will be resolved in aforum chosen by us with the consent of you, and aplaintiff chose a forum and filed a class action andoffered opt-out rights to every absent class member whowanted to opt out, and those absent class members werebound by the same contract, their right to consent to theforum would be protected. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But that's deceptive. They -- theyare summoned in by the power of the Government, not by --not by their -- their contractual commitment to besummoned in. Even if there were no contract they could bemade part of a class action, so to say that you can do itwhen the Government is coercing it, and therefore it's aperfectly reasonable interpretation of a contract, doesn'tmake sense to me.MS. PILLARD: I --QUESTION: Here, the only basis for getting --for getting these plaintiffs into this court, or into thisarbitral court is their voluntary agreement, and theirvoluntary agreement gave them the right to select anarbitrator, and they have been deprived of that rightentirely.MS. PILLARD: I agree with you, Justice Scalia,up to your last sentence. They have not been deprived ofthat right. It is exactly true that the authority of thearbitrator over the absent class members derives fromcontract, and every single absent class member was a -- asignatory to the -- to the same arbitration clause. Theywere all governed by the same clause, and once --QUESTION: But -- but Green Tree didn't appointthe arbitrator for that purpose. Green Tree appointed thearbitrator for X, Y, and Z. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. PILLARD: Green Tree wrote a clause that --it swept everything within it. They said, we trusteverything to the arbitrator. This clause is extremelybroad. Once they did that -- they drafted a clause whichthe arbitrator and every South Carolina judge to look atit believed was susceptible of a reading that hadauthorized class action. In that case, you read thiscontract as if it had provided for class arbitration, andwhen they select --QUESTION: Wait, wait --QUESTION: Could the -- could the arbitratorhave said, I'm -- I'm going to include in -- in this classsome people who don't have an arbitration contract at all?MS. PILLARD: I would think not, no, and indeed,those people were excluded in this case.QUESTION: And -- and why is that?MS. PILLARD: Because they have --QUESTION: Because the -- Green Tree did notconsent to that.MS. PILLARD: Because they have no -- thearbitrator has no authority over them, because neitherthey nor Green Tree consented to that, but by hypothesis,if you had a clause --QUESTION: The hypothesis is, the consent mustbe bilateral, and here it wasn't. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. PILLARD: Oh, I disagree. The consent wasbilateral. Green Tree chose an arbitrator, and when itchose an arbitrator for a case under a contract broadenough to authorize class action, legally it has chosen anarbitrator with the possibility that the class couldproceed. Indeed, when they chose --QUESTION: All right, but what --MS. PILLARD: -- the arbitrator, the case hadalready been filed as a class action. It was -- they wereon notice --QUESTION: Yes.MS. PILLARD: -- of the possibility that thisissue would be litigated on a class basis.QUESTION: Well, they were on notice thatsomebody wanted a class action, but it seems to me, number , they were not on notice that South Carolina lawwould provide a -- a class arbitration because, as yousaid, it hadn't occurred before, and the only thing thatthey definitely consented to was an arbitrator for thiscase, and in a situation in which there was no existingState law that put them on notice that they were injeopardy of this result, they're saying there are somethings we -- I think they're saying there are some thingswe -- we agree that have to be filled in later about theterms of the arbitration. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC But with no history to indicate that the requestfor class -- or class treatment would be granted and wouldbe possible under South Carolina law, we surely did notconsent, we certainly did not take the risk that weconsented, that we were consenting to arbitration for allof these other people, and if you doubt that, Mr. Phillipssays, just step back and -- and bear this in mind. Without judicial review, would we have rolled the dice for$ million on one arbitrator? What is -- what is youranswer to that, that it, in effect, it is just tooimplausible to draw this conclusion out of the limitedconsent that they gave?MS. PILLARD: I have several answers to that,Justice Souter. First of all, this Court has never saidthat a case with a large amount of money at stake, indeed in Mitsubishi Motors with antitrust cases, in McMahon withRICOs -- RICO and securities cases, large amounts of moneyat stake, arbitration is permitted. They --QUESTION: Oh, no question about it. It's aquestion of what they plausibly consented to.MS. PILLARD: Right.QUESTION: That's the point of his argument.MS. PILLARD: Right. They were -- they were onnotice. If they had good lawyers doing this, they wouldhave a long time before put in the simple one phrase th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that they put into their contract as of which says,nobody who signs this can be a class member or a classrepresentative.QUESTION: Well, if they had been in Californiathey would have done that, but were -- were, you know,were they on notice that they had better guard againstthat jeopardy in South Carolina?MS. PILLARD: Yes. I think in -- in particular,the Episcopal Housing case put them on notice as of there were consolidations being permitted, and the courtswho were looking at the class question, the Champ court --QUESTION: Consolidations aren't class actions. I mean, those are quite different.MS. PILLARD: I agree with you, Justice Scalia,but the fact of the matter is, the courts that have decided whether or not to authorize class arbitration inan appropriate case have looked as an analogy to theconsolidation precedent, so you have a jurisdiction inwhich there is consolidation precedent, and parties, whenthey agree to contracts in ambiguous terms, agree tosubmit to the natural evolution of State law, and thatis -- that does on occasion present risks. That doespresent risks, but they chose both to draft a clause verybroadly and to submit everything to the arbitrator.QUESTION: Well, they're saying this isn't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC natural evolution, this is creationism, and --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- don't -- don't they have a --don't they have a point that there is a distinction whenthe difference gets to be that great?MS. PILLARD: No, and I -- and I certainly don'tthink that is a preemption question for this Court. Icertainly don't think so.QUESTION: No, no, but it says the terms have tobe -- I mean, it doesn't -- it says in the statute youhave to enforce the arbitration that they wrote, andhere -- now, it is -- this point is bothering me, becauseI'm not sure what your answer to this was. I do see thephrase, shall be resolved by binding arbitration, by onearbitrator selected by us, with consent of you. Now, the opt-out can be, consent of you. I getthat. If they don't opt out, they consent, but what aboutthe phrase, by one arbitrator selected by us? We've comearound, we've been talking about that nonstop, but I -- Idon't have a clear answer to that, because what seemsabsolutely clear in the case of Justice Scalia and me, andhe's never been in this courtroom, or in the arbitratorroom or anywhere, you know, I didn't select thatarbitrator. I selected you for a different case.Now -- now, how do we -- how do we square that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC with the words, an arbitrator selected by me, if I'm GreenTree?MS. PILLARD: Because -- two reasons. One isthat this was filed as a class action, so when theyselected the arbitrator they were on notice that at leastthe plaintiffs were trying to do this. The second --QUESTION: So if they said right at that pointwe don't want this as a class action, then they win?MS. PILLARD: No.QUESTION: No, okay.MS. PILLARD: The second answer is that thecontract was written in such a way as to be susceptible ofpermitting class arbitration, so when they select anarbitrator under this contract, they take into account,this could be an arbitrator that could award punitive damages. This could be an arbitrator that could proceedon a class basis. This could be an arbitrator who couldorder --QUESTION: All right, I see, but --MS. PILLARD: -- broad discovery.QUESTION: If they had had a --MS. PILLARD: This could be an arbitrator whocould do any of the things the contract permits.QUESTION: If they had had enough foresight,could they have told the arbitrator, we are selecting you, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC but for this suit only. You may not have a class action. We are not consenting. Could they have said that upfront?MS. PILLARD: I don't think so. I don't thinkso, because the -- the language of the contract and theauthority that they have given to arbitrators isdetermined from the contract language, not from theparties' choices at the threshold where a particulardispute has already arisen.QUESTION: I -- I notice the -- none -- none ofyour answers to these questions, including -- you hadseveral answers for Justice Souter. None of your answerssaid, well, you know, that's a very interesting theory,Mr. Justice, but this is a State law matter, it's not foryou. I -- I haven't heard that.MS. PILLARD: Well, I -- I intended to give --to give that answer when I said this is not a preemptionquestion. It is not an FAA question. It is a State lawquestion, and I think that's exactly right, JusticeKennedy, the narrow scope of FAA preemption focuses onwhether State law is hostile to the arbitration forum, tothe choice of arbitral forum to resolve ambiguities likethese. There is --QUESTION: Suppose a -- suppose the State lawsaid, not only do we interpret silence to mean you can th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have it in a class format, but that if any arbitrationclause -- any arbitration contract excludes class actionwe will hold that against our public policy andunenforceable?MS. PILLARD: One would have to look at thereasoning of the State court in so holding. If thereasoning was hostility to arbitration, trying to trade itup --QUESTION: Well, the -- the Supreme Court wouldexplain, we love arbitration, that's why we're not goingto let anybody make it a smaller arbitration, so that's --so we're not being hostile to arbitration.MS. PILLARD: That is, as the South CarolinaSupreme Court made clear, not the issue in this case. Ifit were an application of general contract principles of unconscionability in a particular case with no suspicionof arbitration as such, then I think a State could do thatunder State law.If the State had a general law that applied tolitigation and arbitration against class action waivers,or against waivers of class actions in adhesive contractsthat applied to both fora, to the litigation and to thearbitration, I think under that circumstance also it wouldnot be hostile to arbitration for the State law tooverride the parties' choice -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: What's your authority that -- that ithas to be -- you -- you seem to -- to be positing somekind of a -- of an intent requirement on the part of theState. It has to really have it in for arbitration.Why isn't the Federal Arbitration Act morereasonably interpreted as directed at those State lawsthat -- that are destructive of arbitration, that -- thatare -- are hostile not in the sense of any -- of anymental intent, but that in their operation make itdifficult for parties to enter into arbitrationagreements, and if that's what it means, a law thatinterprets a -- an arbitration agreement fantastically,you know, down at the bottom of the coal mine, or, youknow, you -- you have to pay so many million dollars winor lose, or, I think, you -- you have to subject yourself to -- to class actions, is a law that is hostile toarbitration, that is -- it is -- it is antagonistic to theability of parties to decide between themselves how, when,and where and to what extent they will have an arbitratordecide matters for them?MS. PILLARD: Justice Scalia, parties have anability to do that, and anyone who wants to put in aclause saying, no class arbitration, is invited to dothat. This Court has never interpreted hostility toarbitration that broadly, as you just described. What th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this Court has said again and again is that the FAApreempts only State laws that single out arbitrationprovisions for suspect status that undercut theenforceability of arbitration agreements.Here, the arbitration agreement was enforced,and there is no FAA rule, contrary to Green Tree'scontentions, that all arbitration agreements should beenforced according to their written terms without thebenefit of State rules for resolving contract ambiguity.Rather, as the Court reiterated in Waffle House,absent some ambiguity in the agreement, it is the languageof the contract that defines the scope of disputes subjectto arbitration. This Court has repeatedly made clear thatit is State contract law that applies, and it is Statecontract law that resolves any contract ambiguity. Green Tree is seeking a radical expansion of FAApreemption. Their rule would federalize countlessdisputes over the meaning of arbitration clauses. Partiesto arbitration will come and say, we never intended to --to permit discovery, protective orders, various types ofmotions, types of damages and the like that would inviteany party unhappy with the results of an arbitration,saying we're getting into more than we thought, this ishostile to arbitration as we prefer, to come to this Courtand ask it to second-guess ordinary State law th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC interpretation of an arbitration agreement.This Court should not expand the scope of FAApreemption in this case. There's no warrant for it here.QUESTION: May I ask this, if you have anothermoment: Does this case have any real future significance,because isn't it fairly clear that all the arbitrationagreements in the future will prohibit class actions?MS. PILLARD: It's really very limited, JusticeStevens, I agree. This case deals with whether thisparticular agreement foreclosed class arbitration. GreenTree agrees that where an agreement authorizes it, classarbitration can be done, and so all they're asking you todo is to second-guess the State court's interpretationapplying the rule of construction against the drafter, andI would very much dispute their characterization of what the South Carolina Supreme Court did of applying a -- arule without any contractual or statutory directive to doso.The court was there quoting from a differentcase, and this case is a fortiori. Clearly, the courtlooked and said, there's no specific directive. As apreliminary matter, the court said, the contract issilent. Then they looked at the more general language thetrial court had relied on and said, there's affirmativeauthorization here under the general language, and they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC looked at Green Tree's argument that the reference to thiscontract foreclosed it, and the South Carolina SupremeCourt said, I find it ambiguous, and I'm going to applythe ordinary rule of --QUESTION: Is there a risk that if we just didwhat you said, they write in no class actions, a courtsays this is a contract of adhesion, and that provision'soppressive, and so we strike it?MS. PILLARD: It depends on why they think it'soppressive. If they think that waivers generally incontracts, pre-dispute agreements to waive the right toproceed as a class, whether the contract is an arbitrationagreement or not are oppressive, then I think it might notbe hostile to arbitration.If they say, a waiver of a class action in an arbitration setting is oppressive and unconstitutional,that might run afoul of this Court's precedence in -- inCasarotto.QUESTION: You really think that they couldallow a waiver of judicial review and disallow a waiver ofclass actions? That would -- that would boggle my mind. And you think that wouldn't display hostility?MS. PILLARD: Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Pillard.Mr. Phillips, you have minutes remaining. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice Kennedy, in response to your question, Idon't know precisely the first time that we raised thisissue, but I know that if you look at the record ondecision at pages and again at , in both Bazzleand in Lackey, we say point blank the arbitrator exceededhis authority to proceed as a class action, and thatneither Green Tree nor any of the unnamed class membersconsented to have the arbitrator arbitrate their claims,so we said it as plainly as we could with respect tothe -- with respect to the notion of consent.The specific -- aside from that, the SouthCarolina Supreme Court said we didn't waive our rights, and it's quite clear that if we fight over these issues infront of the arbitrator, we don't waive our rights. Thatwas the holding of this Court in First Chicago.Justice Breyer, with respect to whether or notthe arbitrator thought he exercised independent authority,I think it's pretty clear that both parties in this casehave taken inconsistent positions. If you read therespondent's briefs below, they say that the arbitratorhad no authority to go beyond the class certification ofthe decision that had already been made by the State th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC court. Whether he did or not I say at the end of the daydoesn't matter, because I don't think it's a question forthe arbitrator, but if it is, he exceeded his authority,because he clearly doesn't have the authority under thiscontract to make a decision with respect to the thirdparties.That takes us to the question Justice Scaliaraised, which is, you know, what -- what do you do withthe fact that the South Carolina Supreme Court has saidnot word one about arbitrator selected by me? There'snothing that interprets that language of this agreement,and if the Federal Arbitration Act doesn't have at leastsome component here to say, look, the terms of thecontract cannot be categorically ignored or disregarded bythe State court, those are rights that are there. We saidas plainly as we could we would not consent to this, andthe court rejected it.And the final point I would make with respect tohostility, while it is true that this Court hasconsistently struck down efforts to be hostile toarbitration, it has never said that that's the only basison which preemption will arise. Preemption in thiscontext exists in the same way it does in every othercontext, does it interfere with the full achievement ofCongress' objections. That's Hines v. Davidowitz, and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC answer to that here, and it's the same answer that wouldarise if they were to -- if we had an agreement that saidclass action has, that of course this is manifesthostility to this arbitration agreement as written. It'sa bilateral agreement, and all the South Carolina SupremeCourt had to say about that bilateral agreement is, itwould be judicially inefficient for us to have to gothrough each one of these individually.Well, that's all well and good, but that'scoercion, that's not consent, and if the FederalArbitration Act has any meaning, it means that you applythe consent of the parties here, and if you do that, theSouth Carolina Supreme Court has to be overturned.Thank you, Your Honors.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Phillips.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 