 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XENGINE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION AND WESTERN STATES PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION, Petitioners :::::V. : No. -SOUTH COAST AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT DISTRICT, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Engine Manufacturers Association andWestern States Petroleum Association v. the South CoastAir Quality Management District.Mr. Phillips.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In , Congress enacted section (a) of theClean Air Act, which is reproduced in the petitioners'brief at page . That statute prohibits States and their localities from adopting or attempting even to enforce,quote, any standard relating to the control of emissionsfrom new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines. In this case, a political subdivision of theState of California has adopted fleet rules that prohibitthe purchase by certain fleets of various classes of -- ofvehicles that are otherwise certified for purchase in theState of California and, indeed, have essentiallyprecluded the purchase by those organizations of diesel-fueled vehicles in toto.QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, this is a facial th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. challenge? MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Justice O'Connor, it is afacial challenge. QUESTION: Claiming total preemption.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, claiming total preemption.QUESTION: What if we were to think that atleast as applied to the district's own purchases ofvehicles, that it could limit itself to what kinds ofvehicles it wanted to purchase and therefore is valid atleast in part?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the -- there are twoanswers to that. One, the district doesn't need a statutein order to purchase its own vehicles. There is no basisfor adopting a standard that controls that particular situation. QUESTION: Well, but let's suppose it wants toestablish a standard to apply now and in the future foritself and for any other jurisdiction, publicjurisdiction, within its area?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if it goes beyond --QUESTION: If it's authorized to do that.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if it goes beyond what itwants to purchase itself and imposes requirements onothers, then it seems to me that's a standard that fallswithin the ambit of the preemption. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: What if -- what if the State -- whatif the State of California says that all of our officials,including the Governor, shall have a low emissionsvehicle?MR. PHILLIPS: I think that -- that there is aserious question as to whether or not that would bepreempted. I -- I don't think it's presented, obviously,by the particulars of this case. I mean, it still look --sounds like a --QUESTION: Well, but it seems -- it seems to methat -- that it is from -- from the standpoint of -- ofgovernmentally owned and operated vehicles.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the answer to thequestion at the end of the day, Justice Kennedy, would be that you would require a clearer statement from Congressthan what you have in section (a) to interfere with thekind of purchasing decisions that localities are -- aremaking in contrast to this.QUESTION: Right, but -- but it seems to me not-- not an answer to Justice O'Connor's concern to say thatit goes beyond the particulars of this case because whenyou make a facial challenge, you are going beyond theparticulars of this case.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I understand that, JusticeScalia. Well, there are two answers to that, one that I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. was trying to answer before which is I don't think thatthis provision actually covers that particular situationbecause you don't need this provision in order to haveauthority as a local jurisdiction to make purchases onyour own as to what you're going to buy. That's not, Idon't think, a standard within the meaning of the statute.But second of all, I also don't think that the-- it must be unconstitutional in all respects as thecontrolling standard of law in this particular contexteither. It is clear that there is a significant componentof this -- of these fleet rules that is preempted, andperhaps all of them are preempted. But we were dismissedout at the earliest stages of these proceedings without anopportunity to demonstrate the metes and bounds of the regulations as they would particularly apply at this -- at-- at this particular juncture.QUESTION: No, but we may --QUESTION: I'm still not sure -- sure where weare. It -- it seemed to me that the regulation talksabout some private vehicles, trash hauling and airportshuttles, but it also talks about exclusivelygovernmentally owned vehicles. And it seemed to me thatthe State can do whatever it has -- whatever standard itwants for its own vehicles.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, our -- our challenge is not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. intended, frankly, to interfere with the localjurisdiction's ability to purchase their own vehicles ontheir own behalf.QUESTION: Local jurisdictions. I mean, youknow, what's that? Are you saying that it is a standardif the City of Los Angeles has a regulation through thecity council that applies to the purchasing of everylittle local area? Or suppose the State of California hasa general regulation respecting only governmentalpurchases. Are you saying right now that all those -- inother words, rules, regulations, standards, practices bythe State of California or some part thereof -- that doesnothing more than control purchasing by governmental unitsof that State is fine? They can do that. MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. That's what we're saying.QUESTION: All right. MR. PHILLIPS: We don't -- we don't have anychallenge to that.QUESTION: In that case we're now down to thepossibility that we're talking about some garbage trucks,I think, and some airport vehicles because I think all therest of it did just involve the State.MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it's difficult to knowprecisely what the metes and bounds of it is, but theportion of this that offends us and the portion that we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. think does not require a clearer statement, which is thatwhich goes directly to non-governmental entities. If --if you're talking about regulating the purchasing choicesof pure governmental entities, then you expect Congress tospeak with a -- with a clearer voice. But the purpose of these fleet rules is notsimply to restrict the purchases by governmental entities. It is quite clear that the purpose of these fleet rules isto regulate the purchasing choices that are made withrespect to a much broader scope of purchasing entities,including private entities, and it is that portion of theregulation, frankly, that we are challenging andchallenging on its face.QUESTION: Mr. Carter, if these regulations had been adopted by the State of California rather than aregional district as its , in -- in lieu of the Federalplan, would that have been permissible?MR. PHILLIPS: Assuming, Justice Ginsburg, thatyou -- that California took -- complied with all of therequirements of section , and there are specificrequirements in order to get a -- in the -- in the Stateaction plan that -- State implementation plan that need tobe satisfied. But to be sure, the Congress clearlyenvisioned that for States with nonattainment problems,that they would be able to use fleet restrictions as a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. mechanism for promoting their overall emissions quality.QUESTION: So your objection is to this on aregional basis. Statewide you say is permissible providedyou follow -- I guess you need EPA approval?MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, providing you comply withthe standards of section .QUESTION: But -- so -- but the substance of itwould be okay statewide. So -- so --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know if the preciseterms of this -- of these rules would qualify undersection or not. Nobody has actually analyzed thatpoint, but the truth is it's clear that you could havecertain fleet rules implemented that are consistent withsection . But realize, Justice Ginsburg, that what -- bysaying all our concern is is that every -- every one ofthousands of jurisdictions can impose purchase and salerequirements on vehicles --QUESTION: Well, it's not sale requirements. It's a purchase requirement. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, under the respondents'theory of this case which limits the term standards toproduction mandates imposed on manufacturers, then itseems to me that it clearly extends to all purchases andsales and whether it extends to fleets, it wouldn't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it's not limited to fleets at all. Under the respondents'theory of this case, the field that has been preemptedhere really is limited to the manufacturers. And to allowevery local jurisdiction to come in and bring forthadditional requirements is to make a hash out of a schemethat was clearly designed to create a unitary market forthe manufacture, sale, purchase, and licensing of newmotor vehicles.QUESTION: Well, if -- if one local jurisdictionaffects other governmental jurisdictions, but the latterdon't care, then it's just as if, as the hypothetical justposed, the State had the -- had -- had the rule. Is there sort of an ultra vires component toyour argument that this -- that this district here is affecting what other governmental entities can do andthat's the problem? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, this Court has longrecognized that you can't analyze a preemption case solelyon the basis of the single action by a single actor, thatin fact you have to consider the possibility that all States or, in this case, every local jurisdiction couldfollow suit.And remember, it's not just follow suit withrespect to this kind of fleet rules under the respondents'theory of this case, which is that all purchase and sale th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. restrictions --QUESTION: Well, I -- I had not understood yourargument to be based on any conception that thisparticular district would be treated differently than theState as a whole, but I -- I -- am I wrong in that?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the State of Californiawould have certain prerogatives, obviously, under theentire scheme that are different, but even if Californiahad simply done what the district did here, which is tojust announce a set of fleet rules, not made any effort tocomply with , not made any effort to comply withsection (b) --QUESTION: Well, what -- what does -- what does provide?MR. PHILLIPS: Section provides that incertain nonattainment States, one of the options they haveavailable in order to eliminate the overall -- or to -- toimprove the overall ambient air quality is to adoptcertain types of fleet rules. And the provision is verylengthy. It's very detailed about -- and you have toinclude that in your State implementation plan. What California did was it used the substituteroute and adopted its LEV rules saying that those would beequally effective.QUESTION: So it didn't comply in your view with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. .MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, it clearly didn't comply. Idon't think there's any question that California has madeno effort to satisfy the Clean Air Act with respect tothis. But this Court --QUESTION: Your -- your argument, as Iunderstand it, going back to your answer to JusticeGinsburg, is that although there is an avenue for theState, as it were, to get where -- where it might want togo on a -- on a fleet policy under , the districtsimply does not have that avenue open to it.MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, that's absolutely clear.QUESTION: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: And that's -- and that's part of the way this entire scheme operates.QUESTION: But that gets me back to my question. If we disagree with you, to the extent we think someapplication of the district's fleet rules are notpreempted, then how does that leave your challenge, whichis a facial one?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I think the answer isthat there are various components of the fleet rules, andI think unlike if you're -- if you're seeking pre-enforcement of a statute, where you'd have to find everyapplication of it, the question is are there subcomponents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. of these rules that are properly challengeable andtherefore properly enjoinable rather than being allowed togo in. I don't -- I don't understand --QUESTION: That eliminates the doctrineentirely, I mean, the doctrine that facial challenge hasto show the statute is -- is invalid in all itsapplications. You could always say, well, we're notchallenging all of its applications. We're -- we're justchallenging this particular set of applications. I mean,that -- that --MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, Justice Scalia, I thinkit's a little more complicated than that because whatyou're really talking about is a -- is a host of rules. And if you look at the appendix to the respondents' brief with all of the rules that are laid out there, there areliterally dozens of rules. And in order to challenge the,quote, fleet rules in the sense of recognizing that thereare clearly areas of those rules that intrude intopreempted Federal activities, it doesn't seem to me thatyou have to challenge the entirety of the rules. Youshould be entitled to pick those rules that you're goingafter and a complaint and go forward. And that's --QUESTION: But --MR. PHILLIPS: -- that's what we've done. Iunderstand if you have a simple unitary statute that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you're challenging, the Salerno rule may suggest that thestatute has to be unconstitutional in all its respects,but if you adopted a rule that if part A is good and partB is not good, you should be allowed to -- to challengepart B facially without worrying about part A.QUESTION: But I thought -- I thought this wasthe case in -- in which part A applies both to thedistrict, as in Justice O'Connor's question, and to non-governmental entities so that it's not that A applies to-- to one kind of buyer and B to another. There's a --there's a rule that applies to buyers. And Justice -- andcorrect me if I'm wrong. Justice O'Connor's question ineffect says, if there is a substantial -- if there is anapplication of that rule that in a substantial number of cases at least would not be preempted, then isn't that theend of the facial challenge? MR. PHILLIPS: And my answer to you is I don'tthink that's the proper application of Salerno and I don't-- I mean, I recognize --QUESTION: I'm not applying Salerno. I'm -- I'mapplying a substantial application rather than a one-instance kind of rule. And -- and your answer to thatwas, well, we don't have to challenge all rules. We couldchallenge A but not B. And my response is the rule thatcovers the governmental situation and the private th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. situation is the same rule, and if that rule has asubstantial number of constitutional applications or -- ornon-preempted applications, doesn't that, in -- in effect,defeat the facial challenge? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, except for the fact that if-- if we don't get past the ruling of the court below atthis stage, which is that none of this is preempted, that-- whether it's a facial challenge or a non-facialchallenge, we're going to have rules that are out therethat are being implemented at this stage and will beupheld as constitutional under the Ninth Circuit's rulingas the -- as the controlling rule of law, and we won't bein a position even to get at any portion of those rulesthat are clearly unconstitutional because they --QUESTION: You can, can you not -- I'm justtrying to draw this back because it seems to me you're notchallenging the public part. So if you're not challengingthe public part, then -- I've looked at pages and ofthe SG's brief where he's listed these rules.MR. PHILLIPS: Right. QUESTION: And I take it what you're challengingis rule insofar as it applies to private operators.MR. PHILLIPS: Right. QUESTION: Rule , the same, and rule .,the same, and nothing else. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. PHILLIPS: I think that --QUESTION: In each of those rules, having lookedat them, it does say at the beginning, these apply topublic and private. So I take it it's those two words,and private, written in the text of those rules thatyou're challenging. MR. PHILLIPS: That -- that is our -- I mean,our primary concern. The -- the problem here is --QUESTION: Well, but that's what you'rechallenging, nothing else.MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, I mean, thequestion is whether or not -- I mean, I'm not sure that isprecisely what we're challenging. It seems to me there isa difference between a public entity deciding on its own --QUESTION: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: -- that it will make a certainpurchasing decision as a purchasing decision. There is afundamentally different proposition when another entitydemands that it must make a purchasing decision based onemissions control.QUESTION: What do you mean? Another public orprivate?MR. PHILLIPS: A public entity.QUESTION: Oh. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. PHILLIPS: What I was saying is -- what --what I meant to answer your question earlier, JusticeBreyer, was to say if you're asking me can public entitiesmake purchasing decisions free of the restrictions of theClean Air Act, I think the answer is yes because I don'tthink Congress spoke to that.But if what you're saying is can a -- can onegovernmental entity demand that another governmentalentity make a decision for purely environmental reasonsand not as a -- as a contracting matter, no. That seemsto me is still a standard --QUESTION: Well, now just let's think --MR. PHILLIPS: -- that controls emissions and isunconstitutional. QUESTION: -- of the complexity of State andcentral government in light of what you just said. You'resaying that the State of California board A couldn't sayall the -- I mean, I don't know where to go with this. Doyou see -- do you see the problem? MR. PHILLIPS: No, but the -- the problem ismuch simpler than that, Justice Breyer, because there's ascheme in place where if you don't like the way theregulatory arrangements are worked out, you can take theissue to California and California can take it to the EPA.I mean, the whole purpose of this enterprise was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to devise a unitary market and make it very simple. Andthere's nothing in the -- in the suggestion that --QUESTION: -- the merits. My problem is to tryto figure out what's being challenged. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, we're challenging theeffort by the district to impose these kinds ofrequirements, these standards which control emissions.QUESTION: On its --QUESTION: But if California --MR. PHILLIPS: On everyone.QUESTION: -- if California accepts that as amatter of its domestic law, who are we to say otherwise?MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because that's what theClean Air Act is all about. California is free to do thatif it complies with section (b) which says you canobtain a waiver. You can make these the Federalstandards. I mean, there's no question that these fleetrules could have been adopted by the State of Californiaand be approved by the EPA and be operating completelytomorrow if they want to go through that process. That'sthe specific process Congress had in mind, a process thatthe district has abandoned. And all we're suggesting isthat's what they ought to do.MR. PHILLIPS: Mr. Phillips, I don't want tointrude into your time, but I -- I hope you have time to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. comment on your adversary's argument that the wordstandards just refers to numerical figures and so forthand that you -- you have a -- it means the same thing whenthe government is -- Federal Government is implementingits own standards and it is in this provision. Do you --do you have a response to that basic argument? MR. PHILLIPS: So there -- there are two answersto that. One, section is not limited to productionmandates, those kinds of numerical standards, even -- evenwithin . And second, the language that -- thatCongress used about standards relating to the control ofemissions is inherently broader than in any event, andif you expected and to be read in para materia,you would have expected Congress to cross reference. QUESTION: Because they were enacted atdifferent times, I think, the two sections.MR. PHILLIPS: They were enacted at differenttimes. QUESTION: Yes. QUESTION: What about the distinction betweenstandard and requirement? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the use of requirement inthe second sentence is simply a recognition that therecould be standardless requirements imposed by Statesrequiring a certification or some other kind of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. documentation that don't have standards. So the firstsentence deals with standards and the second one dealswith standardless obstacles to implementation.If I could reserve the balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Phillips.General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:The South Coast rules prohibit the purchase ofcertain motor vehicles and require the purchase of othersbased on explicit emission standards. Under respondents' reasoning, every other State and local government agencyin the United States could adopt its own individual andunique blend of prohibited and permitted motor vehicles. But --QUESTION: General Olson, does -- does theGovernment take the position that petitioner has justtaken, that these rules are invalid even insofar as theyapply to governmental subdivisions in California? MR. OLSON: I think the answer is -- is no, butlet me explain, that to the extent that agencies ofgovernment, the State or subdivisions, are purchasing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. their own vehicles, we do not contend that that isunconstitutional. They can purchase --QUESTION: No, no. I'm not talking aboutwhether their doing of it is unconstitutional. Whetherthe State's -- whether the State's prescribing that theydo it violates the statute.MR. OLSON: Our -- our position -- I don't --I'm not sure I know the answer to that because I don'tknow what authority this agency has with respect torequiring different units of -- of the government of theState of California to purchase or not purchase vehicles. And it hasn't -- it's not a subject that was briefed, ifat all, extensively in the briefs. But the -- the force -- the force of thepreemption provision here is that Congress determined thatthere should be a uniform standard with respect tocontrols on the emissions of motor vehicles. Californiawas given an exception provided that certain requirementswere met. This is in section (b) that these provisionsbe submitted to the EPA and approved under a processthat's open and transparent and allows the national agencyto make sure that there are uniform standards that can bemet that also comply with the requirement that thenational economy not be disrupted, so that there would bedifferent -- by different standards in every little th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. community of the United States. That's the thrust --QUESTION: Has it happened, General Olson? Onepier that you raise is if -- that -- if this district canhave these fleet rules, so can every district in thecountry, and these -- these rules have been in operationnow for some years. Have other districts in other Statescopied what this one has done?MR. OLSON: Not that I know of. They've --they've only been in existence since the year . The-- the district was given the authority to adopt theserules in , if I'm correct, did not adopt them untilthe year . The arguments -- the principal arguments thatare made by respondents that standards are production mandates finds no basis in the statute. The language ofsection or section is not so limited. The -- what-- what section and do, talk about emission levelsor emission standards.And there should be no mistake about it. Thesefleet rules are directly related to emission standards. One of them, for example, rule , uses the phrase,emission standards, times and it requires allpurchasers to be vehicles that meet certain emissionstandards, adopting by reference the State of CaliforniaCARB rules. It picked out a subset, as the respondents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. put it, of one in column A, two in column B, no diesel. There must be some clean fuel. It's another -- it's atotally different package.And Palm Beach County or -- or Waco -- the Cityof Waco could do something exactly like what therespondents are contending because they say the controlswith respect to emissions don't apply if they'repurchasing requirements. EPA, in fact, enforces the standards that itadopts under section pursuant to the provisions of by restricting the sale or introduction into commerce ofmotor vehicles and under section , under certaincircumstances, the purchasers of fleets, bus fleets. Sothe implementation of the limitations that -- that -- the standards that EPA adopts are through purchaserestrictions or purchasing restrictions. They're notproduction mandates. It's my understanding and I'minformed that the EPA has never implemented the Clean AirAct with respect to production mandates. They say whatcan be sold or what can be purchased.QUESTION: But -- but, Mr. Olson, why can't alocal agency or community decide it's going to buyvehicles and will buy no diesel vehicles? And why is thatthe imposition of a standard?MR. OLSON: Well, it is not -- we -- we are not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. contending, Justice O'Connor -- I want to make it veryclear that local agencies, San Francisco or Los Angeles,can put for their own vehicles anything they want. Thisdistrict -- I -- the -- the --QUESTION: Well, does this district have theauthority to so provide for its own purchases?MR. OLSON: For its own purchases. If it -- Idon't know whether it does or not. This is a qualitycontrol district. I don't know how many vehicles theyhave.QUESTION: Does it have authority to -- to makethat requirement for cities within its jurisdiction?MR. OLSON: We don't think that it has theauthority to require other governmental agencies based upon emission standards to do something. QUESTION: Well, that's a matter of State law.MR. OLSON: That is a matter of State law, andit's -- and -- and what we're talking about here is therequirement by particular agencies to pick out differenttypes of motor vehicles that may or may not be sold.QUESTION: Well, I suppose the separate Statescould do that for its own purchases.MR. OLSON: For their own -- for their ownpurchases, Justice Kennedy. QUESTION: All right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: -- they can't --QUESTION: And could they also do that for alltheir governmental subdivisions? The State of Nebraskasays that the State and all of its subdivisions will havesome very strict standards --MR. OLSON: I agree with the -- with the waythat the Chief Justice put it, that that's their ownpurchasing decisions, and it's a matter of State law as towhether they can -- but that is not what this case isabout. This case is about whether the South Coastdistrict can impose those standards, including FederalGovernment vehicles, postal vehicles, FBI vehicles,private vehicles that go to the airports and so forth. And the justification that they say is that we can controlthe sale of motor vehicles willy-nilly by -- bycontrolling the purchase. By controlling the purchase,you control what can be sold and thus can what bemanufactured. They are claiming an authority in southernCalifornia that they -- that they claim the EPA doesn'teven have.QUESTION: Maybe, but most of what it covers issimply the -- the purchase by governmental units. If youacknowledge that the State can require its subdivisions to-- to purchase only certain kinds of vehicles, as you've th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. just acknowledged, why can't the State create a districtas here and allow that district to require --MR. OLSON: Justice --QUESTION: -- subdivisions to purchase only --MR. OLSON: From the standpoint of the UnitedStates Government, we're not contending that the State oran individual can choose whatever vehicle he or she or itwants to purchase. What we're contending is that thewhole scheme of the EPA and the Clean Air Act and the --and the preemption provisions prevent different agenciesby using the -- the mechanism.The entire argument that respondents advancedhere, by using the word -- by -- by prescribing what canbe purchased, they can -- they can control what vehicles will exist and what vehicles will be run. It isn'tlimited. The authority that they're claiming isn'tlimited to their own vehicles. This same authority --they would make the same arguments if the South CoastDistrict said all persons or all persons that have morethan one vehicle or all persons that live in a certainportion of southern California. The authority that theyclaim by using the word purchase, which is not in thestatute, is not in the preemption provision, and is anauthority that the -- the EPA specifically uses to acertain extent under section -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: General Olson, you mentioned thatthere are Federal vehicles involved, postal vehicles, butyou also are stressing purchase. Suppose the FederalGovernment buys its vehicles that it's going to operate inCalifornia in Nevada. These rules wouldn't apply. So the-- the United States is not inhibited in any way in itspurchases, is it?MR. OLSON: Well, A, I think that is aninhibition. B, I think the respondents will say thatthese -- these purchasing requirements are imposed uponfleet owners that -- that requires them to make purchasesof certain vehicles. So I think the premise of yourquestion is not correct. If southern California or if the State ofCalifornia wishes to impose fleet requirements, there is amechanism. It's a logical, consistent, transparent, openmechanism under -- that was thoughtfully put out byCongress. The whole mechanism is thoughtfully calibratedby Congress to allow the EPA to make judgments. Does thismake sense from a national standpoint? Will this makesense from other States' standpoints? Is it -- will itimpose a dislocation on the marketplace for motorvehicles? The twin objectives of the Clean Air Act are,one, to produce cleaner air, but two, to do it in a way th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that does not disrupt the national economy and themarketing of motor vehicles, which is an important part ofthe economy of this Nation.QUESTION: Just so I have it clear, because it-- this is very important to me. It's your position thatthe State may require municipalities only to buy certainkinds of cars.MR. OLSON: To the extent that -- yes. I'm --because I don't know the answer to the State law questionthat the Chief Justice alluded to. Assuming that theState of California was one and the same and decided thatit owned or had the authority under State law to purchasethose vehicles, the answer would be yes.QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson. Mr. Waxman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question in this case is whether section(a) of the Clean Air Act, which is reproduced at pagea of our brief, preempts very modest fleet purchaserules which apply only to vehicles that are alreadycommercially available, that is, that cannot have aneffect on manufacture -- cannot require manufacturers to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. produce or sell anything, and which were adopted by aunique airshed in which percent of all toxic airpollution derives from motor vehicles. And the answer to that question is no becausethe text and the context of the Clean Air Act, title II ofthe Clean Air Act that deals with motor vehicles, showthat Congress intended the word standard in section tobe used in the same way that it is used in section and, indeed, throughout the entirety of title II -- titleII. It's used times, I'm told by an amicus, insection alone, and every single time that it is usedthere, it is used to refer to an obligation placed onmanufacturers, that the vehicles they produce and sellmeet specified emissions characteristics. No one contendsthat that definition, the way the word is used in section, covers the rules in this case. Now, express preemption -- it requiresdiscerning Congress' intent. It's not an exercise indefinitional possibilities, this Court has reminded usmany times. Now, you can read every brief from ouropponents. Every different brief offers up some otherdefinition, and their briefs in related cases have donethe same. And we've heard no definition this morning. They look to the dictionary definition of standard orcriteria or test, and they're reproduced in their briefs. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. But they -- they concede that there is no dictionarydefinition that they offer that coincides with the rulethat they seek because they concede that Congress did notintend to cover incentive programs or tax programs eventhough, like purchase rules, they operate through themarket on manufacturers and not directly on manufacturers.QUESTION: Suppose that California passes a lawand says no one can sell a diesel bus in California.MR. WAXMAN: Well --QUESTION: Clearly you'd have to go getpermission if you want a rule like that. Right?MR. WAXMAN: A -- a rule that --QUESTION: The rule is exactly what I said: noone can sell a diesel bus in California. MR. WAXMAN: A -- one could -- I believe that agood argument could be made that that rule is preemptedbecause it conflicts with the overall purposes of theClean Air Act. But --QUESTION: Yes. I mean, you'd have to go toEPA.finish.MR. WAXMAN: But, Justice Breyer, please let meQUESTION: Yes. MR. WAXMAN: This is a very important point. The challenge here is that these rules are expressly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. preempted -- it's in the question presented in thepetitioners' brief -- expressly preempted by the firstsentence of section (a), and it is expressly preemptedbecause these are standards. And our submission is --QUESTION: I'm -- for purposes of my question,I'm rejecting that argument. I'm trying to figure outwhat is the correct way of dealing with the statute.MR. WAXMAN: Yes, and --QUESTION: And where I was going, if you want tosee, I'll show you because then you -- it -- it seems tome clearly you'd have to ask question -- nobody can sell adiesel bus in California. You have to get permission fromEPA. Second, they change it. No one can buy a diesel bus. All right? It's the same. Third, they say no governmental unit can buy adiesel bus, but it turns out that the only buses anyonehas ever bought or sold in California are diesel units. And it's at that third point that's bothering me becauseit seems to me whether it's preempted or not turns uponthe effects. Have you, in effect, required themanufacturer to change its assembly line or not? And Idon't know where to go with that. That's what I'm posing.MR. WAXMAN: Here is my -- here is my firsteffort at an answer. The word standard, as it is used in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and in the other provisions of title II that deal withdifferent types of standards, the standards with respectto fuel, standards with respect to buses, standards --standards in section that deal with the Federal cleanfuel purchase program, are all obligations that are placeddirectly on manufacturers. The Congress and the EPArecognized when section was enacted, which is theFederal fleet purchase program --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, can I interrupt you justa moment? You say there are obligations that are placedon the -- which is also true. But the word standard asused in the statute over and over again refers to thingsthat are express in terms of so many units per mile and somany -- so forth and so on. The term standard, it seems to me, refers to the -- the numerical definitions ratherthan to how they're enforced or implied. MR. WAXMAN: Well --QUESTION: I think it may well be they're -- and-- and we don't have to worry about the enforced orimplied in the terms that a statute because all it has tobe that -- the only prohibition is against anythingrelating to a standard.MR. WAXMAN: No, it's --QUESTION: And if the standard is limited to thenumerical term -- I don't find in the text of the -- of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. any part of the statute here your -- your point aboutenforcement against. That's -- that's what -- what isdone with the standard. It's not what the standard itselfis. MR. WAXMAN: Justice --QUESTION: I have the same problem, if I couldsecond it. It seems to me the fact that you use standard times in discussing manufacturing standards doesn'tmean that when you use it a th time to refer to someother aspect of the whole thing, it must refer tomanufacturing. It just doesn't follow. MR. WAXMAN: I'll try -- I'll be efficient andtry and answer two questions at once then. First of all, doesn't refer -- doesn't prohibit anything relating to a standard. It prohibitsstandards relating to motor vehicle emissions just assection in the very first sentence authorizes theFederal Government to promulgate standards applicable tothe emission of motor vehicles. Now, standards, as the word is used in andthroughout title II, refers to emission characteristics orthe obligation of manufacturers to sell and produce cars. If you look at section (g) or (h) and (i), forexample, those are instances of subsections where it isused not just to refer to the emissions characteristics th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. themselves, but also the obligation on manufacturers andsellers. And in fact, if you look at section of theact, which is called Prohibited Acts -- it's theenforcement provisions -- it is directed at manufacturersand sellers. QUESTION: I agree with you completely that thestatute imposes these obligations on the manufacturers tocomply with the standards. But the word standard is -- isa different concept from the obligation to comply with thestandard.MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think the -- the wordstandard -- I'll -- I'll say this one more time and thenretreat to another -- another argument. The wordstandard, as it is used, for example, in (g), is usedboth to refer to the emissions characteristics, numericalor otherwise, and an obligation placed on manufacturersand sellers to do something about that. And the -- let me -- let me give you my secondline of argument here --QUESTION: Excuse me. Now you say it's not justmanufacturers. It's manufacturers and sellers. I thoughtit was just manufacturers. MR. WAXMAN: Well, there are provisions insection , which is the Prohibited Acts, that it -- it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is imposed on the people who make cars and requires themor limits them in what those people can make.QUESTION: I mean, it -- it's hard enough to saythat the word standards on its own is automaticallylimited to manufacturers, but it's doubly hard to say itis limited not to just to manufacturers, but tomanufacturers and sellers, but not to manufacturers,sellers, and purchasers.MR. WAXMAN: It -- it is -- Justice Scalia,there is a provision in section of the act, theProhibited Acts, that deals with the instance in which amanufacturer, for example, produces cars overseas and thentries to sell noncompliant cars through a distributor orsome other entity. Those people are covered. But when Congress considered in its ownfleet purchase rules, we're talking here about verylimited fleet purchase rules that -- talking about myrules -- have a commercial availability exception. Theydo not -- they cannot be read to require manufacturers tomake anything they don't make or sellers to sell anythingthey don't sell.QUESTION: Yes, but as soon as there's -- assoon as there's one commercial vehicle available, that'sgoing to have effect on the manufacturing. MR. WAXMAN: Well, there may be -- the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. vehicle has to be -- the rules make quite clear that thevehicles have to be available and able to be used by thatuser in the locality, the fuel --QUESTION: And you -- and you have to get --apply for an exemption which the petitioner says is verydifficult to get.MR. WAXMAN: There -- the petitioner does notsay it's very difficult to get, and that footnote onpage of their brief is truly the th chime of the clockin their argument. The -- if we had to establish afactual record in this case -- and there is none -- I amtold by my client that these exemptions are sought forsome of these rules never because the vehicles are -- arereadily available, for example, with respect to street sweepers, and on other vehicles, they are readily given. If somebody --QUESTION: What's -- what's that th chime? Ilost you. I thought you said --(Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: The th chime of the clock is --QUESTION: Yes, I know. I know what it is. Where is it? At page --MR. WAXMAN: It's on page , footnote of theirreply brief.QUESTION: The reply, all right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. WAXMAN: They say that, oh, well, aboutcommercial availability, it's just not true. The districtthat promulgated these rules said it only applies whenit's commercially available. The State that enacted aprovision that authorized these rules has filed a brief inthis case saying it applies only when it's commerciallyavailable. No one in this case or any other case has everargued that that commercial availability exemption doesn'texist until footnote of their reply brief, and it issimply wrong.But my point generally about the -- the meaningof the word standard in the Federal act, title II, is in Congress enacted its own fleet purchasing rules, andthey are codified in --QUESTION: When you say its own, you mean fleetsthat were going to serve Congress? MR. WAXMAN: No, no. Congress put into --amended the Clean Air Act to require certain States thathave nonattainment areas to include within their Stateimplementation plans either a fleet -- a set of fleetpurchase rules or some alternative that they would proposethat would be equally efficacious in cleaning the air.QUESTION: Just to be clear on your position, doyou think that California as a State could enact a lawsaying that no purchaser of a motor vehicle in California th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. can purchase a gasoline-powered vehicle?MR. WAXMAN: I --QUESTION: Is that -- is that preempted or not?MR. WAXMAN: It is not expressly preempted bysection (a). It would be subject to conflictpreemption principles, as this Court went through in Geierv. American Honda, if it could be shown that --QUESTION: Well, by any theory. Is thatpreempted or not in your view?MR. WAXMAN: I think -- I think it may well bepreempted by -- under conflict preemption principles, notexpress preemption, if it could be shown that this isreally a sales or production -- this is really anobligation that is masquerading as a purchase requirement. That would be the analysis --QUESTION: Nobody can buy a gasoline-poweredvehicle in California would require the manufacturerstotally to dramatically change the kinds of vehicles theyproduce.MR. WAXMAN: To be sure --QUESTION: So why wouldn't it fall right withinthe word standard relating to the control of emissions formotor vehicles?MR. WAXMAN: Because standards, as I said --QUESTION: That isn't a standard? What it says th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is --MR. WAXMAN: Yes. QUESTION: It's not a standard?MR. WAXMAN: That is correct. QUESTION: Because? MR. WAXMAN: A standard is -- is a requirementthat is imposed on manufacturers and that distinction isdrawn throughout title II --QUESTION: Well, it is a -- what -- what do youdo with (b) which says -- it -- it authorizes EPA towaive application of (a) in the case of, quote, anyState which has adopted standards, other than crank caseemission standards, for the control of emissions from newmotor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines? Now, most of the States do not have automobilemanufacturers located within the States. How could theypossibly impose a requirement on automobile manufacturers? It is obviously referring to State standards that dealwith the operators of -- of cars -- you have to go in and-- and have your -- your emissions checked -- or the -- orthe purchases of cars. MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, it's -- I actuallythink that (b) is important proof for our premise thatsection (a), the word standard, has to be read -- ithas to be read to be used in the same way as section . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And clearly the way that -- when I -- when wetalk about production mandates, I -- it's -- it's actuallythe Congress in section (h) used the word production orsales mandates. The EPA in its rules and in its letterthat was submitted under a primary jurisdiction referralto the First Circuit talks about production requirements.It's shorthand.But I readily agree that when (b) or (a)or apply -- when I'm talking about productionmandates, I'm talking about an obligation that's placed onthe manufacturers about what they produce and can sell. It's one and the same. There was a presumption that theywould try and sell what they produced and they wouldproduce the things that they want to sell. The point is that in -- when Congress enactedthe Federal fleet purchase program, it drew a -- the samedistinction that is shot through title II betweenstandards, which has a very limited meaning, andrequirements. It's a distinction that exists in section of the act, which is on page a of our appendix, thatpreserves State authorities. And what Congress said andwhat the EPA said and what Senator Levin, who was veryably representing the interests of Detroit in , saidis these fleet purchase rules, because they are directedat purchasers may very well have a tremendous impact on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. manufacturers. They may cause a race to the top. Butthey are different than production standards, productionmandates, or requirements placed directly onmanufacturers.QUESTION: I -- I don't understand your responseto my question. My question is -- you just said again,that standards always refer to manufacturing standards. But in (b), they clearly do not refer to manufacturingstandards. Any State which has adopted standards for thecontrol of emissions from new motor vehicles or new motorvehicle engines. Those standards are -- are just notapplied to the manufacturer. Most States don't havemanufacturers that they can control.MR. WAXMAN: Justice --QUESTION: Those standards are imposed at thepurchase -- or at the operations stage.MR. WAXMAN: They are imposed on the people whomake the cars when they sell them. That's because,Justice Scalia--QUESTION: Why don't you just say they areimposed upon the sellers? And that's the way they getimposed upon the manufacturers. MR. WAXMAN: I -- I wish that I could have saidit that concisely, but that's the point that I'm making.QUESTION: They're not imposed upon the users? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. WAXMAN: They are --QUESTION: Virginia cannot impose them upon theusers of cars in Virginia? MR. WAXMAN: My submission to the Court, YourHonor, is that standards, as the term is used throughouttitle II, refers to the supply side of motor vehicles, thepeople who make them and the people who sell them, andthat when Congress wanted to make a rule that dealt withpurchasers, which applies only indirectly againstmanufacturers, it used the word requirement. And that'sbecause --QUESTION: So that this provision in (b) doesnot authorize a State to conduct emissions tests of oldvehicles that have already been sold. It has nothing to do with manufacturers, nothing to do with sellers at thispoint. It has to do with whether the user is keeping theemissions system in -- in proper operation. You say thatis not covered by (b) because (b) does -- does notsay requirements. It says standards. QUESTION: No. It's not --MR. WAXMAN: Both (a) --QUESTION: -- covered by (b) because (b)is a limitation on (a) and (a) only talks about newvehicles. So you could get around this whole thing ifCalifornia adopted a rule that said any vehicle years -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. months old has to meet certain standards. The wholestatute wouldn't apply. MR. WAXMAN: Look, section -- subsection (d) of applies to vehicles that are not new. (a) and(b) apply to new vehicles. What -- (b) is thepresumptive waiver for California alone of the preemptionprovision in (a).I -- I don't want to be pedantic, but let's --we -- we started talking about and , and I thinkit's tremendously revealing, in terms of the purposes,what Congress intended by standard in , to understandthat in Congress enacted the first version of theClean Air Act. And it basically didn't authorize theFederal Government to do anything other than help States do their part in cleaning up the air. That didn't work very well, and in Congressenacted the provision that is now that says we aregoing to take from the realm of a traditional Stateauthority this much for the Federal Government. They canand will set standards applicable to motor vehicleemissions. Now, for the intervening years, themanufacturers came to Congress and said this doesn't makethings better, it makes things worse because there are anumber of States that are promulgating their own mandates th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. on how we build engines and what kind of equipment wehave.And in footnote of our brief, we cite a reportby HEW that categorizes what each State was doing. It's a report. And what they were doing was not puttingrequirements on purchasers. They were saying tomanufacturers, if you want to sell a car in our State,it's got to have a whiz-bang or a doodad, or it has tomeet the following characteristics. And the manufacturerssaid, we can only engineer and manufacture to onestandard.So in , Congress responded to that byenacting what is now section , and it compromised. Itsaid, well, we're not going to make you manufacture and engineer only to one standard. We're going to make anexception for California, which was there before theFederal Government was there. But other than California, which is subsection(b), no State can do what it is that the EPA is doing insection . And there are a number of rules of statutoryinterpretation, leaving aside the presumption againstpreemption in this area of historic police -- State policepower, that require you to read for an express preemptionpoint, not a general, broad conflict preemption argumentthat is not advanced here, that the word standard is to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. read as narrowly as reasonable to preserve as much for theStates as possible.QUESTION: Is --MR. WAXMAN: And it has to be -- it's onlycoherent if it means that the States are precluded fromdoing what EPA was mandated to do, which is to tellmanufacturers, if you've got a vehicle over , pounds,it can't emit more than X, Y, and Z grams per mile. What the manufacturers cared about was that theynot have to make what is -- was subsequently called athird car. They didn't want to have to build differentcars and engines for different parts of the country. Andthat's why a rule that is directed only at purchasers andhas built within it an exception for anything that is not commercially available or can't be used for the purposethat the user wants to use it for is not a standard.QUESTION: All right. Maybe that's --MR. WAXMAN: It's a difficult question that --QUESTION: -- Justice Breyer. MR. WAXMAN: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I want you to finish what you'redoing, but I want at some point to get back to thiseffectiveness -- the effect thing. I don't want to cutyou off.MR. WAXMAN: Well -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Maybe I'll -- do it in the order youwant. MR. WAXMAN: I'm here to answer questions, and Iapologize. QUESTION: Do it in the order you want and youcan just that I've just been off base, and I'll put outthe three propositions that -- that I'm thinking. Now,you'll see it in a second.I'm thinking, one, this case isn't a big dealbecause all California has to do is go ask EPA and EPA isalmost bound to approve whatever they want.Two, that you can't do it on language, that youhave to figure out the purpose. The purpose is to stopthe manufacturers from having to make different cars, and therefore, why don't you, in these circumstances, look tothe effect? And -- and if in fact the effect is thatthey're going to have to make some different cars, it's nogood. But all the examples you give in your brief, allthose things are fine. They don't -- they don't involvethis and -- and they're not commands. You have to go thecommand and have an effect. This is a command. And Idon't think it does have an effect, nor do you, but theythink it might.MR. WAXMAN: I think it's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, so try it out. That -- that's-- that's the kind of thing that's going through my mind.MR. WAXMAN: I --QUESTION: And now you've sort of said, no, no,you're way off base, and I want to know why I'm way offbase.base. MR. WAXMAN: Justice Breyer, you are not way off(Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: You're slightly off base, but notway off. (Laughter.) QUESTION: There, there, Justice Breyer. MR. WAXMAN: You've raised -- you've raised three points, and I'll try and address them in turn. They're -- the -- they're -- what they're sayingis, look, there's no big deal because -- because thisairshed, one of in California, could take the concernsof its citizens -- even though it's mandated by the Stateto promulgate these rules, it could go to the bureaucracyin Sacramento and try and get that bureaucracy to includein its list of what it sends to the centralized commandand control bureaucracy in Washington permission to enactrules that scientific studies show cause , prematuredeaths in the district a year. Now, it's true, but it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. would not avail, that is, particulate emissions from motor-- toxic emissions from motor vehicles and dieselvehicles.Now, what about Houston? Houston -- right nowthe South Coast is the only extreme nonattainment zone inthe country, but Houston has been knocking at the door forseveral years. The -- the waiver provision that they'rereferring to in (b) would not avail Houston. Itwouldn't avail Phoenix which has its own unique airshedproblems with particulate emissions.And therefore, our submission is if it's astandard, yes. If you say this is a standard, we will goto the State of California and say please sponsor thisrule and please ask the EPA to give permission for us to be able to impose these fleet purchasing rules.QUESTION: The district could not apply directlyto EPA. It would have to go through Sacramento?MR. WAXMAN: I believe so. There is a provisionin the California Health and Safety Code that says thatthe California Air Resources Board is the relevant Stateagency for purposes of (b).But more generally, if the -- the point here isdo you determine what Congress' purpose is by the effect. That's fine.QUESTION: It's not determined what Congress' th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. purpose is by the effect. You have things that you'retalking about, standards telling the -- the manufacturerswhat to do, and then you have close-to things, things notquite that, but close to that, selling, purchasing. Sothere, where it's a command in this slightly differentform, we look to see whether it really has the effect thatthe statute is aimed at preventing. And if so, go to theEPA and ask them. If not, don't. MR. WAXMAN: No. If -- if it is a command tomanufacturers with respect to emissions characteristics ofthe vehicles they make, it is a standard, as that term isused throughout title II. If it is directed at purchasersand, as Senator Levin and the EPA explained in , onlyaffect manufacturers and sellers through the marketplace, even though it may have a substantial effect, it is nodifferent than the many incentives and differential taxprograms that they say aren't covered.Look, California --QUESTION: Mr. Waxman, I think -- maybe I'mwrong, but I think the effect that Justice Breyer isthinking about is the effect of -- of being forced tomanufacture the third car.MR. WAXMAN: Yes, indeed. QUESTION: Yes.MR. WAXMAN: And -- and these -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And -- and I thought your answer tothat was because you don't have to buy anything that isnot commercially available, that nixes the third careffect argument, and therefore there isn't preemption.MR. WAXMAN: That is absolutely correct.QUESTION: No, but that's completely wrong inprinciple for the reason that the rules don't talk aboutcommercial availability but in averages. MR. WAXMAN: No. QUESTION: So, in fact, if they're only supposedto make three ZEV's -- see, they're only supposed to makethree ZEV's. ZEV is commercially available. But youcould have a rule say buy only ZEV's and that would be amajor change in the EPA rule.MR. WAXMAN: With respect, Justice Breyer --QUESTION: Yes. MR. WAXMAN: Here you are completely off base. (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: The rules each -- I'm not talkingabout CARB's statewide standards, but the rules challengedhere have an exception for anytime somebody can show thatthe vehicle they want is either not commercially availableor can't be used.Look at page a of the joint appendix. Therules are all in the joint appendix. That happens to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the rule that deals with the one that my book opened upto. It's buses. And it says on page of the jointappendix that this -- an exception -- an exemption tothese fleet purchase rules where no alternative-fuelengine and chassis configuration is available commerciallyor could be used. And so this is the situation that -- oursubmission is that these things can't possibly have --impose a mandate on manufacturers. And in fact, look --we -- we discuss in our brief a little bit that Californiahas a program where it provides, I think, a or percent rebate to school districts if they buy buses thatare fueled by alternative-fuel vehicles. Now, is thatgoing to have an effect on the kinds of buses that school districts buy? Of course. And is it going to have a bigeffect on manufacturers? Sure.And therefore, when we're talking aboutsomething that is mandatory, as opposed to something thatis voluntary, they -- on page of their reply brief, theymake a distinction between voluntary standards andmandatory standards. From the relevant perspective, thatis the perspective of the manufacturer, they are the same,as Senator Levin and the EPA explained. They operate onthe manufacturers through the market.Now, to be sure, there -- you can come up and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. think Justice O'Connor came up with the extreme example ofno one in our State can buy a diesel vehicle. And whatI'm saying is that one could argue and one might make avery good argument that if it is a mandate that's imposedon manufacturers or sellers that is masquerading as apurchase rule, where it really has that effect, you mayfind that substance will prevail over form, or you mayfind -- I think it would be more appropriate -- that thissimply conflicts with the fundamental objective of theClean Air Act under the Hines v. Davidovitz test.But that's not the challenge that was broughthere, and that's --QUESTION: It would be conflict preemption, notexpress preemption.MR. WAXMAN: Conflict preemption and not expresspreemption. And that will -- that analysis and that modeof analysis will allow the courts to deal with this paradeof horribles that has never come true and may never cometrue if the political branches don't.But if you look at the history of what was goingon in or -- this is Congress' purpose -- no onewas talking about -- no manufacturers were concerned aboutpurchase rules. They were concerned about having toengineer and manufacture a third vehicle.QUESTION: But if you need -- if you need th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. conflict preemption to answer such a basic hypothetical asthat put by Justice O'Connor, the statute doesn't meanvery much.MR. WAXMAN: Oh, I think -- no, no, no. With --with respect, this -- this statute shut down cold, JusticeKennedy, precisely what was going on in .QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Waxman.MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Mr. Phillips, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPSON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Let me start with Justice O'Connor'shypothetical. We are told in language that I think a -year-old would have a hard time understanding that a flatban on all gasoline-fueled engines in the State ofCalifornia is not a standard relating to the control ofemissions from new motor vehicles or new motor vehicleengines. Justice Kennedy is absolutely right. It hasrendered the scope of preemption. There is no field ofpreemption. There is not even a divot of dirt ofpreemption that is created under that interpretation. It's not consistent with the language of the word th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. standard. Standard means more than what manufacturers do. It's not simply how it gets enforced. It's broader, andJustice Stevens is clearly correct in that regard.The one provision that seems to have gotten lostin the -- in all of this, which I think is terriblyimportant, is section which states that State -- andthis is at the -- the respondents' brief's appendix at a-- a. The States are not authorized to prohibit or limitdirectly or indirectly the manufacture or sale of a newmotor vehicle or motor vehicle engine that is certified inCalifornia. That is precisely what is being done here, isthat vehicles that are certified in California areprohibited by a subagency. The State can't even do this, which is why I submit the answer to your question, JusticeScalia, is the State wouldn't have the authority to placethe kind of restriction on its own subentities withoutrunning afoul of section . And the only way Californiacould get approval for that would be to go to the EPA inthe way that Justice Breyer has already described.QUESTION: Mr. Carter, Mr. Waxman said in hisbrief that the position he's taking is the position thatEPA takes, and EPA is not with us this morning.MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, I believe EPA is very muchwith us this morning because the Solicitor General speaks th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for the United States, and EPA is clearly a part of theUnited States Government. And -- and the EPA has made itabsolutely clear, Justice Ginsburg --QUESTION: So you -- you say that's just wrongwhen --MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, absolutely that's just wrong. There is no -- there is no way -- I have seen nothing tojustify departing from what the Government's brief says.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Phillips.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 