IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XFEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, :Petitioner :v. : No. -CHRISTINE BEAUMONT, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ., Terre Haute, Indiana; on behalf ofthe Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JAMES BOPP, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, the Federal Election Commission v.Christine Beaumont.Mr. Clement.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court's campaign finance cases consistentlyemphasize the fundamental distinction betweencontributions and expenditures. Direct transfers of cashto a candidate pose unique risks of the appearance ofcorruption or the threat of actual corruption while, at the same time, imposing less significant interference withFirst Amendment values. And so this Court's jurisprudenceconsistently recognizes that there is less rigorousscrutiny on limitations on contributions relative tolimitations on expenditures.The court below lost sight of that fundamentaldichotomy. It held that corporations of the type thatthis Court exempted from the general limitations oncorporate expenditures in Massachusetts Citizens for Lifewere equally exempt from the broad prohibitions on th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC corporate contributions to candidates. That reasoningignores this Court's decision in Massachusetts Citizensfor Life itself, which specifically distinguished betweenthe expenditures and contributions of nonprofitcorporations.More fundamentally, the decision below ignoresthis Court's decision in National Right to Work Committee. There this Court held that the broad limitations oncorporate contributions and the specific limitations onsolicitation embedded in that broad prohibition wereconstitutional against a First Amendment challenge.QUESTION: Mr. Clement, the Government does --does not challenge the exemption of this not-for-profitcorporation from expenditure limitations?MR. CLEMENT: That's right, Justice Scalia. Thecourt below addressed both an expenditure issue and aprohibition issue with respect to contributions, and theGovernment only took up the prohibition on contributions. So that is the only issue before the Court.I think it's important, though, to understandthat that is a distinction that the court below placedinsufficient emphasis on because that is a distinctionbetween contributions and expenditures that underlies thelast quarter century of this Court's campaign financejurisprudence. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And in National Right to Work Committee itself,this Court recognized that the broad prohibitions oncontributions applied to all corporations, including thoselike National Right to Work Committee itself that werewithout great financial resources.Nonetheless, in the particular context ofcorporate contributions to candidates, this Court heldthat it would not second guess Congress' decision that abroad, prophylactic approach was necessary when corruptionwas the evil feared.QUESTION: Do you think after the decision inMassachusetts -- the Massachusetts case, the NRWC wouldhave a right to make independent expenditures?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think it would, ChiefJustice Rehnquist, and I think that where I would point to first is your dissent in that case because in that case inyour dissent, you made the argument that National Right toWork Committee was essentially the same as MassachusettsCitizens for Life. And the majority, in responding tothat argument, didn't draw any particular distinctionbetween National Right to Work Committee and MassachusettsCitizens for Life, but rather drew a firm distinctionbetween the level of scrutiny that applies to limitationson contributions and the level of scrutiny that applies tolimitations on expenditures. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC So I would read that decision as saying that thecritical distinction is not the differences among thetypes of corporations with respect to contribution bans,but is the fact that contribution bans are much morereadily approved under First Amendment analysis thanexpenditure bans.And National Right to Work Committee obviouslywasn't the last word on that subject. This Courtreaffirmed the validity of a broad, prophylactic approachto corporate contributions both in National ConservativePolitical Action Committee and in Massachusetts Citizensfor Life itself. Particularly, in light of MassachusettsCitizens for Life, a ban on corporate contributions bynonprofits does not impose significant burdens on FirstAmendment interests.In the particular context of this type ofcorporation, the corporation is free to engage inunlimited spending on elections through the corporateform, and the individual respondents are free to giveunlimited contributions to North Carolina Right to Life. In addition and equally important, the individual membersof North Carolina Right to Life are free to givecontributions to the candidates of their choice up to theconstitutionally valid contribution limits.Accordingly, this case doesn't involve the right th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to associate together or the right to associate withcandidates of someone's individual choosing, but only theright to assemble together collectively to give money tocandidates of an organization's collective choosing. Andeven that rather attenuated First Amendment interest isonly affected to the extent that a corporation must directits contributions through a separate segregated fund withenhanced disclosure and reporting and bookkeepingrequirements.QUESTION: Why -- why is that an attenuatedFirst Amendment right? Isn't that the right that enablesthe formation of political parties, people formingtogether in order to collectively give money to particularcandidates?MR. CLEMENT: Well, certainly in -- in the first point, parties are subject to a different type ofregulation under the campaign finance laws.But secondly --QUESTION: Well, it may well be, but -- but I --I wouldn't shrug off as inconsequential the importance ofindividuals being able to band together to supportindividual candidates. That's the whole basis for our --our party system.MR. CLEMENT: And -- and I don't want to suggestthat there's no First Amendment interest on the other side th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC of -- of the argument in this case, but what I did mean tosuggest is that interest is less significant than theinterest in individuals banding together to makeexpenditures that they might otherwise not be able tomake.And I think even in the party context, thisCourt recognized that distinction in the ColoradoRepublican cases where it held that limitations on whatthe -- the party can spend to support a candidate are notsubject to limitation, but what -- but there -- but thereare valid limitations on what the party can contribute toa candidate of its choosing.Now, in contrast to the rather minimal FirstAmendment interests that are interfered with by sectionb, it plays an important role in safeguarding the integrity of the election process. This Court in -- inNational Right to Work Committee already has recognizedthat corporate contributions pose a risk of the realityand appearance of corruption and that a broad,prophylactic limitation on all corporations, includingthose without great financial resources, is an appropriateresponse to that threat.All corporations, regardless of their size, alsopose risks of circumvention and of undermining theworkability of candidate disclosure requirements. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC As this Court recognized in Cedric KushnerPromotions against King, the whole point of a corporation,its basic purpose and fundamental reason for -- forexisting is to create legal separateness between theindividuals that form and run the corporation and theartificial corporate entity itself.Giving such an artificial entity the right tocontribute in its own name, independent of the individualsthat underlie the corporation, obviously poses a distinctrisk to a campaign finance system that is based largely onindividual contribution limits. Section b addressesthat risk by requiring that those contributions be madethrough a segregated fund subject to enhanced bookkeepingand disclosure requirements.Those bookkeeping and disclosure requirements, in turn, make the campaign disclosure forms thatindividual candidates have to file work in a meaningfulfashion. If those candidate disclosure forms simplyrevealed that the candidate received money from anartificial entity with either an ambiguous name or whatthis Court in Citizens Against Rent Control v. Berkeleytermed a seductive name that tends to conceal the trueidentity and true source of the funds, then those campaignfinance forms -- or disclosure forms will not providemeaningful information. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC If, on the other hand, b makes the underlyingcorporations use a segregated fund that discloses theindividual sources of the contributions, then thedisclosure forms can work in a meaningful fashion.I think it bears emphasis, as this Courtrecognized in Massachusetts Citizens for Life, that thedistinction between contributions and expenditures applieswith full force in the context of nonprofit organizations. A limitation on expenditures can prevent an organization'smembers, who might otherwise not have the resources toreach a certain audience, to pool their resources togetherto reach that audience.There is no comparable function or benefit fromthe pooling of individual candidate contributions. Theindividual candidates themselves can perform that pooling function by assembling together candidate contributions ofwhatever size in order to reach an audience or to engagein political speech.The intermediate pooling function that thenonprofit corporation serves can only benefit by eithercircumventing the individual contribution requirements orassembling an aggregate contribution of a sufficient sizeto potentially capture the attention of a candidate forpurposes of a quid pro quo. To be sure, the sameprovisions of the campaign finance laws allow corporations th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC to assemble funds in -- in aggregate amounts through asegregated fund, but only with the additional safeguardsthat are imposed, including enhanced disclosurerequirements.Congress, in adopting section b, drew animportant distinction between corporations and theirability to contribute and individuals. In the expenditurecontext, the limitations on corporate expenditures standin stark contrast to the general right of individuals toengage in unlimited independent expenditures.But no one has a right to engage in unlimitedcorporate -- in unlimited contributions to candidates. Congress addresses the threat of individual contributionsthrough dollar amounts. It addresses the distinct risksof corporate contributions through the requirement of a segregated fund, higher limits, and enhanced disclosurerequirements.Respondents effectively ask this Court todisregard and second guess Congress' decision to treatcorporations differently from individuals for purposes ofcandidate contributions. With respect, I thinkessentially respondents ask this Court to treat NorthCarolina Right --QUESTION: Can you summarize briefly what theenhanced disclosure requirements are? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CLEMENT: Certainly, Chief JusticeRehnquist. The -- the main difference is that in thecontext of a segregated fund, all -- both all incomingcontributions to the segregated fund and all disbursementsmust be disclosed.QUESTION: You're talking about PACs. Right?MR. CLEMENT: PACs. I mean, the PACs generally-- there are segregated funds in the particular context ofcorporations and labor unions.QUESTION: And the donor is listed.MR. CLEMENT: The donor is listed. There arespecific provisions for very small donations where thename only goes to the FEC and is not publicly disclosed. But there's a -- but really, everything that comes in andcomes out of the segregated fund is traceable either by the FEC or through the public in disclosure requirements.In the context of the corporation generally,only -- only donations that are given over $ and forthe express purpose of -- of political activity have to bedisclosed. And that does create a significant loophole.In the --QUESTION: Mr. Clement, is this -- is thissection b related or affected in any way by the McCain-Feingold legislation?MR. CLEMENT: Justice O'Connor, it really isn't, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC at least as this case comes to this Court. Theprohibitions on corporate contributions have been in thelaw since and have been left completely unaffected bythe Bipartisan Campaign Finance Reform Act.It is true that certain limitations onelectioneering activity, which is a new term introducedinto the law by the Bipartisan Campaign Finance ReformAct, do apply to corporations. So in consideringchallenges to the McCain-Feingold legislation, this Courtmay have to consider the restrictions on corporationsengaged in expenditures and these new electioneeringactivities, but not --QUESTION: But at least the issue here in thiscase is unaffected by that.MR. CLEMENT: The issue of corporate contributions is miraculously unaffected by the manyreforms that are put in place by the Bipartisan CampaignReform Act.(Laughter.)MR. CLEMENT: In the end --QUESTION: What is the -- what is the limitationof the PAC? How much can they contribute, say, to aSenator?MR. CLEMENT: A -- a political action committeeor any segregated fund can give $,. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: This -- this -- you're saying thatthis particular kind of organization can't contributedirectly, but it could set up a -- what you call asegregated fund, which I was thinking of as a PAC. And soif that segregated fund now wants to make a contributionto Senator Smith for his reelection campaign, is there alimit as to how much they can give? I'd think so.MR. CLEMENT: There is indeed, Justice Breyer. It's $,.QUESTION: $,.MR. CLEMENT: And two points of emphasis just onthat question. One is that respondents here don't justhave the right to set up a segregated fund, but they'veactually already done that. They've already set up asegregated fund. And I know that this Court in Massachusetts Citizens for Life emphasized that there areunique restrictions and burdens on setting up a segregatedfund, and I think that's true in the context ofexpenditures.But I do think it's easy to exaggerate theburdens that are imposed in setting up a segregated fund. Although a segregated fund is like a PAC, there's norequirement that they have separate offices or separateofficers. They have to have a distinct leadership and --and -- but it can be the same leadership as the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC corporation itself.QUESTION: I mean, could they have two members?MR. CLEMENT: I don't know of any particularlimit on -- on the members.But the point is all that's really required issegregation of funds and keeping it separate. It's not anonerous requirement. And I think it's no accident that inthe four cases that this Court has had that involved anonprofit corporation, National Right to Work Committee,Massachusetts Citizens for Life, Austin against MichiganChamber of Commerce, and this case, all four of thosenonprofits had already set up segregated funds before thecase got to this Court. So I don't think, at least in thecontribution context, that those are onerous requirements.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: In Massachusetts Citizens for Life,there was a separate PAC?MR. CLEMENT: There was. This Court in footnote suggested that that wasn't dispositive of its reasoningbecause other -- other entities could set -- be in aposition that were similar to Massachusetts Citizens forLife, might not be able to afford those burdens. ButMassachusetts Citizens --QUESTION: But the Court did say for that typeof -- for that type of corporation, not a commercial th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC corporation, that was burdensome and unnecessary becausethe risk of corruption for that kind of corporation wassignificantly less than for commercial corporations. Andthat would apply here as well. If the -- if the evil iscorruption, I'm buying the candidate by my dollars, thenthat risk is less for an advocacy organization. Is that-- isn't --MR. CLEMENT: I don't want to suggest that the-- that it may not be true that the risks are slightlyless in the context of a nonprofit advocacy corporationthan in the context of something like General Motors.But I think in the particular context ofcandidate contributions by corporations, this Court hasrepeatedly decided that it's willing to accept a broad,prophylactic approach and to limit all corporate contributions, including contributions by corporationswithout great financial resources. The Court said as muchin National Right to Work Committee. It repeated thatagain in National Conservative Political Action Committee,but I think most tellingly, it said that in MassachusettsCitizens for Life itself.And in particular, if you look at footnote ofthe Massachusetts Citizens for Life decision, the Courtthere specifically said that it understood thatMassachusetts Citizens for Life would continue to be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC subjected to the National Right to Work Committee regimefor purposes of its contributions, and it was talkingabout the fact that it didn't have -- that MassachusettsCitizens for Life, for example, didn't have shareholders. But it was quick to -- to reinforce that that didn't meanthat it didn't have members for purposes of National Rightto Work Committee that it could solicit, subject of courseto the overall limit that it could not give directcontributions to candidates.QUESTION: That was an assumption in the case. You don't -- you don't -- you don't assert that it was aholding of the case?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think it'snecessarily the holding of the case because, obviously,that case involved expenditures. But I do think that when this Court distinguishes a prior precedent of the Court,that that's not a part of the opinion that a lower courtis free to ignore. I think that part of the opinion iscritical to the reasoning of the Court and should be givenstare decisis effect. And I don't think there's anyreason that's been brought to bear here to revisit thisCourt's distinction in Massachusetts Citizens for Lifebetween contributions and expenditures, which after all,is the fundamental building block of this Court's campaignfinance jurisprudence. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: You think whenever we distinguish aprior case in one of our opinions, that -- thatdistinguishing has stare decisis effect.MR. CLEMENT: I would think that in manyrespects that's the most important part of the opinion. It's not to say that the Court can't subsequently revisitthat part of the opinion. I mean, that's certainly whatthis Court can do, but I think for purposes of a lowercourt, anyway, if -- if this Court distinguishes two caseson the ground that the prior case involved a corporationthat had less than $, and a subsequent case comesalong where there's $, involved, I would think thelower court would be well served to heed the distinctionthat this Court drew. And I think in this particularcontext, obviously, this Court is free to reconsider its prior precedents, but I don't think there's any reason todo so.The distinction between contributions andexpenditures has proved workable particularly in thecontext of nonprofit corporations. As I say, this isn'tsome abstract application of the contribution/expendituredichotomy that this Court has never considered. Massachusetts Citizens for Life involved a nonprofitcorporation and this Court was at pains, pretty much atevery step in the Court's reasoning, to distinguish th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC between contributions and expenditures.In the end, I think respondents ask this Courteffectively to disregard Congress' decision to treatcorporate contributions distinctly from individualcontributions. They effectively ask this Court to treatNorth Carolina Right to Life Incorporated as if it werenot incorporated, but there's no reason to disregardeither respondents' decision to incorporate or Congress'decision to subject all corporations to the same regime,segregated funds, distinct disclosure requirements, andhigher limits, in fact, on their contributions.If there are no further questions, I'll reservethe rest of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Clement.Mr. Bopp, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES BOPP, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. BOPP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Expressive associations play a vital role in ourdemocratic republic. Because they attract financialsupport due to their political ideas, not their prowess inthe economic marketplace, their participation in ourpolitical process poses no threat of corruption, as longas they do not serve as a conduit for business corporation th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC contributions.QUESTION: I -- I don't understand that. If --if I bribe somebody, a Senator, out of -- out of politicalmotivation because I'm an environmentalist or whatever,that's not corruption? It's only -- it's only if I havesome economic motive that it's corruption?MR. BOPP: Well, that's classic quid pro quocorruption which is dealt with by contribution limits,now --QUESTION: Well, I mean, I -- it may well be,but I don't see that the distinction between whether it'san economic actor or a political actor has anything to dowith whether there's corruption or not.MR. BOPP: Well, there has been some controversyon this Court on -- on whether or not the -- the decisions of this Court in Mass. Citizens and on Austin were inaccordance with the Constitution, but in both cases theCourt distinguished between the types of corruption thatare entailed by the corporate form, which is the potentialfor unfair employment of wealth for political purposes. This applies to economic corporations, that -- that is,those that are not, as Mass. Citizens or North CarolinaRight to Life, formed to advance political ideas.QUESTION: Well, but you can have an immensecorporation formed to advance political ideas. I -- I th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC don't -- this one happens to be a small one, but --MR. BOPP: Yes. And --QUESTION: -- if you attract enough people, youcan have an immense organization. What's the organizationfor -- American Association of Retired Persons. I mean,that's an immense organization with -- with a large amountof available money.MR. BOPP: That's right and the size of theorganization is not the issue. The issue in this Court'sjurisprudence is whether -- is the nature of theorganization itself and not the corporate form per se. Ifthe nature of --QUESTION: Well, Mr. Bopp, would you say thatthe AARP, which was referred to by Justice Scalia, theNational Right to Work Committee, which was involved in that opinion, and Massachusetts Citizens for Life are allin the same boat?MR. BOPP: I don't believe so, Your Honor. Ithink we do --QUESTION: Why not?MR. BOPP: Well, the -- the Court in Mass.Citizens established some criteria to determine whether ornot an organization, a corporation, benefitted from theMCFL exemption. And those include whether or not thereare incentives to disassociate -- lack of incentives to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC disassociate by, for instance, having insurance plans andother benefits of membership that are economicallyrelated.Secondly, you would look to the amount ofcorporate -- business corporation contributions orbusiness activities. If those are too much or those arenot insignificant, in -- in comparison with the total sumsraised, then again they would not qualify.QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, on that point I thoughtthat Massachusetts Citizens for Life went further. Itsaid having a policy against accepting corporatecontributions, which is one difference between yourorganization and Massachusetts Citizens for Life. Theysaid they would take no money from corporations. Youaccept money from corporations. You get very little from business corporations, but you don't have a policy ofturning them away.MR. BOPP: That's correct, Your Honor. And the-- all the circuits that have considered this, which havebeen four of the circuits, all agree that the featuresexplained and -- and characterizing Mass. Citizens in --in the Supreme Court's decision were not constitutionalrequirements, but descriptions of the organization beforeit. And all of them have agreed that -- that not-for-profit ideological corporations can still qualify for the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- for the Massachusetts Citizens exemption.QUESTION: Well, would you call AARP anideological organization?MR. BOPP: I think they have a mixture ofpolitical and nonpolitical purposes and are, therefore,more like Austin -- the -- the Michigan Chamber ofCommerce and Austin that had a mixture of political andnonpolitical purposes and therefore did not qualify forthe MCFL exemption.And to complete my answer --QUESTION: I'll bet the members also getbenefits --MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: -- and -- and that criterion would --would make it different from --MR. BOPP: There were also incentives that wereeconomic in nature that would cause people to be reluctantto disassociate with Michigan Chamber of Commerce if it --if it proved to be that they disagreed with theirpolitical ideas or the advancement of their politicalideas.And the four circuits that have considered thequestion of the amount of business corporationcontributions have all said that as long as they areinsignificant, in comparison with the total revenue of the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC organization, they still -- they do not serve as a conduitfor business corporation contributions and still qualifyfor the exemption.QUESTION: But they could serve as a conduit fora very large donor, a very wealthy person, who wants toavoid the personal limitations on how much that individualcould give.MR. BOPP: Well, it is true that there are nocontribution limits to not-for-profit corporations. However, the intent of a donor to circumvent those limitswould be -- contributing to a not-for-profit would be ahighly inefficient and ineffective way of doing so becausethe political activities of not-for-profit corporations,both because of the major purpose test that would cause anorganization to become a PAC if political activity became their major purpose, and the Internal Revenue Service'slimitations on the activities of (c)() organizations,which is what the regulations require you to be qualifiedas in -- in order to quality for the MCFL exemption, all-- all mean that a very small percentage of anycontribution to a not-for-profit corporation could ever beused for political activity.Furthermore, contributing to a not-for-profitversus a PAC and a -- or a political party is also anunfavorable prospect for a donor. I mean, after all, the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- a not-for-profit under the a contribution limits islimited to a $, contribution, where a PAC can give$, and political parties can give much more.Furthermore, all of the money that PACs orpolitical parties receive in their hard money accounts canbe used for political activity, whereas I've mentioned fornot-for-profits it's really a very small percentage inorder to continue to qualify under the MCFL exemption andcontinue to not be deemed a PAC for -- for the purposes ofthe Federal Election Campaign Act.Now, the disclosure interest that there -- thatthere is for contributions can be readily and in anarrowly tailored way dealt with by simply requiring thatany contribution to a not-for-profit that is to be usedfor or is intended to be used for contributions to candidates must be reported and is -- and is therebysubject to the aggregate contribution limits. This is amuch more narrowly tailored way to deal with disclosureand the aggregate contribution limits than prohibiting theorganization completely from making any contribution.QUESTION: What you do then -- this is what Iunderstand you to be saying. The -- one of theirjustifications that has been advanced for this restrictionon contributions I've interpreted as the following. Wehave five people. These five people each write a check to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Candidate Smith for $,. They get annoyed. They thinkthey should be able to give $,, which the law forbids. So they form a committee, a nonprofit corporation, calledthe $, for Smith Corporation.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And now each of them writes anothercheck for $,, gives it to the corporation, and thecorporation gives it to Smith. And I think the Governmentsays, well, Congress wanted to stop that. It's notactually going to limit them to zero. They're going to belimited to $, as a group provided they jump throughcertain hoops.All right. Now, what's --MR. BOPP: Well, if they're a PAC --QUESTION: -- what's wrong with that argument? MR. BOPP: Well, if they're -- if they're a PAC,then they can give $, out of the -- out of the $,that you posit. If they're a not-for-profit corporation,the most they can give --QUESTION: I know, but do you see what I'msaying? I'm saying Congress doesn't want to have groupscalled the $, for Smith group even if they callthemselves something different.MR. BOPP: I agree.QUESTION: They want to limit each of those th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC members to $,.MR. BOPP: Agreed.QUESTION: And that's what they do, though for avariety of other reasons, not directly relevant to myquestion, they've allowed those people to get together,jump through various hoops called the PAC hoops, and giveup to $, extra. So if Congress wanted to, they mightsay none.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: All right. Now, that's their --that's basically the argument, and I want to get astraight, you know, direct reply to it.MR. BOPP: Well, the -- the desire of subjectingthe aggregate contribution limit or a contribution inexcess of $,, one direct and one through another source, is dealt with two ways and can be.One is if the contribution made to this groupthat you posit is earmarked, then that contribution isconsidered to be a contribution not just to the group butalso to the candidate him or herself. So that earmarkedcontribution is subject to the $, limit, and thecontribution used for that would be in violation of theact currently.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: All right. So now -- is that -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BOPP: That is current law. And -- and sothat prospect is prohibited and appropriately so.Secondly, as the Federal Election Campaign Actpreviously required, that anyone contributing to aorganization, not a PAC, that contributes money for anindependent expenditure, that that contribution must bereported by the group that does the independentexpenditure. Congress could require the same thing here. They could require money given more generally, notearmarked, but more generally for candidates to bereported by the -- the group and thereby subject to theaggregate contribution limits.QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, isn't it also the case thatthe -- that the corporation that Justice Breyer positswould not qualify as -- as a exempt organization if the only thing it's using its money for is to makecontributions to political candidates?MR. BOPP: That would also be true. They --QUESTION: I'm just trying --QUESTION: It has to be -- it has to be arelatively insignificant part of its overall activity.MR. BOPP: Yes. The Internal Revenue Servicewould treat the organization that he described as apolitical organization --QUESTION: So these five people would had to -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC have to get together with maybe , other people sothat their -- their little portion is so watered down thatit's not a significant part of the corporation's business.MR. BOPP: That's exactly --QUESTION: I didn't think there was a numericallimit. And my question which tried to eliminateextraneous points I think you understood perfectly wellthere. I mean a (c) corporation but -- et cetera.But I want to go back to your answer. The --the -- because I'm trying to get clear about this. Andthe -- what you're saying is that Congress could take mygroup, with whatever else they have to do to qualify them-- they could take my group and you're saying Congresscould just say, very well, we will limit the corporationso that it can only give money from these five people insofar as they haven't met their $, individual limit.MR. BOPP: That would be an effect of what Isaid, yes.QUESTION: And -- and moreover, it could requirereporting so we know who they are.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: All right. Now, is that a lessrestrictive alternative than what Congress has actuallydone, which is to say, proceed through a segregated fund?MR. BOPP: Yes, much less restrictive. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Because? Because?MR. BOPP: Well, because this Court held inMass. Citizens and Austin that the PAC requirements, bothadministrative, including record keeping, appointment of atreasurer, filing regular reports, et cetera, and thelimits that are imposed upon PACs -- there's a $,contribution limit to PACs, et cetera -- all impose an --a constitutionally burden -- a burden on constitutionallyexercised rights that did not -- that did not passconstitutional muster. So -- so while it is true that youcan do it under a PAC, that imposes an unconstitutionalburden on the First Amendment activities.And that, of course, all goes back to, you know,is there a justification for this. In other words, wehave a prohibited source --QUESTION: Well, just before you go on, I don'tsee why your proposal doesn't have all of the sameadministrative inconveniences.MR. BOPP: Well, there's a one-page report. There are organizations that can do independentexpenditures that are not PACs. There's a one -- one-page report to file, and that -- and that report would sayhow much is being spent on the independent expenditure andhow much has been donated to the organization for thepurpose of that independent expenditure. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Similarly, a report like that could be filed forcontributions so that we could capture those people whoare trying to circumvent the limits to -- to makeundisclosed or excessive contributions. We would capturethem because then the only choice left to the donor wouldbe a completely undifferentiated, unearmarked contributionthat is going to be used by the organization , percent for other purposes, for lobbying, for education,for other charitable activity.QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, the Court basically decidedthis issue in National Right to Work Committee case,didn't it? You just want us to distinguish your type ofnonprofit corporation.MR. BOPP: Well, we are asking you todistinguish the Massachusetts Citizens for Life type --QUESTION: I think that's very hard to do. Imean, we dealt with this precise issue in that case.MR. BOPP: But there was no issue in that caseabout whether or not the organization itself should not beviewed as a prohibited source of -- of making independentexpenditures or making contributions in that case.QUESTION: But the organization opted for thecorporate form --MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: -- knowing about these limitations. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. BOPP: Yes, but this Court has -- was clearin Mass. Citizens that it's not the corporate form per se,but the potential for unfair deployment of wealth forpolitical purposes and held that these types oforganizations pose no threat, no threat whatsoever.QUESTION: Well, it couldn't have been a holdingin -- in the Massachusetts case because there you weretalking about independent expenditures rather thancontributions.MR. BOPP: Well, but -- but --QUESTION: Certainly the Massachusetts casedoesn't control the outcome here.MR. BOPP: Well, we -- we believe that it --that the holding of the Court in Mass. Citizens -- thatthis organization serves no potential for corruption of the democratic process, was essential for the Court tohold that no independent -- that independent expenditureswould be allowed because, after all --QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, at least three times in thetext of the Court's opinion in Massachusetts Citizens forLife, at least three times, it distinguishes directcontributions to candidates from expenditures, and eachtime it explains why it reached the result it did. Itmakes that distinction.MR. BOPP: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And I think that -- that that's socentral to Massachusetts Citizens for Life. So if -- ifwe just had this opinion shorn of all but however,remember that this is not a contribution to a candidateand then citing back to the -- the earlier decision thatJustice O'Connor mentioned, the National Right to WorkCommittee, to distinguish it from this case, but it justseems so all over Massachusetts Citizens for Life that itis drawing this bright line between contributions tocandidates and independent expenditures.MR. BOPP: But in -- but in Right to Work, itwasn't a prohibition on contributions. It was a -- alimit on the amount of contributions. And we agree thatlimits on amounts --QUESTION: Yes, but I'm -- I'm talking about Massachusetts Citizens for Life and the line that JusticeBrennan drew in the Massachusetts Citizens for Lifebetween contributions to candidates. Every time he talksabout the holding in this case, he said, remember, this isnot contributions to candidates.MR. BOPP: Yes, Your Honor, that's correct. That's what you said. But the -- the case did not involve-- neither Mass. Citizens nor Right to Work involved alimit on the amount of contributions, that is, like a$, limit. We have not challenged that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, do you challenge thedistinction for First Amendment purposes betweenrestricting contributions and restricting expenditures?MR. BOPP: Only as to a prohibition on them. That is, this Court in Buckley and reaffirmed in Shrinksaid that there were both speech and association aspectsof making a contribution. That is, it's a -- as far asspeech is concerned, this is a general expression ofsupport that is found in the undifferentiated act ofcontributing.Well, here they are prohibited fromcontributing. They cannot -- these organizations cannotgive one cent. Therefore, that's --QUESTION: So -- so you're -- you're sayingthere is a distinction --MR. BOPP: Yes, as to a prohibition.QUESTION: -- for -- for valid First Amendmentpurposes between the -- the contribution limit and the --and the expenditure limit, but that distinction is notstrong enough to forbid an entire prohibition.MR. BOPP: That's correct because both thespeech aspects and association aspects of contributingthat are -- that remain after limits on the amounts areimposed because the speech aspect is a general expressionof support and the association aspect is to serve to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC affiliate a person with the candidate. You have your namenow through the -- the method of the contributionaffiliated with the candidate.When you have a zero contribution limit, thenthere is no speech and no association that is allowedthrough the act of contributing. Therefore --QUESTION: But you can say -- you can --QUESTION: I don't think any of our cases havesliced the onion quite that fine to get into these nuancesthat there's a difference between prohibiting acontribution and limiting it. I think our distinctionshave been primarily that contributions may be quitesubstantially regulated, independent expenditures cannotbe.MR. BOPP: Well, that is -- that is generally a correct characterization of your jurisprudence, but youhave to examine why. Why is it that contributions aresubject to a lower level of scrutiny? And the -- the whyis is that the speech and association aspects of giving asmaller contribution remain, but if you can't give anycontribution, then both that speech and associationaspect --QUESTION: But when you say can't give any, youare overlooking or saying the PAC doesn't count.MR. BOPP: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: It isn't an absolute no contribution. It is, if you do it, you have to do it through this armthat you create, this segregated fund, this -- of the(c)() organization. You can -- you can do it but youhave to do it in a rather cumbersome way.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: So it isn't you cannot make anycontributions.MR. BOPP: Well, not only is it cumbersome, butit's constitutionally -- it's an unconstitutional burdenthis Court has held in Mass. Citizens and in Austin torequire First Amendment political activity to be donethrough a PAC. So --QUESTION: Not First Amendment activity in -- inthe Massachusetts case itself, as I just said. I don'twant to repeat that except that Justice Brennan did repeatit at least three times.MR. BOPP: Yes. And I'm aware of that, but I'mjust asking this Court to -- to consider not -- not toapply what is dicta in Mass. Citizens since it did notinvolve contributions -- to -- to just apply that, but toconsider the rationale.And in North -- in -- in National Right to Work,the Court was considering not a prohibition on solicitingcontributions from members to its PAC, it was considering th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC a limit on what is considered to be a member. So onceagain, that case involved contribution limits, notprohibition.QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, that -- that FirstAmendment right that you talk about as the associationalinterest, the -- the ability to give at least a dollarwill identify you with a -- with the candidate, is thatreally a First Amendment interest that applies to theassociation, or does it apply to the members of theassociation? And as Mr. Clement pointed out, theindividual members of the association remain free to givea dollar, indeed up to $,, to the particularcandidate.All you're really talking about here is -- isnot the ability of individuals to identify themselves with a candidate, but the ability of individuals by poolingtheir resources to help a candidate significantly. Itseems to me that that's the only interest at -- at issuehere.MR. BOPP: Well, there's valid reasons unlikethe representation -- or the argument of the Governmentfor people to want to pool their resources in anassociation. That those valid reasons are, in fact, whypeople already contribute to PACs and the political party-- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: But among those reasons is not inorder to identify myself with that candidate.MR. BOPP: Well, but the --QUESTION: To -- to do that, all you have to dois reach in your pocket and give them a dollar.MR. BOPP: That is true, but many people chooseto pool their resources because they want the group, whichhas a separate existence and has a political purpose,unlike them as an individual -- you know, they are not asidentified with a particular point of view or politicalidea like a group would be, like -- like NARAL would be. So if -- so they choose then to pool their resources withthe group in order to make the much more powerfulstatement about the political ideas that they areattempting to support and they want candidates to be associated with.Now, in addition, the fact that the group canaggregate these small contributions and then make a largecontribution to a particular candidate enhances the -- thecontribution that the individual would otherwise made --be made because it is being done by the group and in anaggregate. So there are justifiable reasons why peoplewant to associate.And then further, the association --QUESTION: Mr. Bopp, it seems to me that your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC argument really would go just the same way to an amountlimitation as to a total prohibition.MR. BOPP: No, because amount limitations donot --QUESTION: Everybody can just contribute $. Wouldn't that -- would that be okay with you?MR. BOPP: You mean the -- the amount that --QUESTION: Say the amount limitation was verylow. As I understand it, you're trying to draw acategorical distinction between total prohibition andamount limitation.MR. BOPP: Yes.QUESTION: And I don't know -- I don't see thatyour argument really is directed to that.MR. BOPP: Well, it goes to the source of the --of the rights, the First Amendment rights, that areimplicated by a -- by an amount limitation as opposed to aprohibition.QUESTION: But it seems to me an amountlimitation that's very, very low would have the same viceunder your argument as a total prohibition.MR. BOPP: Well, potentially, but that would bea case to be a decided at that point. And -- now, thisCourt has upheld the $, limit, for instance, topolitical action committees. And -- but you would have to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC consider -- if it got too low, I mean, there's certainly apotential for contributions that are too low -- asJustices Breyer and Ginsburg explained in Shrink, there iscertainly a potential if they're too low to beunconstitutional.But here we're not talking about and have notchallenged the -- the $, limit. We accept that. Wejust don't accept the proposition that because theorganization poses no threat of corruption to thepolitical process, that they should be completelyprohibited from making a contribution.So -- so we view this then as a sourcelimitation, not as an amount limitation, and as a result,the -- the contribution jurisprudence of this Court thathave accepted greater regulation of contributions is not applicable.If there are no other questions, thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bopp.Mr. Clement, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENTON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Let me begin with the distinction thatrespondents rely on between limits on contributions and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC prohibitions on contributions. Even if there is somethingto that distinction -- and I rather doubt there is forsome of the reasons unearthed by Justice Stevens' colloquywith -- with counsel for respondent. Even if that were avalid distinction, this case does not involve an absoluteprohibition.This Court, both in Massachusetts Citizens forLife and Austin, and in fact, much earlier in Pipefitters,made clear that the limitations on corporate and laborunion contributions in section b are not a, quote,absolute prohibition, but rather just a limitation oncontributions. The availability of the segregated fundsto make the contributions is another way of making this alimitation, a particular limitation designed for theunique risks of artificial entities like corporations and labor unions.And I think any effort to distinguish thediscussion in Massachusetts Citizens for Life and itsdistinguished -- distinctions between contributions andexpenditures on the grounds that a prohibition might bedifferent just doesn't work because both MassachusettsCitizens for Life and National Right to Work Committeeinvolved this very provision, section b. So whateverthere might be in the case of an absolute prohibition onsomebody's right to make contributions, b either isn't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that or isn't that in -- in a constitutionally relevantway after this Court's decisions in Massachusetts Citizensfor Life and National Right to Work Committee.Some discussion was had about fine distinctionsthat potentially could be drawn between the AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons, National Right to WorkCommittee, Massachusetts Citizens for Life, and NorthCarolina Citizens Right to Life. The point of sectionb in the contribution context is that Congress has notfound a need to draw those kind of fine distinctions.MCFL itself, of course, drew some of thosedistinctions in the contribution context -- in theexpenditure context, rather, but drew a distinctionbetween contributions in light of the inherently greaterrisk of corruption from contributions.Another suggestion was made that perhaps thereis a seemingly less restrictive alternative. As withindependent expenditures made by nonprofit associations,perhaps contributions that are made to the associationwith the purpose of them being used for contributions tocandidates could be disclosed.QUESTION: Have we actually held, Mr. Clement,that in regulating contributions, the Government must findthe least restrictive means?MR. CLEMENT: No, and to the contrary. This th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court has not held that. It did not apply a leastrestrictive alternative analysis in National Right to WorkCommittee. In the California Medical Association case, aplurality of the Court, in fact, affirmatively held thatthe least restrictive alternative was not required in thecontext of contributions. So I don't think there is thatrequirement.But I want to address the -- the supposed lessrestrictive alternative precisely because I believe thatless restrictive alternative is illusory because thesuggestion is that -- that individuals could say -- coulddisclose when they give a contribution to a nonprofitorganization for the purpose of a contribution. Well, ifthat's going to have the effect of avoiding thecircumvention rationale, I wonder whether people are really going to volunteer the information that thecontribution to the nonprofit is for that purpose.And additionally, even if that is a permissibleway and would be enforceable in the real political world,that really doesn't give you much of a different resultthan what Congress has specifically provided for with thesegregated fund.And indeed, the segregated fund actually isresponsive to the kind of First Amendment associationalinterests that underlie this Court's concerns in Buckley th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC and even going back to NAACP against Button. The concernis that disclosure requirements imposed on organizationscould be a backhanded way to get at membership lists. Thesegregated fund prevents that by keeping the membershiplists and the organization itself separate from thepolitical activity of the organization. Indeed, ifCongress hadn't provided for segregated funds as arequirement for all corporations, but simply made thatavailable, I would think that many nonprofit corporationswould avail themselves of that option precisely to avoidthe interference with associational interests as in caseslike NAACP against Button.The last point I'd like to talk about is simplythis idea that again underlies much of respondents'arguments that because there is no threat from expenditures to these types of corporations, there istherefore no threat to these type of corporations engagingin corporate contributions. If that analysis were appliedacross the board, it would undermine the entirety of thisCourt's campaign finance jurisprudence which is based onthe fundamental recognition that contributions involvegreater risks than expenditures, and -- and expenditures,therefore, are largely unregulated because they are --presumably do not pose as great a risk as contributions.If there are no further questions, I'd like the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC court below reversed.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Clement.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 