 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XAMERICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION, :ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -JOHN GARAMENDI, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER, STATE OF CALIFORNIA :::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting thePetitioners.FRANK KAPLAN, ESQ., Santa Monica, California; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFFRANK KAPLAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, American Insurance Associationversus John Garamendi.Mr. Geller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KENNETH S. GELLERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. GELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, mayit please the Court: years ago almost to the day the United Statesand its allies defeated Nazi Germany and World War II cameto an end in Europe. Ever since that time, the UnitedStates Government has been actively engaged in a series ofinitiatives to obtain just compensation for victims of the war. These efforts continue to the present day.Beginning in the mid-s, the FederalGovernment has been engaged in extensive negotiations withother Governments concerning claims of Holocaust victims. The President himself has stated repeatedly that it's inthe foreign policy interests of the United States to havethese claims resolved exclusively in an internationalforum and through nonadversarial means, rather thanthrough costly, time-consuming and contentious litigation.To achieve these goals in the context of unpaid th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC insurance claims, the President has taken three actions. First, the United States has facilitated and encouragedthe establishment of the International Commission onHolocaust Era Insurance Claims, or ICHEIC.Second, the United States, with the personalintervention of the President himself, has negotiatedagreements with Germany and Austria under which thosecountries and their insurance companies agreed to providehundreds of millions of dollars in compensation for unpaidinsurance claims and to follow procedures worked out withICHEIC to process insurance claims in a nonadversarialmanner and under relaxed standards of proof, and --QUESTION: Mr. Geller, I -- let me mention acouple of things that I find troubling about the case, andone is that when Congress passed a law in this area it didn't include any language preempting State laws such asCalifornia has, and when the President put out hisexecutive order or agreement it doesn't expressly do so,either. How does that affect our analysis, do you think?MR. GELLER: Well, the statute that Congresspassed was the Holocaust Assets --QUESTION: Yes, right.MR. GELLER: -- Commission Act, which clearlygave authority to the President to take control of thisissue, and didn't provide any role for the States th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC whatsoever.QUESTION: But it didn't preclude a role.MR. GELLER: But in the area of foreign affairs,under this Court's decision in Zschernig, and in the areaof foreign commerce under many of this Court'sdecisions --QUESTION: Well, Zschernig has never been citedsince it was written. It's kind of a troublesome thing tohang your whole --MR. GELLER: Our whole case does not depend onZschernig --QUESTION: -- case on, and we have in themeantime decided, for instance, Barclay's Bank, which hassome language in it that speaks against recognizing thekind of --MR. GELLER: I don't --QUESTION: -- authority you talk about, and wehave the Breard case, that criminal case, Breard versusGreene. Now, how do we deal with those?MR. GELLER: Well, to begin with I thinkBarclay's is completely distinguishable, Justice O'Connor,on at least three grounds. First, Barclay's concernssolely the Foreign Commerce Clause, and the Court said inBarclay's that Congress has primacy under the ForeignCommerce Clause, and it read the record in that case to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC conclude that Congress had acquiesced in or approved whatCalifornia was trying to do in the area of taxation, sothere was no suggestion that what California was trying todo in that case prevented the Federal Government fromspeaking with one voice in the area of foreign commerce. There's nothing, to begin with, comparable in this case tosuggest that Congress has done anything to authorizeCalifornia to engage in regulation of foreign insurancepolicies involving foreign companies and foreignbeneficiaries.Secondly --QUESTION: But the United States must have beenaware that this California legislation existed.MR. GELLER: I --QUESTION: And the -- part of the story is that this State legislation was on the books before theexecutive agreement with Germany and Austria that you'vejust applauded, so when California acted there wasn't anysuch accord.MR. GELLER: Well, several things, JusticeGinsburg, and then I want to get back to answer JusticeO'Connor's question. First, the Holocaust Act, theFederal Holocaust Act was passed before the HVIRA, so itcould not in any way be read as acquiescing in orapproving anything that California was doing in this area. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Secondly, and Mr. Kneedler will, I think, speakto this, the executive agreement did not expressly preemptany claims, because these were claims largely by foreignnationals against foreign companies, and the President didnot believe it would be appropriate to extinguish all ofthose claims, but we're not dealing in this case withclaims by individuals. We're dealing with actions by aState which interfere with what the President himself hassaid are his goals in an area, a very sensitive area offoreign affairs.And this case is not like -- this case is muchstronger than Zschernig, because in Zschernig, the FederalGovernment had done nothing in the area. Nonetheless,this Court said that the States cannot enter into an areawhere it has the potential for embarrassment, or to interfere with the --QUESTION: Zschernig involved criticism of aforeign government.MR. GELLER: So does this statute. This statutecriticizes --QUESTION: Is that really a sound basis for adecision like Zschernig, to say Oregon probate judges wereinquiring about the policies of Eastern Europeancountries? I mean, I -- I don't regard that as a verystrongly reasoned opinion. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: But this case, Chief Justice, ismuch stronger than Zschernig because this is not a case,unlike Zschernig, where the President has done nothing inthe area. Here, the President has aggressively enteredthe area and tried to impose a solution which he hasconcluded is in the best interests of the foreign policyof the United States, so it's not a question of fieldpreemption.Zschernig could be looked at as a case of fieldpreemption. What the Court essentially said, I think, inZschernig is that there is a field of foreign affairswhere, even if the United States Government has donenothing, the States cannot enter. This is a case that Ithink gets much more clearly analogous to conflictpreemption. Here, the President, with the acquiescence of Congress, has aggressively moved to try to solve a veryserious international problem, and --QUESTION: But Mr. Geller, said in that veryagreement there is to be no preemption. The Presidentsaid that when California law was already on the books.MR. GELLER: I don't think it specifically saysthere's to be no preemption. We're not dealing here, tobegin with, Justice Ginsburg, with claims by individuals.We're dealing here with State legislation, and in theexecutive agreement the President -- the President th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC promised to use his best efforts to prevent the Statesfrom interfering with the executive agreement. He hasconcluded on many occasions that what California has triedto do here is a direct interference, a direct interferencewith the foreign policy position of the United States,which is to funnel all of these claims through aninternational commission.QUESTION: Well, if we can look just at theagreement, isn't this what is usually called an executoryagreement, rather than a -- than a fully executedagreement? In other words, it says the United States,recognizing the importance of the objectives of thisagreement, shall in a timely manner use its best effortsin a manner it considers appropriate to achieve thoseobjectives. That's -- that's something yet to be done. That's not --MR. GELLER: No, I think, Justice --QUESTION: It sounds to me like executory,rather than fully --MR. GELLER: I think what the agree -- Just --Mr. Kneedler is probably better equipped to address themeaning of the executive agreement, but it seems to mewhat -- what the President has chosen to do there is topromise to use his best efforts to look to see whether anyStates or localities are taking actions which interfere th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC with the promises that the President has made to foreigncountries and foreign insurance companies to try toachieve legal peace in the United States, and in thoseinstances where the States have taken action whichinterferes directly with that -- with that promise, thePresident has promised to use his best efforts, such as tofile briefs in this Court and others, arguing thatthese -- these State statutes are preemptive, so it's --there's no -- I think in the lingo of a statute there isno express preemption here, but there's clearly impliedpreemption under the Supremacy Clause.QUESTION: Mr. Geller, I may have misheard you, but didn't you describe the agreement a little morebroadly than its terms? The President's agreement, as Iunderstood it, was to funnel all the claims through the --the -- this -- this new body, and I don't understand thatproducing the information that's sought in this case wouldpreclude that from being done.MR. GELLER: Well, the -- the internationalcommission not only set up a claims resolution process, italso has procedures for the disclosure of informationwhich take into account European privacy laws, JusticeStevens. It was a very --QUESTION: But that's a different argument. Imean, that's not based on the text of the executive th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC agreement.MR. GELLER: Well, the executive agreement chosethe -- the President chose through the executive agreementand through his negotiations with foreign countries to usethe ICHEIC system, rather than any parallel system, inpart because of the concern about violating Europeanprivacy laws. The California statute would be a blatantviolation of European --QUESTION: Well, but as I understand it, theCalifornia -- one of the purposes of the Californiastatute is to -- to uncover claims that might not be knownabout. It produces the information that would then allowthe claimant to go to the -- the --MR. GELLER: But the international commissionhas a separate -- separate policy for divulging information that -- and right now the, it's in the processof finalizing that. Under the international commission,all of the insurance companies are producing their databases in private --QUESTION: But all, Mr. Geller, would youclarify all, because I had the impression from the briefsthat there were only five companies, and that they coversomething like a little over percent --MR. GELLER: No, that's -- that's --QUESTION: -- of the universe of -- of claims? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: -- false, Justice Ginsburg. It'sbased on outdated information. In light of the agreementsthat the United States has reached with Germany andAustria, all the insurance companies in those countrieshave agreed to follow the ICHEIC procedures so that withthe inclusion of all the German insurance companies, allthe Austrian insurance companies, all the Dutch insurancecompanies, and many of the Swiss insurance companies, Iwould say that the ICHEIC system now covers at leastdouble the percentage that the --QUESTION: It's still a wholly voluntary --QUESTION: How -- how specifically does the --does the California statute interfere with the operationsof the commission?MR. GELLER: It interferes in a number of different ways, Justice Kennedy. It interferes, to beginwith, because it presents the possibility that thesecompanies will have to pay twice, and it was a specificpromise on the part of the United States that they wouldnot have to pay twice.QUESTION: Well, that's assuming there's a suitbrought later, but --MR. GELLER: That's assuming, that's -- this isall a part of the California system. The only purpose --QUESTION: And that doesn't meet Justice th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Stevens' point that this is just a disclosure --MR. GELLER: Well, that's -- I want to get tothat as the second reason, but I want to make sure theCourt appreciates the first reason. It was very importantthat these companies not be made to pay twice, and thePresident --QUESTION: I -- I don't understand. Why wouldthat be? Why is there a risk? MR. GELLER: It would be because under theinternational commission these companies have already madea substantial payment, over $ million, to settle theirclaims, but if the California process is allowed tocontinue, it's possible that people will be able to bringsuit in California and recover separate --QUESTION: This case is about a disclosure statute --MR. GELLER: It's --QUESTION: -- there's other legislation that isnot before us.MR. GELLER: I under --QUESTION: We are talking about a statute thatdoesn't authorize anybody to bring suit. It simplyrequires disclosure.MR. GELLER: But the only purpose of thestatute, and this is as clear as can be from the face of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the statute, is to provide information so thatCalifornians can bring suit in California, but the secondway in which the California statute, Justice Kennedy,interferes with the ICHEIC process is that all of thesecompanies agreed to the ICHEIC process on the assumptionthat European privacy laws would be respected. That's --that is one of the principal reasons why the United Stateshas negotiated this alternative system. Under the --QUESTION: Mr. Geller, one -- would you explainone thing that is troubling? The privacy interest that isbeing asserted, one can understand an insured doesn't wantthe insurance company to divulge the insured's records,but we are dealing with a unique situation here in thatmany of these insureds, the insureds that were concerned,were killed in the Holocaust, and it seems to me to raise a privacy interest with respect to those people and theirbeneficiaries is -- is kind of ironic.MR. GELLER: But Justice Ginsburg, this is veryimportant. Under -- we're dealing with tens of millionsof insurance policies here. Only a small percentage ofthose policies has to do, have to -- relate to Holocaustvictims. California would require, and this is a criticalpoint for the Court, California would require disclosureof the intimate details of all million of thosepolicies, . percent of which have nothing at all to do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC with California, and nothing to do with any victims of theHolocaust. Under the ICHEIC system, under the ICHEICsystem, the only policies that will be publicly disclosedon a data base are policies held by -- by possible victimsof the Holocaust.QUESTION: How does one know that?MR. GELLER: It -- it know -- under I -- underthe ICHEIC system, all of the policies written during thisera that are on electric data base are to be -- are to beput into a system, and independently ICHEIC has done acensus of all of the possible Holocaust victims in Germanyduring the pre-war period through various records and comeup with several hundred thousand names which will bematched against the list of policyholders, and when thereis a match, that list will be put out on a public data base. The German --QUESTION: There was a list --MR. GELLER: The German --QUESTION: There was a list that was due out inApril. Has --MR. GELLER: That will -- I'm told that listwill be out by the end of this month, and the Germaninsurance authorities have concluded that publication ofthat list would not violate any privacy laws because itwould be for the benefit of the people who are trying to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC recover on these unpaid Holocaust era insurance policies. California, by contrast --QUESTION: I take it you could make thatargument even absent the claims commission.MR. GELLER: Absolutely. Absolutely. WhatCalifornia has tried to do here would violate the foreignaffairs power as well as the Commerce Clause, even absentthe -- the personal intervention of the President himselfto seek an alternative solution to this vexinginternational problem, that's right.For California, which has absolutely norelationship to any of these policies, to insist that theyall be made public is, we think, a clear violation of theCommerce Clause.QUESTION: How -- how does it relate to the --suppose we want to link the harm that this does under theprivacy laws to the operation of the commission. How dowe do that? Just, the -- the burden and the cost to thecompanies that might better be expended on the claim --MR. GELLER: It's simply that California has norelationship to any of these policies. These policieswere all policies written in Europe by European companies,and California's --QUESTION: But that's a separate argument fromthe operation of the commission. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. GELLER: It is a separate argument fromthe -- I think the -- the --QUESTION: Tell us briefly the principle ofFederal law that you say governs this. All of the suddenyou're talking about the Foreign Commerce Clause.MR. GELLER: Yes. We made three arguments --QUESTION: And I thought earlier in the argumentyou had said, oh, that really isn't our case, we don'tneed that, and that's what Zschernig --MR. GELLER: No, I -- that's not true, I was --I was trying to distinguish the Barclay's case -- theBarclay's case.QUESTION: All right. Well, what do you --MR. GELLER: In addition --QUESTION: What do you say is the principal flaw?MR. GELLER: There are -- there are threearguments that we have made to attack this Californiastatute. One is, is that it is, under many decisions ofthis Court, including the recent decision in Crosby, inclear conflict with United States foreign policy. ThePresident has set out a particular policy to try toresolve the last remaining issue from World War II. Itinvolves channeling all of these foreign claims into aninternational commission in a way that respects European th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC privacy laws. California has set up a --QUESTION: And what case -- what caseestablishes that principle, clear conflict?MR. GELLER: I would submit, United Statesversus Pink, United States versus Belmont are two cases inwhich the President issued executive agreements and theCourt found that they preempted State law. I would --QUESTION: Yes, but here you -- that's the bigdifference between those. They preempted State law. There's no pretense by -- the executive says I'm going touse my best efforts.MR. GELLER: Those case -- those executiveagreements, I do not believe, had any express preemptionprovisions in them. The Court simply concluded --QUESTION: But when you take what the President undertook, which was just to use best efforts, thatdoesn't sound like --MR. GELLER: Under the Supremacy --QUESTION: -- this Court would have much to --MR. GELLER: Justice Ginsburg, I think it's theoperation of the Supremacy Clause. Here, the Presidenthas set out a policy for the United States, and has issuedan executive agreement with foreign countries to try toimplement that policy, and I think it is clear under theSupremacy Clause that the States cannot do anything that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC would frustrate or interfere with the operation --QUESTION: With full knowledge, when thePresident did that, that there were these laws inCalifornia.MR. GELLER: And at the time that the -- thatthese laws were in the process of being passed, thePresident's personal representative, Stuart Eizenstat,wrote a letter to the Governor of California saying,please do not pass this law because it will interfere withwhat the United States is trying to do in the area offoreign policy, and I think it would be a shame if thislaw went into effect because of the disastrous impact itwould have on the ICHEIC system, which the President ofthe United States -- which two successive Presidents ofthe United States have concluded is in the best foreign policy interests of the United States, and the bestinterest of Holocaust victims in order to get money intotheir hands quickly.But secondly, Justice O'Connor, in addition tothe foreign affairs power, we think this is a blatantviolation of the -- of the Foreign Commerce Clause, whichonce again is not within the power of the States tointerfere with. Here we have foreign insurance policiesthat have absolutely no nexus to the State of California. They are regulated by foreign -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Why do you say they have no nexus toCalifornia? Is it not true that there are - or ,residents of California who may or may not bebeneficiaries of policies that they don't know about?MR. GELLER: Yes, but this -- first of all, thisCourt has held that the fact that someone --QUESTION: Am I right on that assumption?MR. GELLER: You're right on that assumption,but to begin with, Justice Stevens, we're talking about million policies that you're trying to regulate, and atthe maximum they say they may --QUESTION: Well, you have to go through a bigdata base to find the ,.MR. GELLER: Well, I don't -- I don't think thatthere, that under this Court's decisions that the fact that there may be a few thousand people in the Stategives --QUESTION: But if they do nothing more thanidentify policies people don't know about, how will thatinterfere with the basic program? Couldn't they thenrequire those claims be prosecuted in the tribunal thatthey're setting up?MR. GELLER: Because ICHEIC has set up analternative disclosure system and the -- which respectsEuropean privacy laws and secondly because the -- the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC State of California simply has no power to exert itsinfluence, even in the form of a disclosure obligation, oncontracts that have no -- absolutely no nexus to theState.QUESTION: Mr. Geller, as I understand it, thisICHEIC system is wholly voluntary. There's no law thatenforces it. And update me on something else that you didearlier. You said many more insurance companies that werein it than , percent. As I understand it, percentof the claims that were made to ICHEIC were turned downbecause the claimants were not able to identifysufficiently their heirs themselves --MR. GELLER: I think most of the information inthe record, Justice Ginsburg, and the information that theState relies on relates to several years ago, not to the current ICHEIC process before the German foundation andthe Austrian foundation and a number of the Dutchcompanies had decided to participate fully in thatprocess.QUESTION: Is this in the record?MR. GELLER: These are all events that --they're in the public record. They're not in the recordof this case, Justice Souter, but there are publicdocuments from ICHEIC and from the President describingall of this. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC If the Court has no further questions, I'd liketo reserve the balance --QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Geller.Mr. Kneedler, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLERON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The California statute at issue here is not astatute of general application that happens to have anincidental impact on foreign Nations, foreign countries,or foreign transactions. It is a statute that is writtenexclusively and specifically with respect to a category offoreign insurance transactions occurring in foreign countries between foreign companies and foreign nationalsmore than years ago, and it concerns a subject matter,the settlement of claims arising out of internationalconflict, that has -- has always been understood by thisCourt to be the responsibility of the national Government,as reflected most recently in Dames & Moore.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, I thought that the onlyrequirement is put on a company licensed to do business inthe United States. The -- California isn't reaching outto grab a foreign insurance company that isn't doing th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC business in the United States. It is asking questions ofa company licensed to do business in the State ofCalifornia.MR. KNEEDLER: But disclosure is a form ofregulation. This is true, this is obvious from oursecurities laws, it is -- it is evident from this Court'sdecision in the BMW case of several years back, where theCourt -- which had to do with disclosure, and the Courtsaid that one State may not try to enforce its policieswith respect to the disclosure of information in otherStates, and we think that --QUESTION: Did we do that? Does the UnitedStates do that, or States under blue sky laws in thesecurities area? Do we require disclosures of, say,affiliates that are set up in --MR. KNEEDLER: Under blue sky laws, under the, Ibelieve it's the Hall decision, the Court said that aState could require disclosures -- with respect toin-State transactions it could require disclosures aboutissuance of securities out of State that are related toin-State transactions. We have no in-State transactionhere.California has claimed two possible connectionsto the State to justify this statute. The first is thatthe companies, the insurance companies, certain insurance th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC companies do business in California. Those are not theones that issued these policies, but they do business inCalifornia. Under this Court's decisions, I think mostnotably the Connecticut General case that is cited in thepetitioner's brief, is a case where the Court said thefact that insurance companies do business in the State isnot a sufficient basis for a State in that case to taxtransactions, insurance policies that are entered intooutside of that State, so it's clear that the fact thatcertain insurance companies do business in the State doesnot give California a right to regulate through disclosuretransactions and policies that happened outside the Stateand, a fortiori, that's true with respect to foreigntransactions.The other interest that California has been --has asserted, which I think Justice Stevens referred to,is the fact that some number, a very small percentage ofHolocaust survivors are in California, and with respect tothat, this Court's decision in Shutts make, and otherdecisions make clear that moving to the forum State anadjudicatory jurisdiction is not a sufficient nexus, or --or legislative jurisdiction is not a sufficient nexus fora State.What we have here, again, is one State of theUnion trying to establish its own foreign policy, in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC words of the Zschernig suit --QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, suppose there were noFederal efforts in this area, which there weren't forsometime, and as I said, the executive agreements we'retalking about post-dated this California disclosure law,suppose there was nothing, would you still say thatbecause of the potential for interference there could beno State disclosure legislation of this character?MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. This, in our view, is -- isa violation of the Constitution. We think that the --that the longstanding efforts by the National Governmentto work out cooperative agreements with Germany and -- andother countries in Europe arising out of the Holocaustunderscores vividly why this is a matter of nationalconcern, but we would be making the same argument irrespective of that.The -- the structure of our Constitution assignsto the National Government the resolution of foreignpolicy issues, and this is a -- this is a very major andlongstanding foreign policy issue about how foreigncountries should resolve claims about their own nationals. These policies were issued to European nationals. It maybe that there are beneficiaries or policyholders inCalifornia now, but this is -- this is exclusively amatter for the National Government -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, could I ask you tocomment on one aspect? As I understand it, one of the biginsurance companies is an Italian company here that had --wrote policies throughout Europe. Does this -- does theexecutive agreement with Germany and Austria have anybearing on that -- on that?MR. KNEEDLER: Not, not directly, but -- but wedo think that the executive agreement manifests theexecutive branch's policy with respect to the resolutionof Holocaust era claims, and there are, I think, twoprincipal conflicts with respect to the United Statespolicy. One is the one, and I want to underscore this,the one that was mentioned with respect to the -- to thelists.ICHEIC is establishing essentially a registry, the very thing that California wants to do, but in a muchnarrower sense that has been negotiated specifically toavoid conflict between German privacy laws and -- andUnited States law, and what -- what -- through thismatching exercise and through use of various lists of --of Holocaust survivor organizations, Jewish organizations,and census lists in Germany will be putting together apretty comprehensive list of Holocaust survivors andinsurance policies issued in Germany to disclose in a waythat German authorities believe that list will not violate th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC German privacy laws. The California statute, Germanytakes the firm position would violate German -- Germanprivacy laws.The other conflict is the whole thrust of theUnited States policy has been voluntary and cooperative,not mandatory and regulatory.QUESTION: That's -- that's part of the problemI have with the executive agreement argument. It seemsexecutory. It seems like something further is to be done,the United States will use its best efforts.MR. KNEEDLER: Well, but the best efforts was,it will use its best efforts with State and localgovernments, in other words in direct communications,and -- and Assistant Secretary -- Secretary Eizenstat andothers communicated --QUESTION: Well, it could sign a supplementalagreement saying that we now agree that these laws shouldbe superseded, just like we did in Pink.MR. KNEEDLER: But this -- this agreement saysthat -- says two things, that it would be in the interestof the -- this is on page a of the -- of the petitionappendix, that it would be in the interest of the twocountries for the foundation to be the exclusive remedyfor the forum of the resolution of claims, and onpage a the agreement provides for the resolution of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC claims through ICHEIC and supplemental procedures to bedeveloped through ICHEIC, which includes the developmentof this -- of this list.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, how does that relate tothe litigation that was ongoing in the Eastern District ofNew York that I think involved a slave labor question? Did the United States take a position that thatlitigation, which involved people who moved here, or theirsurvivors moved here after, that that was improperlitigation?MR. KNEEDLER: No. Those -- that did notinvolve State regulation, that involved private lawsuits,and there was a settlement which the United Statesencouraged. Again, this was part of the overall approachof the United States Government.QUESTION: But you were -- one branch of thiswas that the -- the United States people who moved hereafter, there was no connection with them.MR. KNEEDLER: Right, and if -- if --QUESTION: Well, those plaintiffs were allpeople who were certainly not in the United States whenthis happened.MR. KNEEDLER: Right, and if -- if there aresufficient adjudicatory connections to the United States,that would be fine. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC I wanted to mention --QUESTION: What were they in that case?MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if the, if the -- if thedefendant was doing business in the United States, if a --if a suitable class action --QUESTION: Was that so of the companies thatwere defendants in that case?MR. KNEEDLER: It wasn't -- it wasn't entirely,but there was a settlement there. Some of these issueswere not definitively resolved.QUESTION: My only question was, did the UnitedStates take the position --MR. KNEEDLER: I don't --QUESTION: -- to stop that litigation --MR. KNEEDLER: I -- I don't believe so. QUESTION: -- because it was interfering withthe executive --MR. KNEEDLER: I don't -- I don't believe sospecifically, but that was early in the -- in the -- inthis settlement effort.I want to make two important points about theUnited States, the -- the Constitution's assignment ofresponsibility. The Constitution assigns responsibilityto the National Government for foreign relations andforeign commerce because any retaliation or any adverse th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC impact will be felt by the Nation as a whole, not by theState that -- that triggers it, and this is a point thatthe Court has made in Japan Lines and numerous cases overthe years, and this case illustrates that, because what isgoing on here is complicating. It is an impediment withour relations with European countries at a very sensitivetime, and you have one State who -- that is notparticipating in all of those other efforts and doesn'thave to balance the -- the insult that might arise from astatute like this against all of the other issues that areon the United States' plate in dealing with foreignGovernments at a particular time.This is the very reason, that the States don'thave enough information and the full responsibility andthe National Government has to look out for the interests of the Nation as a whole, why one State may not thrustitself into foreign policy like this. The due process andforeign commerce arguments are very complementary of thatbecause they impose independent limitations on a Statethrusting its regulatory power outside of not only its ownborders but in this case outside the Nation's borders to,again, regulate through disclosure information aboutinsurance policies in other countries. The very fact thatGermany and California insurance regulations generallymaintain privacy of insurance information shows that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC questions of privacy and disclosure are matters ofregulation.QUESTION: Mr. Kneedler, would your argument bedifferent if California, instead of providing thisregistry in public disclosure said, we want thisinformation in order to decide whether we will allow thesecompanies to do business in California?MR. KNEEDLER: May I -- may I answer?Yes, that would present a different question. We don't think that California could require this blanketdisclosure. I think under international comity analysis,under this Court's decision in Aerospaciale, there may besome ability for the State to request certain relevantinformation --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kneedler. MR. KNEEDLER: -- to investigate thesuitability.QUESTION: Mr. Kaplan, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF FRANK KAPLANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. KAPLAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:California's reporting statute addresses adespicable practice by insurance companies. That practiceis the deception of elderly Holocaust survivors in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC refusal to provide them with basic policy information. That stonewalling has occurred for decades, and itcontinues today, and it continues in California.California responded to this insurance --QUESTION: Was the United States unaware of thisproblem when it negotiated an executive agreement?MR. KAPLAN: Absolutely not, Justice Kennedy. The United States was well aware of California's effortsin this regard. The statute that was referred toearlier that was passed by Congress occurred about months after there was substantial testimony at acongressional hearing in which several State insurancecommissioners --QUESTION: No, my -- my question was, wasUnited -- the United States unaware of -- of the wrongdoing that you're describing to us, or the -- or theinappropriate corporate response, and the answer is, Iassume that they were, and they did nothing about it inthe executive agreement, other than to have this veryspecific claims procedure.MR. KAPLAN: That -- that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: It's not as if California hasuncovered something the United States didn't know about.MR. KAPLAN: That's right. There were -- therewere numerous hearings held by the National Association of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Insurance Commissioners that are matters of public recordin and . There was a congressional hearing in, again in the year , , , all of whichdescribed in extensive detail the stonewalling that hadbeen committed by survivor -- against survivors.QUESTION: I -- I don't think -- the problem, atleast for me, doesn't concern the desirability of theinsurance company practice. I'll concede, absolutely it'stotally undesirable.The problem, I think, for your side in my mindis letters, for example, from the Deputy Under Secretaryof State Eizenstat to California, the insurancecommissioner and the Governor, about this very statute,where he's speaking in an official capacity to say thatthe statute has the unfortunate effect of damaging the one effective means now at hand to process quickly andcompletely unpaid insurance claims from the Holocaustperiod, that this law has already potentially damaged andcould derail the settlement, et cetera, so the record isfull of the Deputy Under Secretary of State who negotiatedthe settlement, Eizenstat, Ambassadors, the President,lists of -- in treaties, or executive agreements anyway,and you the -- and you know what I'm referring to. Allright.Why doesn't all of that, taken together, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC constitute what Justice Harlan in dissent in Zschernigcalled a Federal policy in the foreign affairs area, sothat if we take the dissent in Zschernig it would seem,hypothetically, for -- I'm trying to get your answer --that that long list of things shows a Federal policy suchthat Harlan and Stewart and the others, Harlan being atthe extreme there, would have to say that California'sstatute is contrary to the Federal policy in this area,has an impact on foreign affairs of a negative naturethrough the conflict with the privacy statutes ofSwitzerland and Germany, and therefore is contrary to theforeign affairs power given to the executive branch byArticle of the Constitution.All right, that's a long question, but those arethe things that I'd like you very much to focus on from my point of view.MR. KAPLAN: I will, Justice Breyer. Thank you.We're dealing here with a State commercialregulation, and -- and, in fact, we're dealing with a --an area of State regulation that is a quasi-publicbusiness, insurance. It's long been regulated by theStates. Congress delegated that authority to the States years ago, and the States have been in that businessever since. We believe that it's Congress, not theexecutive, that deals with matters of foreign commerce. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you think that the -- thePresident cannot effectively preempt on foreign policygrounds by his action an agreement? Do you take thatposition?MR. KAPLAN: I -- I take the position, YourHonor, that in limited circumstances such as this Courtdealt within the Pink and Belmont case, where you -- youhad the recognition of a foreign Government, or in theDames & Moore situation where you had a foreign policycrisis and you --QUESTION: I think you could answer yes or no.MR. KAPLAN: I apologize, Your Honor. Would yourepeat the question? I apologize.QUESTION: Well, do you take the position thatthere can never be a preemption on foreign policy grounds by action of the President alone?MR. KAPLAN: No. I think it's possible that thePresident could do that in some limited circumstances thatI've indicated, but those circumstances do not exist here. You have an expressly nonpreemptive executive agreemententered into after our law was passed. The -- theagreement was entered into after --QUESTION: Well, of course -- of course, ifthere were a preemptive -- I'm trying to bring you back tomy question. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. KAPLAN: Sure.QUESTION: I mean, if, in fact, we had apreemptive statute, or if we had a preemptive treaty, andI think, but I'm not sure, that an executive agreement isa kind of treaty, we would be dealing with the SupremacyClause. We wouldn't be dealing with the foreign affairspower of the President.But the argument here is not the SupremacyClause. Nobody claims that there is preemption. Whatthey are claiming is, is that there is interference with,in Harlan's words, a Federal policy in the foreign affairsarea, so if you're taking the position it has to bepreemptive under the Supremacy Clause, then you're sayingthat all this material is totally irrelevant.Now, that's a possible position, but I want to know what your view is.MR. KAPLAN: Our view is that where theexecutive simply expresses an aspiration where -- which isthe situation here, where he's indicated he'll use hisbest efforts, it's no different than --QUESTION: Oh, no, it's -- what I've read to youis not an aspiration. What I read to you were statementsby the Deputy Secretary of State --MR. KAPLAN: Yes.QUESTION: -- that said the California statute th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC is totally contrary to the efforts that they were tryingto make. I would -- of course, it's not legally sayingCalifornia is illegal, and that's why I'm -- that's what Iwant you to explore.MR. KAPLAN: The response, Justice Breyer, isthis. Under the Barclay's decision, Congress is theprimary authority when -- when dealing with --QUESTION: I thought Barclay's had to do withthe Commerce Clause.MR. KAPLAN: It dealt with both the CommerceClause and the foreign affairs power. The Zschernig casewas taken for review by the Court. The Court did notdispose of that, and we believe that the foreign affairsissue is subsumed within the Barclay's decision whenyou're dealing with matters of State commercial regulation.QUESTION: The -- Barclay's dealt with theForeign Commerce Clause, and it made the point that theone voice in that area was Congress, not the President. It wasn't dealing -- that case did not deal with executiveagreements, as I recall it, and I think I have a prettygood memory of that case.MR. KAPLAN: Yes.QUESTION: And that being so, you see, the --this is not the same for that reason, and also what we're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC talking about here is, the Governments of Switzerland andthe Governments of Germany, not private people, sayingthat if California enforces this statute, percent ofwhich has nothing to do with Holocaust victims, that is,the insurance policies don't, that is, what we're worriedabout under our privacy statutes is Gwendolyn finds outthat Uncle Harry in England left all the money to Cecilyinstead of Gwendolyn and, of course, Cecily doesn't wantthat to occur. That's her private affair. That's whyGermany and Switzerland have laws that say these mattersare quiet, silent, private, and those Governments aretelling us that your statute violates their privacy lawbecause of its overbreadth.MR. KAPLAN: Foreign Governments wereextraordinarily upset about the -- the tax that was the subject of the Barclay's case. In fact, the BritishGovernment passed retaliatory legislation, and this --this Court found that that was not sufficient when therewas no specific indication by Congress of an intent to barthe State law.Here, you've had testimony by Deputy SecretaryEizenstat before Congress --QUESTION: Yes, but -- but that's -- theCongress has principal concern with revenue and fiscalpolicy. It doesn't have principal concern with foreign th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC policy. It's very different.QUESTION: And that was the reason that Barclaysaid you -- yes, you're right that the executive branchwas in there saying look, all these foreign countries areupset, and we think that they have a good case. That wasthe executive position, and this Court said, but you'redealing in an area where Congress has the lead, holds thelead rein and not the President. That's the only pointthat -- we -- when we were talking about the ForeignCommerce Clause authority, that's a different questionthan the executive authority.MR. KAPLAN: I -- I believe, Justice Ginsburg,the issue here is whether the President, by engaging insome negotiation, or expressing an aspiration as to whatthe President thinks the foreign policy ought to be, can trump a State regulation, and I think the consequence ofthat being so would be dramatic for matters of Stateregulation, because State regulation often has some sortof foreign implication to it, since we're dealing with aglobal economy and there are often foreign affiliates thatare called upon to report on information, and if -- ifthat law was overturned because a foreign Government orthe executive branch complained about that conduct, Stateregulatory law would effectively be thwarted.QUESTION: Well, we can -- we can distinguish th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC those cases. As -- as pointed out by -- by youradversary, the difference in this law is that it is onlydirected at foreign Nations.MR. KAPLAN: No -- no, Your Honor --QUESTION: The -- the only -- the onlydisclosure required is -- is by affiliates abroad, isn'tit?MR. KAPLAN: Justice Scalia, that's not correct. The disclosures are required by California licensees,including companies that wrote insurance who wereCalifornia licensees.QUESTION: What disclosures are required bythose licensees?MR. KAPLAN: Disclosure of the name of thepolicyholder, where the policyholder lived, and the name of the beneficiary --QUESTION: Yes.MR. KAPLAN: -- and the status of the policy asto whether it's paid --QUESTION: Of policies written by them?MR. KAPLAN: Yes, or their affiliates. Or theiraffiliates. You have a situation, for example, whereGenerali has been licensed to do business in Californiasince --QUESTION: Policies written anywhere in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC world?MR. KAPLAN: Written in Europe.QUESTION: Ah. In other words, it's onlydirected at the regulation of foreign matters.MR. KAPLAN: It's -- it's direct --QUESTION: We can -- we can easily distinguishthose -- those California's laws that -- that are generallaws which have some indirect effect upon foreign affairs. This -- this thing is directed at foreign operations.MR. KAPLAN: It's directed at a concern thatCalifornia has by reason of the migration of -- of a largenumber of Holocaust survivors to the State and, in fact,the numbers that we've indicated in our submissions, YourHonor, are that there are at least , Jewish Holocaustsurvivors, and we don't know how many non-Jewish Holocaust survivors there are in the State.QUESTION: And to that -- and for that reasonCalifornia candidly made specifically reference toNazi-controlled Germany, to present-day Germany, and toEurope, and to the Holocaust, none of which are ofCalifornia's concern when it conflicts with thePresident's power to deal with those matters.MR. KAPLAN: Justice Kennedy, I -- I guess Idisagree. I think California has a substantial concern. It has a concern about people in the State who don't have th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC basic policy information that they're seeking.QUESTION: Why don't they, because you see,as -- as it's been argued to us anyway, there are two waysof achieving this result. Way number would haveprivately people whom you select, or trust, to go throughthe million policies that were sold, pick out all thosethat might have to do with Holocaust victims, and makethem public. I take it that's the route that SecretaryEizenstat negotiated.The other way is California's way, which is, youmake the whole million public, so Gwendolyn andeverybody else finds out everybody else's information,which happens to be a way that would violate the privacylaws of Switzerland and Germany.Now, what interest does California have in doing it the second way, rather than the first way?MR. KAPLAN: California has an interest inobtaining information that companies doing business in theState have so far exhibited they're unwilling to provide. By requiring the information that the law asks for, wewill be sure that there's no further stonewallingoccurring in the State, and that companies that want to dobusiness in the State will not engage in that conduct inthe future. It will also assure that people --QUESTION: Well, it looks like the way this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC scheme is written is, the -- the companies doing businessin California have to provide the information even ifthey're unable to do so, even if when they go to anaffiliated, or company related somewhere down the line,let's say in Germany or Austria, and ask for theinformation, and German or Austrian law prohibits thatfrom being disclosed, then the California company willhave its license yanked. Now, what kind of law is that?MR. KAPLAN: It's the same kind of law, YourHonor, that the Europeans practice, too. We've citedsomething in the record. It's the European directive thatappears at E.R. to . European regulators, justlike State regulators, deal with situations all the timewhere there may be a conflict with a foreign law or thelaw of another State, and if States are -- are able to effectively regulate the business that -- that is going onin the State and the companies doing business here, theyhave to have the right to be able to apply their law.Otherwise, there could be a law establishedin -- in the Cayman Islands that established a privacyright for companies doing business in the State, and a --a company could assert that the law of a foreign countryprecluded that company from -- from complying with a Stateregulatory law, and we don't think that's how the lawworks. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, are -- are you saying thatthere is no way that the United States could act thatwould, in fact, have that effect?MR. KAPLAN: I'm sorry --QUESTION: I mean, if -- if Congress passed astatute in effect condemning what California had done, notrepealing McCarran-Ferguson but simply condemning it,or -- or authorizing the President specifically to makewhat the -- the agreements that the President has made onan executive basis now, are you saying that neither ofthose acts in effect would preclude California from doingwhat it is doing under this statute?MR. KAPLAN: No, Justice Souter. I think you'dhave a serious preemption problem there under the --QUESTION: Okay, so it -- it boils down, then, to an argument about the executive power alone, is thatcorrect?MR. KAPLAN: Yes, it does. It boils down to aseparation of --QUESTION: Well, is -- is your argument -- andI -- I will be quiet after this question and let you saywhatever you wanted, but what I want you to focus on is --MR. KAPLAN: Yes.QUESTION: -- do you take the position thatwhenever the executive, let's say, agreement by th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC executive -- action by executive agreement is, in theopinion of a State regulator, inadequate to address theregulatory problem as the regulator sees it, that theregulator is free, in effect, to disregard the policy inthe executive agreement? Do you take that position?MR. KAPLAN: I do unless the executive agreementis preemptive and unless there's something else about theexecutive agreement that would give it preemptive quality. Clearly, the executive agreement --QUESTION: Well, are we talking about form ofwords? If the President and executive agreements had ineffect said, and no State can do anything which isinconsistent with this policy, would your position bedifferent?MR. KAPLAN: It might be, because I think you'd be dealing with a situation there where arguably it wouldbe a preemptive executive agreement which might carry thesame status as a -- a statute by Congress.QUESTION: Why does he have to --QUESTION: What if Congress had -- had ratifiedwhat the President did so that it's no longer just an actof the President but an act of the President approved byCongress? Would your position be any different?MR. KAPLAN: Your Honor, then you might have asituation like Dames & Moore, where there was a pattern of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC congressional acquiescence in the kind of executiveagreements that occurred there. QUESTION: Well, but this isn't -- this isn'tjust acquiescence in a -- in an executive agreement. Thisis Congress saying, we approve and ratify it.MR. KAPLAN: Then -- then you might have thekind of specific disapproval of State action that thisCourt talked about in the Barclay's case. You don't --QUESTION: Well, why would it be any morespecific than this is? If the executive agreement is notexpressly preemptive, and Congress passes a statutesaying, we agree with it; we think the executive agreementis right on the money, it wouldn't, in fact, be any morerestrictive or less restrictive than it is now.MR. KAPLAN: I -- I think the difference, Your Honor, is then you have Congress acting, you have Congressspeaking, which is what this Court in Barclay's thoughtwas the appropriate actor to speak in matters of foreigncommerce.QUESTION: Congress makes laws. The Presidentdoesn't make laws. I'm not sure that the President canmake an executive agreement preemptive which is notpreemptive in its nature. I mean, all -- all he can sayis, is there any -- any State action which is inconsistentwith our foreign policy expressed in this agreement is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC invalid, but that's not -- not something that occurs byreason of his pronouncement. It occurs, if it occurs atall, by reason of the Constitution, automatically, so itreally doesn't matter whether he says that or not. Hissaying it cannot make it happen, and his not saying it, Ithink, cannot not make it happen.MR. KAPLAN: I agree.QUESTION: You shouldn't agree.(Laughter.)MR. KAPLAN: Then I won't.(Laughter.)QUESTION: May I ask you whether you thinkthat --QUESTION: I mean, if you agree -- the problemis, if you agree with that, that you're then going to say on the tough kinds of things that you raised, how do weknow if this is a Cayman Island situation fake, or how dowe know if it's a really genuine important policy of aforeign Government, say, the privacy policy?There are one of two people who can decide that,the Secretary of State or, say, the Governor or InsuranceCommissioner of California and the problem for you, Ithink, is that the Constitution seems to give theauthority to decide that to the Secretary of State and notthe Insurance Commissioner of California because it's a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC foreign affairs matter.MR. KAPLAN: I -- I think actually the -- theConstitution gives that authority to Congress, and if theexecutive branch --QUESTION: You mean, Congress is supposed to runforeign affairs on every -- all of these matters?MR. KAPLAN: Congress is supposed to runforeign -- matters of foreign commerce, includingobjections by foreign Governments about the way States arebehaving. If they -- if they think they're behavingbadly, then the executive can go to Congress, lodge acomplaint, and if Congress is so inclined, Congress can dosomething about it.Clearly, here, Congress has done nothing aboutit. In fact, Congress has -- has encouraged the State statute. There was testimony before Congress. Congressdidn't say stop doing that. Congress said, we bless whatyou've done, we think you're doing a good job, keep doingit.QUESTION: In what way did Congress say this?MR. KAPLAN: Congress said that in --QUESTION: I mean, was it a committee report, oran act of Congress?MR. KAPLAN: There were statements made by -- byMembers of Congress in response to testimony that was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC given, including the hearing --QUESTION: Well, you're -- you're saying that isthe voice of Congress?MR. KAPLAN: No, I'm not. I'm saying theMcCarran-Ferguson Act is the voice of Congress, the --QUESTION: Well, but you just said a moment agothat Congress had -- had approved this.MR. KAPLAN: Yes. Congress has approvedit either implicitly or directly through theMcCarran-Ferguson Act, which gives the States authority toact in matters of insurance. In the Holocaust CommissionAct Congress, in effect, endorsed State action to dealwith Holocaust insurance matters.QUESTION: Is it not true that the -- what theCongress endorsed there was presidential leadership, not State action?MR. KAPLAN: But in -- but in that statuteCongress recognized that States were acting in this area. The statute said that the commission there shouldcoordinate its activities with the States, and it askedthe National Association of Insurance Commissioners topass -- to prepare a report, rather, on the activities offoreign and domestic insurance companies doing business inthis country, and the Ninth Circuit found, and we believeit was reasonable for it to find that Congress th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC anticipated, understood, and -- and knew that -- that theStates would be acting pursuant to State law and mighthave to seek information from entities located outside theborders of this country.QUESTION: Mr. Kaplan, there -- there was areason, I think, why the Federal Constitution gave thepower to conduct foreign affairs not to the Congress butto the executive, and the reason was that Congress is nota very good instrument for that purpose, that there areall sorts of matters that come up where -- this being oneof them, where it is very difficult for a Member ofCongress to cast a vote against Holocaust victims. That'swhat we're talking about.Why -- why should the situation exist that,although the President has the responsibility without Congress for conducting foreign affairs, his conduct offoreign affairs can be frustrated by the States unlessCongress comes to his assistance? Why -- why should thatfollow?It would seem to me it should follow that he canprotect this foreign affairs field on his own, and doesnot have to call for the assistance of Congress.MR. KAPLAN: We believe that that would leadto -- to a situation where, any time the executive decidesthat there's a matter of -- of foreign policy concern to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC him, legitimate State regulation would have to take a backseat to that, so you have, in essence, presidentiallawmaking without any --QUESTION: Well --MR. KAPLAN: -- any sort of accountability thatyou normally have --QUESTION: It just shifts -- it just shifts theinertia, really. Congress is the -pound gorilla. Ifit doesn't like what the President is doing in the fieldof foreign affairs, it can stop him as quickly as itlikes. All it has to do is pass a resolution cutting offany funds for that purpose, cutting off any funds forthis -- for further negotiations about this institution. Congress always has the trump card.But why should we -- should we require Congress to protect the President from the States? Why shouldn'the have an automatic protection from it?MR. KAPLAN: Because except in limited areassuch as Zschernig, in Belmont, in Pink, and in Dames &Moore, where you have a foreign policy crisis or arecognition, ordinarily I don't believe that this Courtwants the executive to go off and announce foreignpolicy issues that will have effect on State regulation. It affects issues of federalism and separation of powers.Here, in fact, it was the State regulators that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC formed ICHEIC. This was a creature of the Stateregulators, and after years of not having done anything,the State regulators decided that enough's enough, thesepeople are not getting the information. There were ,claims submitted. Only offers were made, less than percent. These people are in a line to nowhere, becausewithout this information they can't make a claim toICHEIC. They can't even call the insurance company,because they don't even know which insurance company --QUESTION: Mr. Kaplan, we've been told thatthat -- that's past history --MR. KAPLAN: It's not.QUESTION: -- as a result of these recentefforts, that there's much more disclosure coming out ofICHEIC.MR. KAPLAN: There's not, Your Honor. There --there's been -- there's expected to be some disclosurefrom German companies. We don't know what that's going tobe.The -- insurance was written all over Europe. The German market was only a small part of this Europeanmarket. Generali wrote insurance all over Eastern Europe,and all the countries in Eastern Europe. They have a listnow sitting in Trieste, Italy, with , names on it. They could turn that list over tomorrow. They've refused. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC There's no privacy issue involving Generali. There's noItalian law that precludes it. They've simply refused toturn it over.These survivors do not have access to thisinformation. They do not know whether their policies werewritten by Generali or some other country -- companybecause they simply don't have the information thatenables them to even think about making their claim.This is not a claims-paying statute. We're notasking these companies to pay twice. Survivors would begrateful if they paid once. There's nothing whatsoever inthis statute that -- that deals with the legitimacy ofthese claims, whether they're rightful or not. It simplygives these people information that allows them to make adecision as to whether they want to pursue a claim. Theydon't have that ability now.If there are no further questions I would --QUESTION: Yes, I have one question, if I might.MR. KAPLAN: Yes, sir.QUESTION: I would draw a distinction in myquestion between Eizenstat's letter, which in effect says,please don't enforce these subpoenas because that willlouse up our negotiations and so forth. Put that to oneside, and -- and I ask you if you would agree or disagreewith the suggestion that if you do enforce the subpoenas th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you will violate a -- a provision of one of the twoexecutive agreements?MR. KAPLAN: I don't think there's any violationof the executive agreements. Those agreements simplyprovide, with respect to State regulatory action, that theUnited States will use its best efforts. To me, that's arecognition and an understanding that the FederalGovernment knew that insurance is a State matter, a Stateregulation. That's all that the Federal Government wasdoing. It said, we'll try our best to get the States toback off, we're making no promises to you because we don'tthink we have the authority. We believe in matters ofinsurance it's the States that have that authority.QUESTION: Or it could be an acknowledgement bythe President that this is a matter that ultimately depends upon whether his foreign affairs power is -- is --trumps the State action in this field, and -- and it couldbe a commitment by him to come to this Court to ask us tomake that declaration, which is not a declaration that hecan authoritatively make.MR. KAPLAN: On -- on page of the SolicitorGeneral's brief in this matter the Solicitor General takesthe position that even as to the executive agreements itonly would have some preemptive effect, if it has any atall, as to the companies and the countries where the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC agreements were made, so I believe the Solicitor Generalacknowledges it wouldn't have any preemptive effectwhatsoever for the Italian companies, the Swiss companies,or companies anywhere else in Europe.QUESTION: What about the letter? I -- I --that's why I asked the question at the beginning. Eizenstat's letter -- it's on a of the appendix. I -- Ididn't know whether that's limited to the subpoena part orwhether it had to do with the disclosure, or whether it'sreferring to the statute as a whole. When I read it,honestly, I thought it was the, probably the statute as awhole, but I don't know. Do you have any light to shed onthat?MR. KAPLAN: I -- I do not, Your Honor. I don'trecall the --QUESTION: You think it could be the statute asa whole he's talking about?MR. KAPLAN: It could well have been.QUESTION: Yes, all right.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.MR. KAPLAN: Thank you very much.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mr. Geller, themarshal says you have seconds left, and under theprinciple of --(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: -- de minimis noncurat lex the case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 