 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMISSOURI, Petitioner ::v. : No. -PATRICE SEIBERT. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:KAREN K. MITCHELL, ESQ., Chief Deputy Attorney General,Jefferson City, Missouri; on behalf of thePetitioner.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner. AMY M. BARTHOLOW, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender,Columbia, Missouri; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF KAREN K. MITCHELL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner AMY M. BARTHOLOW, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKAREN K. MITCHELL, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Missouri v. Seibert. Ms. Mitchell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF KAREN K. MITCHELLON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. MITCHELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Miranda's core ruling is that an unwarnedstatement may not be used in the prosecution's case inchief to prove guilt. In this case, the prosecution didnot seek to admit an unwarned statement, rather thestatement that was offered was preceded by a meticulousrecitation of Miranda warnings, an express waiver ofrights, and was the product of non-coercive questioning.A fully warned and otherwise voluntary statementis not tainted by the existence of a prior unwarnedstatement even if the officer intentionally initiatedquestioning without warning and that is true for tworeasons. First, because an officer's intent does notrender the unwarned statement actually involuntary. Theunwarned statement is merely presumptively compelled, andonce warnings are administered, that presumption ends and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the suspect has the information necessary to make aknowing and intelligent decision about waiver. QUESTION: May I just interrupt? You say thesecond warning removes the presumption as to the earlierunwarned statement. Why? MS. MITCHELL: Going forward, Your Honor, yes.QUESTION: Going forward, but not goingbackward.MS. MITCHELL: No. No, Your Honor. Only going-- it -- it ends the presumption at that --QUESTION: So that you still have thepresumption that the earlier statement was involuntary.MS. MITCHELL: Yes, Your Honor. It ends thepresumption that that -- at that point going forwardbecause it provides the --QUESTION: And is that true if the -- if theconversation after the warnings includes interrogationabout what he said before? MS. MITCHELL: It would depend on how thathappened, but under the facts of this case, yes, it wouldstill remain true. There are essentially -- under Miranda, thereare two elements that we have to look at in determiningwhether a statement is admissible, and that is whether youhave a knowing, intelligent, voluntary waiver and whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the statement is in fact voluntary. If there is areference back, as there was in this case to the previousstatement, it could be a problem if that is part of thewaiver element. And I believe that's what this Courtindicated in Elstad itself. If the officer used that in away that affected the knowing nature then of what the --the information that was imparted and made the waivertherefore defective, it may be problematic. However, asin this case, where there's simply a reference back duringthe -- the questioning, after there is a waiver and adecision to go forward, that alone does not affect thevoluntariness of that subsequent statement. QUESTION: Would it -- would it affect it if theofficer said, now, an hour ago you told me X? Were youcorrect in saying that or not? Would that be permissible?MS. MITCHELL: I think so. After the decisionhas been made to waive and the individual has decided toproceed forward and talk, I believe that's correct, YourHonor, because --QUESTION: No, please finish. MS. MITCHELL: -- because it does not -- it isnot sufficient to overbore the individual's will, which isthe question at that point because we're at the voluntaryanalysis at that point.QUESTION: The difficulty I have with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. argument is the premise that you state -- is in acceptingthe premise that you state, and that is that a secondinterrogation that falls on the heels of the first --here, I think there was a -minute break -- can really beseparated as a matter of simple psychology. I -- I havedifficulty in accepting the plausibility of a conclusionthat the -- that the ostensible waiver in the second caseis really a free waiver as distinct from sort of throwingup one's hands and saying it's too late to say no now. It's the -- it -- there's a basic implausibility in yourcase. What -- what can you offer on that point?MS. MITCHELL: Well, first, Elstad addressedthat exact issue and came to the opposite conclusion.QUESTION: But -- but Elstad -- I mean, let me-- and maybe that's the way I should have focused thecase. In -- in Elstad, you did not have a -- let's say, a-- a systematic questioning of the -- of the sort thatwent on here. Here the -- the police did, indeed, engagein a kind of first-round interrogation, and the -- theintensity of their pressure to get answers in this caseseems to me qualitatively different from Elstad.MS. MITCHELL: It is different, Your Honor. There clearly is a continuum. But the appropriatequestion is whether the first statement was involuntary ornot. If in fact that questioning and that pressure had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. been great enough to make that first statementinvoluntary, then absolutely it would create the kind oftaint that could carry forward even after subsequentwarnings were given. I think that is the lesson ofElstad.But Elstad draws that distinction between actualcoercion and presumptive coercion, and where it is merelypresumptive -- it does not rise to the level of actual --then that does not carry forward. QUESTION: But that's -- comparatively speaking,I -- I think maybe that was -- that was relatively easy totell in Elstad. Here, it's going to be a serious issue,and it seems to me that in order to litigate this issue asthe threshold issue to determining whether the secondwaiver or as part of the litigation as to whether the --the ostensible waiver really is a waiver and the secondstatement really is voluntary, we're right back in themorass of litigation, which is one of the principalobjects of Miranda to avoid in the first place. We -- wesaid, look, this -- this litigation is very difficult. It's difficult to engage in this litigation and produce a-- a clear and reliable answer. It seems to me that --that the position you take forces us right back into thatlitigation position that we tried to get away from inMiranda itself. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. MITCHELL: Well, two observations on that,Your Honor. First, the Court has not really ever gotten awayfrom the totality of the circumstances analysis. TheCourt has continued to employ it as the primaryanalysis --QUESTION: But you want us to wade deeper. You're -- you're absolutely right. There's -- there's no-- there's no easy way. But your way would make it moredifficult. Your -- your way would promote litigation,wouldn't it? MS. MITCHELL: I -- I don't know that I agreewith that because I don't see this as different from whereyou are in Harris where you still have to do a full-blownanalysis of voluntariness. It is somewhat different thanthe two-prong analysis that is done in every case wherevoluntariness is at issue because you have the warningsand then, arguably, the totality of the circumstancesanalysis is somewhat easier. But, nevertheless, in asituation such as Harris, where you're making on the frontend a determination on voluntariness, I think it is very,very similar to what -- what we are suggesting here.QUESTION: Ms. Mitchell, do you take theposition that we have to conduct a voluntariness inquiryin -- as to the second statement -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. MITCHELL: Yes. QUESTION: -- after the warnings were given?MS. MITCHELL: Yes.QUESTION: You agree with that. MS. MITCHELL: Absolutely.QUESTION: And in doing that, do you think thatthe officer's use of the initial confession to get thedefendant to admit what went on is irrelevant to thatvoluntariness inquiry --MS. MITCHELL: I would not --QUESTION: -- or just that it isn't sufficientto determine the outcome? MS. MITCHELL: I think it --QUESTION: What -- what is your positionexactly?MS. MITCHELL: I think it is not sufficient todetermine the outcome. I would not say it is irrelevant.QUESTION: But it is relevant in the inquiry.MS. MITCHELL: I would not say it's irrelevantbecause I think, as the Court has looked at totality ofthe circumstances and what is necessary to show coercion,basically the Court has looked, I believe, at twoelements: the conduct of the officer and if it iscoercive, and the effect on the individual consideringtheir personality, character traits, and so forth. In th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Elstad, when -- in talking about the effect of the cat outof the bag on the individual, the Court talked about somesubjective disadvantage that the individual might have,and so I suppose that type of analysis could lump thatwithin the characteristics of the individual that theCourt would look at in determining a totality of thecircumstances analysis. QUESTION: I -- I don't -- I don't understandyour -- your position on that point. It -- it seems to methat if there has been no coercion in the firstconfession, how could -- how could it possibly be relevantto whether the second confession is voluntary, whetherthere had been a prior admission?MS. MITCHELL: I don't think it can control,Your Honor, and I don't --QUESTION: I didn't say control. How could itpossibly be relevant? Unless you're saying what isrelevant is whether Miranda was observed, which hasnothing to do with whether it was necessarily involuntary.MS. MITCHELL: And I suppose I would draw thedistinction between the questioning and the answer, whichI think is a distinction this Court drew in Elstad aswell. I don't think the questioning is relevant at all tothe subsequent statement, and certainly I would agree withwhat you're saying. When there's no coercion, it should th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not -- there's no taint that carries forward. But if it is to be considered at all -- andperhaps it shouldn't be, but in a totality of thecircumstances analysis, if there is a reference back andthe Court wants to consider that as part of the totality,it seems to me the Court might look at from theperspective of whether it in some way affects theindividual. QUESTION: What -- what you're inviting courtsto do is to say, well, he wouldn't have made the secondconfession had he not made the first one which wasunwarned under Miranda and therefore the second one isalso presumptively -- that's what you're inviting.MS. MITCHELL: I don't think so. That -- thatfact alone could never carry the day, and I think that wasmade very, very clear in Elstad where that was --QUESTION: Of course, it can't carry the day,but it's -- it's one of the totality of the circumstances. Right?MS. MITCHELL: Correct. But just the referenceback I don't believe makes it any -- really affects it ormakes it any -- any different than the fact that the cathas already been let out of the bag --QUESTION: May I ask you just a broaderquestion? Is there anything -- if your submission is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. correct, is there any reason why a police departmentshould not adopt a policy that said, never give Mirandawarnings until a suspect confesses?MS. MITCHELL: I think -- I think there are lotsof reasons why -- why police departments would not dothat.QUESTION: Why not? MS. MITCHELL: There is a risk associated withtaking this type of an approach, and as our officerindicated here, he was rolling the dice. He did notindicate that he did this in every single interrogationhe -- he --QUESTION: So what has he got to lose is what Ihave to understand. Because if the -- if he doesn'tconfess anyway, you haven't lost anything. He wouldn'thave confessed with the Miranda warning. If he doesconfess, then you've got a shot at getting it in aftergiving him the Miranda warning.MS. MITCHELL: What --QUESTION: Why would you not -- why would younot always adopt that policy? MS. MITCHELL: Well, what officers want whenthey do an interrogation generally is an admissiblestatement for all purposes, not for some limited purpose. And so what they are looking for is to maximize that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. possibility, and they know that -- that the vast majorityof people, according to studies, percentage-wise do infact waive and give a statement. What they risk then is,by not giving the warnings on the front end, is that thatalone will become a factor in the analysis in determiningwhether or not that first statement was voluntary. Ifthe --QUESTION: But not if you get the rule that --that you're asking for here, other than this factor.And then that gets back to the question I wantto ask and I think it bears on what you're telling JusticeStevens. Can you tell me what relevance, what weight,what significance do we attach to an earlier unwarnedstatement? MS. MITCHELL: In and of --QUESTION: It is a factor in the totality of thecircumstances? Is that -- is that what you're telling us?MS. MITCHELL: No. What I'm saying is in this-- as in this case, where there is a reference back, Ithink the Court could look at that as one factor when it'sdetermining totality of the circumstances and whether thestatement is voluntary or not. Just the fact that therehad been previous interrogation or previous questioningwithout warnings in and of itself I do not believe, underany circumstances, could carry forward. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: When you say reference back, Ms.Mitchell, you mean the interrogator refers back to the --MS. MITCHELL: Yes. QUESTION: -- earlier statement. MS. MITCHELL: As occurred in this case.QUESTION: And the reference back could cause it-- could cause the later statement to be involuntarybecause?MS. MITCHELL: Well, I don't think it wouldcause the -- the statement to be involuntary in and ofitself, but --QUESTION: I know not in and of itself, but it-- it tends to show that the prior statement -- that thelater statement is involuntary. Unless it tends to showthat, it's irrelevant. Now, why is it that it tends toshow that? MS. MITCHELL: I think if the Court were toconsider that, it would be one factor bearing on how theother circumstances or other parts of the police conductaffected that individual because in the analysis inElstad, the Court looked at this question of the effect onthe individual of having spoken before. So it would notbe the -- the previous questioning because that --QUESTION: The -- the only way it could have anybearing, it seems to me, is that the person would have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said, what the heck, I've already coughed it up, I may aswell -- I may as well do it again. And you think thatthat makes the second one involuntary.MS. MITCHELL: I don't think that makes thesecond --QUESTION: Well, I don't think it does either.MS. MITCHELL: I don't --QUESTION: And if it doesn't, I don't see how itcan at all be relevant. MS. MITCHELL: Well, Your Honor, if the Court islooking at the totality of the circumstances, what we'resaying is that may be one circumstance the --QUESTION: When we said totality of thecircumstances, I -- I had always thought we meant totalityof the relevant circumstances, you know, not whether it'sa Tuesday afternoon or not. QUESTION: Is time relevant? Suppose as soon asthe officers got what they wanted from Mrs. Seibert, theydidn't give her a -minute break to have a cigarette,they said, fine, we got it. Now we're going to redo yourMiranda rights nice and slow and then go right on with thequestions. Is there any significance to the time andplace? That is, she was -- she was in the same room withthe same officers.MS. MITCHELL: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Suppose it had been one continuousepisode, but in the middle of it, they gave her Mirandawarnings.MS. MITCHELL: We do not believe that that wouldmake any difference, Your Honor. As this Court indicatedin Elstad, a waiver that is otherwise voluntary andknowing is not ineffective for some specific period oftime simply because there was prior interrogation.QUESTION: It's -- it's simply that the closerthe interrogation, the less likely that there is in fact avoluntary waiver.MS. MITCHELL: I don't believe so, Your Honor,because what -- what you're looking at to determine ifthere's a voluntary waiver is whether the individual hadthe information, specifically the legal information, theyneeded to make a decision. That is giving them theirwarnings and -- and in a way that clearly communicatestheir rights to them, and then they have an opportunity tomake a decision. QUESTION: No, but it's -- it's more than simplya -- I mean, there's -- there's no question that the --that the crucial element is a decision made withappreciation of legal rights. But the other crucialelement is that the decision to waive them be voluntary.MS. MITCHELL: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And it seems to me the closer you areto the prior statement, the closer you are to saying toyourself, what have I got left to waive? Sure, I'll goahead. I've already done it. MS. MITCHELL: I think --QUESTION: And -- and that's not a -- that's nota function of -- of knowledge of law. It's a function ofproximity to the prior statement. MS. MITCHELL: Well, two things on that. Ithink Elstad indicated strongly that time was notrelevant. It would be relevant if we were doing anattenuation analysis, but we're not because there wasn'tunderlying coercive conduct, one. Two, I think if you look at cases such as Bayer,this Court has indicated that, you know, once the cat isout of the bag, the cat is out of the bag. And perhaps,if you want to look at it that way, it always has somelingering effect, but that is not sufficient to make thesecond statement involuntary. So how long that breakis --QUESTION: Do you know -- do you know why we --we have the common phrase, I think I'll sleep on it? Wehave that phrase because we're -- we're likely to make a-- a more intelligent decision if we have more time. Isn't that true? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. MITCHELL: But on the other hand, YourHonor, I think this could be more equated to buyer remorsewhere someone has done something and they thought, wow, Iwish I hadn't done that. And then they're told exactlywhat their rights are, and it's like, wow, okay, I have anopportunity to change what I have just done. And that'swhat I think really is going on here when the warnings areread to the individual, and so, no, I do not believe thatthe passage of time is relevant.If there are no other questions at this time.QUESTION: That -- you're reserving your time,Ms. Mitchell? MS. MITCHELL: Yes. QUESTION: Very well.Mr. Gornstein, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATESAS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:An officer's failure to give Miranda warningsbefore taking an initial statement does not presumptivelytaint the admissibility of a subsequent statement that hasbeen preceded by Miranda warnings and an express waiver ofMiranda rights. And the reason is that the risk of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. compulsion that is inherent in unwarned custodialinterrogation and that makes the first statementinadmissible is counteracted once Miranda warnings havebeen given.QUESTION: May I ask whether you -- you tocomment on one -- what if we required that the secondwarning include a statement that you realize what you saidup to now would be inadmissible in your trial? MR. GORNSTEIN: That is exactly the requirementthat this Court rejected in Elstad, and the onlydifference between this case and in Elstad identified bythe Missouri Supreme Court is that here the initialfailure to warn was intentional. And the -- the fact ofintentionality adds nothing to the level of compulsionthat is experienced by the suspect during the initialinterrogation. It adds nothing to the psychological forcethat operates on the suspect who has confessed once as aresult of unwarned -- during unwarned questioning and thegiving and subsequent administration of Miranda warningsis no less effective in providing the information that isnecessary to make a knowing and voluntary decision --QUESTION: That's -- that's what's not clear tome, that -- that -- it seems to me you're absolutely onthe right track in saying that Miranda has, as one of itsbasic purposes, dealing with cases where there may or may th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not be compulsion. We're not sure. And this gets rid ofthe risk, so that that's a very good way of describing it.And then it seems to me in this kind of case wehave two risks. One was the risk that really it wascompelled -- the first statement. And second is the riskthat really that first statement does lead to the secondconfession.And so to obviate those risks, would it makesense to say in any case where the police knowingly orreasonably should have known they're supposed to giveMiranda warnings in the first case, you can use the secondstatement but only if the government shows that, first ofall, that first one wasn't compelled? Second, it showsthat the Miranda warning was given before the second. Andthird, it shows that a time has to have elapsed sufficientto make that Miranda warning reasonable, reasonablycutting the causal connection that you want it to cut. MR. GORNSTEIN: No, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: Because? MR. GORNSTEIN: Because start with Elstad whichrejected any requirement of a break. And -- and Elstadalso said that the risk of compulsion that is inherent inthe initial interrogation and that makes that inadmissibleis counteracted once the Miranda warnings have been given,whether or not there has been a significant break between th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the initial and the second interrogation.Now let me address your question aboutreasonable and knowing and whether that should make adifference. The fact that the warnings were known, that-- that this was a custodial interrogation situation, thefact that the officer may have been unreasonable inthinking it was not -- neither of those adds anything tothe level of compulsion that is experienced by the suspectduring the initial --QUESTION: It does not. You're right, but whatit does do is provide a tremendous incentive for thepolice to run around the Miranda warning, and when theyrun around it, we could get back, if they do it enough,into the circumstances before Miranda that were badcircumstances and called for Miranda.MR. GORNSTEIN: But the difference between thissituation and Miranda is that what Miranda addressed was asituation where you were relying solely on a voluntarinessinquiry to determine whether the statements that wereadmitted were compelled. And the Court has determinedthat there is an unacceptable risk in that situation whenall you're relying on is the totality of the circumstancesthat a compelled statement will be admitted. In thissituation, you are not relying --QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. GORNSTEIN: -- totally on the --QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, I -- Miranda, whateverit has become, has all over it inform at once, and whatwe're talking now is, no, Miranda isn't inform at once atall. It's -- it can be. Don't inform until, until you'vegotten enough, and then. Now, that seems to me quite adifferent thing. Anyone reading the Miranda decisionsays, oh, yes, these are the things the police aresupposed to say up front. And now you're saying, no, itdoesn't really mean that at all. It means don't inform ofyour rights until, somewhere in midstream.MR. GORNSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, how I -- how Iwould describe it is that you are required to give Mirandawarnings if the government is going to be able tointroduce this -- the statements as substantive evidenceof the defendant's guilt.QUESTION: But, Mr. Gornstein, you're justmaking a different compelled inquiry. Now you're notasking whether the warned statement was compelled, butyou're asking in every case whether the earlier statementwas compelled so that you'd have the police have a policyof always refusing to give warning, but say, well, don'tquestion him for more than or hours or something likethat because you run the risk of compulsion. But it seemsto me you're going to get that same factual inquiry with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. respect to the earlier statement that Miranda was designedto prevent -- to avoid with respect to the laterstatement. MR. GORNSTEIN: But the difference, JusticeStevens, is that -- that yes, there will be inquiry intothe voluntariness of the first statement and the secondstatement, but the difference is that the only statementthat is being admitted is the second statement. Andthat's --QUESTION: But you -- you agree that'sinadmissible if the earlier one was compelled.MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, not automaticallyinadmissible if it was compelled, Justice Stevens. Therewould be a --QUESTION: Oh, I misunderstood you. MR. GORNSTEIN: No. That would be presumptivelytaint -- it would presumptively taint the subsequentstatement and then you would look to the --QUESTION: No. I'm -- I'm assuming it's clearfrom the evidence the first statement was not merelypresumptively compelled but actually compelled. MR. GORNSTEIN: No. What I'm saying --QUESTION: Would it not automatically follow thesecond would be inadmissible?MR. GORNSTEIN: No. Then -- then the situation, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Justice Stevens, is you would look to a taint analysis tosee whether other additional factors cured the initialcompulsion and made the second statement voluntary.QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein --MR. GORNSTEIN: But what -- what I -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: No. Please finish your answer. MR. GORNSTEIN: I -- I just wanted to get thisone -- one thing answered which is that when you arelooking at the second statement and admitting it, you --it is a statement that has been preceded by Mirandawarnings. There is an express waiver of Miranda rights.There's a finding of voluntariness of the first, a findingof voluntariness of the second, and as to that statementat that point, there simply is not an unacceptable riskthat that statement has been compelled.And on the other hand, there is a serious costto the administration of justice when you exclude from thejury's consideration what -- a statement that is warnedand voluntary and very highly probative evidence of thedefendant's guilt.QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, you in -- in theanswer you just finished giving and I think throughoutyour argument, you were making -- I think you were makingthe assumption that there are two inquiries that should bemade in the situation that you envision. One is the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. voluntariness of the first statement, the unwarnedstatement. Second is the voluntariness of the secondstatement, following the warnings. Do you agree thatthere is a third inquiry and that is the voluntariness ofthe waiver?MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. MR. GORNSTEIN: There has to be an inquiry intothe -- there has to be a knowing and intelligent waiver. That is for sure. And if the officer does anything topressure the suspect, as the Court said in Elstad, toforce a waiver, then that would invalidate the subsequentstatement. QUESTION: And -- and don't you think that the-- the situation presented by this kind of case -- forpurposes of -- of judging the voluntariness of the waiver,don't you think that the situation presented by this kindof case is significantly different from the situationpresented by Elstad? Because Elstad did not involve asystematic interrogation. This did. Isn't it fairly trueto say as a general rule that following a systematicinterrogation, there is less likelihood of a trulyvoluntary waiver of the right to silence than in theElstad situation?MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, I -- I think what is fair th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to say is if it has crossed over into compulsion, yes. But if all there is is a risk of compulsion and -- andthat's what makes the first statement inadmissible, thenwhether or not there's a greater risk in the secondsituation of compulsion than the first --QUESTION: I'm trying to keep it simpler. I --I grant you that if there was compulsion, the risk isgreater. I'm -- I'm suggesting that without having to getinto the question and making a final determination ofwhether we're going to label the first statement a subjectof compulsion or not, isn't the very fact that there hasbeen a systematic interrogation in a case like this a factthat makes it less likely, not more likely, that the --that the Miranda waiver, when it comes, will not be avoluntary waiver? MR. GORNSTEIN: The longer the interrogation,that makes it relevant to the inquiry. But once Mirandawarnings have been given, that is sufficient to cure anyrisk of compulsion no matter how high.QUESTION: It's -- it's -- but that's -- you're-- you're getting to question three again. I'm talkingabout question two --MR. GORNSTEIN: I'm sorry. Then I think thatthe --QUESTION: -- the likelihood of a voluntary th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. waiver.MR. GORNSTEIN: No. I --QUESTION: We've got to -- we've got to touchthat base before we ask the question about compulsion.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Ms. Bartholow. Is that correct? MS. BARTHOLOW: Yes, it is, Your Honor. QUESTION: We'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF AMY M. BARTHOLOWON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. BARTHOLOW: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:I'd like to get directly to what Justice Souterjust mentioned, that when there's a systematicinterrogation, things are different. QUESTION: What do you mean by a systematicinterrogation? MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, I think what Elstad saidand why this situation is so much different from Elstad isthat it cited cases where there had been a systematicinterrogation where there was a deliberate elicitation ofquestions --QUESTION: I -- I realize there may be cases,but how about you defining what you mean by a systematicinterrogation? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BARTHOLOW: When police officersdeliberately elicit incriminating statements from asuspect, then --QUESTION: In other -- it -- it doesn't have togo over any period of time?MS. BARTHOLOW: I don't believe -- I don'tbelieve time is the critical factor.QUESTION: Isn't that the whole point ofinterrogation, is to elicit statements? MS. BARTHOLOW: Not in all circumstances, and I-- I think sometimes, especially what the Missouri SupremeCourt said there's a risk to this practice. For instance,when officers engage in this practice to locate physicalevidence, that wouldn't necessarily be a problem for theMissouri Supreme Court. But in Elstad, this Court cited, for instance,United States v. Pierce out of the Fourth Circuit and forthe proposition that the more in the without more test ofElstad -- the more would be a thorough custodialinterrogation at the station house. That would providemore, where there's a simple failure to administerwarnings without more --QUESTION: And -- and why should that be? Itseems to me that perhaps underlying your position is thatyou want us to say that there's simply more likelihood th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that there's going to be a statement after the Mirandawarning if there's been a -- for your -- to use your term,a systematic interrogation before. I'm -- I'm not surethat we have the empirical data to say that the defendantwould be more likely to talk after he's been questionedand the Miranda warning comes late.Is that what is behind your -- your argument? And if so, is -- is that something on which we can act? Suppose that he is more likely to give a statement afterthere's been a systematic interrogation. So what, if it'snot coerced? MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, Your Honor, the -- inElstad, this Court cited Westover which the cardinal factof Westover, as you said in Mosley, was that the failureof police officers to give any warnings whatsoever to theperson in custody before embarking on an intense andprolonged interrogation of him would result in coercion.QUESTION: So -- so what we're -- so what we'reconcerned about is the fact of coercion. Nothing --nothing more? MS. BARTHOLOW: I think in this case you havecoercion, but I think --QUESTION: Let's talk about the -- as a generalrule.MS. BARTHOLOW: No. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: So all we're talking about is therisk of coercion, or are we talking about preserving the-- the integrity of Miranda by not circumventing it, etcetera? MS. BARTHOLOW: All of those. I think you'reconcerned about the risk of coercion. QUESTION: Well, but I thought Miranda was onlyconcerned with coercion.MS. BARTHOLOW: No. The -- Miranda was --QUESTION: As an end -- as an end result. Obviously, it's a prophylactic rule. MS. BARTHOLOW: Miranda was certainly concernedabout the risk of compelling statements being -- and alsobeing admitted at trial. That was a main concern ofMiranda.But I -- I think what we're talking about hereis whether the waiver was voluntary and whether the secondstatement was voluntary and the risk of subjecting asuspect to lengthy, intense custodial interrogation. Wecannot presume that the waiver and subsequent statementwas --QUESTION: But -- but can you tell me why thatis? Is he afraid that he'll be beaten -- or she in thiscase -- or has the will be broken down so that thedecision is a little more clouded and -- and it would have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. been clearer to the person if the warning had been givenat the outset? These are -- these are matters ofpsychology that Elstad told us that we really should notbe speculating about. MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, Miranda -- and inDickerson it cited this portion of Miranda where it saidcustodial interrogations by their very nature generatecompelling pressures which work to undermine theindividual's will to resist and compel him to speak whenhe wouldn't otherwise do so freely. QUESTION: The question I think -- or at leastmine is that if you're talking psychology, the policemanwho knows from nothing, never heard of Miranda,accidentally says, did you commit the fire? Yes. Okay? That statement doesn't come in. And then later on he asksit again after the right warning. That's case one.Case two. The policeman, knowing everythingabout Miranda, thinks to himself, ha, ha, ha, I've got agreat trick here. Did you commit the crime, the fire? Yes. And then later on he asks him the question againafter warnings. In terms of the psychology of the defendantanswering the second time, whether that policeman was afool or a knave seems beside the point. And so if your --if -- if your whole argument is one of psychology, I don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. get it. Now, that's -- maybe there's more to yourargument than just the psychology of the -- the criminalor the defendant -- the criminal defendant the secondtime. And if so, I want you to respond to that. MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, Your Honor, I think we'reworried about suspects being coerced and compelled intogiving statements that aren't according to their freewill. We're --QUESTION: Which statements are you talkingabout? The first or the second?MS. BARTHOLOW: Both.QUESTION: Both, okay. How does the first work?MS. BARTHOLOW: I'm not sure I understand thequestion, Your Honor. QUESTION: If in fact you're worried aboutpolicemen subtly coercing the first statement, why do youhave to stop admission of the second statement? MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, the first statement isautomatically excluded pursuant to Miranda. The reasonwhy we need to exclude the second statement as well isbecause by using the first statement, by referring back tothe first statement, also by pressuring the waiver to getthe second statement, it's not as clear as it wouldnormally be that the second statement is voluntary afterthe suspect has been subjected to the lengthy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interrogation before. I mean, police officers wouldn't roll the diceif they knew it didn't work. This officer had used thistactic for to years because he knows it works.QUESTION: Work to do what? To coerce or topersuade or something else? That's -- that's what I'mtrying to get from you.MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, it undermines the freewill. It's -- it -- the tactic is used to prevent theexercise of free will. Had she been given the warnings atthe outset, she may well have invoked or asked for anattorney when pressure was too intense on her. What we'releaving --QUESTION: Well, could you argue that once youknow what questioning is like for, say, an hour and thenyou get the warning, you have a better idea of whether youwant to go through with this or not? Again, these areempirical things that I'm -- I'm not sure we're qualifiedto judge. Maybe -- maybe we must. MS. BARTHOLOW: I think, Your Honor, once --once she had been subjected to the lengthy interrogationand they got that statement from her that they hadpressured out of her, then when she -- they said, youknow, for -- for instance, they would have an incentive tosay, okay, now what you just told us we're going to put on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. tape and I will be back here with a tape recorder and wewill put it on tape. This is what a judge and a jury isgoing to hear.QUESTION: It's true if -- if we accept that --that the first statement was pressured out of her. Imean, I assume -- I assume that what we're proceeding onhere is the belief that it was not coercion in the firstinstance. I think everybody agrees if it was coerced inthe first instance, the case is over. Is that what youmean by pressured out of her, or -- or the mere -- themere failure to give Miranda warning constitutes pressure?MS. BARTHOLOW: I don't think the mere failureto administer the warning may create the pressure, butit's when the officer embarks upon the -- the specificquestioning and interrogation to get -- deliberatelyelicit an incriminating response, then you have this typeof coercive environment or coercive manner of questioningthat Elstad was concerned with. And I think that's whyElstad's opinion cited Pierce and Westover for the typesof questioning that would necessarily or -- or run thegreat risk of coercing the defendant into confessing. QUESTION: Well, and -- and if it did coerce,then -- then Elstad said its rule would not apply. Wasn'tElstad only saying that when this exists, there may bepossible a finding of actual coercion, but it's -- it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. not assuming that there is actual coercion whenever thatexists or -- or making a total exception from the rulethat it laid down for situations in which there was whatyou call -- what -- what do you call it? Orderlyinterrogation or programmed interrogation?MS. BARTHOLOW: I'm just looking at the languageof Elstad and when it said it's an unwarranted extensionof Miranda, it was saying just the simple failure toadminister the warnings unaccompanied by the actualcoercive tactics or the manner of questioning when that iscoercive or if -- if the environment that it's being donein is coercive, such as the, you know, station house, then-- then there would be no presumption, then the secondstatement wouldn't be compelled. But when you have thosefactors, when there's the great risk that it's being --that the statement is being made under the threat ofcoercion or pressure or where the environment is -- iscoercive, then you do have the presumption.QUESTION: Well, when it speaks of coerciveenvironment or coercive tactics, I -- I assumed that whatit meant is that the prior confession was coerced.MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, Your Honor, I -- I believethat under Miranda when the Court said that the custodial-- custodial interrogation exerts inherently coercivepressure, I think that means when they question and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. deliberately elicit an incriminating response that iscompelling, and --QUESTION: Well then, why have we allowedadmission of so many statements, you know, impeachment,public -- public interest, that sort of thing, that resultfrom a situation where there weren't Miranda warningsgiven if -- if simply station house interrogation alwaysproduces coercion? MS. BARTHOLOW: Because there, Your Honor, Ithink that the Court was balancing the interest of lawenforcement against the interest of allowing a suspect toget on the stand and later lie at trial. It affected thetruth-seeking function of the trial, which is greatlyimpacted here because here --QUESTION: We -- we would not balance if therewere actual coercion. I mean, once you find actualcoercion, the game is over. You don't bend the law intobalance.MS. BARTHOLOW: In -- in terms of whether you'regoing to admit the second statement, in the presence ofthe potential for coercion or actual coercion, then theburden needs to shift to the State. When they've employedthese tactics that generate the risk of compulsion, theyneed to show that that risk never manifested itself.QUESTION: But you're -- you -- you -- in what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you just said, you say, you know, potential for -- forcoercion, coercion. Those are different things. Coercion, in -- in the sense we've used it in the FifthAmendment cases, means that the confession is involuntary,and as Justice Scalia says, there's -- there's nobalancing there. But you're using it in a differentsense, aren't you? MS. BARTHOLOW: I'm saying that if in thiscontext where it was actually coerced, then no, herstatement would not have been admissible to impeach her at-- at all if she had been -- testified at trial.QUESTION: But -- but no lower court has foundthat the statement was actually coerced or that theconfession -- the statement was involuntary because oftactics of the government. MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, I believe the MissouriSupreme Court found that only in circumstances other thanthese would that first statement have been foundvoluntary. That's the language of the opinion. They alsofound the waiver involuntary in citing the Westover-typeanalysis. The two cases that they relied on --QUESTION: Well, I thought what the court didwas make its decision on the basis that the Mirandawarning was intentionally not given and that that was thereason that the supreme court found that the statement th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. could not be admitted. It -- it didn't turn on actualcoercion, did it? What did the trial court find on that?MS. BARTHOLOW: The --QUESTION: No actual coercion. MS. BARTHOLOW: The trial court didn't make anyspecific fact-findings about voluntariness. The -- all itwas concerned was -- with that Miranda wasn't given.QUESTION: Wasn't given, and the reason that thesupreme court felt that it had to be suppressed wasbecause the decision not to give Miranda was anintentional decision by the officer.MS. BARTHOLOW: I believe that was part of theanalysis, but the reason they found the waiver involuntarywas because of the continuous nature of the interrogation,and it cited the Westover-type cases for that.QUESTION: What about -- suppose our reason --QUESTION: We took the -- we took the case toanswer the question of whether or not Oregon v. Elstad is-- is abrogated when the initial failure to give theMiranda warnings was intentional. I mean, we -- that's --that's what we're here to decide.MS. BARTHOLOW: And I think, Your Honor, when apolice officer deliberately embarks upon a tactic toundermine the free will of a suspect in a coercive settingthat Miranda acknowledges is a coercive setting, that that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. does make a difference because it -- it impels the policeofficer into using tactics that otherwise wouldn't bepermissible, such as referring to the unwarned statementto get a waiver --QUESTION: Well, I would have thought you'd lookat what happened in the second discussion after Mirandawarnings were given to determine whether it was voluntary-- a voluntary statement or not. Was there a knowing andvoluntary waiver of those rights given at the secondstatement? Isn't that the proper inquiry?MS. BARTHOLOW: I believe it is, Your Honor. I -- and that's why I -- I went back to the Missouri SupremeCourt's opinion where they found that the waiver wasinvoluntary based on the totality of the circumstances inthe interrogation, that the --QUESTION: But -- but the question presented isbased on Oregon v. Elstad. It quotes it. Is the rulethat a suspect who has once responded to an unwarned yetuncoercive questioning is not thereby disabled fromwaiving his rights? I mean, that's -- that's what we'rehere to decide. MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, Your Honor, maybe thepremise of the question presented was incorrect that therewas no --QUESTION: Did you -- in -- did you in your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. brief in opposition make the point that you thought thatit was -- it was coerced?MS. BARTHOLOW: Yes, Your Honor, we did. Wecited Westover. QUESTION: You're talking about the second onenow. Sorry. Is what you -- were you finished? Go ahead. Finish it. MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, I don't want to --QUESTION: Finish the Chief Justice's --MS. BARTHOLOW: I don't want to leave any doubtthat I -- that the first statement we are asserting in thefirst instance was actually coerced. I mean, we disagreethat --QUESTION: Well, as I -- may I interrupt you andask you to -- whether this distinction captures your case? I -- I have understood you to be saying that the -- thefirst statement was -- was coercive in the sense thatMiranda spoke of a custodial interrogation as beinginherently coercive. It was not, on the other hand,coerced in the sense that it was the product of beatinghim over the head with a by . And as I understand it,you have been saying, look, any unwarned Miranda -­unwarned statement that is given in custody shares the --the character that Miranda said it had, inherentlycoercive atmosphere. But that doesn't mean the same thing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. as -- as coercion carried to the point of hitting him overthe head. Is that the distinction that -- that underliesyour argument, or am I putting words in your mouth?MS. BARTHOLOW: I don't believe that what thepolice officers did here would have rise -- rose to thelevel of Fourth Amendment due process involuntariness, no.But I do believe it violated the Fifth Amendment bar oncoerced, compelled testimony. QUESTION: To go to the question that I thinkwas presented, let's make my assumptions and let meoverstate a little bit. My first assumption is it's intolerable to havepolicemen going around purposely -- purposely -- violatingthe Miranda rule. Now, assume that conclusion, though Iknow it's arguable. Now, if that happens, if they deliberately andpurposely have not given these warnings when they knewthey should, that would create a situation where theymight do it a lot and we'd have a lot of coercedconfessions we couldn't ever prove. Okay? So I considerthat -- let's call it bad. (Laughter.) QUESTION: All right. Now, if -- if we makethat assumption, then the question is, well, can thepolice, nonetheless, introduce a second statement that was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. done after warnings? Now, there are three possiblepositions: always, never, and sometimes. So I'm exploring the sometimes. Now, I want toknow if -- what kind of a rule might you think was okay onthe sometimes.Now, one thing I thought of is if they can show-- not you, but the prosecutor can show that that firststatement taken was not coerced and that, second, theyreally gave the warnings the second time, and that, third,something happened to cut that causal connection becausethe average person would think, of course, I've got to saywhat I said before, otherwise they're going to dosomething really terrible to me. All right? So -- sowhat -- now, I'm looking for passage of time, I'm lookingfor something else to cut the causal connection.But I'm looking really for your view on this. If the answer is sometimes, if the answer is never, but ifit is sometimes, what kind of a sometimes? MS. BARTHOLOW: I believe that sometimes thesecond statement may be admitted, and that's what Elstadsaid. Even in the presence of actual coercion, they saidthat it could be dispelled. And --QUESTION: Okay. Sometimes you say it could. Now, what kinds of things would dispel it and what isn'tdispelled about your case? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MS. BARTHOLOW: I think if there was a passageof time, it would dispel it, and that certainly didn'toccur here. Even in Westover, there was a - to -minute break by the time the police stopped questioningand the FBI started questioning, and that came out at oralargument. Solicitor General Thurgood Marshall said therewas a break. So there was no break here. QUESTION: Is that enough? If -- if there's aninterval, same place, same officers, but it -- iseverything -- everything turn on how much time there is inbetween the two?MS. BARTHOLOW: I'm not sure it could entirelyturn on that, but for instance, if questioning hadoccurred the next day, I believe that would be a -- asufficient break. And I think the Missouri Supreme Courtcited another of our State cases, State v. Wright, wherethis exact thing happened, questioning occurred and then aday passed, and then questioning occurred again, and thatwas sufficient to break the causal link. I think if officers embarking on this type ofcalculated, unwarned questioning then add to theirwarnings, when they finally give them, that what you saidcan't be used against you, if they would have added that,that might have helped an attenuation analysis. But Ithink clearly none of that occurred here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. I think the -- another problem with this caseand this type of tactic is that it affects the truth-seeking function of the trial, the jury, and what it'sfinding because the first thing the jury hears is when thetape is played and they hear immediately a waiver ofrights and --QUESTION: Let -- let me interrupt you for justa minute, Ms. -- is -- is it agreed that the break herewas minutes? That's what the Supreme Court of Missourimajority opinion says.MS. BARTHOLOW: I believe it was to minutes. minutes, if according to the court, yes.QUESTION: Thank you. MS. BARTHOLOW: Going back to the truth-seekingfunction of the jury, when the jury is listening to thestatement, they are presuming that she immediately waivedher rights. They know nothing of what occurred before,and the only way that we can challenge that and show thatmaybe this confession shouldn't be given the weight thatit -- it otherwise would have is that she underwent thislengthy interrogation. And the only way we can bring thatfor the -- before the jury is to show them that she, infact, made an unwarned statement. And that -- itprecludes our ability to defend her by not being able toshow under what circumstances she ultimately made that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. waiver. It also allows the -- the unwarned statement tocome in because on that tape recording you have theofficer mentioning that she made an unwarned statement,and the jury is never supposed to hear that. So here youhave the jury thinking, well, she made two statements. Itmust be the truth. QUESTION: Well, it's not a complete answer toyour argument. Of course, you can have an initialsuppression motion before the court. I -- I see the --MS. BARTHOLOW: Right. I mean, and when that'sdenied we are still able to show the circumstances underwhich the confession was made are relevant to the weightto be given to it. I mean, the jury can always weigh thecredibility of the suspect and -- in assessing the weightto be given to her confession. And we cannot challengethat here without referring to the unwarned questioning. If there's no --QUESTION: Of course, your argument would stillbe the same if this was all coercive, and to the extentthe statements are repetitive, it's just cumulative. I --I do see your point. Let me -- let me ask you this. In response toJustice Stevens' question -- and then we got off on someother matters --opposing counsel -- Justice Stevens th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said, well, why won't police do this all the time and whywould they have the incentive to make this standardprocedure? And the answer I thought was that if you'regoing to waive your rights, you're going to waive yourrights, so it doesn't make any difference. But that seemsto me to actually help your side.MS. BARTHOLOW: Yes, Your Honor. And -- and Iguarantee you that if this Court says that this practiceis okay, it will become embedded in police procedure justlike Miranda has been because the police --QUESTION: If -- if the answer is if they'regoing to waive, they're going to waive, then there's noreason why not they don't give the warning at the outset.MS. BARTHOLOW: Exactly. I mean, they have moreincentive not to warn, especially because they talked toher before on two occasions. They -- and I think theytape recorded her interview with them on the -- Februaryth, hoping that she would make some sort ofincriminating statement, and when she didn't, then theyengaged in this practice to subject her to the intensecustodial interrogation to try and get the -- the warningfrom her. But they weren't -- I mean -- excuse me -- theconfession from her. But they weren't going to warn herbecause they were afraid she might invoke. And I thinkthis Court in Escobedo said, you know, we shouldn't fear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that a suspect is going to assert her rights if she knewabout them.QUESTION: Escobedo was pretty much overruled byMiranda, wasn't it?MS. BARTHOLOW: Yes, Your Honor, but I think the-- that specific principle would remain and that thisCourt would agree with that we should not have to fearthat a suspect will invoke their rights. I mean, that wasthe whole premise of Miranda is that they have to be madeaware of their rights so that they have the free will toinvoke them if -- if they are not willing to be subjectedto the intense pressure of the custodial interrogation.QUESTION: Ms. Bartholow, you -- you've assertedthat the question presented is not -- is not reallyaccurate, that -- that the Missouri court, in fact, hadfound that given the totality of the circumstances, one ofwhich was the intentional failure to give Mirandawarnings, the second statement was -- was coerced. And Ifind that in fact that your brief in opposition did makethat point. Now, if -- if the question presented as setforth in the petitioner's brief is not accurate, what doyou think would be accurate? Would -- do you think itpresents the question at least of whether the intentionalfailure to give a Miranda warning is one of the factors th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. properly considered in determining whether the secondconfession is voluntary or not? It at least presents thatquestion, doesn't it?MS. BARTHOLOW: I think it presents thatquestion. I don't -- I don't think the Court shouldproceed on the assumption that the initial statement wasvoluntary, and that is -- that's always been our firstline of defense, is that this wasn't a voluntary statementbecause under Elstad -- under Elstad the Court said thatwhen a suspect is being subjected to a coerciveenvironment or where the manner of the questioning in thecase is coercive, then the standard Elstad rule doesn'tapply.And -- and especially because when JusticeBrennan tried to posit this two-step interrogation that itwould become all the rage and specifically -- I mean, thedescription of Justice Brennan's two-step interrogationmirrors this -- this exactly. This Court said that'sapocalyptic. We are not encouraging that. We do not wantpolice officers or prosecutors to -- to use that tactic. And -- and unfortunately, I believe law enforcement tookthe invitation of Justice Brennan's dissent perhaps anddidn't listen to what you said in the majority opinion. I think this tactic is bad for the police. Itis bad for suspects, and it is bad for courts. It's got th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. three strikes against it. And the test that we would askyou to apply is that when police officers deliberatelywithhold Miranda in order to elicit an incriminatingresponse when they knew or should have known that Mirandawas required, then the second statement will be presumedcompelled unless and until the State can show that it hasbeen attenuated from the first. And if there --QUESTION: Why does the intentionality or not ofthe failure to give the Miranda warning have anything todo with whether the second confession is voluntary or not? I mean, I can understand why it's -- it's a nasty thingand you don't want the -- you don't want the State to doan end run around Miranda, as you understand Miranda, butwhy does it have anything whatever to do with the coercive-- with the coerced or non-coerced nature of the secondconfession? The -- the woman would feel just as coercedwhether the failure to give it was -- was intentional ornon-intentional it seems to me. MS. BARTHOLOW: I -- I think the subjectiveintent of the officers will inform what the officers feelthey are allowed to do during the questioning session. The -- the FBI itself required warnings long beforeMiranda and it was because it made the -- theinterrogators respect the person's rights, and that's why th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the warnings were required. If the officer intends todisrespect those rights and leave the Fifth Amendmentunprotected, then I think there's a grave danger that theywill use tactics that they used here, that they will referto the unwarned statement to pressure the waiver, thatthey will refer to the unwarned statement to get thesecond statement, and that there will never be an exerciseof the suspect's free will.QUESTION: Well, but Justice Scalia's question,if you have the officer in good faith makes a mistake,what difference does it make to the defendant? MS. BARTHOLOW: Well, I think in the absence --well, when there's a good faith mistake, I don't thinkyou're going to run into the types of coercive pressuresthat were applied, and that's what Elstad was. You hadone or two questions at the suspect's house. You know,we're here to talk about a burglary. Do you know thesepeople? Yes. Well, we think you were involved in that. Yes, I was there. Period. You know.There was a question whether there was custodyor not. I don't think this Court would have found custodyin the first instance. And there was a real questionabout whether that constituted an interrogation at all. And I think in those circumstances -- or -- or if anofficer just didn't know that they hadn't been Mirandized th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. by the first officer or something, when there's clearly agood faith error on the part of the police, then this testwould not be required.Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Bartholow.Ms. Mitchell, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KAREN K. MITCHELLON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. MITCHELL: Thank you, Your Honor. On the issue of systematic interrogation thatcame up several times during the argument, that isrelevant only if it rises to the level of making thatfirst statement actually involuntary. And I think that'sclear from the Elstad opinion itself. At one point duringthe Elstad opinion, specifically in footnote of themajority opinion, the Court is talking about lower courtdecisions where the -- the lower court did not apply theattenuation-type doctrine. And referring to some of thosecases as involving, quote, clearly voluntary, unwarnedadmissions, the Court then goes on and cites a number ofcases that involve actual station house interrogations, inmany cases much longer than the interrogation we havehere. Specifically, I'd point the Court to the Derricodecision cited in Elstad.So just the idea that you have a traditional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. station house-type interrogation is not enough. Thequestion is, does it render the first statementinvoluntary and therefore capable of tainting the secondstatement? In this case the question of voluntariness ofeach statement was raised in the initial motion tosuppress, and even though there were not extensivefindings by the trial court, they denied those motions tosuppress. And that issue was not raised again in eitherof the appellate courts in Missouri, and the MissouriSupreme Court did not reach that issue.On the question of what the Missouri SupremeCourt held, three points I think are very important. Thecourt starts out by phrasing or -- or characterizing itsdecision as such. Essential to the inquiry is whether thepresumption that the first statement was involuntarycarries over to the second statement. The court then goeson and throughout the opinion makes the decision to, infact, carry that presumption forward. It focuses onintent and finds intent to be an improper tactic, as thisCourt used that phrase in Elstad, which is the predicatethen for applying a fruits-type analysis and requiringattenuation, which is exactly what the Missouri SupremeCourt does. And that is why we sought cert in this case.As to this -- the -- the apocalyptic issue and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Justice Brennan's discussion in Elstad, Justice Brennantalked about a number of situations, including theapplication of Miranda to the Fourth Amendment, includingthe use of statements by police officers to garner awaiver which did not happen here, and other things thatare simply inapplicable. This case is not that situation.Finally, what we are asking this Court to do isto reverse the Missouri court decision that focused onintent, deterrence, and the carrying forward of thepresumption to taint the subsequent statement because eachof those findings are inconsistent with this Court'sholding in Elstad, and instead to apply the framework ofElstad to this case and to reverse.If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms.Mitchell.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 