 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJEFF GROH, : Petitioner : v. : No. -JOSEPH R. RAMIREZ, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:RICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ., Grove City, Ohio; on behalf of the Petitioner.AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice; as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner. VINCENT J. KOZAKIEWICZ, ESQ., Boise, Idaho; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGERICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ. As amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner VINCE KOZAKIEWICZ On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD A. CORDRAY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in No. -, Jeff Groh v. John -Joseph R. Ramirez. Mr. Cordray. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CORDRAY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: I'd like to reserve minutes of my time forrebuttal. This case concerns a mistaken description onthe face of a judicial warrant that the court of appealsheld deprived Agent Groh of qualified immunity, subjectinghim to personal liability for damages in this Bivensaction. The Ninth Circuit reached this result despite thefact that the record here shows Agent Groh's manifest goodfaith and reasonable course of conduct, including threekey points. First, the record shows that the affidavit andapplication submitted to the magistrate were sufficientand comprehensive. Second, the magistrate personallyreviewed and approved the application and expresslyreferenced the affidavit in the warrant he issued. Andthird, the search as executed conformed to the limits set th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. out in the affidavit and - QUESTION: Mr. Cordray, what does theConstitution provide specifically about this? MR. CORDRAY: The Constitution provides thatindividuals will not be subject to unreasonable searchesand seizures and that warrants will not issue except uponprobable cause, and stating with particularity the itemsto - place to be searched, items to be seized. QUESTION: With regard to that last phrase, whydon't we just apply it? MR. CORDRAY: I think you do apply it in thiscase and this warrant here - QUESTION: But the warrant refers to the house. MR. CORDRAY: Yes. QUESTION: It doesn't list anything that theywere searching for. MR. CORDRAY: The warrant itself - and if we turnto the petition for certiorari appendix, page a,specifically references the affidavit. The affidavit,application, and draft warrant form were submitted to themagistrate as one package. They were reviewed by themagistrate and resulted in an issuance of authority tosearch - QUESTION: Who prepared the warrant? MR. CORDRAY: The draft of the warrant form th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. itself was done initially by Agent Groh. It was thensigned and executed by the magistrate who approved it. QUESTION: Well, but on its face it referred tothe house, not the items being looked for. MR. CORDRAY: It did, and that's the mistakendescription on the face of the warrant. If you look atthe application and - QUESTION: Well, you know, why not just apply theconstitutional provision? I mean, why couldn't the agentbe responsible for checking the warrant? MR. CORDRAY: Well, I - I think there's twoquestions there. I think if you - if you apply theconstitutional provision here, the warrant herespecifically references the affidavit. The magistratesays, I am satisfied, page a - QUESTION: But the affidavit was not attached tothe warrant. MR. CORDRAY: It was attached to the warrant,accompanied the warrant when - when the materials went tothe magistrate for approval - it was - QUESTION: Yeah, but not - not when it was takento be executed. MR. CORDRAY: It - it also accompanied thewarrant when the officers were briefed on the nature ofthe search. It did not accompany the warrant at the scene th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. because it was placed under seal by the court, which isdone routinely in many cases for - for a variety ofimportant law enforcement purposes. But here - QUESTION: It - it - it seems to me that at - atsome point in this analysis of - and specifically on thepoint that you're addressing with Justice O'Connor - thatyou have to confront the language in - in Leon in whichthe Court said, depending on the circumstances of theparticular case, a warrant may be facially - so faciallydeficient that it cannot comply with the Leon rule. I wasreading your - your brief and kind of waiting withsuspense for you to address this point and it only comesup at the last few pages of the reply brief and you sayit's a dictum. I think you have answers to the - to thepoint, but it seems to me rather central for what you'rediscussing right here. This was in one sense of the wordfacially deficient, no - no question about that. MR. CORDRAY: Yes, although this Court has - QUESTION: And it might be that the Sheppard caseis what helps you, but - MR. CORDRAY: I think it does, Your Honor. TheSheppard case makes clear - footnote , the Court saysthat if the warrant says, has some sort of suitable wordsof reference, see attached affidavit or see affidavit,that you then can move beyond the four corners of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. paper itself and look to the materials that are part ofthe document or your record in front of the magistratethat are subject to subsequent judicial review, and thecontents of the affidavit can inform the contents of thewarrant. QUESTION: Mr. Cordray - QUESTION: Well, did - did the warrant here andthe warrant in Sheppard, were they on all fours insofar asa cross-reference? MR. CORDRAY: They were on all fours in tworespects. First of all, the warrant in Sheppard wasfacially defective. It said that you would search forcontrolled substances. In fact, they were searching forevidence of homicide investigation. QUESTION: Right, almost as bad as the mistakehere. MR. CORDRAY: Yeah, in - in some ways worse,because it specified the search for different evidence. Here at least on the face of the warrant it's clear thatthere's some sort of discrepancy, and you can inform thatby looking at the affidavit - QUESTION: But did the Massachusetts case have across-reference to an affidavit even though the affidavitwasn't appended? MR. CORDRAY: It did not, in fact, and the Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. said that if it had contained some sort of cross-reference, then you could inform the contents of thewarrant from the contents of the affidavit. That's whatwe believe - QUESTION: But doesn't it make sense to assumethat the cross-reference has to be capable of informing ofwhat is left out? And in this case, number one, there isnothing attached to the warrant. No one reading thewarrant could possibly figure out what within this housewas - was being searched for. MR. CORDRAY: I think that's - QUESTION: And once again I guess I go back toJustice O'Connor's question. Why don't we apply the - theFourth Amendment the way it's written, and it says thatthe warrant shall particularly describe, not some otherdocument under seal. MR. CORDRAY: I - I think that that's not true inthe important respects under the Fourth Amendment. Theaffidavit was part of the documents given to themagistrate for prior judicial approval - QUESTION: The Fourth Amendment says it's thewarrant that is supposed to particularly describe, notdocuments given to a magistrate. MR. CORDRAY: What I'm saying is there are threedifferent potential times that matter here. One is prior th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. judicial approval of the search. The warrant andapplication and affidavit were all together to themagistrate. Second, in informing the officers of how toconduct the search, which they did here in accordance withthe constraints, the - the material was provided to theofficers. The third question is whether the homeowner atthe scene has some independent constitutional right to seethe warrant and the supporting materials before a searchcan proceed. This Court has never held that that's aconstitutional requirement and would be flatlyinconsistent with criminal - QUESTION: Whether - whether the homeowner hasthe right or whether the point is to make sure that theofficers executing the warrant can check what's in frontof them and find out how far to go, the fact remains thatthe Fourth Amendment says the warrant is supposed toparticularly describe. This didn't, it had no documentappended to it that did. MR. CORDRAY: That's not correct, Your Honor. This warrant specifically references the affidavit and theaffidavit accompanied to the magistrate and to theofficers before they searched - QUESTION: It may refer to it, but if it's notthere, nobody can figure out what it says. MR. CORDRAY: Well, they can, in fact, because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the documented record before the magistrate allowsposterior judicial oversight of how the search - QUESTION: Not when the police are at the scenethey can't. MR. CORDRAY: That is correct. At the scene -the Ninth Circuit made a fundamental flaw in its opinion. It assumed that the Fourth Amendment is about allowinghomeowners at the scene to - QUESTION: It doesn't have to make thatassumption in - in order to apply the Fourth Amendment aswritten. It could perfectly well make the assumption thatthe point of the Fourth Amendment description was to makesure that the officers at the scene knew how far theycould go. MR. CORDRAY: Correct. And they had the warrant,affidavit, and application - QUESTION: But there's some might not - somemight not have been like the officer here, like OfficerGroh, might not have even seen the attached affidavit. Onthe face of this, this does look like the hated generalwarrant. It says, here's a house and there's no bounds atall, so it looks like this is exactly what the FourthAmendment was getting at. And with respect to Sheppard, Ihad a question, maybe you can straighten me out on that. Sheppard said the good-faith exception applies, but to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. apply - apply an exception, wouldn't you need to have aFourth Amendment violation in the first place? MR. CORDRAY: This was a subject of discussion inSheppard. The separate opinion by Justice Stevens statesspecifically, and presents an argument for why the FourthAmendment was not violated in that case. The majority waswilling to assume a violation on the record before it,didn't specifically decide the Fourth Amendment questionbut assumed such a violation and went on to apply the goodfaith - QUESTION: So that - that case doesn't answer thequestion, was there a Fourth Amendment violation? MR. CORDRAY: I would agree with you that - QUESTION: And why do you have to ask thatquestion? MR. CORDRAY: Beg your pardon? QUESTION: Why do you have to ask that question? Why do you have to establish, as you seem to be trying toestablish, that this complied with the Fourth Amendment,which, if you read the Fourth Amendment, it clearlydidn't. But what we're discussing here is what is theremedy for its failure to comply with the FourthAmendment, aren't we? MR. CORDRAY: Well - QUESTION: If - if I disagree with you that there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. - that there is a Fourth Amendment violation, do I have tofind that it was proper as a remedy for that violation tohold - to hold this agent liable? MR. CORDRAY: Certainly not, Your Honor, and I doagree with Justice Ginsburg's point that Sheppard isprobably more germane to the qualified immunity inquiryhere than perhaps to the Fourth Amendment inquiry, giventhat the Court did not explicitly decide the FourthAmendment issue in Sheppard. But here, we would say thatqualified immunity applies on two distinct grounds. First, the Court has adverted in Malley v. Briggs, itwasn't a specific holding, that if in fact the conduct ofthe officers is such that the good-faith Leon exceptionwould apply in a criminal suppression hearing then, inparallel, qualified immunity should apply in a civilaction against the officer. That would be one ground forfinding qualified immunity here and a sufficient ground. In addition, if the law was not clearlyestablished at the time that - a number of points that theNinth Circuit decided for the first time in this case -that the warrant cannot, by suitable words of reference,incorporate the contents of the affidavit. Number two,that the officers are obliged constitutionally after awarrant issues to double check the magistrate's handiworkand correct any errors that they find. And number three, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that they cannot at the scene, as Agent Groh attemptedreasonably to do here, inform the homeowner of exactlywhat the nature of the search was. It was done verballyin person with the wife and over the telephone with thehusband, and - QUESTION: Well, you - you say, the Ninth Circuitsaid they couldn't inform the homeowner? MR. CORDRAY: Said that that would not besufficient to - to correct - QUESTION: Yeah, it didn't say that they couldn'thave, but it's - it's - the Ninth Circuit said that thehomeowner had a right to be shown the warrant, I take it,did it not? MR. CORDRAY: Didn't specifically hold that, butcertainly seemed to presume it, that the - not only thewarrant but all the supporting materials so that thehomeowner could exercise some self-help right at thescene, block the officers, and attempt to interfere withtheir execution of - QUESTION: The Ninth - QUESTION: What do the Federal rules say aboutthe - what the police or the officers have to do with thewarrant in the search of a house? MR. CORDRAY: Criminal Rule , which this Courthas said incorporates or is certainly consistent with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Fourth Amendment principles, says that a warrant needs tobe left at the scene after a search is completed ifproperty is taken along with an inventory of the property. There's no suggestion the rule does not require thewarrant be given to the homeowners at the outset as longas they're reasonably informed - QUESTION: Doesn't it talk - or correct me if I'mwrong - about serving the warrant? MR. CORDRAY: It - it talks about a number ofthings. It talks about obtaining a warrant, keeping adocumentary record in front of the magistrate so thatsubsequent judicial review is available. It also talksabout executing the warrant at the - at the scene. If theCourt wishes to refer to Criminal Rule , it's beenamended a couple of times, I believe the current versionis (f) - QUESTION: Where is that in the papers? MR. CORDRAY: It's not in the documents here. Iapologize, Your Honor. But (f)(), it's referred to inthe Solicitor General's brief and in our brief, is thatthey must give a copy of the warrant, receipt for theproperty taken, after the search is completed, but notbefore the search begins, and that makes a great deal ofsense. The Fourth Amendment is about making sure thatthere is - there is prior judicial authority to proceed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. with a search and that there is documentation availablelater to check the search and make sure it did not exceedthe authority - QUESTION: You mentioned the later documentation,but isn't there an interest in letting the homeowner knowthat the man has authority to make the search? MR. CORDRAY: Yes, which Agent Groh - QUESTION: So, shouldn't - shouldn't he have todisplay it if - if requested? MR. CORDRAY: I believe that if - if he's askedfor the warrant before he can enter, what would bereasonable in the circumstances would be to show thewarrant. QUESTION: And he'd have a duty to do that? MR. CORDRAY: I - I believe that in many casesthat would be the most reasonable thing, and thereforeperhaps the Constitution would have required it. QUESTION: That's not my question. Would he havea duty to do that? MR. CORDRAY: I'm not certain of that, but Ithink it would be better practice and reasonable conduct. QUESTION: Go back - QUESTION: It doesn't say it in the rule at all. QUESTION: Could you go back to Justice Scalia'squestion? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. CORDRAY: Sure. QUESTION: I thought that this was a very simplecase. Somebody really mucked up the warrant, okay? Theymade a technical mistake. Instead of saying, seize - lookfor and seize some guns, they said, look for and seize ahouse, all right? Now, nobody could think that that madeany sense. MR. CORDRAY: Yeah, except that before printingthe affidavit - QUESTION: Nobody. No - you don't think it does,I don't think it does. So you can say one of threethings: A, that the warrant is constitutional, which iswhat you're arguing, which is a little tough, because Iguess if we said this was constitutional, we'd have to saya warrant is constitutional. If it says seize and then itsays I'm not going to tell you, look in vault three of theKremlin, you know, to see what we're supposed to seize. Imean, that's a tough route that you're taking. The second route is what Justice Scaliasuggested, which is to say, well, it isn't really hisfault, the search team leader, because he was in goodfaith. For me, that's tough because I - if you cast hiseye on this piece of paper and just glanced at it, hewould have seen it was faulty. Route three is to say,they're right in their lawsuit, let them bring it, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. damages, by the way, are going to be pretty low, okay? Now you explain to me why it should be route two, which isJustice Scalia's question, rather than just route three. MR. CORDRAY: Sure. This Court said in Malleythat if in fact the officers make a mistake of fact ingood faith that, if in fact Leon would apply to avoidsuppressing that evidence in a criminal prosecution, theparallel should apply and qualified immunity would beappropriate in a civil action. I think that that is whatmakes the most sense of the objective - QUESTION: Now - now tell me why, because as I'vemade my point, it sounds to me that this man did notbehave sensibly, because if he just looked at the piece ofpaper he would have seen in seconds it says, seize thehouse, and we're not out here to seize the house, we'reout to seize some guns. MR. CORDRAY: The magistrate - QUESTION: So it wasn't like a minor, commonmistake - MR. CORDRAY: The magistrate - QUESTION: - so why was that reasonable? MR. CORDRAY: The magistrate also looked at thispiece of paper and failed to notice the error. Thematerials were made - QUESTION: So two people - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: How do we know that the magistrate didlook at the piece of paper? MR. CORDRAY: Because he signed the piece ofpaper. QUESTION: Any magistrate who looked at thatpiece of paper would say your warrant - your warrantapplication or the form you've given me does not indicatewhat you're searching for, unless you really are going toput the house up on a flatbed truck and take it away,which we know you're not. It's - it's - the obvious, Ithink the obvious probability is that the - the agent didnot read what his secretary had typed in and themagistrate did not read what the agent presented to him,and this sometimes happens. I've had it happen to me. You hand the magistrate the application and he says, wheredo you want me to sign? Isn't that probably whathappened? MR. CORDRAY: It's hard for me to know exactlywhat happened subject with the magistrate. We do knowthat he signed the warrant. We also know that he signedthe application, which was presented to him, that had theparticular description of the items to be seized. That'sat page a of the appendix. QUESTION: Maybe he should be liable too. Imean, except for judicial absolute immunity, I - I don't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. know, you say, you know, the magistrate's just as bad. What does that prove? It doesn't prove anything. MR. CORDRAY: Let me bore in on the qualifiedimmunity issue, if I may, on both counts. First - QUESTION: Before you do that, just onepreliminary question. Justice Scalia suggested earlieryou could go right to qualified immunity to get all therest, but I thought the - that this Court's precedent saidyou have to make a ruling, did it violate the FourthAmendment, before you get to qualified immunity. MR. CORDRAY: That's how we read the Court'scases, at least to the last or years. It's been apretty consistent approach. QUESTION: That may well be, but you don't haveto argue it. My point was that you - MR. CORDRAY: That's fine. QUESTION: - didn't have to argue it - MR. CORDRAY: That's fine. QUESTION: - not that we don't have to decide it. MR. CORDRAY: That's fine. Let me - let me say,under Massachusetts v. Sheppard, this is clearly in goodfaith here. Qualified immunity should apply. Why? Because this agent prepared all the materials, submittedit all to the magistrate, is the one who personally hadthe interchange with the magistrate back and forth, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. whereupon the magistrate approves the search and executesa warrant. He did not catch the error, that's true. QUESTION: He didn't have a bad motive? MR. CORDRAY: No, I mean that he - he acted ingood faith, objectively, reasonably on the course of therecord. He - he knew what search he was asking for. Hesubmitted those materials. There's a particular list ofthe items to be seized in the application and in theaffidavit. It was omitted from the warrant. That's whywe're here. Nonetheless, this is exactly the kind ofcase, and many court of appeals have held this, in whichLeon would apply in a criminal suppression hearing. Also, the Ninth Circuit here reached this resultby announcing a new rule. They said an officer has a dutyto proofread a warrant even after it's issued by amagistrate. They had rejected that rule in Marks v.Clarke just a year earlier, and now they reversed groundand they announce a new rule. That is classically thebasis for qualified immunity under this Court's strongprecedents that the - the officer cannot be held topredict the future course of constitutional law. Should - do they know there's a Fourth Amendment? Do they know itcontains a particularity requirement? Presumably they do. But do they know how that applies in all circumstances andthat they have a duty to proofread a warrant even though th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. they've made out the materials, they've submitted to themagistrate, they've been there with the magistrate andgotten the approval as they assumed that they saw it? Massachusetts v. Sheppard very strongly saysthat - that we do not hold the officers to have a furtherduty in that instance. If you hold it in this case forthe first time and anew, the qualified immunity at aminimum should be appropriate for the officer here. If I may reserve the balance of my time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Cordray. Mr. Schlick, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: This Court has rejected a technical perfectionstandard in construing a warrant. In Steele v. UnitedStates, the warrant authorized a search of West thStreet. This Court determined, in light of thecircumstances of the case, including the affidavit thatwas submitted to the magistrate in that case, that thesearch properly was conducted for West th Street, aswell as , and the rules - the rules stated in Steele v.United States is that a warrant satisfies the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. particularity requirement of the warrant clause if anofficer executing a search could determine with reasonableeffort what the magistrate authorized. QUESTION: So do you say this is just a technicalmistake? If it said, go to the Empire State Building andseize the Empire State Building, that's just a technicalmistake? I mean, they may have made it for a technicalreason, but you'd have no idea what they're supposed tolook for. MR. SCHLICK: And it - the question in that case,Your Honor, would be, is it clear what the magistrateauthorized? In this case - QUESTION: No, it isn't clear. How is it clear? MR. SCHLICK: In - in that case, if it is notclear, then there is a violation of the particularityrequirement - QUESTION: But you're saying here it's clearbecause the affidavit said it, but the affidavit's lockedaway somewhere and nobody can look at it. MR. SCHLICK: No, it's - it - is - in fact it wasunsealed, and typically when warrants are put - whenapplications are placed under seal, there's a provisionfor unsealing the application upon the indictment or aftera period of time, or a motion to unseal can be brought,which could have been done in this case, but in fact, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. motion was brought by the Government in the - in the firstplace. QUESTION: So, in fact, what a homeowner'ssupposed to do is if the warrant - he looks at it, by theway, it's blank, it's blank. And the officer says, don'tworry, I'm not going to tell you what I'm looking for, butjust go somewhere to a court house and make a motion tounseal an affidavit and that will solve the problem. Is - is that what the Fourth Amendment is about? MR. SCHLICK: The Fourth Amendment does notprotect, contrary to the Ninth Circuit's belief, theFourth Amendment does not protect the - a supposedinterest in reviewing the warrant during the search. AsMr. Cordray explained, that's inconsistent with Rule . It also would render impossible electronic surveillance. The - there also would be a serious safety concern. Wesimply do not want citizens contesting at the scene of thesearch whether the scope - whether the scope of the searchis lawful. It is safer for everyone - QUESTION: Well, I don't want - the - the courtof appeals seemed to envision some sort of a collaborativeproceeding where there's a conversation between theofficers executing the warrant and the homeowner and - andthat - that seemed to me without foundation. On the otherhand, I suppose the homeowner has a right to look at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. warrant and to comment - to comment on it. MR. SCHLICK: Under Rule , the right attacheswhen property is seized, as part of the receipt for theproperty that's seized. There may, as with - QUESTION: Well, I - I know, but there's a knockon the door and the policeman says, I have a warrant. AndI say, may I see it? He says, well, oh no, you can't seeit until I leave. Is that - is that your position? MR. SCHLICK: No, again that would be analyzedunder the law of knock and announce, and it may bereasonable under the circumstances - QUESTION: If they have a warrant, do I have aright to read the warrant? MR. SCHLICK: And the question would be - QUESTION: The homeowner. MR. SCHLICK: If - if the homeowner denied entryuntil a copy of the warrant is provided, the officer wouldbe faced with the question, is this a constructive denialof entry? Is there some exigency for getting into theproperty? And it may be reasonable under thecircumstances - QUESTION: No, there - no, there - there's noexigency because there's only one person there and he's atthe door and that person says, I'd like to read thiswarrant. Does he have the right to do that before the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. officer enters? MR. SCHLICK: If there were no exigencies, thenordinarily the reasonableness principle probably wouldrequire that, but the purpose of the particularityrequirement, it's very clear, is to ensure that the searchis conducted in accordance with what the magistrateauthorized. QUESTION: Why isn't that in our rule if - ifyou're willing to concede that that's a constitutionalrequirement? MR. SCHLICK: We - we are not conceding it's aconstitutional requirement. We're saying that undercertain circumstances - QUESTION: Well, that - you say - you say it'spart of the reasonableness requirement to show it to thehomeowner if he demands it. MR. SCHLICK: Under - under circumstances wherethere is no exigency where the request to see the warrant- QUESTION: Under normal circumstances, when thereis no exigency. Under normal circumstances, if thehomeowner demands to see the warrant, you think it isconstitutionally required that you show the homeowner thewarrant? MR. SCHLICK: If - if the choice - if the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. homeowner denies entry, there's no exigency, and theofficer's faced with the choice of break down the door orshow the warrant, then reasonableness may require showingthe warrant. But - but no, there is no general - there isno general reasonableness requirement, and as I've said,this Court's cases, cases such as Dalia and electronicsurveillance contexts make clear - QUESTION: Your - your point about electronicsurveillance seems to me quite - quite forceful. You do - you do not have to give - give the person who's beingelectronically surveilled a - a warrant beforehand. Hehas no opportunity to see what's - what's being done. Idon't see why the constitutional principle would differwith regard to a - to a physical search. MR. SCHLICK: Our position, Your Honor, is thereis no general requirement of providing a copy of thewarrant, and the Ninth Circuit asserted an interest inreviewing the warrant during the search is simply notprotected by the particularity requirement - QUESTION: But you - but you are saying that in - in circumstances, you gave an example, the reasonablenessrequirement would result in an obligation to show thewarrant. MR. SCHLICK: It - it may under circumstances,but not as a general rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, let's - let's take - let's -let's go one step further than the - than the hypotheticalyou - you were dealing with a moment ago. Let's assumethe homeowner comes to the door and says, I'd like to seethe warrant. And they say, well, here it is, and thehomeowner says, I - I'd like to read it, and the policesay, no, you can't read it. And the homeowner says, look,I'll give you whatever you've got a right to seize underthis warrant. You don't have to tear the house apart,just let me see what it is you want. The police answer,no, we're not going to tell you, we're going to go throughthe house ourselves. Do you think that would bereasonable execution of the warrant? MR. SCHLICK: Yes, I - I think it - it - in mostcircumstances would be reasonable, yes, that the - QUESTION: They would have a right to - to - totear the house apart when the homeowner stands at thethreshold and says, tell me what you've got a right toseize and I'll get it for you. MR. SCHLICK: The - the question - the questionin that case would be whether the search was conductedwithin the scope of the warrant. If so, it would be avalid search and - QUESTION: The question is whether it's areasonable search, and that includes an - an issue about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the manner in which the warrant is executed. MR. SCHLICK: A - a search would not be renderedunreasonable by virtue of a discussion between theofficers and the citizen. The question would be how thesearch was conducted. I would like to discuss the law - QUESTION: Well, I - I suppose that the officerdoesn't have to take the word of the homeowner either thatI'm getting you exactly what you want, you know, if theguy's charged with some sort of fraud, maybe he's going tocontinue. MR. SCHLICK: That - that's true and, of course,the things that are seized may not conform to the warrantbecause of the plain view rule that the officer may seizethings that aren't covered in the rest of the warrant. QUESTION: But - MR. SCHLICK: Now, under the law of qualifiedimmunity - QUESTION: Mr. Schlick, as far as the rule isconcerned, the rule - the heading is receipt, so the rule- rule doesn't address this problem. It goes to what youdo in inventory and then you give a receipt, if you'regoing to take away property give a receipt, and by theway, give the warrant with it. So I don't think we canread this rule as saying you don't have to give thewarrant if the homeowner requests it. It just says if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you're taking away property then you give a receipt, andpart of the receipt is the warrant. MR. SCHLICK: The only requirement to providingthe warrant is if property is taken away. Agent Groh alsois protected from suit under the law of qualifiedimmunity. There was - there's no clearly established lawthat requires an officer to undertake particularprocedures in the preparation of a warrant. The Ninth'sCircuit novel proofreading requirement had not even beenconceived at the time of this search. In addition, thelaw is in disarray concerning the circumstances underwhich an affidavit or an application may be considered inconstruing the warrant. Off - Agent Groh also wasoperating under a reasonable mistake of fact. QUESTION: But if he had been on the way to theresidence and minutes before he got there, the residentssay, oh, this is a terrible mistake here, would he havethe obligation to turn around and go back or have somebodybring him the affidavit out? MR. SCHLICK: Under Steele, the question would bewhether it was sufficiently clear what the magistrateauthorized. We believe under these circumstances it wasclear, so he would not have had that obligation. But as apractical matter, and this is very important, officers arenot going to conduct searches when there is a question th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. about the scope - QUESTION: So - so that - so that even if he seesthe mistake before he makes the entry on the premises, hecan - he can proceed? MR. SCHLICK: If it's sufficiently clear underSteele, yes. QUESTION: And under these facts? MR. SCHLICK: Yes, yes. And - and if - andagain, this goes to the purpose of the particularityrequirement, which is ensuring that the search isconducted in accordance with what the magistrateauthorized. If that is - if that is satisfied, then thereis no constitute - then there is no constitutionalviolation and there's no constitutional interest in havingthe officer delay the search. But again, as a practicalmatter, the officer is going to want to be sure thatsuppression remedy - QUESTION: Well, but - but then - but then you'resaying this warrant is sufficient? MR. SCHLICK: Yes. The - QUESTION: So - so - you want us to write anopinion to say that we can have warrants like this all thetime and there's no problem. MR. SCHLICK: Again, that's the constitutionalrule, but as a practical matter, officers are not going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. take risks when they're - when they don't face an exigentcircumstance - QUESTION: Talking about a constitutional minimum- you say that a constitutional minimum - this warrantwould - is - is adequate under the Fourth Amendment in allcircumstances? MR. SCHLICK: Under these circumstances, whichinclude particularly the references in the warrant, AgentGroh's application and affidavit, which include the clearlift - list - in his application and the magistrate'ssignature on the warrant without making any edits. This is not in the typed version that we have,but if you look at the actual warrant form, which isdocument number five in the district court, you can seethat the - that the magistrate signed the warrant form andit's a typed form on which there are handwritten notes, so- so - QUESTION: I did see it. I did look at that andit occurred to me at that moment that all you're askingpeople to do is just glance at the document quickly tocatch obvious mistakes, which this is. MR. SCHLICK: And - and in this case, if AgentGroh had glanced - QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schlick. Mr. Kozakiewicz, we'll hear from you. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ORAL ARGUMENT OF VINCENT J. KOZAKIEWICZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Ramirez home was searched pursuant to anonsensical warrant. They were deprived of theprotections of the essential function of the warrant,which this Court has said is to assure the individualwhose property is being searched and seized of the lawfulauthority of the executing officer, his need to search,and the limits of his power to search. The particularityrequirement has - QUESTION: Where - where do - where do we saythat? Did we say that in a case that - MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, Your Honor, you say thatin - it was actually quoted in the McGrew case. It wasstated in Illinois v. Gates and in citing Chadwick at page in California v. Acevedo. QUESTION: If - if - if that is indeed thepurpose of the warrant, isn't it passing strange that therules relating to warrants do not require that the warrantbe served, be presented to the individual, unless anduntil something is taken, at which point the warrant hasto be left plus a list of the things taken? I mean, Ijust find it remarkable that our rules of criminal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. procedure would not require the service of a warrant, andindeed, if that is the purpose of a warrant, what do youdo about warrants for electronic surveillance, forwiretaps? Does - do - do you have to serve the object ofthe wiretap with a warrant saying, we're going to betapping your phone, so he'll say, oh, thank you very much,you know, I'll use another phone. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: With - with respect to awiretap, you have some exigent circumstances there. Whatthe - what the Ramirezes were facing were the search oftheir home - QUESTION: It's not - what's exigent - what'sexigent about it? Not necessarily, I - MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: There's no necessarily -there's - with a wiretap there's no invasion, a physicalinvasion of the home and the rummaging through theirpersonal belongings. QUESTION: Counsel, I suppose you don't have totake the position that there's some right of the homeownerto examine the warrant before the officer is admitted tothe home to win this case, do you? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's true, Your - QUESTION: Why are you taking that position then? That gets you into a lot of hot water, because it hasn'tbeen clearly defined. I mean, the Ninth Circuit seemed to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. place a lot of weight on the point, but I'm not sure it isnecessary for you to prevail in this case. I'd like tohear your views. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Your - Your Honor, that - thatis correct. The - the warrant was - was facially invalid,it was plain to see, but the - the Ninth Circuit hasestablished a very - clearly established rule to say thatthe warrant requires a particular description. We arewilling to - if it's not contained within the four cornersof that document - to go be - to look at documents outsidethe four corners, provided it meets certain criteria, thatbeing it is specifically referenced into the - into - inthe warrant itself and somehow accompanies or is attachedto the warrant. Under those circumstances it would become partof the warrant and they would recognize that, and thecourt went on to say that that has - was the rule in theNinth Circuit for a long period of time. Agent Grohshould have known about that, and it was - it was theclear law and therefore a constitutional violation tookplace and he did not - could not have good faith in hisbelief that he complied with that requirement of thewarrant. QUESTION: Why, when McGrew didn't issue until months after the conduct in question? McGrew set the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. circuit law for the - at least for the Ninth. It saidthat the executing officer has to read the warrant, butthat wasn't on the books when this search occurred. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Your Honor, McGrew was decided months after the search in this case. However, theevents that took place in McGrew happened before thiscase. If McGrew had never occurred, this would have been- QUESTION: But what made the law clear in theNinth Circuit was not the timing of the McGrew search, butthe ruling of the Ninth Circuit. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: The - the McGrew decision saidthat it was clearly established at - through their - theirprior decisions of the requirement that the warrant referto and either have attached to or accompany the affidavitif you wanted to - to use it as a basis to meet theparticularity requirement, and it - it looked at othercases besides just that one. This has been the law inthis circuit for over - over a decade. QUESTION: I see that there is a seriousquestion, I think, underlying what you're saying. You'resaying that this is really a question of cross-reference. The Constitution requires the warrant to describe thethings to be seized. Now, what the Government says isthis - we have permitted in cases that requirement to be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. fulfilled where the warrant piece of paper is perhapsblank or erroneous, but it cross-references anotherdocument. And you've said, it can do that where thatother document is physically attached or, let's say, atleast in the car. There was one case that said in thecar, but not where it's in a vault someplace. And JusticeScalia, I think, asked why - why is that? Because if thepurpose of the Fourth Amendment is not to alert thehomeowner, but simply to be certain there is a check onthe searcher, why have the cases come out the way you'vejust described them? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Because it's a - not to havethat warrant or the supporting documentation to thewarrant present to meet the particularity requirement isan opportunity for abuse. QUESTION: What kind of abuse? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: To be abuse to - to the - thatthe officer can come to the home, say I'm planning - I'mplanning to search for - for something, ransack the house,find nothing, leave no warrant, and the person has no ideaof the legal authority of - of why the officer was there,what he was doing there. He could have the opportunity todecide he wants to go in and rummage through the personalpapers and - QUESTION: But he didn't, and that goes back to a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. question that Justice Scalia raised earlier. Assumingthere is a violation of the Fourth Amendment, you'rebringing a Bivens action, and if we recall the facts inBivens that - the police acted as rough as can be, theymanacled the man, they told him they were going to arresthis wife and children, they hauled him off to jail andthey strip-searched him. Nothing like that happened here. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's correct, Your Honor. However, Bivens - in action, depending uponwhether the actor is State or Federal agent, follow thesame - same line of reasoning of whether - was the actiona violation of constitutional right and was it objectivelyreasonable. QUESTION: But the damages here, nothing happenedhere that would not have happened if the right portion ofthe application had been copied into the warrant. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: The - the - the damages was to- to the - the homeowner's ability to be assured of theauthority of the officer to be here. QUESTION: Well, I'm not sure about that. Doesthe homeowner say, well, I'd like to - this is a longwarrant, I have to sit down and read this, and they sitdown by the fire and read the warrant and discuss it? That's not the way it works. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Under the circumstances of this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case, there was no opportunity ever for the - thehomeowner to - to know what - QUESTION: Well, but we're asking what thegeneral requirement is. Once - once the homeowner findsthat the police have the authority to enter, then don'tthe cases teach us that the purpose of the warrant is tocontrol the discretion of the officer, not the knowledgeof the homeowner, and incidentally, I think you might beable to read Rule as saying that when an officer leaveshe has to give a copy of the warrant whether he takesanything or not. I'm - I'm not quite sure that that's theright interpretation. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Well, you're - QUESTION: Let's assume that that's done. Idon't think the homeowner has the right to monitor thesearch. There's - there's no authority for that. TheNinth Circuit seemed to say - think that. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, Your Honor, the NinthCircuit said that and, in fact, in the Gant case, whichwas cited in - in McGrew, they said that there's a - aduty of the officer under the rule to provide thehomeowner with the warrant prior to leaving the scene. QUESTION: Under the rule, they said? Under therule? Well. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: That's not true, is it? I mean, you - you can create such a duty - MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: No. QUESTION: - but it doesn't appear in the rule atall, does it? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: The - the Gant decision thatreferred to the - to the rule was looking at the - theargument was made in that case by the Government that therule only required it, and said that since the - the Katzdecision says that it - the rule does not invariablyrequire it to - the Government to serve the warrant, thatit must usually require that it be done. QUESTION: Doesn't say anything at all aboutwarrant when no property is taken. As far as - I have thetext of Rule in front of me. It talks about leavingthe warrant when you've taken property. There's not oneword in this that I can see about leaving the warrant whenyou haven't taken property. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's correct, Your Honor, andthat's the - the real problem in this - in this case, whenif - if there is no duty to leave a warrant, as suggestedby the - the United States in their - their brief when noproperty is taken, then it's the invitation to abuse thatI - I talked about earlier. QUESTION: Well, but do you - do you have to - do th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. you have to maintain that position to win your case? Imean, do you have to get us to accept your - that - thatproposition in order to win your case? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: No. I think the plain languageof the particularity requirement is all that is needed andthis does not meet the particularity requirement. QUESTION: Can we get back to the question Ithink that you hadn't completed your answer to before? So, assuming that there is a violation of the FourthAmendment, what harm to this family - I mean, the contrastwith Bivens in that regard is stark, because the - the -what you recited, the same thing would happen if thewarrant had copied the right paragraph of the application. There was no rough stuff. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: The damage is the fact thattheir constitutional right to have a - a properly executedand a properly written warrant prior to the invasion ofthe home. QUESTION: So - QUESTION: Of course, that's really not what theFourth Amendment says, is it? It just - it doesn't sayyou need - you need - I mean, surely there's some play inthe joints, isn't there? It's - it categoricallyprohibits unreasonable searches and seizures, right? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: And then it goes on to say, and anywarrants, you know, where you need a warrant shallparticularly describe the - the person or place to besearched and the items to be seized. But it doesn't saycategorically that you can't - you need a warrant all thetime, so there's some play in the joints. Why couldn't wesay that at least in this case where there was a good-faith attempt to get a warrant and where the affidavitwould have justified a warrant, it is not the one thingthat the Fourth Amendment prohibits, an unreasonablesearch and seizure, to go ahead with this defectivewarrant? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Because there was no effort onthe part of Agent Groh to comply with that particularrequirement, and that leads to the opportunity for abusebecause he - there is no evidence in the - in the recordto show that he had any - did anything to comply - to seethat he had a warrant that met the particularityrequirement. QUESTION: But - but there's nothing in theFourth Amendment that requires a warrant, even for theentry into a home, and as you know of, many entries intohomes are done without a warrant when there are exigentcircumstances. Now, if - if you can say that that is notan unreasonable search and seizure, why can you not say it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is not an unreasonable search and seizure to proceed onthe basis of a warrant that has a - a technical - cleartechnical defect, but nonetheless was sought and - andwould have issued in perfect conformity withconstitutional requirements. Why does that make it anunreasonable search and seizure? I can see that it makesit a search and seizure without a proper warrant asdefined in Article IV - in the Fourth Amendment - but theFourth Amendment does not require a warrant all the time. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: It does not require a warrantall the time if there are exigent circumstances. Therewere no exigent circumstances in this case. QUESTION: Well, that's not the only exception. I mean, that's one exception that - that we've developed. Why can't we say another exception is where you've doneeverything that is necessary to get a warrant, and thewarrant you've gotten, yeah, it doesn't really comply withthe description of the warrant there, but still to proceedthat way is not unreasonable search and seizure? It'smistaken but it's not an unreasonable search and seizure. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Because I think the - thatwould trivialize the - the requirement of theparticularity clause, because particularity as well asprobable cause weigh into the - the general warrantsituation and - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Are you - you suggesting that maybe itwas unreasonable? Since there were no exigentcircumstances this warrant could have been executed thenext day for as far as we know from this record, to goback and say, oh my goodness, look at this, it's a generalwarrant, I better get it particularized. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That - that's correct, and he - he should have done that, because the - the problem hereis that there was - it was plain for everyone to see. This was the - the Leon - the warrant that was envisionedin Leon that was so facially valid that no reasonableofficer could rely on it - QUESTION: With respect to Leon, Mr. Cordrayurged that if you would meet the good-faith exception, inany case where the good-faith exception would apply so theevidence isn't suppressed, the officer would havequalified immunity. Do you agree that that's a - a properequation? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Only if there is good faiththat the officer attempted to comply with theparticularity requirement, because if there was good faiththat there was probable cause, that does not supply theparticularity any more than the oath and affirmation tosay that this was oath and affirmation. To have a validwarrant you need all legs of the stool, and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. particularity requirement is one of those. QUESTION: May I ask you a question about the - QUESTION: So what you are saying is not becausethe - the same reason it's not a qualified immunity is thesame reason it isn't an unreasonable search. It isn't areasonable search, isn't a reasonable search, and there isno qualified immunity because he didn't even glance at thedocument, and for the head man not to glance at thedocument is not good faith and is unreasonable. If that'syour argument - as I guess you're going to accept this now- MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes. QUESTION: All right, fine. I'd like to go backfor one second to Justice Ginsburg's - one of her initialquestions, is, what is it you are seeking here? A dollarin damages and an apology? Because, after all, if youaccept my argument, they would have just gone back andgotten a better warrant and it would have taken them acouple of hours and all the same thing would havehappened. So - so what - what is it you're seeking inthis lawsuit? An apology and a dollar or something else? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: We're seeking money damagesthat a - a jury would - QUESTION: Well, is there any way it could bemore than a dollar? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: It - it would depend, YourHonor, on - QUESTION: What have you asked for in thecomplaint? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: We didn't put - specify adollar amount in the complaint. QUESTION: Is there any way it could be more thana dollar? I mean, you must have thought this through,because, after all, you have filed a complaint and theyhired you and - MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, it is - yes, it is, YourHonor, because the trauma - the traumatization that Mrs.Ramirez went through by agents coming into her home andsaying, we have a warrant to search for explosives - QUESTION: Is different from what it would havehappened an hour later? Different from what - MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, yes. QUESTION: - would have happened if they'dcorrected the error and gone back and done the same thing- MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That - that's correct - QUESTION: - because? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Because there was that timeframe, and in this case it was a continue of a time framethat she was under - under the fright of people being in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. her home, searching it, ransacking it, going - goingthrough it. There was - we've alleged in the complaintdamage to personal property. All this was done withouther knowing and whether they had the right to be there,what they were looking for other than - QUESTION: But I - I thought the facts say thatthey correctly - at least in the petitioner's brief - theysay that they correctly notified the homeowner about thepurpose and objects of the search. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That would be an oralnotification, and there is no assurance given to the -through oral notification, he could make up anything hewants. QUESTION: You think when the Fourth Amendmentwas adopted or when the English tradition that underlaidthe Fourth Amendment was - was formed, most people couldread a warrant? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: I don't know, Your Honor. QUESTION: Then - then do you think thehomeowners would have the right to exclude the constableuntil he could get somebody who was literate to read thewarrant that the constable presented to him? Maybe callhis attorney and say, you know, there's a warrant here Ican't read, can you come over and read it for me? QUESTION: They didn't have telephones. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I didn't say call him by phone, MrChief Justice. (Laughter.) QUESTION: His attorney lived - lived across thestreet actually. I mean, this - this notion that this ispart of the - of the warrant requirement, it seems to me,is based on a real misunderstanding of - people couldn'tread, most of them. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Well, that makes an assumptionof what took place there. In today's society most peoplecan read and Mrs. Ramirez can - QUESTION: Well, we might - we - maybe we shouldadd that requirement to the Fourth Amendment. I assume wecould amend the Fourth Amendment to say, in addition towhat it used to mean, you have to present the warrant atleast to people who are literate. QUESTION: Counsel, if we conclude that there is,in fact, no requirement, as the Ninth Circuit seemed tothink there was, that the warrant be shown to thehomeowner in advance, assume that's not a requirement. What are the damages left other than attorneys fees? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: If the - the - QUESTION: Are you really - is it really a fightabout attorneys' fees because it's taken so long to get up th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. here? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: No, Your Honor. QUESTION: No? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: No. There's - there's - thathasn't even come up. QUESTION: I assume it will. (Laughter.) QUESTION: May I ask you another question aboutthe warrant? Everybody's been assuming that there's onlyone particularity requirement in the Constitution. Thereare two. There's the - particularly describing the placeto be searched and also the items to be seized, and I waswondering if one couldn't read this warrant as justsatisfying the particularity requirement with regard towhat was to be searched, because as I understand it, itwas - the ranch was a very big ranch and they only wantedto search this one house with a couple of - the garagenext to it, and they didn't search the entire ranch, didthey? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, they did go to search theentire ranch. QUESTION: Oh, they did? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: And they did look in variousother buildings. There was a statement in the affidavits- in the complaint, which has not been denied that they - th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in some ways secured - they - there was admissions in -in answers - QUESTION: I see. I thought one might read thewarrant as describing this particular blue - blue houseand so forth as the particular part of the ranch that wasto be searched for the guns and so forth, but that's notthe case? They searched everything? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, that's - QUESTION: I see. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's correct. But if youwere to - if you were to read it that it was the - tosearch the ranch for the blue house, then - QUESTION: This would be - no, I wouldn't - youwouldn't obviously be searching for the blue house, butyou might read this as having confined the search to theblue house as opposed to the entire ranch, which isdescribed - but you - but that - that wasn't done. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: No. QUESTION: So then it is really nonsensical onits face. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's the position that we'vetaken all along. QUESTION: Well, so far as damages are concerned,I suppose your claim is analogous to a common lawtrespass, that someone has come on the - come on your th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. property without any right to do so, and so you - youcould analogize that to whatever damages you could get fora trespass. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That would be correct, YourHonor. We - we haven't thought about damages in - in your- since the - the motion to dismiss was - was granted andwe've been arguing the - the points of law. QUESTION: But I thought you did make some kindof enumeration. You mentioned Mr. Ramirez's draftingtable was broken and you said she was frightened, and Ithink one other thing you alleged. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: Yes, that's correct. Therewere - there were damages - QUESTION: Oh, yes, the reputation to the - thereputation in the neighborhood, but that would have beenaffected just the same if the police came there with anentirely proper warrant. MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That's - that damage would havebeen the - been the same. The - the damage to them is thefact that the search was done and there was no - since thesearch was under a illegal warrant, we contend that thesearch was illegal and any damages coming through from theillegal search are compensable, but that's to be decideddown - down the road. The - the Marks v. Clarke case that was referred th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to earlier about - saying that there was no duty to readthe warrant by the officers is not entirely correct. Inthe - in the Marks case, in the - the Ninth Circuit saidthat there was no duty for the officers executing thewarrant to read it, as long as they be - they fulfilledtheir duty to become familiar with it before they went outthere. However, the - the court did say that the officerswho applied for the warrant had a duty to make sure thatthey had the valid warrant. If there are no further questions - QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kozakiewicz. Mr. Cordray, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD A. CORDRAYON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CORDRAY: Your Honor, on the qualifiedimmunity point, there is plain language in theConstitution as to what the Fourth Amendment says, butthis Court said in Anderson v. Creighton, that is not thecorrect approach. It's not at the level of what theConstitution says in the abstract. It's how it's appliedin particular circumstances. And here, the Ninth Circuitdid move the law in specific respects, and this Court isbeing asked to move the law and to answer questions thatwe either open, and in fact are controverted in the lowercourts as we speak. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Sheppard had established that you can go beyondthe four corners of the page of the warrant to look atsupporting materials when there's any kind of suitablewords of reference. The Ninth Circuit itself hasclarified since this case, in U.S. v. Vesikuru, F.d, suitable words of reference can be that we'rerelying on the sworn complaint to supply probable cause,very similar, in fact indistinguishable, from the words ofreference in this warrant in this case. You're beingasked to retreat from Sheppard and to clarify when awarrant can or cannot incorporate accompanying affidavitmaterials and that's a question you're being asked toanswer in this case and then apply against this officerretrospectively to give damages and deny qualifiedimmunity. That's inappropriate under this Court's settledcase law. Second, you're being asked in this case to sayspecifically an officer has a constitutional duty toproofread and re-check a warrant after it has been issuedby the magistrate, which this Court has never held, andthis Court has said in prior cases, including Illinois v.Gates, that the officers' sole duty once they apply for anorder of authority is to execute the warrant faithfully inaccordance with the constraints imposed upon them. McGrew moved the law in this case. It was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. decided months after this search occurred. Thisdecision below in this Ramirez case moved the law further,and yet the Court is being asked to deny qualifiedimmunity to this officer here. As for the Leon dictum, Justice Kennedy, youasked, we believe that if in fact Agent Groh had noticedthis error, if anyone had called it to his attentionduring proceeding to execute the search, the morereasonable course of conduct would be to stop and seekclarification from the court, as the officers did inMaryland v. Garrison. Having not noticed the error,having gone ahead and executed the warrant in good faith,having executed the search in compliance with the requestmade to the court, that is good faith and - QUESTION: Would they have had a duty to turnaround if they'd noticed the error minutes before they'dcome to the property? MR. KOZAKIEWICZ: That is a debatable question. I think that the better approach would have been to stopat that moment and seek clarification from the court sincethere were no exigent circumstances. But here, theofficer had not noticed the error, the magistrate had notnoticed the error, no one on the team had noticed theerror. The next day, a lawyer sitting in his officereading the page in the cold light of day noticed the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. error. Immediately Agent Groh responded, faxed him theface page of the application. His conduct here wasclearly in good faith and - and to impose qualifiedimmunity here would be wrong and would be in totalviolation of this Court's cases and clearly establishedlaw. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Cordray. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 