 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XENTERGY LOUISIANA, INC., Petitioner ::v. : No. -LOUISIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DAVID W. CARPENTER, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioner.AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner.MICHAEL R. FONTHAM, ESQ., New Orleans, Louisiana; onbehalf of the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. CARPENTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner AUSTIN C. SCHLICK, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner MICHAEL R. FONTHAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID W. CARPENTER, ESQ. PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Entergy Louisiana versus LouisianaPublic Service Commission.Mr. Carpenter.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. CARPENTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. CARPENTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In multistate power systems, each retail rake -­ratemaking body has incentives to impose cost allocationsthat benefit its residents, and the only way to assurethat the power pool recovers a hundred percent of itsgenerating costs is for a neutral body to referee disputes among the States and to fix the allocations.This case arises in the energy system where fivesubsidiaries provide retail service in four differentStates, where FERC has found that Entergy's costallocations generally can't affect its net revenues andwhere FERC has thus approved a tariff that gives Entergyauthority to calculate the inter-company equalizationpayments that allocate costs with a FERC complaint as thesole remedy if the rates and allocations are believed tobe unlawful. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Though we --QUESTION: What is -- what is the source of therule that this is the sole remedy?MR. CARPENTER: It's the sole remedy under thetariff itself, Your Honor.QUESTION: The -- so the tariff itself providesthat.MR. CARPENTER: Yes. Under the tariff itself,the only right that is reserved to the -- this is section., joint appendix a. The only right that is reservedto the operating companies is to seek amend -- if there'sa dispute over the rates, is to seek amendments in thetariff or changes in the rate from the regulatory bodythat has jurisdiction.There's no question here that the LPSC doesn't have jurisdiction to order amendments to the serviceschedule or changes in the rates. Their claim is onlythat they can disallow the costs that were incurred.QUESTION: Is -- is the tariff provision meantto preclude any sort of a judicial remedy?MR. CARPENTER: Yes, it would preclude ajudicial remedy. It operates as a -- as a -- as,obviously, a limitation on the operating companies'remedies and as a forum selection clause in the event of adispute. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, there would be a judicialremedy if they disagreed with the -- with -- with FERC'sdetermination. They could -- they could appeal that tothe court.MR. CARPENTER: Oh, absolutely, Your Honor. I'msorry. I --QUESTION: They just couldn't go straight to thecourt.MR. CARPENTER: Yes. No, I'm sorry, Your Honor. I -- I meant that they can't go -- they couldn't gostraight to court, and it means that -- for the samereason that a State retail ratemaking body can't disallowthe costs because under -- under this rate schedule, therate calculated by the energy system is the filed rate andbinds everybody unless and until a complaint is filed with FERC and FERC holds otherwise.And in fact, the Louisiana commission herebrought a complaint for the period ending in August of, and FERC denied relief on the ground that althoughthe tariff didn't authorize it, it was just and --nonetheless just and reasonable for Entergy to calculateequalization payments by including certain units that werein extended reserve status because FERC found that thoseunits benefited Louisiana and the entire system.QUESTION: Can I ask? The -- the section of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the -- of the agreement that you -- you referred us to,.. It says each company reserves the right tounilaterally seek amendments or changes from anyregulatory body having or acquiring jurisdictionthereover. Why didn't they just say from FERC?MR. CARPENTER: Well, at the time this --QUESTION: I mean, if as you say it's only FERC,why didn't they just say from FERC?MR. CARPENTER: Well, it was -- it was fairlyprescient because this -- this language I think dates from, when there was the Federal Power Commission. So,it --QUESTION: Oh, I see. I see. Yes.MR. CARPENTER: But the -- the key thing here isthat it's undisputed that the LPSC can't amend the service agreement.QUESTION: Got you. No. I was just wonderingwhether --MR. CARPENTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- that was so clear to the partiesat the time, and you say it is and -- and what they --what they were anticipating is a change in the Federal --MR. CARPENTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- body that had jurisdiction.MR. CARPENTER: Right. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Okay.MR. CARPENTER: But -- but in the aftermath ofthe FERC order that found that these charges were just andreasonable, despite a finding of the tariff violation, theLouisiana commission entered an order that said thatFERC's determination bound it only for the precise periodthat FERC had addressed, and then entered an order thatprohibited the petitioner, Entergy Louisiana, ELI, fromrecovering the same wholesale costs in retail rates forthe immediately succeeding period, beginning August th,.QUESTION: Could -- could you explain one thingto me? And that is, why was the period so defined? Is itsimply that it was, with respect to that period, thatactual figures were introduced before FERC?MR. CARPENTER: That became the period becausethat was the date of the FERC order.QUESTION: The date of the --MR. CARPENTER: Yes.QUESTION: And so, in effect, that -- FERC wasdone with it at that --MR. CARPENTER: Yes. That was the -- that wasthe -- the theory --QUESTION: But -- but was there --MR. CARPENTER: -- of Louisiana Public Service th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Commission.QUESTION: Was there any question in the termsof the order that the order was intended to operateprospectively until FERC changed it?MR. CARPENTER: Oh, no. No question at all.QUESTION: So the difference is unlike a filedrate, which is a number, here is not a precise number.MR. CARPENTER: That's right. Here the filedrate is a formula that is --QUESTION: And it -- and it's going to changeconstantly.MR. CARPENTER: That's right. It can change --it can change I believe monthly, or the -- the ratecalculated under the formula can change monthly. And --and FERC approves formula rates, you know, in circumstances where it believes that it will betterpromote the overall goals of -- of the act, and it imposesterms and conditions that will assure that the overallgoals of the act are promoted.And here a critical term and condition was thatthe determinations of the amount of the payments iscentralized at FERC and the only remedy, if there's adisagreement, is to go to FERC and file a complaint. As Ipoint out, that's clear from the terms of the tariff, andthat's what FERC said in each of the orders in which it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC authorized the formula rates.QUESTION: But it -- from the point of view ofthe public service commission, they have to approve thelocal rates periodically, and how does the timing of thething work? If the public service commission has to go toFERC and then there's a proceeding, and by that time theyear is over.MR. CARPENTER: Yes. But the -- if FERC were toagree with the public service commission that we violatedthe tariff, that the result was unjust and unreasonableand a refund was appropriate, all the interests would beprotected because the -- they would order a refund at thewholesale level with interest that the Louisiana PublicService Commission could flow through to retail ratepapers -- rate payers.QUESTION: Well, wait, wait. How would -- howwould the Louisiana Public Service Commission havestanding to come to FERC? I mean, to come back to theagreement, it says each company -- the companies who areparties to the agreement -- reserves the right tounilaterally seek amendments or changes.MR. CARPENTER: Yes. Well, they have standingunder the act itself. Section I believe it is.QUESTION: So this provision doesn't govern whatthey can seek then. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. CARPENTER: No. But -- but they -- but --but what it does mean is that they cannot premise a -- aprudence disallowance on the ground that -- that ELI couldhave refused to pay the costs or -- or required that theequalization payments be calculated on a different basis.QUESTION: Well, sure, they can. They could saythe company was at fault for not going to FERC.MR. CARPENTER: Yes. But -- but -- sure, theycould say that. It was imprudent not to go to FERC. Butthey can't speculate about what FERC would do in the eventa complaint was filed. That's clear from the ArkansasLouisiana Gas case of this Court. So while it'stheoretically possible they could say that it wasimprudent not to go to FERC, no remedy could be predicatedon that finding of imprudence because they can't speculate about what FERC would do if a complaint were filed.QUESTION: But can they go to FERC as anintervenor? I --MR. CARPENTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- I take it that was their status.MR. CARPENTER: Absolutely, absolutely.QUESTION: So they could go in and say, look,they should have complained --MR. CARPENTER: Yes.QUESTION: -- and therefore you should do what th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC you would have done if they had complained.MR. CARPENTER: Absolutely. They can do that. And the point I was trying to make to Justice Ginsburg isit -- when that procedure is followed, all legitimateinterests are protected because if FERC agrees and ordersa refund, it will be -- it can then be flowed through bythe Louisiana Commission to the retail ratepayers.Conversely, under their procedure in which theycan disallow costs pending a FERC determination on theprecise -- on the precise issue, you have exactly the --the interference with commerce that the Federal Power Actwas designed to prevent. You've got duplicativelitigation of this issue. Here in -- could be in fivedifferent retail ratemaking bodies.And the effect can be a trapping of costs that we never get back because if FERC -- you know, they --they trap the costs pending the FERC order. FERC thensays -- reviews it and says what we did was fine, just andreasonable. Then obviously FERC doesn't do anything atthe wholesale level. In the meantime, our costs have beentrapped at the retail level, and we can't get the moneyback under the general rule barring retroactive ratemakingunless an exception were somehow made to that rule.QUESTION: Well, what is the function andprovince of the State commission's prudence review? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC What -- what can they do that's proper? And I assume theycan do a number of things that increase costs andtherefore change rates, or am I wrong about that?MR. CARPENTER: Well, what they -- what they cando is they can regulate the -- the prudence of -- ofdecisions that the -- the utility had to make. So incircumstances where a FERC tariff provides a choice tothe -- to the retail utility, which was the situation inthe Pike County case, then -- then the -- the Statecommission can find that it was imprudent to exercise thechoice in one fashion or another.But the point here is there was no choice. Theequalization payment bound the -- bound ELI unless anduntil it was found to be unlawful by -- by FERC. So thisis a situation where under the filed rate doctrine and under this Court's decisions in MP&L and Nantahala, the --the State commission was required to treat the resultingexpense as a retail -- as a just and reasonable expenseand pass it through to retail ratepayers unless and untilFERC ordered otherwise.There's obviously a range of other issues thataren't -- aren't governed by FERC rate schedules at all,as to which State utility commissions can examine thereasonableness of the decisions of the -- of the retailbody. But they can't say that -- that following your th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC duties under a FERC tariff is unjust and unreasonable. That's a question for FERC.QUESTION: In -- in the course of that regularexamination that they -- that they do, can they findcertain actions that require refunds to the -- to theconsumers?MR. CARPENTER: Oh, absolutely, Your Honor. Absolutely, Your Honor. They can disallow -- theydisallow charitable expenses. They disallow expenses allthe time. There's a citation --QUESTION: But never if it's in violation of atariff or a FERC policy?MR. CARPENTER: Right. They cannot, consistentwith the Federal Power Act, say that it was imprudent todo -- to -- to do what the FERC tariff required the utility to do. That's the clear teaching of MP&L andNantahala and -- and other decisions.QUESTION: Would the State commission haveauthority to argue that the formula was incorrectlyapplied?MR. CARPENTER: In the context of the retailratemaking proceeding?QUESTION: Yes.MR. CARPENTER: No, Your Honor. That's anissue exclusively for FERC because, as I pointed out th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC before, if the rate is believed to be too high, underthe tariff, the -- the only remedy the operating companywould have would be to go to FERC and -- and complain,and the operating company has -- has no -- no right torefuse to make a payment on the ground that there's anallegation that the equalization formula was improperlyimplied.But as I -- as I just said, the filed ratedoctrine clearly, you know, prohibited the order here, andeven if it didn't apply, this is an issue that -- theissue of the -- the reasonableness of rates and thepractices affecting rates is an issue that the FederalPower Act clearly allocates to FERC. So even if thetariff here didn't, you know, clearly preclude ELI fromdoing what the LPSC found a prudent company would have done, the -- the filed -- the Federal Power Act preemptedthe -- the State from addressing the issue.And the facts of this case sort of illustratewhy States shouldn't get involved in -- in this becausethe decision that was made here sort of exemplifies theparochialism that the Commerce Clause and the FederalPower Act was designed to prevent. It was acknowledged bythe Louisiana Public Service Commission that the -- theunits in question, the out-of-state units in question,benefited Louisiana and the entire system, increased the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC efficiency of the entire system. But it said that wasirrelevant. In fact, it said that was evidence ofimprudence because the effect was to increase the coststhat ELI incurred and thus to increase retail rates, andthat's a -- the kind of parochialism that theCommerce Clause prevents and the Federal Power Act wasdesigned to draw a bright line that would eliminate anyneed to even adjudicate questions whether the conductviolates the Federal --QUESTION: Well, what's left of public servicecommissions then, if -- if you're right, so far aspolicing imprudent acquisitions and that sort of thingfor a multi -- multistate company?MR. CARPENTER: Well, they -- they can'tregulate issues involving, you know, the exchanges of power within power pools, but there are a rangeof other issues that, as I said in response toJustice Kennedy's question, that the States can --can decide.QUESTION: Such as.MR. CARPENTER: Well, the -- you know,whether -- whether expenses not dictated by a FERC -- FERCrate schedule are just and reasonable. There's a wholerange of other expenses that --QUESTION: The cost of -- the cost of power is th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC just one of the -- one of the --MR. CARPENTER: Yes, just one of the expensesthat a retail utility would incur. And -- and so there'sa range of issues that they can decide. What they can'tdo, though, is -- is decide that it was imprudent to incura cost that a FERC rate schedule required the utility toincur, and that's the issue here.QUESTION: Am I -- am I correct in assuming,as I have throughout the -- reading the briefs here,that the -- the costs that a given operating companyincurs within its power pool is essentially the sameissue as the wholesale rate that a -- that a totallyindependent company might pay when it -- when it boughtwholesale off the -- the grid? Is -- is that a -- itseems to me in -- in each case, the operating company is buying power at wholesale, whether it does it withinits group or whether it does it on an open market, andthat's what in each case FERC is regulating. Is -- isthat fair?MR. CARPENTER: Well -- well, FERC regulates thetransactions within power pools --QUESTION: And when one of those transactionsis the -- is the -- in effect, the acquisition of power bya local operating company, that transaction iseconomically, I guess, the equivalent of buying wholesale th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC by an independent company that is not part of a powerpool.MR. CARPENTER: Yes, but FERC's jurisdictiondepends on the fact that -- jurisdiction depends on theexistence of wholesale sales which -- which exist in thecontext of a power pool because each retail utility issimultaneously, you know, providing power to the pool atthe set rate. So it's --QUESTION: Oh, no, I understand that. And --and -- but FERC also has general authority over wholesaleinterstate sales.MR. CARPENTER: Absolutely, Your Honor. Absolutely, Your Honor.QUESTION: So that -- so that in relation towhat a -- the reason I'm getting at it is, in relation to what a State utilities commission can do, the Stateutilities commission, I take it, is in the same positionvis-a-vis ELI that it would be if ELI were a totallyindependent company buying wholesale off the grid. Isthat correct?MR. CARPENTER: That's right. If it were -- ifit were subject to the identical rate schedule.If there are no further questions, I'd like tosave the balance of my time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Carpenter. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Mr. Schlick, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF AUSTIN C. SCHLICKON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. SCHLICK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Under Nantahala and Mississippi Power & Light,the regulation of wholesale rates for electric energy ininterstate commerce is exclusively within the jurisdictionof the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federaljurisdiction is necessary to ensure that multistateutilities, like Entergy and other utilities, are able tocarry out their FERC-regulated transactions, to plan andcarry out those transactions without the interference ofpotentially conflicting State regulation.The facts of this case highlight the need forexclusive Federal regulation. The dispute in this caseinvolves the correct allocation of costs incurred for thecommon benefit of five utilities in four different States. The Louisiana commission believed that the costs allocatedto Entergy Louisiana were too high, but the consequence ofthe Louisiana commission's rate decision would be toreallocate those costs to ratepayers in Texas, Arkansas,Mississippi or else to render them trapped and entirelyunrecoverable. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Well, does that -- is that a deathsentence, so to speak, if you find that the costs aretrapped and unrecoverable? May not that ever happen to autility legitimately?MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, Your Honor. Underthis Court's decision in Nantahala, a charge that isfederally approved or that is within FERC's exclusivejurisdiction to approve may not be trapped and disallowedby the -- by the State regulatory --QUESTION: You're -- you're not talking aboutcosts -- trapped costs generally. You're just talkingabout this particular kind of trapped cost.MR. SCHLICK: That's right. I'm -- I'm talkingabout costs that contribute to the wholesale rate that --that is within FERC's jurisdiction.QUESTION: So the -- the problem is that -- notthat the costs would be trapped, but that FERC has saidit's not trapped. That's -- that's the point. I mean,lots of utilities lose money because costs are trapped.MR. SCHLICK: That is -- I -- I think that --that --QUESTION: So the real point is here FERC hassaid they can do it. That's -- that's the only point thatyou're making, isn't it?MR. SCHLICK: There are two points. There -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there is the general prohibition on trapping, but also inthis case we have a FERC-approved rate schedule thatdetermines how the allocation should be carried out. There's a question whether or not Entergy complied withthat rate schedule, but the resolution of that questioninvolves what the wholesale rate is or should be, andthat's a question within FERC's jurisdiction.QUESTION: And that's a FERC question, period.MR. SCHLICK: That's right. Only FERC candecide that question.Unlike the cases on which respondent relies,this case does not involve a State contract action about amatter that is within the State's concurrent jurisdiction. In the first place, there is no contract dispute betweenthe parties in this case, the Entergy operating companies and the holding company.Rather, this case arose in the same context asNantahala and Mississippi Power & Light, a retail ratesetting. And the dispute involves the correct divisionamong the operating companies in multiple states of costsof operating the system. Just like Mississippi Power &Light, that's a cost -- that's a -- a question that onlythe FERC can determine.It's worth mentioning that --QUESTION: Could -- could this be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC characterized as a question of a reasonable interpretationof the tariff, or you couldn't characterize the issue thatway?MR. SCHLICK: There -- there is a -- aninterpretation, an underlying question of interpretation,of the tariff, but beyond that, there's the question ofwhether the resulting charge was just and reasonable. Andthat's the important reasonableness question. That's thequestion that only FERC can decide.Here the Louisiana commission assumed both thatthere was a procedural violation of the system agreementin -- in the documentation of the operating committee'sdecision --QUESTION: But --MR. SCHLICK: -- and that the resulting charge was unjust and unreasonable.QUESTION: But what Louisiana is saying, they --they're conceding that FERC has the authority, theexclusive authority, to prescribe what the division wouldbe. However, they're saying if, in fact, there's aviolation of that division, the States ought to be able toadjudicate the violation. They're still giving FERC allof -- all of its power. They're saying FERC decides whatthe division will be, but the State agency can determinethat the division has not been carried out the way FERC th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC prescribed.What is there in the act that -- that says thatFERC is the exclusive adjudicator of whether itsdirectives have been complied with?MR. SCHLICK: In the context of what thewholesale charge is or should be, the provision of the actis section d and -- and e. The underlying principlewas established by this Court's decision in Attleboro,which is that States are entirely disabled from regulatingwholesale rates. That was implemented through the FederalPower Act in . It was confirmed in this Court'sdecision --QUESTION: They're not regulating thewholesale rates is what -- is the argument that willbe made by the State. They're -- they're leaving it to FERC to regulate it, but they're adjudicating whetherthe rates prescribed by -- by FERC have, in fact, beenthe rates charged.MR. SCHLICK: Justice Scalia, in fact, theywere regulating the wholesale charge. The necessarydetermination of the Louisiana commission's order wasthat the costs pass through under the Federal rateschedule to Entergy Louisiana. The specific costsallocated on the rate schedule were too high. It wasimprudent in the Louisiana commission's judgment for th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Entergy Louisiana --QUESTION: I thought the Court said inMississippi Power & Light that once FERC sets a wholesalerate, a State may not conclude in setting retail ratesthat the FERC-approved wholesale rates are unreasonable.MR. SCHLICK: That -- That's correct. The --QUESTION: So I guess that's the law, isn't it?MR. SCHLICK: -- the only additional step thatneed be taken in this -- in this case is to determinewhether the fact that there is a dispute as to whether ornot the FERC rate schedule was violated somehow puts thecase within the State's jurisdiction. That was thequestion that only FERC can answer.QUESTION: But how is that different from theState determining that a retail rate is unreasonable? MR. SCHLICK: We believe it's precisely thesame.QUESTION: So then there is nothing extra.MR. SCHLICK: Our -- our answer to that questionis there is no difference.QUESTION: So I have to see what the other sidewould say.MR. SCHLICK: That's correct, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: I -- I take it you agree withMr. Carpenter that the State can be heard on this issue as th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC an intervenor who may raise the issue before FERC. Isthat correct?MR. SCHLICK: Not just as an intervenor. Undersection e of the act, the State could actually bring acomplaint --QUESTION: I see.MR. SCHLICK: -- to FERC. It could bring theissue directly to FERC. And --QUESTION: In any case, it can get to FERC if ithas a gripe.MR. SCHLICK: The order proceeding in -- that was resolved in -- shows exactly howthis should happen. The --QUESTION: No, but the answer to my question isyes, isn't it?MR. SCHLICK: Oh, yes, absolutely.QUESTION: That's all I'm -- that's all I'm --QUESTION: Well, it seems to me it's quite adifferent question. Question one is whether theallocation was unreasonable, and the State here is sayingwe're -- we're not questioning the reasonableness of theallocation. That's up to FERC. But we don't think thatwe were charged that allocation that -- that was given tous. And that's -- that's not challenging FERC's decisionof what the allocation should be. It's challenging the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC factual question of whether the allocation was carried outthe way FERC prescribed.MR. SCHLICK: Justice Scalia, the order proceeding shows precisely the problem with that. In thatcase, FERC said that there was a violation of the systemagreement, analogous to the one that's being claimed here. But it also said that the resulting charge was just andreasonable. In fact, ratepayers benefited overall fromwhat was done by Entergy.QUESTION: Must be a section of the FERC rulesor regs or tariffs which says the company may -- must --or must pass over to the company that has the highernumber of generators a charge equal to the amount, da, da,da, that this particular thing we have before it gives theallocation for.MR. SCHLICK: Well, the -- the rate schedulehas been approved --QUESTION: Yes.MR. SCHLICK: -- by FERC and --QUESTION: All right --MR. SCHLICK: -- there's a requirement --QUESTION: -- it says that in the rate schedule.MR. SCHLICK: -- and there's a requirement tothe comply with rate schedule.QUESTION: So the rate schedule of FERC says th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC charge a rate --MR. SCHLICK: That's right.QUESTION: -- based on this allocation.MR. SCHLICK: That's right.QUESTION: All right. All right. I'll ask theother side. I don't see any room for the question thatwas just raised.MR. SCHLICK: If the Court has no furtherquestions.QUESTION: I -- I do. I mean, what -- whathappens if the -- the State says, they haven't charged itaccording to that allocation?QUESTION: Then Mississippi --QUESTION: Well, let counsel answer.(Laughter.)MR. SCHLICK: Justice Scalia, what -- whathappens is then the question becomes was the resultingcharge just and reasonable. In order , FERC determinedthe resulting charge after a violation of the rateschedule was just and reasonable. In fact, ratepayers inLouisiana benefited from what Entergy did, notwithstandingthat it wasn't in compliance with the terms of the rateschedule at that time.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schlick.Mr. Fontham, we'll hear from you. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. FONTHAMON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. FONTHAM: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The issue in this case is the following. TheFERC approved a contract amendment that establishedconditions, procedures before a utility could bill anaffiliate for units in mothballs. The utility failed tofollow the procedures, failed to consider the conditions,and failed to record the decision in its minutes, as itwas required to do, and then said to the LPSC --QUESTION: We're -- we're within about feetof you, Mr. Fontham. You don't have to speak up.(Laughter.)MR. FONTHAM: Thank you, Your Honor. And then said to the LPSC, you must take thecharges anyway.QUESTION: Yes, I think that's right under thelaw, isn't it?MR. FONTHAM: No, it's not, Your Honor.QUESTION: Because?MR. FONTHAM: Because the issue in this case isa drastic departure from what this Court held in MP&L orin Nantahala. In that --QUESTION: Because? Okay, that's exactly -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FONTHAM: In those cases --QUESTION: Yes. To get the question veryprecise, that is the question. In MP&L, it said once FERCsets a rate, which means, I take it, that they have theterms that we've just described in the tariffs, a Statemay not conclude in setting retail rates that theFERC-approved rates are unreasonable.MR. FONTHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: All right. Now, what's thedifference between that and what you just said?MR. FONTHAM: The -- the difference is that theFERC set the rate. The utility couldn't bill for theunits because it hadn't gone through the procedure underthe FERC rate. The utility billed anyway. It says if therate said , the utility sends a bill for . shows upin the retail rate case.The question is, can the State agency, lookingat the FERC tariff and looking at what the utility billed,make the decision, instead of the utility making thedecision, in the State proceeding that it's wrong.QUESTION: That's the question --QUESTION: Maybe -- maybe it can if FERC has notpreviously adjudicated that very question.MR. FONTHAM: And it hasn't.QUESTION: I mean, here what -- what they're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC contending is that FERC not only prescribed the formula,but that in order , it adjudicated that the formula hadbeen properly applied or, if improperly applied, closeenough for Government work is what they said. And oncethey decided that, their contention is, it's not up to theState to second-guess them.MR. FONTHAM: Well, Your Honor, I don't -- thatmay be what they're saying, but that's not what happenedin the case. The -- in the case the FERC did refuse toorder refunds. It held that the utility had invalidlyexercised its, quote/unquote, discretion to violate aclear and ambiguous tariff for years.Then it said, we're going to have a new tariff. We're going to curb the utilities' discretion. We'regoing to require the utility to have a procedure. We weresaying it is too -- it was too vague, but no, no. Theutilities said, our discretion will be curbed. The FERCsaid, their discretion will be curbed. The Court ofAppeals for the D.C. Circuit said their discretion will becurbed.QUESTION: Didn't FERC -- didn't FERC also saythat the rates that had resulted during the period priorto the amendment were just and reasonable rates?MR. FONTHAM: The FERC said that lookingretroactively, in effect, retroactively -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Absolutely. They're lookingretroactively.MR. FONTHAM: Yes, sir.QUESTION: And having done so, and having setthe rate, how then is a State utilities commission, ineffect, able to go behind that determination?MR. FONTHAM: Because the costs that wereincurred and are at issue here -- actually, I lost thatissue before the LPSC. The LPSC, as to all the charges upuntil August , said since the FERC retroactivelyeffectively changed the filed rate -- I don't know howthey can do that, but they did -- they retroactivelyapproved a new filed rate. You -- we can't touch that.Then the LPSC said, okay, now we've got a newcontract amendment that operates prospectively. And whatdoes it require? Take a look at what it requires. Thiswas in -- litigated issue. And the LPSC says, well, theydidn't follow the conditions again.QUESTION: But wait. Can you please go back andexplain to me my question?MR. FONTHAM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: To use your example --MR. FONTHAM: Yes, sir.QUESTION: -- we have, I mean, it sounds to methat what you're saying is a revolution in rate conditions th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC or setting in the United States. I've always understoodit to be, because of the sentence of MPL that I read toyou, that if FERC says we have a piece of paper here thateither directly or through a formula makes clear that $of your cost, your total cost for the consumer, is correctway to determine an interstate part of it, then when thelocal commission looks at the $ rate to the consumer, itcan do what it wants, but it has to take that $ as agiven.MR. FONTHAM: We did that.QUESTION: Now, if the commission thinks thatthe $ that the company put on its line as part of theinterstate payment did not comply with every condition,did not satisfy the law because it was unjust andunreasonable, their remedy is to go to FERC and to say, FERC, they didn't comply with your conditions. Theylet -- got an unreasonable rate. That the commission'sremedy -- the local commission -- is not to readjudicatethat itself.And the -- the legal authority for what I'vejust said I've always thought was the sentence I read toyou out of MP&L. Now, where am I wrong in that?MR. FONTHAM: You are wrong, Your Honor, inthis. MP&L says that the State commission has to takethe . If the tariff says , it has to take the . th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: That's what I said.MR. FONTHAM: We're dealing with theextra here. We're dealing with the overcharge, theoverbilling, the violation of the contract.QUESTION: The extra . Now, I thought what wewere dealing with here was a formula set out by what Iused to call the FPC, which -- which formula said thatthe is made up of many things. One of those things isa charge that the Louisiana company is to pay to a companyin a different State to reflect the fact that that companyin the different State has generators in reserve capacitythat serve everybody, and among those generators aregenerators that were put in mothballs provided that theynoted in the minutes of the joint company, et cetera thatthis is a mothballed generator available for reserve capacity if necessary.All right, and if I understand it correctly andI've said it correctly, then the cost at issue here ispart of the , not part of the other .MR. FONTHAM: I'll give you that, Your Honor. The -- but the -- but the problem and the difference isthat -- there was a little more in the tariff condition. It said you have to have a plan to return the unit toservice.QUESTION: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FONTHAM: Did they have that? No. Itsaid --QUESTION: No, but now we're repeating becauseI -- I just said that if you think that the minutes werenot filled, if you think one of the other conditions thatwas put forth in that particular tariff, which I guessis -- what is -- page or something of the -- of -- butif you think one of those was not fulfilled, then yourremedy is to go to the FPC -- the FERC rather.MR. FONTHAM: And then -- and that poses thequestion beautifully because we're in a State ratemakingproceeding and now we know the question. Does the Stateget to interpret the tariff and decide what it means andwhat it says, or does the utility? Because the FERC isnot here to tell us. So the question is, what goes into rates today? The utility's decision based on a violationof the tariff which was litigated through the Louisianacourts? They got to eat the cake, but now they're backbecause they didn't like the taste of the cake, to putit --QUESTION: Mr. Fontham, I'm a little confused onwho is the they because my understanding was that theLouisiana company, ELI, had no say in this, that it wasthe Entergy, the -- the holding company -- the -- for allof these five companies, that gave the instructions. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it wasn't as though ELI could say, well, we think youallocated too much to us. You're making us pay too much. The -- each unit is bound by what Entergy says. So thethey seems to me to be Entergy, but the Louisiana PublicService Commission has only ELI before it.MR. FONTHAM: That's true, Your Honor.QUESTION: So how can it say that ELI was atfault for something that ELI is locked into by virtue ofbeing part of this multistate --MR. FONTHAM: What -- what the commission saysis that ELI is at fault in the sense of any utility, goingback to -- to Justice Souter's reference to twoindependent companies in a wholesale power transaction. Now, we all know you can go to court to enforce awholesale tariff, and that's where most people go. In the case of a parent-subsidiary relationship,well, obviously the parent gets to tell the subsidiarywhat to do. That's true in everything. It's true of manycost allocations that we see. We see hundreds of millionsof dollars of cost allocations coming into Louisiana basedon Entergy's decisions under innumerable types ofallocation schemes, including the Federal tariff.And ELI has an obligation, even though it'sowned by a parent, to make sure the parent follows theterms of the tariff, just as the wholesale buyer of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC power --QUESTION: I'm beginning to understand yourargument. Is this what it is? That you'd -- imagine wehave a Federal FERC rule, and it says you can include inyour -- in your charge to the wholesale company the chargeof sending a salesman to the foreign State to tell himabout your product. All right? And now we have -- now wehave -- you go before the State commission and the companysays, and it costs me $ to send Mr. Smith to do that.And you want to say, I, of course, am forbiddenfrom arguing to you, the State commission, that theyviolated the tariff. But I can tell you that thissalesman, named Murphy, actually spent most of his time ina chicken restaurant, and therefore, what he did for that fell outside the tariff. It didn't violate the tariff. It fell outside the tariff.And similarly, you want to say here that thecost of the generator in mothballs did not violate thetariff to include it, but rather fell outside the tariffbecause they never had the minutes, et cetera. Is thatwhat you're arguing?MR. FONTHAM: I'm arguing both, Your Honor,because --QUESTION: Well, what's both? If you say --MR. FONTHAM: Well -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: If you say you're arguing it violatedthe tariff, you have an additional problem which is thatthe Louisiana Public Service Commission itself said thatthe staff wants us to say this violated the FERC tariff,but we have no power to do that.MR. FONTHAM: No. That -- that was as to therefunds. That was as to the period going up to .QUESTION: No. No.MR. FONTHAM: But -- but, Your Honor, let me --let me take this and put it in -- in context here. When aState commission decides issues of intrastate ratemaking,it decides all kinds of questions of Federal law. It hasto decide what the Internal Revenue Code requires. It hasto decide what the consolidated tax return provides for. It has to decide SEC allocations that are filed with the SEC.So along comes a situation that's completelywithin its expertise. What does a FERC tariff require? And it makes so many decisions involving millions andmillions of dollars in which it -- it decides as -- as anyother State court. You apply Federal law, you apply Statelaw. It's the whole body of law that you're dealing with.QUESTION: Except that FERC specificallyaddressed this question.MR. FONTHAM: No, Your Honor. The FERC did not th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC address this question. This is tariff . Tariff theFERC did address and it said the utility violated thetariff.Now we're on tariff , and tariff wasdesigned, according to the FERC, to curb the utility'sdiscretion. And -- and that tariff , designed to curbthe utility's discretion, the utility then immediatelyproceeded to ignore. And even in their reply brief, theysay, we did nothing more than we ever did before. That'son the first page of their reply brief.QUESTION: But isn't the way to look at theproblem this way? FERC says you may charge a certaintariff. We're not coming up with the actual number now --MR. FONTHAM: No.QUESTION: -- because it depends on facts that will vary over time. You may -- we -- we are approving atariff. You supply the number and you must supply thenumber according to certain conditions. And what theLouisiana commission is now saying is, the number that yousupplied was a number that violates those conditions.MR. FONTHAM: Right. That's true.QUESTION: The fact remains that on the face ofit, FERC has said, if you come up with the number, that'sthe tariff. So if you are going to challenge that number,aren't you, in effect, challenging a FERC determination? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And to do that, don't you have to go back to FERC and say,they didn't follow your conditions, and therefore you,FERC, should tell them that that number is, in fact, wrongand they can't charge it?MR. FONTHAM: Your Honor --QUESTION: What's wrong with that analysis?MR. FONTHAM: -- I -- I don't think that'scorrect. I do think that your predicate is correct. They -- they -- the FERC gave them a tariff. That's thetariff. The utility's decision doesn't become the tariff. It's like any contract case. If I have a contract withyou, and I can charge you , and I send you a bill for ,that doesn't -- my doesn't become the tariff.QUESTION: Right, except that in this case --and -- and maybe this is where I'm going wrong. Tell meif I am. In this case, I thought FERC did not say thenumber is .MR. FONTHAM: Yes. It said -- what it saidwas -- is, you go through this process, step , step ,step --of that.QUESTION: Right.MR. FONTHAM: -- step . The utility did noneQUESTION: No, but -- but at the end -- but whatFERC is saying is, if -- if you go through that process, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the number you get at the end of the process is what ourtariff guarantees you to charge.MR. FONTHAM: Yes, that's true.QUESTION: And in this case, you're saying -- sothat -- so that the -- FERC is not saying what the numberis in advance. It's setting the process in advance.MR. FONTHAM: Right.QUESTION: And what you're saying is, sure, theycame up with the number, ostensibly what FERC told themthey could do, but they didn't go through the rightprocess to get it, and therefore the number's no good. But in order to say the number is no good, you're stillchallenging something which, at least on its face, hasbeen authorized by FERC. And therefore, why isn't theappropriate action for you to take, to go back to FERC and say, the number they're claiming under your authority isthe wrong number, tell them it's the wrong number?MR. FONTHAM: Okay. I'll -- I'll answer thelast question first. The reason the appropriate actionfor the LPSC to take is not to go to FERC is because theLPSC has the authority as part of its State ratemakingauthority, as part of State law to make --QUESTION: Yes, but that's the question here. That's the question here.MR. FONTHAM: That's the question. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Do they have it or is it preempted?MR. FONTHAM: Well, it wasn't preempted --QUESTION: And one question as to whether it'spreempted, I would think, would be can they go back to theFederal ratemaker and -- and, in fact, get the relief thatthey want. That's something we ought to consider.MR. FONTHAM: And, Your Honor, the -- ourposition is -- and I believe it's correct -- that there'snothing in the Federal Power Act that preempts the Statefrom doing this, that the only FERC jurisdiction to decideenforcement issues didn't even -- they created it in approximately. They were told in U.S.C. m that ifthey found a violation of a tariff, they had to go toUnited States District Court.And there's nothing in the Federal Power Act. In fact, the Senate had a provision in the Federal PowerAct that the FERC can award remedies for violations of itsorders. It was pulled out.QUESTION: In other words, they --QUESTION: Okay. You're talking about thecondition today, and what you're saying today is, wheneverFERC sets a tariff that leaves the bottom line number tobe filled in later, a State utility commission in aratemaking proceeding may challenge that bottom linenumber in its own bailiwick. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FONTHAM: No, Your Honor. We're saying thatif there's a tariff --QUESTION: I thought that's what you were doing.MR. FONTHAM: -- and it sets forth objectiverequirements, and it -- and the utility doesn't followthose objective requirements, then they're not entitled tobill for the units. That's all we're saying. We'renot -- this is not --QUESTION: All that you're saying is thatJustice Souter was wrong to limit it to places where theFederal tariff is open. It's just as applicable toinstances where the Federal tariff is specific. Andyou're saying that Congress in the Federal Power Act setup an act where you have a single central Federal body toprovide tariffs for, let's say, the billions and billions of kilowatt hours made every year, but that each State -- or different local service commissions are going toadjudicate whether or not those millions of words are, infact, violated and what we will have is separatedecisionmaking bodies to determine when a FERC tariff hasbeen violated.Now, I grant you Congress did not say in theact, and we don't mean to do that. But it would be anawfully surprising thing for them to want to do.MR. FONTHAM: They did say we don't want to do th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that. It's in -- it's in the introduction.QUESTION: Well, if they said they don't want todo it, then why are you arguing to the contrary?MR. FONTHAM: I'm saying that they -- well,maybe I misunderstood what they don't want to do, YourHonor.QUESTION: I mean, don't want to do that is --means that they don't want bodies --MR. FONTHAM: Okay, they didn't --QUESTION: -- adjudicating the correctness ofthe application of rules for wholesale rates that arecontained of thousands or millions of words filed beforethe Federal Power Commission.MR. FONTHAM: They -- they --QUESTION: I've always thought that the Federal Power Act did not want to have adjudicative bodies, butrather wanted to have one centralized body that Stateswere free to use.MR. FONTHAM: Not -- not at all.QUESTION: No, okay.MR. FONTHAM: What the Federal Power Act says isthere's one central body to make the rate, to establishthe reasonable and just terms of the rate. All the courtsin the United States can decide whether a tariff isviolated, including the State courts, and that's the way th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it always has been. In fact, the FERC wouldn't hear thecases until .If there was a case of a tariff violationpending in State court, you had the potential, thispotential of possible loss of uniformity, which neverreally happened. As a matter of fact, this is ahigh-profile case. Where are the conflicting decisions? And the reason is we have an objective tariff. Theyviolated the objective tariff. Nobody can really disputethat. It was litigated in the lower courts.QUESTION: Mr. Fontham -- Mr. Fontham, there arefive States in this and there could be more in a regionalorganization.MR. FONTHAM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: If each State's public service commission can do what the Louisiana commission has done,you could have chaos.MR. FONTHAM: No.QUESTION: One will say, my utility wasunderpaid. Another one will say, ours was overpaid. Andeach one could do exactly what the Louisiana commissionhas done. It -- it seems to me that that just cries outfor having the one decisionmaker, FERC.MR. FONTHAM: Well, Your -- Your Honor, I -- Iwill respectfully disagree that this as big a problem th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC as -- as you are suggesting. And I'll -- I'll tell youthat literally billions of dollars of costs are split upby Entergy among its companies, only a very small sliverunder the Federal Power Act. Now, they split up thesecosts from Energy Operations, which is a nuclear company;Energy Services, which is a service company, by allocatingthem into the jurisdictions. Anytime there would be aconflicting decision, you could have -- supposedly youcould have chaos. What really happens is the utilitytries to shove as much costs as it possibly can into thejurisdictions which are reviewing the rates frequently.QUESTION: But -- but your answer to JusticeGinsburg and your earlier answer to Justice Breyer, withreference to whether there is a preemptive effect in the,what we might call, the enforcement --MR. FONTHAM: Right.QUESTION: -- or interpretation phase of the --of the tariff, it seems to me is contrary to what we saidin Mississippi Power. We -- we actually were quotingNantahala. There we said the Mississippi Supreme Courterred in adopting the view that the preemptive effect ofFERC jurisdiction turns on whether a particular matter wasactually determined in FERC proceedings. We have longrejected this sort of case-by-case analysis of the impactof State regulation upon the national interest. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FONTHAM: Yes, Your Honor, and -- and bearin mind what Justice Stevens was addressing there. Theissue of prudence -- and the Court were addressing, butthe issue of prudence is an issue is that comes up inmaking the rate. The FERC in the Federal Power Act is --is authorized to establish just and reasonable rates. Ifyou're going to raise prudence, you raise it in theproceeding where the just and reasonable rate getsestablished. We admit they have that.Then you have the next question. If they startviolating their contract, is that something that theStates can't look at? And there's nothing in the FederalPower Act that suggests that States --QUESTION: Well, but it was violating thecontract in -- in a context where FERC had -- had looked at that -- that specific violation, and it -- and itannounced the remedy.MR. FONTHAM: No. The prior violation. This isthe second tariff, Your Honor. This is a new tariff thatsets conditions which were supposedly designed to curbtheir discretion.But going back to MP&L, this Court's decisionaffirmed the decision of the Mississippi Public ServiceCommission. It reversed the Mississippi Supreme Court. It affirmed the Mississippi Public Service Commission. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC In -- in that decision of the Mississippi Public ServiceCommission, million will be incurred under the FERCtariff. They -- they had to actually estimate what wouldbe incurred.Now, if you hand the utility the right to tellthe State public service commission that, oh, it will be million, do they have to pass it through? If thisCourt is going to give the sword of preemption toutilities, and basically, there's a test, you know. We'vegot concurrent jurisdiction. The test for concurrentjurisdiction or exclusive jurisdiction is unmistakableintent of Congress. Congress had it in there, pulled itout of the -- in the Senate report. The FERC can -- canhear violations. It was in the Senate version of the billin . If you look on page of our brief, you'll find that the Senate pulled it out. The FERC had no -- no --jurisdiction to hear tariff violation cases. It could goto court. That's U.S.C., section m.In about , the FERC said, well, you knowwhat? We're going to infer the power to do that. And forthe first time ever, because up until then, the FERC hadbeen refusing to hear cases that were pending in Statecourt, wouldn't even exercise primary jurisdiction. Now,obviously, if you have exclusive jurisdiction, there's noneed for a primary jurisdiction doctrine. They wouldn't th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC even exercise primary jurisdiction. They left it to theState courts, all the State courts.Now, if you leave it to the State courts, whatis -- how can you possibly say a State ratemaking agency,which decides issues of Federal law, contracts, all thetime, has to interpret allocations, has to decide ifthey're right -- how could the Federal Power Act havetaken away their power when the Federal Power Act waspassed --QUESTION: Well, I want to be sure I get aresponse to this, though, because you said before -- andthis very interesting argument might be cut short if theparagraph that I read to you is applied to the --post- costs, which I -- aren't they the costs thatwere at issue when -- when the staff was talking about disallowing costs?MR. FONTHAM: The post- --QUESTION: No. The post -- the -- there's thepost-' or -- what --MR. FONTHAM: August -- it's August th, .QUESTION: But -- yes.MR. FONTHAM: You have -- you have costsincurred in ', which interestingly enough, were incurredin violation of a FERC tariff as determined by the FERC.QUESTION: Yes, yes, that's right. I understand th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that.MR. FONTHAM: As determined by the FERC.QUESTION: But they are -- but it's -- it's the' costs we're talking about here.MR. FONTHAM: Going forward. That's correct.QUESTION: And -- and when they're talkingabout this, it seemed as if they're talking aboutpost-August th, costs on page a, a.MR. FONTHAM: Right. That's when the newtariff --QUESTION: Are you sure they're not?MR. FONTHAM: That's when the new tariff becameeffective.QUESTION: Yes. But you know what I'm thinkingof on page a and a of your appendix.MR. FONTHAM: I don't, but I'll be happy tolook.QUESTION: I'm a little puzzled by yourreference to the new tariff. I thought the --QUESTION: It's -- it's -- they have a -- B, isthis committee precluded from determining whether theoperating committee's decision was in compliance with theamended section . of the system agreement?MR. FONTHAM: It's the amendment. Yes. Theamendment took effect August th, -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, and they're talking about thepost-August th, aren't they?MR. FONTHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: All right. Then they say, LPSC staffargues that the MS- overpayment should be disallowedbecause the decision violated the FERC tariff. As ELIargues, this commission is preempted from determiningwhether the terms of a FERC tariff have been met, for theissue of violation or compliance with a FERC tariff ispeculiarly within FERC's purview. Any allegation of aviolation of a FERC tariff should, therefore, be broughtbefore FERC.All right. I read that and thought they seemnot to have decided this on the basis that you've beenarguing it.MR. FONTHAM: Your Honor, I believe they diddecide it on the basis that I've been arguing, but I'llconcede that that language is sitting in there. It'swrong. And --QUESTION: You mean it's wrong as a matter oflaw? It's wrong at describing what they thought?MR. FONTHAM: It's wrong. I think it relatesto the refunds, but it's wrong as a matter of this Court'slaw, the fact that there was a primary jurisdictiondoctrine, the fact that the States have always had the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC power to decide this, the fact that the FERC had toinfer jurisdiction to decide tariff violations in the --in around or . The FERC has never hadexclusive jurisdiction to decide if a contract has beenviolated.The Arkla against Hall case. That case is acase that came through the -- this -- the Louisianacourts. This Court held there's a difference betweenestablishing the just and reasonable rate and enforcingthe contract.And if you go back to the -- the Pan Americancase decided by this Court, this Court held that withregard to contract enforcement issues, which somebody wasarguing need to be decided by the FERC, there was a Stateproceeding pending.QUESTION: Why is this a contract enforcementproceeding? I don't follow.MR. FONTHAM: Because, Your Honor, the -- it's acontract. This is one of the sections of the contract. This is the section that -- it's an amendment to thecontract that was approved by the FERC. It's a contractbetween the parties --QUESTION: A contract between whom?MR. FONTHAM: Pardon?QUESTION: Who is the -- who are the parties to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC this contract?MR. FONTHAM: The parties to the contract arethe five operating companies, plus --QUESTION: But you agreed with me earlier thatthe operating companies have to follow the instructions ofEntergy.MR. FONTHAM: Only by virtue of the fact thatEntergy -- not under the contract, not because thecontract says so. They don't have to take an illegalcharge. But as a matter of practice, I admit that thebig boss of Entergy can tell the operating companieswhat to do, and they're not going to lose their jobsover it. So they'll take the charge if it's anovercharge. You're darned right. But not becausethe contract says so, Your Honor. Not at all. QUESTION: Is this contract the contract thathas been accepted by and approved by FERC and, in effect,incorporated into the tariff?MR. FONTHAM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: So that we're not talking about afreestanding contract.MR. FONTHAM: We're --QUESTION: We're talking, in effect, about aterm which the tariff incorporates by its reference to thecontract. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. FONTHAM: We are -- we are really -- thecontract itself --QUESTION: Well, isn't --MR. FONTHAM: -- more or less becomes thetariff, Your Honor.QUESTION: Right. That's --MR. FONTHAM: There is no separate tariff. It'sjust a contract. It becomes a rate schedule filed withthe FERC. But in Pan American, this Court said, youknow, in -- in its nature -- by its nature, a contractlike that is a State court contract. And the -- and theCourt made the statement by the fact that everybody knowsthere's a scheme of Federal regulation doesn't changethat. And the State courts -- and I think it implicitlymeans this --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Fontham.MR. FONTHAM: Yes, Your Honor.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. CARPENTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERQUESTION: Mr. Carpenter, you have minutesremaining.MR. CARPENTER: Unless the Court has any furtherquestions, I have nothing else I need to add.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Carpenter. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 