 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XJOHN F. KOWALSKI, JUDGE, TH : JUDICIAL CIRCUIT COURT OF MICHIGAN, ET AL., Petitioners ::: v. : No. - JOHN C. TESMER, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of the Petitioners.DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf of the Respondents. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc. --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners DAVID A. MORAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHOMAS L. CASEY, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument next in No. -, John F. Kowalski v. John C. Tesmer. Mr. Casey. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. CASEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: In this facial challenge to the Michiganstatute, court of appeals rulings that these lawyers havethird party standing and that their potential clients havea constitutional right to appointed counsel indiscretionary appeals are both wrong. First, with respect to the standing argument, inour brief we argue that the respondent attorneys could notmeet any of the criteria for standing. This morning I'dlike to focus on the element of prudential standing thatconsiders whether there is a hindrance to the ability of athird party to protect his own -- to protect his owninterest. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- there is an injury infact. These lawyers claim that if the State werecompensating for this service and they're on the list tobe appointed, they would have more money in their pockets. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC You're not -- you're not challenging that there is aninjury in fact. MR. CASEY: Yes. In our -- in our brief we havechallenged that. The -- the requirement is that there bean injury in fact, a concrete and particularized actual orimminent injury in fact. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you said now youwere going on to the prudential factors, and so I askedwere you recognizing that there was an injury in fact, andyou said no. And -- and why not? Because it seems soobvious that they would get appointments if the systemwere -- CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: I take it you're reserving it for -- in your -- in your brief. MR. CASEY: I -- I am not waiving the argument. I -- I would like to rest on the brief. But I -- in answer to your question, we believeyes, there is a likelihood that these lawyers on the listfor appointed counsel will some day -- if they stay on thelist and a case comes up in that county, there is alikelihood that there will be a case. We submit, however,that on these facts in this facial challenge, we don'tknow how many lawyers are on the list for appointments inSaginaw County. We don't know how many appeals of thisnature come up. So it may be many years before the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC situation arises. This is not a concrete andparticularized actual or imminent injury in fact, andwe've argued that in the brief. At -- at best, if there is an injury in fact andif there is -- another factor is the close relationship tothe third party. We believe those are weak at best, andwe've argued in our brief that they don't exist. I thinkit is most clear, however, that the criteria concerningthe hindrance to the third party does not exist here. This is a facial challenge bought by -- broughtby lawyers before the statute took effect, claiming notthat the statute violates their own constitutional rights,but that it violates the rights of potential futureclients, and that the lawyers will suffer economic harm. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: May I clarify something aboutthis case? Are any of the indigent defendants whoserights the respondent attorneys want to advance -- do anyof those people themselves have standing to bring theirclaims in Federal court now? MR. CASEY: Yes. We argue that there are -­there are three ways that an indigent defendant can bringthis claim themselves without having to rely on anattorney in this type of case. First, they can bring thechallenge directly through the State courts. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: I'm asking if there are any th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC individuals now before this Court in this case -­ MR. CASEY: No. None of these -- none of these defendants -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: -- who would be available and who would have remedies or standing to bring their claims. Are we just talking pure hypotheticals here? MR. CASEY: In this facial challenge, we're talking about pure hypotheticals. The -- the three named indigent defendants -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: There were three named indigents. MR. CASEY: Correct. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: They were? MR. CASEY: They were denied counsel. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Denied counsel, and they were also dismissed at some point down the line? MR. CASEY: Yes. The -- the Sixth Circuit held that the Federal court should abstain from deciding their claims because they could have brought their claims in their direct State appeals. They raised claims about the practice of denying counsel before the statute took effect. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Casey, was it a Younger abstention -­ MR. CASEY: Yes. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- with respect to the -­ MR. CASEY: The -- the Sixth Circuit en bancheld that under Younger v. Harris, the Federal courtshould abstain from deciding the claims of the threeindigent defendants. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that means that thedefendants could never bring this suit. Only thelawyers arguably could. MR. CASEY: No. Younger v. Harris is only -­only defers the time when a proper Federal civil rightsaction can be brought. There were -- at the time thisaction was brought, there were pending State appeals intwo of the cases. One of the defendants never appealed atall. The Sixth Circuit recently issued an opinion not -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't these lawyersinstead of -- instead of trying to sue on their own, whydidn't they just offer their services to -- to thesedefendants through the State courts? MR. CASEY: Your Honor, perhaps opposing counsel could answer that better than I. We say that is the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's what I don'tunderstand about -- about the fact that they won't -­won't have the right to counsel. It -- it's at least as th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC easy for -- for counsel to appear in cases in whichindigents need counsel as it is for counsel to bring theirown lawsuit. MR. CASEY: That is our point on the standingissue precisely, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Didn't -- didn't the MichiganSupreme Court already rule on this issue and said that thestatute was constitutional, that there was no right tocounsel, therefore no possibility of appointing counsel, paid counsel? MR. CASEY: That's correct. In -- in , the-- the -- while this case was pending, the MichiganSupreme Court issued an opinion, the Bulger decisionthat's discussed in the briefs, saying that the practiceof denying appointed counsel was constitutional. Thestatute was not in effect at that time. The statute tookeffect, and in a case just decided in June of this year,People v. Harris, the Michigan Supreme Court relied onBulger and said this statute is constitutional. It doesnot violate any rights. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So going through the Statesystem, there's no possibility that these lawyers or thedefendants could successfully assert a right to paidcounsel -- MR. CASEY: That is correct. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- because that's already been decided by the Michigan Supreme Court. MR. CASEY: As -- as a matter of jurisprudence by the State supreme court, yes. Both State and Federal constitutional -- JUSTICE SCALIA: There -- there's an appeal from -- they could request certiorari from the State supreme court to this Court, I assume. MR. CASEY: There are, in fact, two cases pending, the Harris case that I just mentioned. A petition for certiorari was filed about weeks ago raising this precise claim. There is another case Halbert v. Michigan. It's docket -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there -- was there a cert petition in Bulger itself? MR. CASEY: There was a petition in Bulger. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it was denied. MR. CASEY: It was denied. In -- in addition -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: But there -- there is a cert petition filed in what case? In the June case? MR. CASEY: In the -- the case is pending in this Court as Melody Harris v. Michigan. It was filed about weeks ago. I have not been able to find out the docket number. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There was another case, Halbert v. Michigan,which is a pro se defendant who was denied counsel. Hisapplications, pro se applications, were denied in theState appellate courts. A pro se petition was filed. Ifiled a response to that about a month ago. That's docketnumber -. It's on this Court's conference forFriday, October th. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: So your point is that thereare petitions filed here that would enable this Court todecide whether the Michigan Supreme Court was correct inholding the statute constitutional. MR. CASEY: That's correct. There are at leastthose two petitions pending that I'm aware of in thisCourt now. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Do you acknowledge there is a good Federal question there at least? MR. CASEY: Oh, yes. It's -- it's an important question. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Yes. MR. CASEY: We -- we -- in the Bulger case, Iopposed certiorari, saying that yes, it's an importantquestion, but it was correctly decided. At that time,there was no conflict. Then when the Sixth Circuitopinion came up, we filed the petition saying it's animportant question and now there's a conflict between the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State supreme court and the Federal court of appeals. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the position you'vetaken in -- in the Halbert case, that the Court shouldtake the case? MR. CASEY: What I said in the Halbert case isthat the Court need not grant this petition now because,although it's an important question, the issue is pendingin -- in this Tesmer, the current case, Kowalski v.Tesmer. If this Court rules in our favor on standing andthen does not reach the constitutional question, then itwould be appropriate to grant certiorari in either theHalbert case or the Harris case because the -- thedetermination of the constitutionality of this statute isimportant to the State of Michigan. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they have lawyers in those cases? MR. CASEY: Now, the Halbert petition is pro se. The Harris petition has either retained or pro bonocounsel. But the -- the constitutionality of the statuteis -- excuse me -- is directly challenged in both of thosepetitions. JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you if in exercisingprudential judgment on whether to accord prudentialstanding, because I guess there's article III standinghere, is it appropriate to take into consideration as one th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact that it's already been argued in this case and it'snow ripe for decision, or should we just totally ignorethat aspect of the case? MR. CASEY: As a matter of judicial economy,there is a point to be made that it -- the issue has beenbriefed and argued. So perhaps it should be decided. Just last term in Elk Grove v. Newdow, the Court faced asimilar situation. They disposed of the case onstanding -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but in that case there wasa conflict between the interests of the third party andthe interests of the litigant or a potential client. Herethere's no conflict between the lawyers and the clients. MR. CASEY: That's true. That's true. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, also bearing uponour prudential judgment, I -- I suppose, would be that inorder to reach the merits, we have to do what you assertto be an end run around the Younger abstention. And -­ MR. CASEY: That's -- that's correct. In myview, the -- the most logical, most appropriatedisposition would be to say that these attorneys do nothave standing. Therefore, reverse the Sixth Circuit'sjudgment. There are these other vehicles pending now to reach the constitutional issue. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE STEVENS: But -- but why isn't theYounger abstention problem just like the mootness problemin Craig against Boren? It took one class of litigantsunavailable but then allowed the third party to havestanding. Why -- why aren't -- aren't your opponents herejust like the bartenders in Craig against Boren? MR. CASEY: Well, in determining prudentialstanding, there are several criteria that should beexamined in deciding whether there's an exception to thegeneral rule where a litigant cannot argue the rights ofthird parties. In Craig v. Boren, the statute directlyaffected the vendor in that case. It was a statuteagainst sale of certain alcoholic beverages. And in thiscase we don't have that. Also, in Craig v. Boren, nobody arguedprudential standing considerations until the case reachedthe Supreme Court apparently. But in our case, we have a situation where wehave lawyers who do not have any present clients who arenot directly affected by the statute. They're notclaiming rights -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but they have the sameinterest that the bartenders had because they won't makesome -- sell their services and the bartenders wouldn'tsell the booze. I don't see the difference. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CASEY: Well, in -- in Craig v. Boren, the-- if the bartenders did not comply with the statute, they'd be subject to criminal penalties. Here, theattorneys will not be subject to any criminal penalties. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, why -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: That wasn't true -- thatwasn't true in the Pierce v. Society of Sisters case andit wasn't true in the Singleton case. Both of those casesrecognized third party standing, although the prohibitionwas not on the plaintiff who was seeking to raise therights of another person. MR. CASEY: That's -- that's true. The parties have discussed many cases. Almost all of them have somefactors similar to the circumstances here, and as we've argued, all of them have distinguishing factors too. JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't -- isn't the biggestdistinguishing factor the one that you raised in responseto Justice Scalia's question? These -- these lawyers canrepresent somebody on a direct appeal, the same way andraise exactly the same issue that they're trying to raiseon third party standing now. Isn't -- isn't that true? MR. CASEY: That -- precisely. Just normalprinciples of litigation counsel that it is appropriate tohave a real party in interest. The criminal defendantswhose rights are at stake in the statute litigate that th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case. If you take the step and allow standing for anattorney, based on speculative claims about future clientsand economic harm to the attorney, as the dissent in theSixth Circuit says, that opens up the possibility ofvastly expanding the doctrine of standing beyond what thisCourt has ever said. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, is it correct as afactual matter that these particular lawyers do haveclients that they could be representing -­ MR. CASEY: That is not in -- JUSTICE STEVENS: -- on direct appeal? MR. CASEY: -- that is not in the record. Intheir response brief, they said that they currently dohave clients, but in the complaint -- this case was,again, a facial challenge. It was decided on summarydisposition or it was a motion to dismiss. It was filedand decided within about a month. And there was nofactual development here. If they had actual clients, there would beclearly a closer relationship, but again, those clientswould not be hindered from making the claims themselves. There is no reason -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: But the -- the claim that -­ I'm sorry. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, it just would seem to me th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the lawyers who are advancing this claim may or maynot be representing individuals who want to make the sameclaim, but there -- there must be some lawyers who want tomake these claims who don't have any clients, and thequestion is whether they have standing. And are they tobe defeated standing because there are a lot of otherlawyers who might also sue? MR. CASEY: In our view, as a generalproposition, lawyers should not be given independentstanding to raise claims of their clients. When theclients can present their own issues themselves, as theycan in this case or in this situation under the statute,there's no need -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that different from Caplin& Drysdale where the lawyers didn't raise the interest ofthe client and -- MR. CASEY: Again, there was an actual client inthat case and there was significant money at stake. Thelawyers had been paid money from drug forfeiture. Theyhad been paid $,, and they wanted another -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far as the actualclient, you moved to dismiss. So that's why there's no -­was no back-development. You moved to dismiss. Therefore, you have to assume whatever facts -­ MR. CASEY: That -- that's correct. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- in favor of the opponentof the motion. MR. CASEY: That's correct. But my response onthat was to the question of, you know, do they in fact nowhave clients. There is no allegation in the complaint andno proof that they now have clients. They may -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: But if -- if you assume -- youassume the correctness of the allegations, which you -­you have to do at this point, the allegation is that theywould get clients and would be paid but for this bar topayment. Isn't that correct? So if you take them interms of their claim, you've got to assume that they willhave clients and they can bring this -- this issue onbehalf of the client. MR. CASEY: Correct. That goes to the criteriaof injury in fact and close relationship with the thirdparty. We still have the criteria that I wanted todiscuss this morning about hindrance to the right -- tothe ability of the third party to litigate for themselves. Excuse me. In our view, there is no need to expand thedoctrine of standing to permit lawyers to have independentstanding to make these claims because the clients, who aredirectly affected by the statute, can make themthemselves. There are the two pending habeas -- or two th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC pending petitions for certiorari that we've mentioned. There is another case, the Bulger case. Mr.Bulger himself, after he lost in the Michigan courts, hefiled a petition for -- for habeas corpus. And thedistrict court granted the writ of habeas corpus. Weappealed. That case is now pending in the Sixth Circuit. So that's another vehicle. It is also possible that an indigent inmatehimself could bring a section case. It's simply notnecessary to expand the doctrine of standing to givelawyers -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: How could an indigent bring a case? I thought you said that that would be barredby Younger. MR. CASEY: If they had a pending prosecution,it would be barred by Younger. Once that pendingprosecution is over, they could bring a action. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could they? Because Ithought this Court had held that -- that you can't bring a suit if what you're seeking to do is overturn theconviction. MR. CASEY: Under Heck v. Humphrey, if theoutcome of the case would necessarily imply that theconviction or sentence is invalid, you cannot bring the case. Here, the allegation is simply that they were th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC entitled to counsel. That's not the substantive merits ofwhether the claim -- whether they are properly convictedor properly sentenced. The Sixth Circuit, in a case decided Augustst -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if that -- that -­that's -- you're saying that the defendants themselvescould not sue now under ? MR. CASEY: A -- a defendant who is currently inthe State system on direct appeal is barred by theabstention doctrine from filing a action. But afterthey go through the State court and lose, in addition tofiling a writ of certiorari with this Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And presumably up to this Court, if they want to come that far. MR. CASEY: Oh, certainly. After -- after theygo through the State court, they could file a writ of certin this Court, as the two pending petitions have. Theycould file a complaint for habeas corpus. They couldbring a facial challenge under . In a case called Howard v. Whitbeck from theSixth Circuit, just decided about a month ago, that wasthe very question that was decided. An inmate -- a prisoninmate, challenging another statute, litigated and lost inthe State court, then filed a action. We argued in a th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal case under Rooker v. Feldman, he was actuallytrying to seek review of the State court judgment. Thedistrict court agreed. But the Sixth Circuit just saidRooker v. Feldman bars the as-applied challenge, but theyremanded for a trial on the merits of the facialchallenge, which is not barred by Rooker v. Feldman. Soan inmate who has been unsuccessful in the State court,under Sixth Circuit law in my jurisdiction, can bring a action. So there are at least three vehicles that an inmate can bring -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: And do you -- do you agreethat that's right? And you said that that's their theory,that they could bring a action. MR. CASEY: We are not filing a petition forcertiorari from that decision. We are abiding by thatdecision. We're going back and we're going to try thatcase on the merits of the facial challenge to the statute. That -- that case is Howard v. Whitbeck, docket number-. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, what the other sidesays is, well, yes, maybe they can bring these suits, butin all of those suits, they don't have counsel, what they-- what they -­ MR. CASEY: That's true. That -- that gets into th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- the merits of the constitutional claim. And in ourview, talking about the merits, all that is required inthe Michigan application for leave to appeal process isthat a defendant identify the issues and ask the appellatecourt to review it. Unlike Douglas, this is not a reviewon the merits. An order denying an application for leaveis not an affirmance. It's not an adjudication of themerits of any legal issue. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what do we look to inorder to verify what -- what you've just said? Do theMichigan appellate courts catch mistakes all the time? And if so, what's the standard that they use? MR. CASEY: The court rules concerningapplications for leave do not set out specific standards. What -- what the court of appeals can do on an applicationfor leave is grant the application, deny it, or issueperemptory relief. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what are the standardsthey use? Where -- where do I look to find out whatstandards they use, if I get there? MR. CASEY: To the best of my knowledge, thereare no published standards in court rule or statute onthat. The court is free to exercise its discretion to -­to deny leave for any reason that it chooses. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you give me an example of th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC where they grant leave to appeal, and if not -- and it'snot one of the exceptions listed in the statute such asincorrect -­ MR. CASEY: If -- if -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- such as incorrectsentencing? MR. CASEY: Well, if -- under the statute, ifthe court of appeals grants leave, counsel isautomatically appointed. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. What are the instancesin which they grant leave, other than sentencing or someother statutory -­ MR. CASEY: They're -- most often they aresentencing issues. The statistics we put in our brief, infootnote of our brief, indicated that out of the -- in, there were , guilty plea convictions. Thecourt of appeals that year disposed of , cases. percent of them were guilty plea appeals. Most of themwere disposed of by order. There were somewhere in theneighborhood of about decisions -- opinions issued inguilty plea cases. I have not canvased all of them. Isuspect that the vast majority of them are sentencingissues. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we -- do we know whether any of those were cases that didn't fall under the four th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC categories where you a -- a right to? MR. CASEY: In every case where there was anopinion, counsel was appointed. The statute requires it. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But one of the problems, Ithought, for the indigent is the rulings -- am I correct-- in Michigan, that they're not required -- say, there'san objection. There's no written record that the indigentcould look to, even assuming he could understand it, to -­to determine what issues might be raised on -- on appeal. MR. CASEY: I believe you're incorrect on that,Your Honor. The -- what an indigent inmate will -- ordefendant will have available to him to prepare anapplication for leave to appeal is a transcript of theproceedings. He's entitled to that for free. He willhave whatever written motions and written decisions thetrial judge may have issued. He will have -- in thetranscript, he will have the oral motions and thedecisions of the judge, and then in addition to whateverpro se materials, as in the Ross v. Moffitt case, theinmate can muster. In -- in these cases, there are other pro sematerials available. The district court's opinion in thiscase noted that there is a -- a form brief, -page briefthat was circulating among inmates on the precise questionof entitlement to counsel, which two of the defendants th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC used in their State court appeals. But in determining whether counsel isconstitutionally required under Ross v. Moffitt, thisCourt has said you look to two things. Are the meritsdecided? What is the nature of the appellate process? And if the merits are not being decided, as in theMichigan case, we say that falls within the Ross v.Moffitt line of cases, unlike the Douglas case. In -- inaddition to the nature of the appellate proceedings, he -­ CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, now, your -­your opponents quote some language from the -- one of theMichigan court of appeals which suggests that the reasonthat an appeal was denied was it had no merit. MR. CASEY: A -- a typical order that the court of appeals issues when it denies an application for leaveto appeal says, denied for lack of merit on the groundspresented. But there is published, controlling Michiganauthority, which we cited in our brief, that says thatlanguage does not mean that the court of appeals looked atthe merits of the underlying legal issue. What -- whatthe court is looking at is the question of whether togrant leave or deny leave. If they grant leave, counselwill be appointed. In a very real sense -- JUSTICE SOUTER: What -- what are they getting at when they say merit? I mean, I take it you concede th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there was a quotation from that Contineri case on -- citedon page of their brief. I mean, what -- what is thereference to merit supposed to mean? MR. CASEY: I -- I do not know why the court ofappeals uses that language. What I do know is that the -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't the reasonable thing toassume that they use it as we would normally expect itto -- MR. CASEY: Well, the -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: -- to mean by the words they use? MR. CASEY: On its face, that would be the firstimpression that is given from those words. However, thepublished opinions of the court of appeals we've cited inour brief reject that, and they say that in an applicationfor leave to appeal, the court of appeals is notadjudicating the merits. My opposing counsel in this case was counsel ofrecord in the Bulger case in the Michigan Supreme Court. He made exactly that same argument. He persuaded thedissent in that opinion, but he did not persuade themajority. They didn't decide the issue precisely, but hehas been arguing that ever since. But the -- all the precedent that Michigan has on that point we've cited in our brief. Those are not th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC decisions on the merits. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it true that Michigan isthe only State in the Union so far that denies counsel ona first appeal, whether discretionary or mandatory? MR. CASEY: I believe that is incorrect. Theplaintiffs have cited a habeas corpus case thatpurports to make a national survey. In the Michigan v.Bulger Michigan Supreme Court opinion in footnote , theycited a Arizona study which reached almost anopposite conclusion. They said there were only sevenStates which give unrestricted right of appeal, and therewere States that prohibited appeals -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not -- not the right ofappeal. The right to counsel, whether it's a mandatoryor -­ MR. CASEY: It's my understanding that Michiganmay be the only State that has a specific statuteprohibiting it with exceptions like this, but it's also myunderstanding that the practice in many other States isthat counsel is routinely denied in appeals from guiltypleas. I'd like to reserve my remaining time. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Mr. Casey. Mr. Moran, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID A. MORAN th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court: In fact, in the years since this Court'sdecision in Douglas, no State, not one, not even a -- aterritorial jurisdiction, except for Michigan, has evenattempted to deny counsel to any indigents appealing anytype of first tier appeal. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, Mr. Moran, this is avery important question, whether the Michigan law cansurvive. But I think before we can address that, we haveto decide whether there is standing for the lawyers yourepresent here today, and that's a much tougher question Ithink. Is it possible that this Court could grantcertiorari in one of the pending petitions and resolve theunderlying issue of constitutionality of Michigan'sunusual law? MR. MORAN: It is, of course, possible, Justice O'Connor, that this Court could do that. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And if we were to grant youstanding here, wouldn't we have sort of expanded ourexisting holdings on who has standing? MR. MORAN: Not at all, Justice O'Connor. This case fits squarely within the two prior lawyer-client th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standing cases, the Triplett case in which this Courtunanimously found standing for a -- for a lawyerrepresenting black lung claimants, and the Caplin &Drysdale case in which this Court found standing for athird party assertion by a firm representing a criminaldefendant. And what those three cases have in common andwhat makes them unique is that this can only arise in acase in which the statute or law being challengeddisentitles the client either through loss of funding orthrough, like Michigan's law, a statute -- disentitles theclient to representation. Any other change in the law,tort reform brought up by my -­ CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, it doesn't really disentitle the client to representation. It sayscounsel won't be appointed for him. But presumably theselawyers could have offered their services. MR. MORAN: Mr. Chief Justice, that wouldn't bepractical, and that raises a point that Justice Souteralso raised in the argument. It wouldn't be practical forMr. Fitzgerald or Mr. Vogler to offer their services probono to some indigent in this position because to do sowould probably -- probably be unethical or malpractice. First of all, they can't be appointed. What the statuteprohibits is the appointment of counsel like Mr. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Fitzgerald and Mr. Vogler. So they -- they cannot form anattorney-client relationship by operation of law. JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the answer that allthey have to do is to say, okay, I will represent him butI am representing him with a claim for funds? And at theend of the day, regardless of what the Michigan law says,I'm going to say to the State of Michigan, through thecourt, pay me for what I did. That isn't a waiver andthere's nothing unethical about it. MR. MORAN: But Justice Souter, that'simpractical and unethical in this case because if Mr.Fitzgerald and Mr. Vogler were to do that, they would haveto represent the indigent on his or her underlying pleaand sentencing issues -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. MR. MORAN: -- or those would be lost forever -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Absolutely. MR. MORAN: -- because the time would fly. Andso if they also represented him on the underlying plea andsentencing issues, then this person would not -- then theunderlying defendant would not be a person with standingto raise the lack of counsel because in fact they havecounsel. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, which -- which indigent defendants are the attorney plaintiffs asserting claims on th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC behalf of here? Is it past defendants? MR. MORAN: This was -- this was -- for Mr.Fitzgerald and Mr. Vogler, they were challenging both theprestatutory practice of the three defendant judges. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: You're talking about the twoindividuals, but they've been dismissed. MR. MORAN: No. Mr. Fitzgerald and Mr. Vogler,Justice O'Connor, are the attorneys. They were -- they -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, I'm trying to find outwhat indigent criminal defendants are these attorneysattempting to represent here. MR. MORAN: They routinely take appointments. They are on a list of -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Future defendants? MR. MORAN: Presently and future defendants. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Past defendants? MR. MORAN: Past defendants. They -- they -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, if it's past defendantswho were convicted and didn't have counsel, how is itconsistent with Heck v. Humphrey that they could be here,these attorneys? MR. MORAN: I think I -- I think I misspoke. Atthe time the statute was passed, it had not gone intoeffect. This challenge was filed in order to prevent thestatute from going into effect, to prevent approximately th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Michigan indigents a year being denied the right tocounsel. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, are you asserting thenthat these attorney respondents are here trying torepresent future defendants? MR. MORAN: Present and future defendants. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And if it's presentdefendants, how is that consistent with Younger? How canthey do that? MR. MORAN: Well, they're not representing anynamed defendants. The -- the problem is that as thestatute goes into effect, they will presumably not receiveany further funding for -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, if it's future people,how is it consistent with Los Angeles v. Lyons? I mean, Ijust don't see how these attorney representatives gethere. MR. MORAN: Well, they're in exactly the sameposition as the bartender in -- or the beer vendor in -­in Craig v. Boren. They're representing prospectiveclients, prospective patients as in Singleton v. Wulffagain. This Court has over and over again -- in fact, inTriplett itself, this Court recognized that -­specifically said that in Triplett that it applied toprospective clients, that the -- and it said that in th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Triplett that -- it quoted the three factors. And it saidthat -- excuse me. I'm looking at the wrong page. Itsaid in Triplett that a restriction upon the fees a lawyermay charge applied to the lawyer's prospective client of adue process right to obtain legal representation fallssquarely within this principle. And that was theprinciple of third party standing that this Court cited -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, of course, in Triplett,the attorneys themselves were subject to discipline. Theywere raising third party rights in order to defend aproceeding brought against themselves. It seems to methat's distinguishable. MR. MORAN: That's -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: And the same thing in the barcase. The -- the restriction against the sale of -- ofliquor was a restriction imposed upon the person seekingto raise the third party right. But here, there's norestriction that applies to these lawyers who are seekingto raise the third party right. MR. MORAN: But Justice Scalia, this Court hasnever held that such a restriction is a conditionprecedent or required in order for a person to assertthird party rights. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's so, but we've never held what you want us to hold either, that -- that when the law th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC does not bear upon you personally, you have the right toraise the claim of a prospective client. We've never heldthat either. MR. MORAN: Well, in -- Singleton is a case inwhich there was no direct sanction against the doctors whoprovided Medicaid abortions. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just as -- as toTriplett and Boren, you can't cite those two cases and saythose are controlling and then say, well, we've never held it. MR. MORAN: I'm sorry. I didn't follow that question, Justice Kennedy. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we've said that Triplettand -- and Boren are -- are distinguishable, and you said,well, we've never ruled on this point. Well, thenTriplett and Boren aren't controlling. MR. MORAN: Well, I think you have ruled on thisCourt -- point by many times recognizing that even personsagainst whom the statute or law would not directly affect-- for example, all the way back to with Pierce v.Society of Sisters, there was no legal prohibition againstthe school. The legal prohibition was against thestudents not going to public school. So years ago thisCourt recognized that. In a situation analogous to this,the school -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was -- a prohibition wason the parents and there were no parents as plaintiffs inthat case -­ MR. MORAN: That's right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- only the schools. MR. MORAN: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. It was the school that was -- was held to have standing toassert the rights of future and current students, and thesame is true of the Singleton case where, again, there wasno particular restriction against the doctors. It wassimply that they would not get funding. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was a problem,wasn't there, in Singleton that -- that the part that saidthat the doctors could raise the patients' right asopposed to the doctor's own right to practice or whatever,that that was only a plurality? MR. MORAN: That was a plurality portion of the opinion. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it shouldn't be citedthen. You're citing it for something that the Courtdidn't hold. MR. MORAN: Well, actually we've cited it in ourbrief only for the article III proposition which thisCourt unanimously agreed that the doctors had article IIIstanding because there was an economic energy -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- I thought you wereciting it here for the quite different proposition that -­that you can raise third party rights. MR. MORAN: But ultimately this Court inSingleton allowed the doctors' claim on behalf of thepatients to proceed. I understand that it was a pluralityopinion on the -- on the jus tertii standing. JUSTICE SOUTER: I -- I could accept -- I guessI probably would accept your position if I did not thinkthere -- there was another equally workable alternativehere. And I didn't understand your answer to my earlierquestion in which you said, if I recall correctly, that itwould be unethical for these lawyers to represent a -- afuture client, subject to a claim to be paid and on behalf both of the client and, I suppose, of themselves, butessentially on behalf of a client, say, there is a rightto State money to pay the lawyer who is representing them. It would be, as I understood you to say, unethical for thelawyer to proceed on that basis. And I don't understandthe reason for your answer. MR. MORAN: I think I might have misunderstoodyour question, Justice Souter. The question I understoodwas why don't they represent people and raise only theentitlement to right to counsel. In the Bulger case, forexample, the Michigan Supreme Court -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, no. I'm assuming they -­they represent the client for all purposes and one of theclient's claims is, pay my lawyer. I don't have anymoney. Your statute is unconstitutional. Why cannot thelawyer pursue that claim on behalf of the client and -­and raise exactly the issue that is being raised insubstance here? MR. MORAN: If that attempt -- if that methodwere attempted, Mr. Casey would undoubtedly argue that theattorney would not be entitled to any funding because theattorney was never appointed. You can't just go out andfind indigents that you would like to represent. You haveto be formally appointed. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, except that that's a veryformalistic answer. The -- the claim, in effect, would beI have a right to be appointed whatever your statute saysbecause -- or my -- the -- the client would say my lawyer-- I have a right to appointed counsel, whatever yourstatute says, with the consequence of payment. So to say,well, they're not appointed, that's the question. Shouldthey be appointed? I don't see why they cannot raise thatissue. MR. MORAN: The problem is is that the way theMichigan system works, it works on a strict rotationsystem, and so there's no -- there's no line-jumping here. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's no right for a -- a client to -- to request acertain attorney, for a certain attorney to go the head ofthe queue and say I would like to represent that fellowand be -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but these -- theselawyers are in the rotation. Are you suggesting that therotation is so enormous that it will be years beforethey get another client? MR. MORAN: No, not at all. They -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MR. MORAN: They routinely -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, your -- your claim isthat they are going to get clients in the future and they-- they ought to have a right to be paid when the timecomes. So why doesn't, number one, a lawyer representingthe next client, whoever he may be, have a right to raisethis, and why doesn't each one of these lawyers have aright to raise it presumably within a reasonable time whenthey next come up in the rotation? MR. MORAN: I think it's clear that the Michigancourts would unquestionably hold that a lawyer who simplyinserts himself into a relationship without formal courtappointment is not entitled to be paid. JUSTICE SOUTER: Sure they would, and that's what will get brought to this Court. That's what we're th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here for. MR. MORAN: But the problem is, Justice Souter,we would then have an issue of Michigan law inserted as towhether -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: No, because the claim is thatthey have a right under Federal law to an effectiveprocedure whereby paid counsel can be supplied to them. That's a Federal issue, not a State issue. MR. MORAN: That part is a Federal issue, but what Michigan -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: That's all you've got to get up here. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's at least an argument. JUSTICE SOUTER: It's an argument. JUSTICE SCALIA: And even if they lose on it,they still will have -- would have raised the issue thatyou are most concerned about getting raised. They're not-- they're not so much interested in the so many dollarsfor this particular representation. Even if they lose onwhat seems to me at least a close argument, they will haveraised the question you're trying to raise today. MR. MORAN: And they will have to do so withoutany prospect of being paid, and that's -- that's theproblem. JUSTICE SCALIA: Who's paying them for this th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC lawsuit?lawsuit. MR. MORAN: They're not being paid for this JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. Exactly the samesituation. They can -- they can bring the case directlyfor the client they're representing just as readily asthey can bring this one. And if that is true, why isthere an impediment to raising the issue unless werecognize third party standing? MR. MORAN: Because Justice Souter, they wouldhave to represent them on all of their issues. They wouldhave to represent them on their plea and sentencing issueswithout being paid. And that's not what they're doing inthis -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Without being paid if they lose -­ MR. MORAN: -- in this litigation. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- being paid if they win. Inthis case, if they win, they don't get a dime becausethey're not representing a client. All they get is adeclaration. MR. MORAN: And -- JUSTICE SOUTER: And they'd be better off to represent a real client. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right. They have a shot th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC at getting paid using this other method. MR. MORAN: In -- in this lawsuit, if we win onthe merits, they will then get far more appointments onthe rotation system and then they will get paid for those appointments. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why will they get moreappointments? MR. MORAN: Because -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you said there's astrict rotation system. When your name comes up, you getan appointment. How is that going to change regardless ofhow this comes out? MR. MORAN: Because the statute, which is now ineffect -- and this goes, by the way, back to the issue ofprudential standing -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Oh, you're just saying there -­there's going to be a further class of clients to berepresented on the rotation. MR. MORAN: Correct. Far more. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, but that's -- that's true. MR. MORAN: And -- and while this Courtconsiders these issues of prudential standing, thousandsof Michigan defendants will be denied the right tocounsel -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE BREYER: And while this suit is beingbrought, we can't do the simple thing, which is to take acase from an indigent who's raising it that we happen tohave on our docket and face it directly because everybodyis tied up in these knots on standing. I mean, what -­what is it that -- that you -- led you to bring this caserather than just filing an amicus brief in a case broughtby a real indigent who wants a lawyer? MR. MORAN: Because there -- there was no personin position at the time. The problem was we had to filethis litigation before the statute went into effectbecause once the statute went into effect, thousands ofMichigan indigents would be denied the right to counselevery year and would suffer probably irreparable damage totheir right to appeal -­ JUSTICE BREYER: I see -- I see that. That's a good answer. And the -- the question I have is if I now,since we have real indigents, believe that thereabsolutely is a way for a real indigent to raise thisclaim that isn't even hard, you could file an amicusbrief. Suppose I believed that, and I do believe itactually. If I believe it, then does your third partystanding claim disappear? MR. MORAN: No. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if it doesn'tdisappear and I hold in your favor, would I then beopening the door to any lawyer whose pocketbook is hurt bytort reform, by any change at all, you know, that meansless money for him, and we'd be besieged with people? Instead of the clients, we'd have all the lawyers incomplaining that they want to be richer. Now, that'swhat's worrying me. So on my assumption, how could Ipossibly decide in your favor without opening that door? MR. MORAN: Your -­ JUSTICE BREYER: That's the question I'd like answered. MR. MORAN: Your Honor, the only kind of case towhich this applies is a case exactly like Triplett, a caseexactly like Caplin & Drysdale where the claim is that theunderlying change in the law or the underlying lawdisenfranchises or disentitles the indigent or thecriminal defendant or the defendant to representation. JUSTICE BREYER: Because? MR. MORAN: Because, first of all, if theindigent or the client still has representation, thenthere is no hindrance to the third party raising itthemselves. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that? Why would a change in substantive law -- th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I assumed there's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- have the same result? Suppose there's a change in -- in the antitrust law and -­and the person says this change -- this change has the -­the effect of -- of denying me equal protection of thelaw. That's the claim that the -- that the client wouldhave. But there's a lawyer who says, my goodness, thischange will mean there are many -- many fewer antitrustsuits. I can demonstrate that. That's my specialty,antitrust law. I'm going to lose a lot of business. Whywouldn't he have the right to raise the equal protectionclaim of the prospective client? MR. MORAN: Because the client could raise itdirectly, represented by the attorney. And so the thirdprong in jus tertii standing would be clearly missing inthat case. JUSTICE BREYER: No. I'm sorry. I -- I -­Justice Scalia and I were assuming the same thing. If Iassume that there's no problem with the real person, theindigent, raising the claim himself -- and I'm saying onthat assumption, which I believe, then if I were to decidein your favor, how would I not be opening the door that Iwanted to keep firmly closed? MR. MORAN: But this Court's precedents indicate, Justice Breyer, that the indigents do have a th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC significant hindrance to filing their claims themselves. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, okay. No. I agree withyou. If in fact you think that there's a problem about areal indigent bringing a claim in Michigan, although wehave two on the docket, if I accepted that premise, Iwould begin to think you were right. So then what I wastrying to explore is whether the whole thing comes down towhether I accept that premise. And of course, that'swhat's everybody has been talking about, and I do see atthe moment a couple of very good ways that indigents canbring it themselves, and indeed they have. MR. MORAN: But I think -­ JUSTICE BREYER: But everything comes down to that. Right? MR. MORAN: I think an answer I need to give to-- to cut through all of this is that third party standingis never predicated on the impossible. Third partystanding is never predicated on the idea that third partystanding is appropriate only if it is impossible for someindigent to make it into court or some third party or theperson whose rights are being violated to make it intocourt. All that must be shown from this Court'sprecedents is a hindrance. So this Court did not requirein Craig v. Boren that it was impossible that some youngman could get his claim in front of the court. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was altogether possiblethere had been a young man. The problem was he turned . So the case would -- from his point of view was moot. MR. MORAN: Right, but this Court neversuggested that it was -- showing that it was impossiblefor someone to quickly get his claim before the courtwas -- JUSTICE BREYER: I think I agree with you onthat. I'm just -- the reason I think it's so easy isbecause we get indigents. We get thousands of them. Andall you have to have is some indigent saying, hey, I wanta lawyer. Okay? That's all. He has to be able to writethose words. And at that point, you and the others comein with amicus briefs, if necessary, and support him. MR. MORAN: Well, the problem is is that in themeantime thousands of Michigan indigents are going to bedenied counsel. JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you a practicalquestion about what is currently before the Court? Mr.Casey I think told us that the Halbert case is on for theOctober th conference. If we should grant cert in eitherof those direct from the Michigan Supreme Court -­Michigan Supreme Court following Bulger, so you alwaysleave before then. If we should grant in either of thosecases, wouldn't the wise thing be to simply hold this case th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC till those are decided? MR. MORAN: That may well be a wise course ofaction -- action, Justice Ginsburg. I should point out that Mr. Casey, when he filedthe response to the Bulger cert petition, brought thisCourt's attention to the fact that this underlyinglitigation was proceeding in a case that was then calledTesmer v. Granholm. And so he brought to this Court'sattention that we had already prevailed in Federaldistrict court in Tesmer v. Granholm as a suggestion as towhy this Court did not need to grant cert in the Bulgercase, and so this Court did not grant cert. I don't know,of course -- I don't know why this Court did not grantcert in Bulger. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he said now he's not taking that position in the Halbert case. MR. MORAN: But I can be confident that if thereare any procedural hurdles to this Court's exercise ofjurisdiction in any of the State cases, Mr. Casey willalert this Court of them. And there may well be. Forexample, in the Melody Harris case, the Michigan SupremeCourt remanded for further -- remanded for her to thenfile an application for leave to appeal on her underlyingplea and sentencing issues without the assistance ofcounsel. Was the Michigan Supreme Court's order a final th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC order? I don't know. This Court would obviously have toresolve that. But I can be confident that Mr. Casey willcertainly bring up any procedural hurdles. And of course, this Court cannot exercisejurisdiction it does not have in a case just because itwould be more convenient to do so. This Court does havejurisdiction in this case. The petitioners never challenged prudentialstanding at any point in this litigation -- they -- theychallenged only article III standing, injury in fact -­until this Court. And so part of the reason we don't havea better record is because this came on a motion todismiss. This Court recognized in Lujan that a motion todismiss is different than a summary judgment, requires a-- a different procedural posture. It requires theassumption of facts being true. JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but no facts -- noadditional facts would -- would affect the central pointthat -- that we've been devoting most of this discussionto, which is whether there is an impediment or not to -­to the -- the actual individuals whose rights your clientsare asserting raising their own rights. No additionalfacts bear upon that it seems to me. MR. MORAN: I agree with you on that, Justice Scalia. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE STEVENS: Then what case holds thatthere must be an impediment for the third party? I keepcoming back to Craig against Boren. They could have filedanother class action and say that they filed a classaction and had standing. Would we have suddenly decidedwe won't decide the merits even though it's been arguedand both sides have had their day in court? MR. MORAN: I agree with you, Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: What is the source of therequirement there must be an impediment to the third partysuit? MR. MORAN: Well, this Court has said so manytimes, and Powers v. Ohio, for example, noted theimpediment to the -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: That -- where they granted standing. MR. MORAN: That's right. JUSTICE STEVENS: Have they ever denied standing on the ground that there was no impediment to thethird party suit? I don't think we have. MR. MORAN: I don't believe in all of the casesthat both parties cited that there are any cases in whichthis Court has said that there was no impediment to thethird party. It is -- it is certainly not the standard -­ CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, do you think th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that was just idle observation then? MR. MORAN: Not at all, Mr. Chief Justice. Ididn't mean to be light about that. JUSTICE STEVENS: It doesn't have to be idle tobe dicta, though, does it? MR. MORAN: There -- we -- we fully concedethere need to be an impediment, but what it does notrequire is the showing that it is impossible for someoneto get here. What is a showing is that for most -- forthe average person in the class, just like the averagegrand juror in Campbell v. Louisiana, or the averagevenire person in Powers v. Ohio, there are impediments togetting here. JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you fully concede theremust be an impediment even though the Court has never soheld? MR. MORAN: I'm willing to concede that becauseit is so clear to me that there is, that there is animpediment that trying to get into Federal court, tryingto get here, for that matter, trying to get into Federaldistrict court -- for an indigent, a typical person who isvery likely -- someone like Mr. Carter, functionallyilliterate, poorly educated, completely unaware of hisrights, to try and navigate the -- the procedural hurdlesof the Michigan system to get all the way through the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Michigan system and then into Federal court, that is adaunting hurdle. And that's Evitts v. Lucey. This Courthas recognized time and time again in -- in plea cases,Roe v. -- Roe v. Flores-Ortega. This Court has recognizedtime and time again in Peguero that even in a plea case atypical indigent is completely incapable of getting his orher case held -- heard, especially if you have to gothrough multiple layers of appeal without a counsel forthe first tier. And that is the problem here. On the merits, I certainly would like to correctMr. Casey's representations about the -- the nature of theMichigan system. The -- a properly filed application forleave to appeal is invariably denied for lack of merit inthe grounds presented. I certainly urge this Court to look at each and every one of the cases that Mr. Casey hascited for the proposition that that is not a determinationon the merits because not one of them says that. Not oneof them specifically says that a order denying leave forlack of merit on the grounds presented is not a decisionon the merits. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could -- could you give me anexample, just from your experience in practice, wherethere's an important issue raised after a guilty plea thatrequires an appeal where it's not one of the statutoryexceptions? th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MORAN: Many, many. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Most -- what are -- what arethose cases? MR. MORAN: Improper denial of jail credit,making -- improper denial of jail credit. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's not sentencing? MR. MORAN: That is a sentencing error. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay, but that's covered by the statute. MR. MORAN: No, it's not. The statute -- theonly exceptions in the statute are for guidelinesdepartures -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. MR. MORAN: -- and for -- and then if the indigent gets the appeal granted, but that's putting -­that's after the indigent has had to file an applicationidentifying his or her own issues without any assistanceof counsel. Double jeopardy issues. Double jeopardy issuesarise in Michigan all the time; whether sentences shouldbe consecutive or concurrent; whether there's been abreach of the plea bargain. All of these issues arise inMichigan courts every day, and while we are -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there instances where Michigan has denied the right to appeal when those claims th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC are raised? MR. MORAN: The problem, Your Honor, is that anindigent can't raise -- a typical indigent would becompletely incapable of identifying this -- these sorts ofissues. JUSTICE SCALIA: His counsel will have raisedthem. And -- and most, if not all, of those have to havebeen raised by counsel. MR. MORAN: Your Honor, Michigan requires thatineffective assistance of counsel claims be raised ondirect appeal. So if counsel has not raised the issue,then the indigent would have to recognize that by -- byhimself, and then raise that issue, the ineffectiveassistance of counsel, on direct appeal. Further, even if counsel has recognized it, whatwe typically would have would be an oral objection at asentencing hearing. For example, Your Honor, I thinkthese sentences should be concurrent, and the judge says,no, I'm going to make them consecutive. That's an oralobjection. The indigent will have to be able to get thetranscripts, get the register of actions, get all thenecessary documents, realize that that's a winning issue,that it does not put him at additional risk. That'sanother factor. One of the -- one of the points that acounsel can help with is tell an indigent, you don't want th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to take this appeal because success may result inrevocation of the plea bargain and an additional risk -­will have to realize that this is in my best interest togo ahead with this appeal. This is my issue. Find thecases, find the controlling authority. And even issues as complex as a Blakely issue,which this Court, of course, will be dealing with thisafternoon, that is an open issue of Michigan law rightnow. Is -- are the Michigan sentencing guidelinesunconstitutional or at least the application of them as aresult of this Court's decision in Blakely? Right now, asa result of the order in Melody Harris, a typical Michiganindigent will have to raise that complex issue of SixthAmendment law by herself or by himself, and that's simply an impossible burden, or the issue will be lost forever. And that is -- that is a burden that no indigent can meet. And so I would hope that this Court would notget hung up on the standing issue because this issue is soimportant right now, as a result of the Michigan SupremeCourt's order. Right now these issues are happening andright now Michigan indigents are being denied theassistance of counsel. Unique in the Nation. And so thiscase has been adversely argued. That's the point ofprudential standing. The petitioners waived theprudential standing issues below. They challenged only th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC article III standing. And so there is every reason forthis Court not to wait for a perfect case that may nevercome. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you familiar with theHalbert case? You mentioned that there might be afinality problem in Harris. MR. MORAN: I'm not familiar with that case,Your Honor. I just became aware of it by letter a fewdays ago and I have not had a chance to find out anythingmore about it. I have not seen the cert petition in thatcase. I'm not aware of the underlying -- excuse me -- theunderlying order from the Michigan courts in that case. But there may never be a perfect case, but thiscase is adverse and that meets all the -- all the requirements for prudential standing. Article IIIstanding is clearly met in this case, and I hope thisCourt will affirm the decision of the Sixth Circuit. If this Court has no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Moran. Mr. Casey, you have minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS L. CASEY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you waive the objection to prudential standing -­ MR. CASEY: We did not waive any of the standing th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claims in this case. We've discussed that in our replybrief. I've cited pages of the briefs where these issueswere discussed. And the overriding fact is that thedistrict court, the three-judge panel in the court ofappeals, and the en banc Sixth Circuit all decided theseissues. They have been properly raised and preserved andthey're before the Court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you file a brief inopposition in Halbert? MR. CASEY: Yes, I did. I filed that about a month ago. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And does that have any procedural impediments? MR. CASEY: Not to my knowledge. Thatindividual was convicted in pleas, asked for counselciting the Federal litigation in this Kowalski v. Tesmercase. It was denied. He filed a pro se application forleave to appeal challenging the denial of counsel andraising his sentencing issues -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what was the basis for your opposition to cert? MR. CASEY: That the Court need not grant certin that case because the issue is pending in this case. If -- if this case goes away, then I suspect we will agreethat that would be an appropriate vehicle to decide the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constitutional issue. As long as this case is pending inwhich the issue is raised, I suggested that the Court neednot grant cert in that case to decide the issue. If theissue is not going to be decided in this case, then thatwould be an appropriate vehicle to raise and decide theissue. On the standing point, if the plaintiffs hereare given standing, it would be a significant expansion ofthis Court's standing doctrine. This Court has neverfound third party standing when a litigant is not directlyaffected by a statute and there is no close existingrelationship with the third party and there is nohindrance. We've discussed many cases in which some ofthese factors are present and others are distinguishingfactors. This -- this case is, in some respects, unlikeall of them. There would be a significant expansion ofthe doctrine. On the merits of the issue, a constitutionalright to appointed counsel, under the Michigan system,please read the cases I've cited in my brief, particularlythe Bobenal decision, which I've cited in my principalbrief. In a footnote in my brief, I quote the orders thatthe court of appeals was considering. They have the samelanguage that is at issue here. Controlling Michiganprecedent says that applications for leave to appeal are th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not decisions on the merits. All an inmate has to do isidentify the issues. That can be done. It has been done,as seen by the two pending petitions for cert. If the Court has no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Casey. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 