 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XREPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. - MARIA V. ALTMANN : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MR. SCOTT P. COOPER, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalf of Petitioners.THOMAS G. HUNGAR, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners. E. RANDOL SCHOENBERG, ESQ., Los Angeles, California; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. PAGE C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT P. COOPER On behalf of the Petitioners THOMAS G. HUNGAR On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners E. RANDOL SCHOENBERG On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSCOTT P. COOPER On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument next (: a.m.) in -, the Republic of Austria v. Maria Altmann. Mr. Cooper. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT P. COOPER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COOPER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Landgraf and its progeny provide the basis for adecision in this case. In enacting the FSIA, Congress didnot direct that it apply retrospectively to events thatoccurred prior to its enactment. Moreover, application ofthe expropriation exception to alleged conduct thatoccurred in and before would change the legalconsequences of that conduct, and therefore be impermissiblyretroactive. QUESTION: What -- why would it change the legalconsequences? It -- wouldn't it just change where you can, where you can sue? MR. COOPER: No, in fundamental terms it wouldchange the legal consequences. Prior to , there wascomplete immunity in this country for claims ofexpropriation. Foreign sovereigns had an expectation thatthey would not be hailed into our courts to answer for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. internal exercise of their sovereign activities, and that isthe fundamental aspect of -­ QUESTION: Did the Tate letter have any coverageprior to ', the so-called Tate letter from the StateDepartment? MR. COOPER: The so-called Tate letter changed theState Department's position with respect to commercialactivities as of . This conduct all preceded andconcerned what has always been recognized as essentially public acts, that is, acts of expropriation. But to finish the answer to Justice Scalia, the -­the issue that underlies the whole concept of foreignsovereign immunity at its very basis is the question ofwhether our courts, in the case of United States' jurisdiction, will exercise jurisdiction to question pastjudgment on the sovereign conduct of foreign states actingin their own -- within their own borders with respect toproperty within their own country in this case. And that'ssomething that as a matter of comity and as a matter ofinternational concepts of orderly relationships betweensovereigns that we don't tolerate. QUESTION: But I thought that -- well, first, Ithink you recognize that this suit could be brought insideAustria, and then one of the countries that don't follow the-- the absolute rule. Then it seems to me that Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Scalia is right, it's a question of where you can sue. You-- your argument is the United States has been self-denying,but countries like Austria itself that don't follow thatabsolute rule could be a proper forum. MR. COOPER: With respect, Justice Ginsburg, the -­this issue of the adoption of the restrictive theory by anycountry is really a red herring here. The expropriationexception concerns itself with what has always beenrecognized as a public act, and that is that the act ofexpropriation, something that can only be done by agovernmental entity through the exercise of its governmentalauthority. QUESTION: But I -- as I understand this claim,it's not the original ex parte -- expropriation is whenAustria isn't even a country, because this happened in theNazi period, right? MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor. The United States'position throughout World War II and thereafter has beenthat Austria retained its sovereignty, that it was anoccupied state by the Nazi regime. The United Statesimmediately recognized -­ QUESTION: Then why was there a second republic? MR. COOPER: The second republic was thereconstituted government of the state of Austria, but theUnited States' position, and it is the executive's position th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that has binding authority with respect to the sovereignstatus, the executive's position was that Austria was alwaysa state. More importantly, Your Honor -­ QUESTION: But may I continue, because I thoughtthat this claim, whatever you say about Austria's status inthe, at the time of the Anschluss, that it's not necessarilyabout the stealing of the goods, it's about the retention ofthe goods. MR. COOPER: We don't believe that that's a correctreading of section -- (a)(). (a)() concernsitself with the expropriation of property. The Congress -­I articulated the power for the enactment of theexpropriation exception as the power to define and punishviolations of the laws of nations, and it is not evenarguably the case that a possession of expropriatedproperty, especially as it's been argued by the respondent,not necessarily even having been expropriated by thedefendant country, is a violation of international law. QUESTION: So if you know that you've taken from an expropriator, that's all right under international law? MR. COOPER: It's not a question of whether it'sall right. It's a question of whether Congress decided thatit was a basis for an exception to the long-standing andgeneral rule of law in this country, that is, sovereign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. immunity. So in other words, has -- has Congress determinedthat one of the narrow and specified exceptions to foreignsovereign immunity is the mere possession of property? QUESTION: Is it sovereign immunity or is it theact of state doctrine? MR. COOPER: It's sovereign immunity, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, but, I mean, even -- there -­there are two things that happen here. The sovereign can bebrought into court, but more than that, the sovereign can beheld to account for the act of the sovereign on its ownterritory. The latter, it seems to me, can be described assubstantive law, the former, just allowing the sovereign tocome into your -- or allowing your court to entertain a suitagainst the sovereign is -- is just -- just where suit goes. It has nothing to do with the outcome of the suit. MR. COOPER: This Court determined -­ QUESTION: So I -- I wish you could tell me that itdid have to do with the act of state doctrine, because thatwould be -- that would be a substantive change and thatshould not be retroactive. MR. COOPER: The -- the active state doctrine is anindependent doctrine that is not before the Court today. The sovereign immunity doctrine is before the Court today. Sovereign immunity, this Court decided in Verlinden, is amatter of substantive Federal law. This Court made that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. decision after careful consideration and with specificreference to the FSIA and Congress' power to enact it, andconcluded that it was more than a jurisdictional statute. Moreover, in the Hughes case, this Courtdetermined that merely articulating a statute's terms interms of jurisdiction does not remove it from theretroactivity analysis we urge is the rule of law that -­that determines the outcome of this case. Quite thecontrary. Hughes made it clear that in circumstances verymuch like these, where a cause of action was not previouslyallowed, and here the immunity kept a -- an action forexpropriation from being adjudicated in American courtsunder those circumstances. As of , there was afundamental change in the law with respect to foreignsovereigns. QUESTION: Well, in Hughes -- in Hughes there were-- there were other changes besides the -- besides thejurisdictional one. There -- there were defenses that wereeliminated. I don't think Hughes is a very good -- goodcase for you, but Verlinden, it seems to me, is -- is -- iscloser, but we were determining there whether it was asubstantive law or not for a very different purpose, for theexistence of -- of power on the part of the FederalGovernment to -- to enact the statute. That's a -- that's abit different from the purpose for which we're determining th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. whether it's a substantive law here. MR. COOPER: The interest of the United States,Your Honor, in the -- the administration of cases againstforeign sovereigns has long been recognized by this Court asbeing a -- a matter of great national interest. Thequestion of when we decide to exercise jurisdiction overforeign sovereigns is an essential component of the way thiscountry interacts with other countries. It's an area inwhich the Constitution conferred responsibility on thepolitical branches. The executive exercised thatresponsibility for the vast portion of this country'shistory and then submitted to Congress an act, the ForeignSovereign Immunity Act, which Congress then enacted, andcreated -­ QUESTION: But none of that's in question. MR. COOPER: -- very narrow exceptions to the doctrine. QUESTION: None of that's in question. The onlything that's in question is when Congress enacted this, didthey intend it to have the effect of -- of -- what should Isay -- de-immunizing, if you want to put it that way, prioracts or not. MR. COOPER: And it -­ QUESTION: We're -- we're not questioning the authority of the executive or the authority of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. legislature or the importance of this matter. Essentially,the issue is, what did Congress mean by this statute? MR. COOPER: And Congress in this Court has clearlyarticulated in -- in Landgraf and in the -- the severalcases that followed it, exactly how we determined what itwas that Congress did as it relates to the retroactiveaspects of those changes in law. QUESTION: And in -- in our domestic jurisprudence,we are cautious about retroactivity because it destroyssubtle expectations. Is that same rationale applicable whenwe're talking about foreign sovereign immunity, or are thereother considerations such as the dignity or -- of theforeign state? MR. COOPER: We think when the issue of a conceptof basic fairness so close to the root of our understandingof what constitutes fair treatment of any individual, thatno less standard -­ QUESTION: Well, that's why -­ MR. COOPER: -- no less rigorous standard than Landgraf should apply. QUESTION: That leads to my -- my next question. If we're talking about expectations, my understanding -­correct me if I'm wrong -- is that in Austria was -­and all countries -- were on notice that immunity would bejudged later on by acts of the executive, or in this case, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. by an act of Congress. Wasn't the expectation here thatthere would be a later determination of whether there wasimmunity? MR. COOPER: The expectation was that, based on thegeneral concepts of international law and general conceptsof comity, which are not just a question of whim orcourtesy, but rather a question of fair treatment of onesovereign by another with the expectation that the sovereignwho is declining jurisdiction would be fairly treated in the courts of other countries. QUESTION: But still whether or not there would beimmunity, Austria and all other countries knew, would be alater determination, so that the expectation they had was tothat extent necessarily, it seems to me, diminished -­ MR. COOPER: The expect -­ QUESTION: -- or qualified. MR. COOPER: Expectations are only one of a number of factors that the Court has referred to in Landgraf. QUESTION: So it's -- so there are additional factors other than expect. What are the additional factors? MR. COOPER: Well, certainly. Landgraf quotedJustice Story in his articulation of what was relevant,but the factors are expectations, changed circumstances, andchanged considerations for the parties. In any case thatincreases liability, for instance, for a particular act is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. considered to be -­ QUESTION: Let's just stick -- stick withexpectations -­ MR. COOPER: -- part of common sense -­ QUESTION: -- for the moment. Let's -- before youget off of expectations, I don't know that we protectexpectations of the sort that -- that you're talking about. Let's assume that a state which has not -- not previouslyallowed a tort action by -- by two out-of-state people,between two out-of-state people, to be brought within thatstate. Let's assume they change their law and they say, youknow, in the future, you -- you can bring a tort action. Do you think that -- that we would say, you're -­you're disrupting people's expectations if you allow thosepersons who are -- who are the parties to a tort in anotherstate before this statute was passed to sue in the newstate? MR. COOPER: Our concepts of -­ QUESTION: What expectation, you know? I expectednot to be able to be sued in Virginia. As it turns out, Ican -- I can be sued in Virginia. Did that really affect myaction in -- in this case? I can't believe that Austriawhen it took this action had in mind, oh, I -- I know that I-- that I can't be sued for this in the United States, I maybe sueable a lot of other places. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. COOPER: Reliance -­ QUESTION: I'm sueable here, but I'm not sueable inthe United States. Who cares? MR. COOPER: That kind of particularized relianceanalysis has never been a part of this Court's retroactivityanalysis. It -- the Court doesn't look for purposes ofcivil or criminal cases, can we find evidence that theindividual, when that individual acted, or the party, whenthat party acted, had in mind the current state of law. Thequestion has been as a matter of common sense understanding,is the new law a change in the consequences for pastconduct? And -­ QUESTION: So you're -- you're distinguishingreliance and expectation? An expectation is relevant eventhough there may be no reliance. Is -- do I understand youcorrectly? MR. COOPER: We are focused on the changed legalconsequences, not the subjective intention of the party inany respect. QUESTION: But is -- do -- do you articulate thatin terms of the country's expectation, even though thecountry may not have relied upon that expectation when itacted? MR. COOPER: Not -­ QUESTION: Are you drawing that distinction? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. COOPER: Not solely. We are not focused on theexpectation component of the test. We are focusedprimarily, although I think expectations could be a factor,we think that the more important aspect of the analysis isthe changed legal circumstances. That's -- that's the coreof what the -­ QUESTION: And the changed legal circumstance thatI understand you're emphasizing here is that, at least priorto , this particular possession of expropriatedproperty, as well as the expropriation itself, would nothave been cognizable in the court of any country unlesspossibly the country itself, which as an act of grace later,decided to -- to make its own reparations. But subject tothat section -- that exception -- it would not be -- wouldnot have been cognizable anywhere? MR. COOPER: That's absolutely correct. QUESTION: Okay. MR. COOPER: If there are no further questions at this point, I'd like to reserve time. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. McCoy -- rather, Mr. Cooper. Mr. Hungar, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS G. HUNGAR ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAE SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS MR. HUNGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the Court: The position of the United States has always beenthat sovereign immunity bars U.S. courts from adjudicatingpre- expropriation claims against foreign sovereigns. As this Court recognized in Dames and Moore, claims bynationals of one country against the government of anotherare frequently sources of friction between the twosovereigns. Since -- prior to , therefore, and absent awaiver of sovereign immunity, expropriation claims againstforeign sovereigns have always been addressed throughdiplomatic negotiations and foreign claims processes, andnot in U.S. courts. And the United States has entered intonumerous agreements with foreign countries regarding suchclaims, always against and with a background understandingprior to that such claims could not be adjudicated inU.S. courts. QUESTION: Is -- is the friction that's feared inpart based on changed expectations, or is that justirrelevant to the analysis? MR. HUNGAR: Changed expectations are relevant in,in the general sense, not the particular -- particularizedexpectations of a particular state, but that it is a generalrule and understanding of international laws set forth inthe Vienna Convention on Treaties and elsewhere that changes th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. in international law, including changes in sovereignimmunity law, are not retroactively applied. And there arenumerous examples of the latter point cited in our brief atfootnote , and -- and it was an absolute rule in andbefore. QUESTION: Is the absolute rule based on the act ofstate doctrine or on sovereign immunity? The distinction -­ MR. HUNGAR: Sovereign immunity. Sovereign -- itwas an absolute rule of sovereign immunity -­ QUESTION: But as you stated the proposition, you're limited to appropriation claims. MR. HUNGAR: Well, that's what we're addressinghere. This -- the absolute doctrine, the doctrine ofabsolute immunity was applicable to all claims. There is no-- there is not a single instance of any case or StateDepartment determination prior to in which a suit waspermitted to proceed against a foreign sovereign -­ QUESTION: And then that was the Tate letter, the -­ MR. HUNGAR: The Tate letter changed -­ QUESTION: In '. MR. HUNGAR: With respect to commercial activity,but, of course, this is not a commercial -- it's not evenalleged the -- within the commercial activity exception. We're not talking about commercial activity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Why is it that retroactivity -­retroactivity causes more friction? Because -­ MR. HUNGAR: Because it would be inconsistent withthe understandings with which the United States and theseforeign governments operated under with claims resolutionagreements with numerous countries, not merely arising outof World War II, but out of communist governmentexpropriations and numerous agreements regarding these typesof -­ QUESTION: But I thought part of the baseline ofimmunity law was that other -- foreign countries such asAustria knew that from time to time we would confer immunityor not confer immunity depending on the decision of theexecutive. So I don't see how wealth -- how settled this expectation or this other reliance is. MR. HUNGAR: The -- the case that -- the doctrineof absolute sovereign immunity, there were no -- there areno exceptions. There could not possibly have been anyexpectation or reason to believe that the executive of thiscountry would deny immunity in an expropriation case becausethat had never happened in the history of the absolutedoctrine, immunity doctrine, for years. No suit, again,no suit in the United States has been permitted, waspermitted to proceed on any theory against a foreignsovereign in personam. It was -- it would be absolutely th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. unprecedented for such a suit to have been permitted priorto , in fact, in the expropriation context. And so -­ QUESTION: Would that be true of -- would that betrue of Austria itself if the tables were turned? MR. HUNGAR: It's unclear whether a -- a courtaction could have been brought, at least we're not familiarwith anything in the record that indicates whether a courtaction could have been brought in , under, for example,the restitution law that Austria passed in . QUESTION: I think there was -­ MR. HUNGAR: But that's irrelevant because it can'tbe -- the retroactivity analysis has to be a term -­determined on a section-by-section, or -- or provision-by-provision basis. It can't be a case-by-case, country-by-country rule. QUESTION: Well, it was relevant to something thatMr. Cooper said. He said this was a matter of fairness andwe want others to be treated -- treat others -- treat otherswell so that they will treat us well. That sounded to melike he was speaking in reciprocity terms. MR. HUNGAR: Reciprocity is also an importantconsideration, Your Honor. If this law were to be appliedretroactively, it could open the United States to reciprocalclaims brought in foreign courts, which would furthercomplicate our foreign relations. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Well, how -- how does it work if in factyou treat the statute as purely jurisdictional? You haveto, one, establish jurisdiction, they have it under . You have to have venue, they established that. And then youlook to see if it's wiped out by sovereign immunity, and(a)() says this is a case in which rights and propertytaken in violation of international law are an issue. Right. So suppose you said, yes, that is such a case,even though the expropriation took place in ' or earlierperhaps. Then the State Department could come in and say,well, you don't win if you wanted to. You'd say, after all,there first is the act of state doctrine, and this was notclearly in violation of international law in , or youcould file, what is it called, it's a -- an information, orwhat is it, it's a suggestion of something or other -- it'sa -­ MR. HUNGAR: Well, prior to -­ QUESTION: -- statement of interest. And you sayit's the -- there's a -- there's a foreign policy interesthere, and so that way the State Department's in control, andif it feels that it would hurt foreign affairs to have thesuit go ahead, it says either act of state if it's not clearor a statement of interest, and a -- which is a kind ofpolitical question, I guess. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. And so, what -- how does that, in other words,where am I wrong in thinking there's no real foreign policyconcern here in respect to the application of this statuteas a purely jurisdictional matter? MR. HUNGAR: We believe that the -- as we said inour briefs, and part of the reason we're here today is thatthere are foreign policy concerns implicated -­ QUESTION: I know, and what I want to know is, whatwas wrong with what I just said? You see, as I was saying it -- did you follow it? One -­ MR. HUNGAR: Well, I'm not -- understand. We arehere today saying the United States has an interest in nothaving this expropriation exception applied retroactivelybecause it would undermine the background assumption -­ QUESTION: I understand that and I'm trying to getto the reasoning. And my thought was, I don't see why itaffects foreign affairs. You can explain why. I understandyou believe it does and I'm sure you're right, but I justwant to know why, and the reason I find it difficult to seewhy is because it seems to me you still, even assumingjurisdiction, can come in and say this was an act of state,this seizure in , or you can file a statement ofinterest, which I take it is saying there's a big foreignpolicy matter here and we're working it out in other forumsand you courts stay out of it. Now -- now am I wrong about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that? I'm sure you're going to say I am wrong and I want toknow why. MR. HUNGAR: Well, we don't perceive a meaningfuldifference between an amicus brief expressing foreign policyconcerns, which is what we have filed, and a statement ofinterest expressing foreign policy concerns. QUESTION: Ah. Well, then the correct result inthis case is to say yes, this statute applies, it applies to seizures, because they were in violation ofinternational law. Now, the State Department files astatement of interest saying to the court, there is a validforeign policy reason for not going ahead in this case. MR. HUNGAR: But the -­ QUESTION: I take it, by the way, you promised youwouldn't in this case, but nonetheless, all right. So -- soif -- that would be just up to you, so if you do it, thenthe court will not go ahead and adjudicate this case eventhough there is jurisdiction under the FSIA. MR. HUNGAR: Justice Breyer -­ QUESTION: I'm missing something, so you explain it to me. MR. HUNGAR: Well, several things. First of all, it's not true that we promised not to express a view -­ QUESTION: I'm sorry I brought that up. Take that out. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. HUNGAR: That has to do with a particularagreement entered into in and it is certainly ourposition that that agreement does not cover this case andthat was the position we took. But again, with respect tothe -- we are expressing the foreign policy concerns thatI've identified, which are generalizing, go through theretroactive application of this statute generally. We'renot talking just about Austria here. There are claims andpotential claims against countless foreign countries, manyof whom -- many of which would involve claims that werepreviously addressed -­ QUESTION: Some of them do not involve the act ofstate doctrine and you want us to hold that -- that -- thatthis would be a retroactive application of thisjurisdictional statute no matter -- no matter what claim ismade, whether it's an act of state claim or not. If -- ifyou were limiting them to act of state, I could understandit, because that's a substantive -- a substantive matter,but you want us to say no -- no suits can be brought that -­out of actions that -- that arose before this. MR. HUNGAR: In principles of retroactivity, the presumption against retroactivity require -­ QUESTION: It's not -­ MR. HUNGAR: This is not a sub -­ QUESTION: It begs -- it begs the question whether th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it is retroactive or not. MR. HUNGAR: This is not purely -- no, Your Honor,this is not purely jurisdictional. The fact that a -- ifit's true that a similar type claim could have been broughtin Austria at the time, that cannot change the retroactivityanalysis, because otherwise retroactivity would bedetermined country by country, and that fact that -- that astate by -- by an exercise of grace has chosen to allowclaims that somehow deprive it would change the rules, which can't be -­ QUESTION: Give me an example. I only have onequestion in this case and I've just said it and I want to besure I get the best answer I can. So give me an example ofan instance where it would hurt the foreign affairsinterests of the United States if the law said you proceedas I outlined. MR. HUNGAR: We have -­ QUESTION: There is jurisdiction but you are free to file act of state or -­ QUESTION: Wind it up. QUESTION: -- statement of interest. MR. HUNGAR: May I answer, Your Honor? QUESTION: Yes. MR. HUNGAR: The -- we -- there are currently cases pending against countries such as Japan and Poland, with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. which -- which this country previously entered intoagreements which both sides thought had resolved the issueentirely, and to now retroactively apply a substantiveprovision that this Court recognized in Ex parte Peru is asubstantive, not merely jurisdictional, but a substantivelegal defense, to apply that retroactively would be tochange settled expectations, change the rules, and it shouldnot be done. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Hungar. Mr. Schoenberg, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. RANDOL SCHOENBERG ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. SCHOENBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: We believe there are four independent grounds foraffirming the lower court in this case. First, as the Courthas just discussed, the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Actregulates the exercise of jurisdiction, not the underlyingprimary conduct of the parties. Therefore, the Act does notoperate retrospectively. QUESTION: Well, why doesn't it retro -- why -- whyisn't it just as easy to say that it does operateretrospectively, because the question is, when should itexercise jurisdiction for a particular purpose? And on theone hand there's no point in exercising jurisdiction now if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. it's not going to adjudicate later, so so far as the courtis concerned, presumably it's going to adjudicate on asubstantive issue. That being the purpose, why can you -- why reallydoes it make sense to draw that neat line? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, I'm -- I'm not sure that Iunderstand the question. QUESTION: Why -- why -- why isolate jurisdictionwhen we all know that the purpose of exercising thejurisdiction is to exercise it for the purpose ofadjudicating a particular kind of case and to apply aparticular substantive law to it? MR. SCHOENBERG: Because the -- the operativeevent, the event that's being regulated by a jurisdictionalstatute, as the Court has said, is that exercise of theCourt's power, regardless of when the underlying acts tookplace, the Court has differentiated between the primaryconduct of the parties and the secondary conduct, which isthe exercise of the Court's power. For example, just last term in the Dole Food case,the Court found that the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act isnot intended to chill the conduct of the foreign state. Rather, it's there to decide whether now presently it wouldembarrass the conduct of foreign relations, and the -- years ago, over years ago, Congress decided that cases th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. such as these should be allowed to go forward. QUESTION: Well, the Government of the UnitedStates has just said you're going to embarrass foreignrelations whether the United States' position with respectto a consideration in interpreting this act is raised now orwhether it's raised after jurisdiction is assumed and youget to the next stage. Why not -- why not get into it nowand consider it in interpreting the -- the scope of the act,in particular its retroactivity. MR. SCHOENBERG: This would be a much differentcase if the foreign government had ever said that theprosecution of this case would interfere with foreignrelations, as it has in all of these other cases. But ithasn't in this case, it hasn't filed a suggestion ofimmunity, it hasn't filed a statement of interest. A matterof fact, it required Austria to withdraw the act of statedoctrine defense when it was asserted below. This caseitself -­ QUESTION: But I thought it just told us that it would be an interference three minutes ago. MR. SCHOENBERG: The concern, as I understand theGovernment's concern, is that in other cases that arepending against Japan and Mexico, et cetera, there might beforeign relation issues. QUESTION: Well, why -- why should we look further? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. If the Government says that, I mean, isn't that conclusivein a case like this? MR. SCHOENBERG: I don't -- I don't think so. Ithink there are two responses. First, the amount ofdeference that is given to the Government's litigationposition under Bowen v. Georgetown and also INS v. St. Cyr. QUESTION: Well, those are not cases involvingforeign relations. MR. SCHOENBERG: That -- that's correct, and that'swhy the second issue is very important. I believe it wasJustice Powell who said in the First National City Bank casethat -- that jurisdiction is not the same as justiciability. And what the Government is talking about is a justiciabilityquestion. Does the act of state doctrine, for example,prevent this case from going forward? I'll give you another example, Your Honor. In -­the same district court judge who handled our case andgranted jurisdiction in our case, Judge Cooper, also wasgiven a class action case asserting World War II era claimsagainst Austria, this is the Anderman case. And just lastApril, she threw out that entire class action, because theGovernment had come in and filed a statement of interest andasserted its interest in the -- in the case, and she foundvery similar to the Court's holding in Garamendi last termthat the political question doctrine was implicated when the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Government comes in and says that the prosecution of thisparticular case will interfere with foreign relations. But I've never heard any -- in any other case theGovernment say that a case that does not implicate foreignrelations, as this one does, should be dismissed onjurisdiction grounds merely because we have justiciabilityconcerns with other cases. QUESTION: What -- what is it if -- what do youreply to their, what I take is their argument, that if wesay there is jurisdiction here, so that this covers pre-expropriations, think of all the eastern European bloc, whatused to be, millions of pieces of real estate, et cetera,and Japan, Peru, all over the world, South America, therehave been expropriations, and suddenly our Court becomes -­become places where you litigate who owns property all overthe world, at least if you trace an interest to an Americancitizen, for expropriations that may have taken underMaximilian of Mexico. I mean, see -- you see that kind ofproblem I think is what they're trying to raise. MR. SCHOENBERG: Right. We're very -­ QUESTION: What's the answer to that? MR. SCHOENBERG: We're very sensitive to theGovernment's concern, the can of worms argument here. And Ithink the answer to it is that all of those cases presentmuch more difficult problems than this one does in terms of, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. for example, the statute of limitations. Your Honor, the statute of limitations is designed to get rid of old claims. In our case, because of Austria's post-war conduct of concealment -­ QUESTION: All right, statute of limitations. Let's go on, let's list a few other things, because -­ MR. SCHOENBERG: There -­ QUESTION: -- there might be instances where the statute hasn't run for all kinds -­ MR. SCHOENBERG: Right. QUESTION: -- of local reasons. MR. SCHOENBERG: There's -­ QUESTION: I don't know what the statute of limitations rule is in Peru and et cetera. MR. SCHOENBERG: I can think of at least five problems that cases, old cases, would have. One would be statute of limitations. Form non-convenience may be a problem. It wasn't in this case. The act of state doctrine we've mentioned is also a serious problem in many of these cases. You have interference with treaties, which is also not this case. And you have interference with executive agreements, which is also not this case. QUESTION: Can they come in and file a letter, in your opinion, assume you have jurisdiction to say, look, Judge, we don't want you to litigate this case, it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. interferes with our foreign affairs, period? MR. SCHOENBERG: Yes. QUESTION: They can? MR. SCHOENBERG: They can file that. I think itwould have to be considered by the -­ QUESTION: And they give a good reason, they give agood reason. MR. SCHOENBERG: If there were a good reason whyAustria's ownership of paintings would interfere with foreign policy -­ QUESTION: But that's for a court to judge rather than the executive? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, there's a certain amount of deference that would have to be given to -­ QUESTION: But no, but you're saying that theexecutive could say and have -- give a good reason, and thecourt could say, no, we don't -- we don't approve of that? MR. SCHOENBERG: I think under -- under thisCourt's doctrine in foreign affair and policy -- foreignaffairs policy -- there is an automatic deference given tothe Government's suggestion that a particular case willinterfere with foreign policy, but in most cases I think itwould be quite clear. This case -­ QUESTION: Well, what -- what case is it that says that the court should decide rather than the executive in a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. case like this? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, I believe, for example, in ­- in Sabbatino, the Court did not immediately accept theGovernment's position as to whether a case should or shouldnot go forward and said that it was -- now, I don't knowwhether that, whether Sabbatino, in that part of Sabbatino,it would still be good law today. I don't think that's beenconsidered. QUESTION: It -- we -- it wasn't the Court opinion, was it? MR. SCHOENBERG: Right. It was a pluralityopinion. But there is a suggestion, it may not be ananswered question, Your Honor. I'm not sure I can point toa case that would -- would talk about the deference, but again, we're talking about not our situation, because theGovernment has not filed any suggestion of immunity or -- orstatement of interest suggesting that this case wouldinterfere with foreign policy. QUESTION: Could -- could I ask about the act ofstate doctrine? I mean, even -- why isn't that in playhere? I mean, even if giving -- holding Austria here wouldnot be acting retroactively insofar as the exercise ofjurisdiction is concerned, why wouldn't holding Austrialiable for an act of state which previously would not be abasis for -- for challenge in this country, why wouldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that be acting retroactively? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, we haven't addressed the actof state because it hasn't been raised and it was anargument that was dropped. I -- I can answer the questionthough. The act of state doctrine, as I understand it, isdesigned to prevent courts from entering into situationswhere there is no settled basis for deciding the case. Inother words, in the Cuban cases where there's a regime thathas a completely different property system than ours, itwould be unwise for the courts to venture into thispolitical dispute over whether communism or capitalism isthe appropriate way to adjudicate these cases. In our case, we have a treaty, article of theAustrian State Treaty says Austria must return propertytaken from Jewish families during the Nazi era. So there'sno dispute between the two countries as to whether or whattype of law would apply in this case. And under Sabbatino,it's very much qualified by the absence of a treatygoverning the rule of decision. So I -- I don't think this case could ever pose anact of state problem. Other cases do though. That -- andthat's -- that's really the point. These cases againstMexico, against Japan, against Poland could potentially poseserious act of state problems. This particular casedoesn't. We'd be happy to litigate it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. QUESTION: Whether it poses a problem or not, thesuit is -- is resting upon -- is challenging an act of thestate of -- of Austria that -- that occurred in Austria. MR. SCHOENBERG: That -- that's correct. Everysuit against a foreign sovereign that's authorized under theForeign Sovereign Immunities Act has the potential ofinterfering with foreign relations to the extent that itconcerns the actual foreign country. QUESTION: Right. So the issue would be, should that be given retroactive application? MR. SCHOENBERG: In the act of state context. QUESTION: Yeah. MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, I -- I don't think -­ QUESTION: This is the act of state context. I mean, that's what's going on here. MR. SCHOENBERG: The act of state doctrine is achoice of law doctrine, as I understand it, and -- and soit, again, is not something that really operatesretroactively, I think. I don't think to -- to echo whatwas said before that any country could have an expectationin how the act of state doctrine will apply in theparticular case. QUESTION: How about the public acts? MR. SCHOENBERG: I'm sorry? QUESTION: This is a public act. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, whether it's a public orprivate act to collect paintings, I'm not sure is so clear. QUESTION: Let's assume it's a public act. Does ithave an expectation that -- that that will be adjudicatedunder the then-prevailing norms? MR. SCHOENBERG: I -- well, yes and no. Yes in thesense that we do have to establish that -- that thisproperty was taken in violation of international law, and Ithink that part of the statute clearly expects that thetaking be adjudicated according to the state ofinternational law at the time. So to that degree I thinkyes. But whether -- whether it's a public or private act Ithink doesn't determine the -- the retroactivity question.QUESTION: But we're told that at least in this country such acts were never adjudicated in foreign courts. MR. SCHOENBERG: I -- I understood that to be theGovernment's position. I don't know how the Governmentexplains The Santissima Trinidad case, which is a caseconcerning private property on a ship where not one, butseveral, sovereigns claimed an ownership interest, andJustice Story said that our courts, of course, have toadjudicate the ownership of that private property,regardless of whether it was taken as part of a public act. In the Santissima Trinidad, it's a confusing case, and I'm not sure, even having read it many times, how the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. ship came to be in its final location, but as I understandit, it went through many different, many different hands. And the question at the end was, because the sovereigns wereclaiming the ship, which was potentially a ship of war, doesthat mean that the Court could not adjudicate the ownershipof cargo on the ship? And Justice Story said no. QUESTION: No, but he -- isn't the -- the concernabout the applicability of that case to this one isprecisely the reason you said. It was -- it was a suitbetween sovereigns and we're talking here about thesovereign immunity defense in a suit by an individual, andit's rather a stretch to take that as -- as the basis foryour law in this case.MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, I would -- I would think that the act of state doctrine, which is what we weretalking about, would -- would be implicated even morestrongly in a -- in a suit involving multiple sovereignsthan it would with regard to just an individual against asovereign. And I -- I -- the Government makes the positionI think for the first time today that the expropriationclause sort of appeared from nowhere, but I don't thinkthat's the case. The first section of (a)() veryclearly is the Santissima Trinidad case. That's theproperty is inside the United States in connection with thecommercial activity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. The second clause I believe arises out of theCuban expropriation cases and the Government's experience inthose cases, and it was the intention of the Government in when the executive branch proposed this law and whenthe Congress enacted it to allow our courts to adjudicatethese types of claims. QUESTION: Well, what -- what I'm looking for, I'mbeginning to understand his answer better -- I think thereshould be a way, not in your case necessarily, but ingeneral, for the Government to say, court, stay out of thiscase, because of the international implications. And what Iwas thinking is if we -- if this is jurisdictional, followJustice Powell's distinction, that won't be a problembecause there'll be other ways for them to do it. You'regradually closing those doors. One way I had thought of was act of state, but youcorrectly point out that the act of state doctrine does notbar anything when the claim rests upon a treaty or otherunambiguous agreement, and your quoting the ' treaty mightnot help you because it's post-', but a -- but mighthelp you, so you're there with a treaty. And so they say, well, we can't use that one, andthere'll be a lot of cases when we can't. So then I hadmentioned this thing called a statement of interest, which Iwas looking for an explanation because I don't know what it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. is. And there's a third thing that you mentioned, which iscalled a letter about immunity. Well, that won't help thembecause that's what this statute is. See, so that now we're back to the statement ofinterest. Now, can -- what is this thing, a statement ofinterest? Can -- in other words, is the statement ofinterest sufficient to achieve the objective that I wasthinking was important, that not necessarily your case, butin many other cases there has to be a way for the executiveto stop the judge from deciding the matter where it reallydoes interfere with foreign relations. Now, what's -- do you see where I'm -- MR. SCHOENBERG: I -­ QUESTION: Do you see that that is the thing that has been floating in my mind -­ MR. SCHOENBERG: I understand -­ QUESTION: -- and I'm trying to settle on. MR. SCHOENBERG: I understand. It's, of course,difficult for us to talk about it because there is nostatement of interest in this case, but -­ QUESTION: But you can explain to me what a statement of interest is. MR. SCHOENBERG: Right. QUESTION: And whether a statement of interest is a sufficient legal route to achieve the end that I think is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. necessary and that they're arguing for. MR. SCHOENBERG: I believe if -- if the Governmentwere to file a statement of interest saying that theprosecution of this particular lawsuit would interfere withthe foreign relations of the Government, I think a courtwould be proper in abstaining from adjudicating the caseunder the political question doctrine, very similar to thisCourt's holding last term in Garamendi, I think. QUESTION: But it wouldn't have to, in your view? MR. SCHOENBERG: I would say it would -- it wouldbe very -- it would almost always have to. I think -- Ithink the Court should still be allowed to determine whether-- whether there is really a basis for the Government'sposition. I -- I wouldn't say that our courts necessarilyhave to bend always to the Government's position with regardto a statement of interest. I think that's the -- theimport of the first National City Bank case and -- and -­and the -- the Sabbatino case and Alfred Dunhill also. QUESTION: But I -- I take it that in no case, inno instance would you concede the appropriateness of -- ofthe statement of interest being considered at thejurisdictional as opposed to the justiciability of -­ MR. SCHOENBERG: That's -- that's absolutelycorrect. We're talking today only about the jurisdictionquestion. There hasn't been a statement of interest filed th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and there couldn't be a suggestion of immunity. I'm sorry,Your Honor. QUESTION: No, I'm sorry. What do you do aboutVerlinden? MR. SCHOENBERG: Verlinden actually is a great casefor us as I realized in reviewing it. Verlinden is -- is aretroactive application of the Foreign Sovereign ImmunitiesAct. In that case it was a foreign company against aforeign state, something for which there was no jurisdictionin the United States prior to the enactment of the ForeignSovereign Immunities Act. That action arose in and yetwhen it was brought under the Foreign Sovereign ImmunitiesAct several years later, this Court directed the lower courtto adjudicate jurisdiction under the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act. So that case is exactly a -- if -- if anything isretroactive, that's a retroactive application of the ForeignSovereign Immunities Act. But again, it goes back to thisCourt's statements in Landgraf that jurisdictional statutewhich confers or ousts jurisdiction is not impermissiblyretroactive and that -­ QUESTION: Did -- Verlinden didn't expressly discuss the right to retroactivity? MR. SCHOENBERG: It absolutely did not discuss retroactivity. It maybe never occurred to any of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. Justices or the parties at that time that a jurisdictionalstatute like the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act could bein any way -­ QUESTION: No, but they -- but we did say that itwasn't just a jurisdictional statute. That's what we said. MR. SCHOENBERG: The -- the Court said that it wassubstantive in Republic of Mexico v. Hoffman in . TheCourt refers to sovereign immunity as substantive law. ButI think as this Court has said, whether you label the -- thelaw substantive or procedural really isn't the question. The question is, on what activity is -- is the statuteoperating? And here it's operating on the claim to immunityand how that is adjudicated by our courts in decidingwhether the court has the jurisdiction -­ QUESTION: But that -- that has a bearing on theLandgraf exception too. If a statute is more thanjurisdictional, you know, it isn't so easily disposed ofunder Landgraf. MR. SCHOENBERG: It's correct, but I think thiscase presents a much better case than the two cases cited inLandgraf, the Andrus case and U.S. v. Alabama, although U.S.v. Alabama you could distinguish as something seeking onlyinjunctive relief and therefore prospective. In Andrus,this is a case brought against the U.S. Government after theU.S. Government -- or while the case was pending, I think, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. the statute is changed to take away the amount incontroversy requirement. So, in other words, very clearlybefore the suit could not proceed, now the statute's beenchanged without any suggestion of retroactivity in theenactment. And the Court says -- this is , I think -­it's of no moment that this jurisdictional statute has beenchanged now to allow a suit against in -- in a sovereignentity, the United States. So I think this case presents actually a muchbetter -- much better case, because here, and these areother points that I wanted to raise, I believe the text ofthe Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act demonstrates that itwas intended to apply to all claims to immunity, regardlessof when the acts took place, the underlying acts took place. Our -- our third point -­ QUESTION: May I just ask you on that, I mean,isn't the objection to that that the -- that the subjectmatter we're concerned with here is a subject matter whichis defined in terms of property and the history of thatproperty, and the history of that property as expropriatednecessarily raises the time question? And if the time isprior to the -- the enactment of the statute, wenecessarily, by the definition of present subject matter,get into an issue of retroactivity. What -- what's theanswer to that? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, the answer is, again, inLandgraf that not every statute which affects prior eventsis impermissibly retroactive, and my point was -­ QUESTION: But it's not impermissibly retroactive,but it raises the question about the permissibility of aretroactive application. MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, I -- my view is that theForeign Sovereign Immunities Act is -- is a statute that isdesigned to take away the immunity decision from the StateDepartment and place it in the hands of judges, and thepurpose of the statute was that henceforth all claims toimmunity should be adjudicated under this procedure, not theold procedure. In other words, the U.S. Government'sposition should -­ QUESTION: Yeah, but even -- even that, withrespect, it seems to me that that begs the question. Thecourt is going to adjudicate. The question is whether inadjudicating them it is going to draw a line based on -- on-- on this temporal consideration. That still leaves it inthe hands of the court. But the question is whether in thehands of the court retroactivity ought to be a basis formaking the jurisdictional decision. MR. SCHOENBERG: I -- I don't -- I don't see -- Idon't think that it is with regard to the text of thisstatute. I -- even though the statute does refer to events th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that could take place prior to the enactment, the purpose ofthe statute, which is what I think the analysis requiresthat we consider, is to change the forum of the adjudicationfrom the old State Department procedure to the -- to thecourt procedure under these specific rules. QUESTION: How does your -- the discussion aboutthe statement of interest then fit in? It seems to me whatyou just said is, they meant to take it away from the StateDepartment and put it in the hands of the court. MR. SCHOENBERG: The -- the immunity consideration,yes, but I think the statute, the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act, was not intended to change the rules, forexample, with the act of state doctrine or with the statuteof the limitations or with any of the other doctrines thatmight bar an older claim from -- from entering court. Our third point, this I don't want to spend toomuch time on, but it's our view that the Foreign SovereignImmunities Act merely codified the common law of sovereignimmunity, and therefore, it did not substantially change thelaw. And this is not only my opinion. If one looks at theState Department circular that was sent out in toforeign states, it says, this enactment will notsubstantially alter the rules for deciding sovereignimmunity questions in U.S. courts. So it was the positionof the State Department at the time that they proposed this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. legislation that it merely codified what the StateDepartment then considered to be the rules of sovereignimmunity. And we have an interesting situation, I think anunprecedented situation, because the common law itselfdepended on the views of the State Department, so we have alittle bit of a reflexive situation. The way I look at it,let us suppose, for example, that the -- that instead ofenacting the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act they issuedanother Tate letter, another letter that merely said,henceforth we want the courts to adjudicate things underthis -- under this regime. So it's not a new statute, it'sjust a suggestion to the courts on how to decide cases. Under this Court's ruling with regard to commonlaw, non-statutory law, of course that -- that approachwould have to be applied retroactively, and I don't thinkit's any less retroactive just because the executive branchsent it over to Congress and said, we want you to pass thestatute also. Our last -­ QUESTION: Any -- any more retroactive? MR. SCHOENBERG: Any more retroactive. Our last -­our last point is really the basis for the Ninth Circuit'sdecision, and that is, as to these parties in this case,there is no impermissibly retroactive effect, becauseAustria could never have had any expectation of immunity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. with regard to Mrs. Altmann's claims. QUESTION: That would be a pretty good nightmare,wouldn't it, if we had to have judges trying to work out ona case-by-case basis, country by country, whether Turkey in when it was an enemy, had a -- didn't have anexpectation of being treated as a sovereign, but Hungary in had a different expectation, et cetera. I mean, that ­- that -- I think their point on that's a pretty good one,isn't it? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, it -- it's -- but it's not a point about retroactivity, Your Honor. The -­ QUESTION: Well, it is because they're saying thatunless you treat these things as a whole, you won'tunderstand the problem. And even if in your case thecountry had no expectation, there are so many countries thatdid that -- and going into it case by case is so difficultthat it would better to have an absolute rule. That's theirarguments. MR. SCHOENBERG: It would be better, but that's notreally how the Court's retroactivity analysis has gone overthe last years, and that's -- that's why I certainlyfavor some of the earlier arguments. I think it's easier todecide the case on those, rather than the way the NinthCircuit did in evaluating the expectations, but if onedoesn't decide in our favor on all of those other arguments, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. that the statute itself is jurisdictional, that Congressintended it to apply, that there's really no change in thelaw because it's the same as the common law of sovereignimmunity, then really under Hughes one has to look atwhether, as to the parties of this case, there is anyretroactive effect, and that -- that's -- that's what theHughes holding is. It's a statute phrased jurisdictionally,but let's look at what happened here. You have a newplaintiff with new incentives and a defense, substantive defense taken away. That's the Hughes case. And so it requires you to look outside the fourcorners of the statute to look at what was -- what are youcomparing the statute to, when -- when in Hughes the Courtsaid if it determines whether a cause of action can proceedand not where, the where question, of course, implies thatyou have to look and see if there are other jurisdictionswhere the case could be brought. And in this case, as we've made very clear,Austria could always have been sued, at least since it wasre-established after World War II for these acts, and as amatter of fact, Austria was required by the United States toenact restitution laws that were designed to afford peoplelike Mrs. Altmann relief. They have never assertedsovereign immunity in these claims in their own courts andthey would not have been allowed to by the U.S. Government, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and that sentiment, of course, is echoed in the subsequenttreaty in and it's echoed in the Bernstein letter in that as to expropriations, as to property taken fromJewish families in violation of international law, thiscountry does not recognize sovereign immunity anywhere, notin the states where -- where -- that were involved, and notin the United States, and that -- that's -- that's our lastpoint and that's the Ninth Circuit's position. If the Court has no further questions -­ QUESTION: Is it -- is it correct that -- that wewould be out of step with all other countries if we -- if weallowed this suit to proceed? MR. SCHOENBERG: Well, certainly not as a matter of -- of the statute. Our -- our -- in terms of -- QUESTION: No, no. I mean -- I mean, have -- haveall other countries, when they've changed to the new modernnotion of limited sovereign immunity, have they all declinedto -- to apply it in a manner that the Government here wouldcall retroactive? MR. SCHOENBERG: Right. I -- I don't know how allstates have done it. I know that, for example, in Austriawe cited the Dralle case, which concerned a post-warcommunist expropriation of a -- of a subsidiary company inCzechoslovakia, and a German company was allowed to sueCzechoslovakia in Austria concerning the trademarks and -­ th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. and the expropriation, and have an Austrian court rulewhether that expropriation violated international law. So I would say as to Austria, the argument is, andI think we cited also in our brief a statement by anAustrian professor, Seidl-Hohenveldern, who said that thecourts -- there's nothing in international law that preventscourts from adjudicating the rights and property taken inviolation of international law. Thank you very much. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Schoenberg. Mr. Cooper, you have five minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT P. COOPER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Just onthat last point, the Dralle case, which is one that weaddress in our reply brief, does not stand for theproposition that Czechoslovakia's expropriation could besecond-guessed in Austria. Quite the contrary. Austriadetermined that the legality of Czechoslovakia's activitiesin their own -- in its own country were not subject toreconsideration in Austria. Austria concerned itself onlywith whether, given its own neutrality as betweenCzechoslovakia and Germany, whether Austria could giveeffect to an expropriation as an act of war. And itdetermined that it could not with respect to property th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. located in Austria. That issue has nothing to do withwhat's before the Court today. Sovereign immunity isn't merely a form selectionrule. It confers on the foreign state the right to choosewhether and where to be sued. That's a substantive right. It's a right this country has always understood as a rightin a sovereign. Austria's choice, if it did so choose, thecircumstances under which it would provide remedies in itsown country, either by statute or in its own courts, doesn'tconstitute a waiver of the sovereignty to which it had beenaccorded in this country throughout the current period up to. So this country has always recognized thedifference between a sovereign's right to create a remedy,and this country has done so in its own instances withrespect to events that were claimed to be the subject ofreparations, and by doing so it has never suggested that itthought it was subjecting itself to the jurisdiction of aforeign court for individual claims to be able to look formore than the statute of the United States provided for. In addition, with respect to the law immediatelyprior to the enactment of the FSIA, I think the suggestionwas that somehow the United States had -- had eroded theexpropriation rule or that Congress thought that it wasadopting the -- codifying the law of the land with respect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. to expropriation in the FSIA, and that plainly is not true.The legislative history, and more importantly the statementsof the State Department, in particular the -- the digest byJohn Boyd with respect to State Department decisions from to cited in our brief make it clear that the StateDepartment considered this to be a fundamental change in thelaw. The conduct being regulated here is expropriationor at the very least possession that goes back to events in alleged in the complaint. It is not the mere questionof the exercise of jurisdiction here or, worse yet, thismere substitution of another tribunal. This is somethingthat Congress focused on in each of the expropriationexceptions. It identified the conduct that it thought theforeign sovereign had engaged in that justified one of ournarrow exceptions to the general concept of foreignsovereign immunity. Whether that was an express waiver under (a)(),whether that was the exercise of commercial conduct that anyprivate party could engage in under (a)() or the -- or theexpropriation of property in violation of international lawin (a)(), Congress identified the conduct that it thoughtjustified the lifting of the generally applicable foreignsovereign immunity and decided that's the conduct we want toregulate. And that's what we think justifies the variance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. from our general rule with respect to sovereigns, and thatis a change in the law that requires application of theretroactivity analysis to treat those sovereigns fairly. If there are no further questions, I have nothing. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Cooper. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above­entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC , Inc. 