 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, : EXXON CHEMICAL ARABIA, INC., : AND MOBIL YANBU PETROCHEMICAL : COMPANY, INC., Petitioners : : v. : No. - SAUDI BASIC INDUSTRIES CORPORATION. : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ., Austin, Texas; on behalf of the Petitioners. GREGORY A. CASTANIAS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners GREGORY A. CASTANIAS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) JUSTICE STEVENS: We will now hear argument inExxon Mobil against Saudi Basic Industries. Mr. Coleman, I trust you will soon tell us whythe case is not moot or whether you think it's moot, andif -- if not, why not. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY S. COLEMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COLEMAN: Good morning, Justice Stevens. May it please the Court: I will begin with that, if you would like. This case is not moot because there is anongoing case or controversy between the parties. There isa judgment, it is true, from the Delaware State court,which has now been affirmed by the Delaware Supreme Court. But preclusion doctrines not Rooker-Feldman and notmootness govern the resolution of the claims that weasserted first -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, what financialinterests do your clients have to keep litigating today inanother court? MR. COLEMAN: I don't know the -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: What's going on? I mean, it's very confusing. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. COLEMAN: Well, certainly, Justice O'Connor,we've not yet recovered on our judgment and that judgmentis still there. It is still in existence. We've not yetcollected on it. But I don't believe that mootness turns onwhether you have, in fact, collected on a judgment. Thereare very few cases out there in which a party has, infact, obtained two judgments, one from a State court andone from a Federal court, usually because a party waivedthe application of preclusion doctrines. And -- and wehave conceded previously that that's not our interest. What is our interest here is that we haveasserted Federal jurisdiction. This case was brought inFederal court by SABIC. During the course of discovery,we found some things out that they had been overchargingus and we indicated that we were going to bring claimsagainst them in Federal court. They ran down to Delawarecourt by forum shopping in order to try to obtain ashorter statute of limitations, which turned out for themto be a strategic blunder of monumental proportions. But the Federal case, when we filed it, thoseclaims had original jurisdiction in Federal court. Theyhave not yet been resolved in a proper way. We -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But do you have a continuing case or controversy? That was -- that -- that's a bedrock th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Article III requirement, and if you've got all the reliefthat you were seeking -- let's put it this way. Supposeyour opponent SABIC says, here's the check for the $million and we undertake that we're not going to pursueany further relief. Would you have a case or controversyleft? MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. We might nothave an interest in pursuing the case, but we have a legalinterest in terms of Article III case or controversy. Itis well established that the -- the fact of taking ajudgment does not make a case moot. In fact, if therewere a holding that we think that the Federal case weremoot -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you've got all therelief to which you are entitled, that does make a casemoot. MR. COLEMAN: In terms of cases that involveinjunctive relief where it is impossible for a court togive you the relief that you have -- that you are seeking,that is true. But when you are seeking money damage, itis at least theoretically possible -- we're not sayingthat we're going to ask for that, but at leasttheoretically possible that the Federal district courtcould still give us relief. And therefore, what we areasking for is -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: What relief could it give you? JUSTICE SOUTER: But what for? JUSTICE STEVENS: What relief? If you're paid in full, what -- what relief are you entitled to? MR. COLEMAN: Well, we think the relief that we're entitled to, in terms of this, is for the case to be remanded for the district court to resolve these issues under preclusion doctrines. JUSTICE STEVENS: But what issues would -- would the district court resolve? MR. COLEMAN: Preclusion. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if you win on the preclusion -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Who cares? JUSTICE SOUTER: -- what do you get then in substance? MR. COLEMAN: We don't necessarily intend to take a -- another judgment in Federal court. JUSTICE SOUTER: Then what do you intend to do? If you win on preclusion, what do you do then? MR. COLEMAN: Well, hopefully we'll win onpreclusion with respect not only to this suit, the NewJersey II suit, but also the New Jersey I suit, which wesay the district -- or the Delaware judgment precludes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think we'd like an th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page answer. Justice Ginsburg gives us -- gives you a hypothetical case. You've got the money. The judgment has been discharged in the State courts. What is left to do in the Federal court? MR. COLEMAN: It is likely -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, the one answer I heard you give, well, we're interested in preclusion to say -­well, that's all historical at that point. Who cares? MR. COLEMAN: It -- it is likely, Your Honor -­and we have previously said -- that we may very well dismiss the case of our own accord. But that doesn't mean -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're looking for -- we're looking for something that makes the case live. MR. COLEMAN: Our claims are alive. There are claims there that seek relief -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we're -- we're questioning why that is and we're asking you what relief you need to get that you wouldn't get in the hypothetical that Justice Ginsburg posed. MR. COLEMAN: We thought we would not seek further monetary relief. JUSTICE BREYER: So what -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know how many claims in this case that -- that were not in the Delaware case? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. COLEMAN: We have affirmative defenses tothe New Jersey I, but -- but the claims in New Jersey IIand Delaware are the same, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is your answer that you mightwant equitable relief, an injunction to continue makingpayments in the future, or something like that? MR. COLEMAN: No, Your Honor. We're not seekingadditional monetary or equitable relief. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you would be stuckanyway because you made a counterclaim and -- and it wouldbe -- on which you prevailed. And in that counterclaimyou would be precluded if you didn't ask for everythingthat you could get. But -- but at this stage at least, the -- thedoor -- there -- there is still conceivably an avenue offurther litigation because, SABIC hasn't yet said thatit's not going to do anything more, that it isn't going topetition for cert, for example. MR. COLEMAN: And, indeed, Your Honor. I mean,SABIC has represented to the Court that it likely intendsto seek certiorari relief from this Court in the Delawaresuit. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it has -­ JUSTICE BREYER: So if they do, it's not finished. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. COLEMAN: It is not finished -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, all right. I'll ask themthat. MR. COLEMAN: Getting back to the Rooker-Feldmanissue, which is the issue on which the Court granted cert,Rooker-Feldman is a narrow, limited doctrine, but it barsonly appellate review not parallel litigation in Federaldistrict courts. Rooker-Feldman is not a theory ofvanishing original jurisdiction, nor is it ajurisdictional substitute for the preclusion analysismandated by Congress in the Full Faith and Credit Act. The expansive interpretation asserted by SABICmisperceives the fundamental nature of appellate review. It's untethered to any natural negative implication in U.S.C. . It illegitimately displaces the applicationof section , the Full Faith and Credit Act, in mostcases to which it is traditionally applied, and it servesabsolutely no useful purpose. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the problem that bothersme -- and I don't know that there's an answer to it -- isyou have plaintiff. Plaintiff goes into State court. Hebrings a lawsuit, a tort suit, a contract suit. And thenhe decides he'd also like to go to Federal court. Hebrings exactly the same suit. And here we have two suitsand exactly the same thing running along at the same time. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Now, I know there are principles from this Court's caselaw that says, well, that's what's supposed to happen. They've always bothered me. But now let's take a special instance. Thespecial instance is that in court one in the State, theplaintiff loses. Now, what he decides to do is to say tothe Federal court, we want you to review what they did inthe State court. Can't do that. Right? MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So he brilliantlyfigures out I will omit the word review from my -- from mymotion. I will ask for precisely the same thing just notuse that word review. I will ask them to go and maketheir decision which happens to be -- in my opinion shouldbe -- percent the opposite of what the State court didshowing they're wrong. But I won't use the word review. Now, you say because he cut the word review out, he can doit. MR. COLEMAN: No, Justice Breyer. It's notbecause he cut the review out. Rooker-Feldman is an issueof appellate -- the exercise of appellate jurisdiction. So what does appellate jurisdiction mean? Well,appellate -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Coleman, would you clarify, I think, in response to Justice Breyer's inquiry? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Rooker-Feldman both involved State court litigation thatwas over and done with. Then you come to the Federalcourt. You have two parallel cases would be -- broughtwithin a month of each other? MR. COLEMAN: Within months of each other. Within a month of each other, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And isn't the standarddefense of the person who has started the other suitfirst, well, Your Honor, prior action pending, please holdthe case that started second in abeyance till we get done? And if we win in the first case, then it will beprecluded. Then the second case -- the parallel case willbe precluded. That's not Rooker-Feldman territory. MR. COLEMAN: That's -- that's -- Your Honor,that's our position that -- concurrent jurisdiction is aseparate issue from the appellate review issue thatRooker-Feldman raises. Justice Breyer, the answer to your hypotheticalis that appellate review is something different fromhaving a parallel action. Appellate review is probablybest defined by two characteristics that I'll try to fleshout for you. The first is that the proponent alleges somesort of injury-causing error by the trial court and not bythe adversary and then seeks an order reversing, vacating, th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page or otherwise nullifying that lower court order. When aparty alleges an injury by his adversary rather than thetrial court, the most that can really be said is that youare continuing on a parallel litigation but not that youare seeking appellate review. You do not have what lookslike appellate review. You're not alleging errors by thelower court. You're not seeking an order that directlynullifies or otherwise undoes the State court judgment. JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but the argument -- itseems to me the argument is that in a de facto sense, whenyou try to litigate the Federal case, after losing theState case, you in effect are asking the Federal court insome sense to review what happened in the State court. Justice Ginsburg's answer to that is preclusion is theanswer. Is that your answer? MR. COLEMAN: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOUTER: Because if that -- if that is-- if we accept that as the answer, then there's noargument for saying you should expand Rooker-Feldman toinclude the de facto review as opposed to the -- the verystrict sense of review that you're talking about. MR. COLEMAN: That is absolutely our position,Justice Souter, that preclusion addresses all of theseissues. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but can you -- can you th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page expand on this a little? I'm not taking a view on it. I'm trying to clear up what's a confusion in my mind. Isee how you could do this on the parallel business with -­with delaying it on the docket and using the doctrine ofpreclusion. I understand that. But we've still got this doctrine called Rooker­Feldman out there, and as long as you have that doctrine,it strikes me as odd if -- say, it weren't a plaintiff. Say it was the losing party, you know, that was asking theFederal judge, Judge, you have this case on your docket. Let's move it up. Let's decide it now. He doesn't usethe word review, but everything else is the same. Hewants a decision out of that court that is going to be theopposite of what the State court did. And what'sconcerning me -- maybe I shouldn't be concerned, butwhat's concerning me is whether he can get it or not seemsto turn completely on whether he uses the word review inthe petition. MR. COLEMAN: I don't -- I don't think that thatis true. It should not and does not turn on the wordsthat you use in your petition. What it turns on is thefundamental nature of the injury that you claim and of therelief that you seek. One reason why you don't need to be necessarily concerned about this is that in all of these cases in th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page which one case has gone to judgment and there is a -­either a continuation or a new case, preclusion is going to cover these. The only extension of Rooker-Feldman that SABIC is asking for is what they call the actually litigated test. That is the heart of the Full Faith and Credit Act. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Rooker-Feldman, if I understand it correctly, is a subject matter jurisdiction bar. Is that -- MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. It -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. And -­ MR. COLEMAN: -- it arises from a negative implication taken from section and a second negative implication from . JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, to -- so if the two lawsuits, the State court suit and the Federal suit -­they're proceeding concurrently or one is held in abeyance waiting the other, there is certainly subject matter jurisdiction in the Federal court of the Federal action. MR. COLEMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: To apply Rooker-Feldman in that context would say you had subject matter jurisdiction at the outset, but then you lost it somewhere down the line. MR. COLEMAN: And -- and -- yes, Justice th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Ginsburg. And that's a distinction between yourhypothetical and Justice Breyer's. Justice Breyer's, as I-- if I understand it correctly, is that the Federal suitstarts after the State court is done. Yours is where youhave parallel actions at the same time. And where theFederal claims are parallel or even filed first, as in ourcase, you can't say that the moment you file those thatyou're seeking review of some nonexistent State courtjudgment. You're simply asking for relief from something that your adversary did to you. And the argument that SABIC makes that the courtrelinquishes jurisdiction has no basis or justification inanything this Court has ever said. It is a theory ofvanishing jurisdiction that I cannot understand. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Coleman, can I interrupt with a question? MR. COLEMAN: Of course. JUSTICE STEVENS: Is it your position that whatshould have been done in this case, not in thehypothetical case, is the trial court should have juststayed the action pending the outcome of the Delawarecase? MR. COLEMAN: And, in fact, that's what the Federal district court had done, Your Honor. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's what -- he did -­that was correct. MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE STEVENS: And then when the Delawarecase was over, then what should he have done? MR. COLEMAN: Well, we could either ultimatelydismiss it or the Federal district court could say, lookslike your Delaware case is over. SABIC brings a motion -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: And -- and he has given youall the relief your entitled to. Therefore, you go aheadand dismiss the case. MR. COLEMAN: Yes, or SABIC brings a motion -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: And therefore, my next question is why shouldn't we do exactly that now. MR. COLEMAN: Because the question before theCourt today is a question of jurisdiction, not ofpractical consequences other than the mootness questionthat SABIC has raised. But practical consequences arethat what we may -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, maybe we could vacatethe judgment of the court of appeals, say that was wrong,but still, order it dismissed after we vacate thejudgment. MR. COLEMAN: I think, as in Feldman, that's a question that should be first addressed by the district th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page court. Certainly we hope that you will vacate or reverse the Third Circuit's judgment and allow the district court to address those issues. Perhaps we dismiss it. JUSTICE STEVENS: But if you don't tell us what issue remains, I don't know why we shouldn't just direct the suit to be dismissed. MR. COLEMAN: There -- there is a live -- in -­in the terms of Article III, there are live claims that remain pending before the district court. And while it is true -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: And I take it that's because you don't have the cert period expired yet in the first action and you don't have the check. MR. COLEMAN: At the very minimum -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It's -- if the months is expired and the check is in your hand and it's certified, what's left? MR. COLEMAN: As a practical matter, we have no intention. As a jurisdictional matter, there's still -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not asking about your intention. Let's assume you do intend to litigate further. What for? MR. COLEMAN: If we did intend to litigate further, SABIC would be entitled to go to the district court and say they can't. They are precluded. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SOUTER: I want -- I want an answer to my question. What are you going to litigate for? What's left? MR. COLEMAN: Well, again, setting aside our intentions and hypothetically, there are cases in which -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm talking about your case. What's left? MR. COLEMAN: We -- we do not seek -- will not seek any further review from the district court. JUSTICE SOUTER: Nothing is left. MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, suppose you don't have the check. What's left? MR. COLEMAN: Well, the case is still up in the air. JUSTICE BREYER: Why? MR. COLEMAN: Because -­ JUSTICE BREYER: You have a judgment. MR. COLEMAN: -- the case -- the case is not over. Indeed, because the State -­ JUSTICE BREYER: I never heard of a case that isn't over until you get the check. I thought the case is over when you have the judgment. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: And then if they don't give you th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the check, you have a different matter. We have to get itenforced. MR. COLEMAN: There is a different matter. But as a matter of Article III jurisdiction,Your Honor, the -- the mootness doctrine does not apply toa situation where you have a judgment and it doesn'tnecessarily apply the moment you get paid. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose that you lost in theState court and the judgment is final. You then go toFederal court. Are -- is there a context in which Rooker­Feldman might then be applicable? This is allhypothetical. MR. COLEMAN: Our argument is that it would beapplicable only if the injury that we claimed in ourFederal suit was an injury caused by the State court -­the court itself or the judge rather than our adversaryand we sought relief from that judgment. That wouldobtain the nature of appellate jurisdiction rather than wesay, well, SABIC did us wrong, we'd like a judgment. Andthen SABIC can come in and say, well, they're precluded. They already tried that. JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, if you hadsome ongoing relation and, in this hypothetical, the Statecourt ruled against you and you went in to try to reversethat ruling, that would be -- that would Rooker-Feldman. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. COLEMAN: Yes. If we alleged harm from thecourt and sought relief from the court's judgment. JUSTICE GINSBURG: There were only the twocases, Rooker and Feldman, that established this. MR. COLEMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has this Court ever saidanything to suggest that Rooker-Feldman, as apart frompreclusion doctrine, applies to parallel litigationinstead of you go into Federal court after the State courtis over and you're trying to undo what the State courtdid? MR. COLEMAN: I don't think this Court has everheld any such thing, and I think it would be inconsistentwith at least Feldman itself. The idea of -- of appellatejurisdiction over the constitutional claims in Feldmanthat were held not to be barred comes down in the end -­SABIC says, well, those claims weren't actually litigated. But the opinion itself on page points out that the Mr.Feldman had raised his constitutional claims in front ofthe D.C. Court of Appeals in terms of asking for hiswaiver. And when I checked the oral argument transcriptfrom the Feldman case, it was mentioned specifically interms of Mr. Feldman had raised the constitutional claimsin front of the D.C. Court. And that's on pages , ,and of the LEXIS version of the oral argument th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page transcript. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no preclusionunless they're also decided. MR. COLEMAN: Yes. Well, yes. The districtcourt could then decide whether in fact they wereprecluded, and -- and it's likely that they were. Ididn't follow up on what happened when the case went backdown on remand. But the Court said, we're not going to decidethat. We will allow the district court to address that inthe first instance. And so we think that the actually litigatedrevision of Rooker-Feldman is simply inconsistent withFeldman itself, that it improperly displaces full faithand credit that is not true to the negative implicationfrom section which has to be a very narrowimplication, indeed, because gives this Courtjurisdiction, and it's only appellate jurisdiction, tosuggest that another court doesn't have that appellatejurisdiction must be -- must be narrowly limited to thecontext, the type of lawsuits that this Court would seek,which is not simply they did me wrong, please -- pleasegive me money, but rather, that lower court erred. Itviolated my rights. It is structurally or in some -- inviolation of Federal rights or something that the court th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page did and that you have been asked to fix. That, we think,is consistent with the proper negative implication from, but overrunning most of preclusion law simply isnot. reverse. For these reasons, we would ask the Court to And, Justice Stevens, I would like to reservethe remainder of my time. JUSTICE STEVENS: You may do so. Mr. Castanias. I hope you'll tell us also whether you think the case is moot before you're through. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY A. CASTANIAS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. CASTANIAS: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: This case is moot. There is nothing for Exxon Mobil to get at this -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you're still asking for cert. MR. CASTANIAS: That's right, and that's -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then why is it moot? Because something could happen. We might get this case intheory, take it on cert, and discover a jurisdictionalproblem that somehow destroys the case without a decision,and should that happen, there luckily for them they have th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page this other case going. So as long as -- you're prepared,I take it, to say you're going to ask for cert. If that'swhat you're going to say, I don't see how the case isover. It's up to you. MR. CASTANIAS: Okay. Well, I'm -- I'm notgoing to take the Hobson's choice, Your Honor, but I amgoing to tell you, first of all, that SABIC is going toapply for cert. At least that's my current understanding. And second of all, that shows why this case isnot justiciable at this point because if the most likelyevent in the -- in the event of this Court's review of theDelaware determination, is a reversal on a statute oflimitations problem. That's the reason this suit wasbrought as the, quote, insurance policy that the ThirdCircuit identified, which was if the Delaware SupremeCourt or the Delaware Superior Court had kicked this suiton the ground of the -year statute of limitations -- andif you look at page a of the supplemental brief, thecorrected supplemental brief that we filed with the Court,including the Delaware Supreme Court's opinion, you'll seethat they had a whale of a time getting over the plainlanguage of their own statute. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If for -- somehowyou won on that, even though it sounds a little like aState law issue, but nonetheless, if you won on that and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page they reversed it as a statute of limitations, then whatthey're saying is, well, that's just why we filed inFederal court. We didn't want the Federal court to reviewthe State court. We wanted our Federal court suit as aninsurance policy in case something goes wrong with theState court suit. It has nothing whatsoever to do withRooker-Feldman. It is parallel adjudication, just what hesaid. Now, what's your response? MR. CASTANIAS: My response, Justice Breyer, istwofold. First of all, with regard to the mootnessquestion, if that eventuality occurs, that's the time whenthere may be a justiciable issue for a Federal districtcourt. Not now. We've been talking about ifs andhypotheticals and what may happen in the future. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Castanias, was there aproper case in the district court when the complaint wasinitially filed there some months after you filed inDelaware? MR. CASTANIAS: We've never disputed that, Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: All right. So you can bringtwo cases, identical cases, in two different courts, andthat's an everyday thing, and the defense is prior actionpending. MR. CASTANIAS: Right. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, you are urging thatRooker-Feldman which this Court never applied when you hadparallel litigation be extended into a domain which isordinarily taken care of by preclusion doctrine. Whywould you want to mix those two things up that now seem tome rather clear, that if you have Rooker-Feldman, when yourush into a Federal court and say, Federal court, undothat State court judgment, I don't like it? Rooker wasjust a paradigm case of that. Why would you want tospread that doctrine? What is -- what is there thatpreclusion doctrine doesn't accomplish? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, Justice Ginsburg,preclusion doctrine may accomplish this in a certainnumber of cases, but I think it's important -- and I thinkI have to correct my colleague on the other side here withregard to the state of the record. Yes, there was a stayof the New Jersey II trial court litigation, but it wasn'tbecause of the Colorado River application that we made. In fact, if you'll look in the appendix to the petition -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm not talking aboutanything fancy like Colorado River. Prior action pendingis a familiar defense. You've got two actions. Theycould even be in different districts of the same State andone says, Your Honor, this case started second, the otherone is going forward, hold it abeyance because there's a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page prior action pending. That's not Colorado Riverabstention or anything like that. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, I -- I think, Your Honor,you will see that that is a component of Colorado River,and that was part of the application that we made to thedistrict court in this case under Colorado River. And myonly answer -- the only reason that I'm bringing this up,Justice Ginsburg, is that if you'll look in the appendixto the petition for certiorari, you will see that SABIC,my client, made an application for Colorado Riverabstention, and the district court denied that. Thedistrict court denied that in this case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, sometimes districtjudges rule incorrectly, but -- but what happened here isthe district court case did not go on because the two ofyou, both sides, said, okay, the district court -- they'reall bollixed up with this Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act,so we're going to agree. You agreed that the case wouldgo forward in Delaware, the trial in Delaware. Is thatnot so? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, it was -- it was -- ifyou'll look at -- I believe this is at page a of theaddendum to the red brief. You'll see that it was ExxonMobil that pushed in Delaware, but that actually happenedbefore the ruling on sovereign immunity, that -- that they th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page elected to go forward in Delaware. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, when you say theypushed in Delaware, you brought them into Delaware and a-- in a reverse suit. You wanted a declaration of non­liability. MR. CASTANIAS: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: They brought their case forliability in the Federal forum. They were forced by youinto the Delaware forum, and now you're saying you werepushed, that Exxon pushed. You brought the case inDelaware. They didn't. MR. CASTANIAS: We -- that is true that webrought the initial case, but the case was eventuallytried on their counterclaims. The case was inverted tomake them the party plaintiff. They went first at trialand is it -- at the page I cited to you, that was wherethey decided to go forward with the Delaware case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it was your preferredforum, not theirs. When they filed their complaint, theyfiled it in New Jersey where they had a related casepending. So you chose the forum. MR. CASTANIAS: That -- that is absolutely the case with regard to the Delaware matter. But I think what your question is getting at -­ and I think I have to go back a couple of minutes in our th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page colloquy here to talk about why abstention won't do thework in this case. In the lion's share of cases, itprobably will, Your Honor, but in this case it didn't. And this brings me back to Justice Breyer'squestion which said -- in which he said that -- thatconcurrent jurisdiction has always bothered him becausewhat you're ending up with is a race to judgment. Butit's important again, Justice Breyer. It's a race tojudgment. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's -- you see,Justice Ginsburg answered that. I -- I mean, she wasn'tanswering my question, but she did say what was aperfectly satisfactory approach, that -- that the secondperson says, you know, Judge, there's another one pendingand the judge says, okay, we'll let that go first exceptin some unusual instance. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Which happens thousands oftimes in -- in all of the courts. It's very common and Idon't know why we're over-designing this vehicle. It'ssimply other action pending. End of case. MR. CASTANIAS: Justice Kennedy -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or end of argument, not end of case. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: So why isn't it that the end? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page I mean, here it's not moot. They filed the other action. You point out that you not only think something couldwreck the State claim, you would love it to wreck theState claim. And -- and therefore, they have thisinsurance policy in Federal court which they'll gear up ifand when the State claim does get wrecked as you hope. MR. CASTANIAS: Justice Breyer, I think this isthe point in the argument where I want to turn to thedefinition of review as this Court has -- has put it forthin cases like ASARCO. This is a case that Exxon Mobildismisses in their reply brief as mere dictum. I don'tthink that this -- the discussion of Rooker-Feldman andthe ASARCO case can be dismissed as dictum in that it wasa specific response to a specific proposal by the UnitedStates appearing as amicus to dismiss the case for lack ofstanding and instead remit plaintiffs to pursuing a secondsuit. In that case, the Court wrote that to re­adjudicate -- and I'm quoting here from the opinion, and Idon't have the particular page here -- to re-adjudicatethe very same issues that were determined in the Statecourt proceedings would be -- again quoting -- in essence,an attempt to obtain direct review of the Arizona SupremeCourt's decision in the lower Federal courts. In ASARCO, there was no reference to what the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page intent of the plaintiffs was. There was no reference towhat the timing of the lawsuits was. It was simply thatidentical issues actually litigated. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So perhaps the Court, if ithad been more cautious, would have spoken not in terms ofRooker-Feldman or review, but in terms of this matter hasbeen decided. It is claim-precluded. That's whatpreclusion doctrine is supposed to do. So in thatcontext, maybe this Court used the wrong word. Maybe itshould have said, you litigated it, it's over and donewith, now it's precluded. Why do you need to interjectthe word review? Isn't that -- unless you're going to say everytime court A decides a case and then you're in court B andsomeone is raising the same claim, that is a review ofcourt number one rather than you're precluded in court twobecause of what is -- has been litigated and decided incourt one. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, first of all, JusticeGinsburg, I'm hesitant to say that this Court wasincautious in its use of words. This was -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: It is sometimes. MR. CASTANIAS: But -- understandably, but -­but with regard to -- with regard to Rooker-Feldman, itwas not just -- it was not just an accidental -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page incidental invocation of it. It was the reason for therejection of the argument. The reason was not resjudicata. The reason was respect for the dignity of theState court's work in the case, and that's ultimately -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's why one has preclusionbecause you are giving respect, full faith and credit, toa decision elsewhere. That's what preclusion doctrine isall about. We respect the judgment of the court thatrendered it. We, therefore, give it full faith andcredit. That's what preclusion doctrine is about, isabout respect and credit. Isn't that so? MR. CASTANIAS: That's -- that's -- that is -­that is generally right, Justice Ginsburg, but at the sametime, there -- we all agree -- Exxon Mobil, SABIC, and thedecisions of this Court -- that there has to be someoverlap with regard to Rooker-Feldman and SABIC -- and -­excuse me -- and -- and preclusion doctrine. The -- theargument made by Exxon Mobil, which is, in essence, thesame question you're asking me, would have destroyed anyreason whatsoever for the Rooker and the Feldman cases, aswell as the ASARCO case. There's also a significant bodyof law that's body of law that's been built up over thelast years in the lower courts in -- in this regard. And -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE O'CONNOR: So some of the lower courtshave given a broad interpretation to Rooker-Feldman andhave turned it into something other than the narrower viewof it. And I think that's why we granted cert in thiscase, to decide whether to give it a broad or a narrowinterpretation. The Third Circuit applies a rather broadinterpretation of it. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, I -- I guess in thatrespect, Justice O'Connor, I disagree because the ThirdCircuit, admitted by its own words, applies a very narrowversion of Rooker-Feldman. And, in fact, using this caseas the vehicle to decide this, the -- the definition ofRooker-Feldman in this instance amounts to no more thanbarring jurisdiction in a second Federal suit over theidentical claims. This is not a case where you have toworry about claims that might have been brought, the sortof things that footnote in Feldman dealt with. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: But maybe that isn't a properapplication of Rooker-Feldman where the complaint is notabout something the State court has improperly done. MR. CASTANIAS: Well -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: It isn't. And so in thatsense, the Third Circuit has a rather broader view of itI'd say. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, to be sure, Justice th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page O'Connor, the Third Circuit's view is broader than that which appears to be adopted by the Ninth Circuit, as well as the Seventh Circuit. And I think this brings me back to the definition of review. The -- the Ninth and Seventh Circuits' views in our estimation are wrong because they strictly look to the subjective intent of the plaintiff and as to whether the plaintiff is, in fact, seeking reversal. That -- that's the term that's used in these cases. Noel says seeking to set aside. But section -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, that's the language that was used in both Rooker and Feldman too I think. MR. CASTANIAS: And that's because, Justice Stevens, that's -- that was the particular fact pattern of this -- of that case. JUSTICE STEVENS: And that's the only fact pattern any of our cases have dealt with. MR. CASTANIAS: That's -- in the Supreme Court, that's right. JUSTICE SOUTER: And the -- and the concern is I think -- at least as I understand the -- the concern with it, it -- it boils down to something like this. Somebody comes along and says, don't apply claim preclusion. Don't apply it because, for whatever reason, there's this -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page there's something wrong here, and -- and Federal courtshould determine the -- in fact, the -- the claimpreclusion of the State judgment should not apply. Theanswer to that is, look, that's an issue to be raised byway of appeal of your State judgment. You don't appealState judgments in Federal court. Out. There's no such claim being made here. The onlyclaim that's being made here or the only conceivableclaim, I guess, that can be made here is that we mightwant to do some litigating in the Federal case after theState case is over. There's no claim here that claimpreclusion should not apply in that instance, and becausethere's no such argument that claim preclusion does notapply, the answer to the problem that you're worried aboutis simply claim preclusion doctrine. There's no reason toadd a perihelion or something onto Rooker-Feldman to dealwith what is really a very simple problem and that is, ifthey try to relitigate anew in Federal court, as JusticeGinsburg says, you -- you plead claim preclusion. Simple. Why do we need to complicate it beyond that simplicity? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, Justice Souter, I -- Idon't have any qualms with the application of claimpreclusion here. The -- the Third Circuit, though, wasbeing -- was being sensitive to the interests of the Statecourts, as well as sensitive to the fact that it had th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page another jurisdictional issue in front of it, which wassubject matter jurisdiction under the FSIA. And I'm -­I'm certain, as certain can be, that that court would havereached the same result if res judicata had been beforeit. But the -- the fact is that Rooker-Feldman isthere and, again, as -- as with my response to JusticeGinsburg earlier, your -- your question would effectivelyrub out any need for even Rooker and Feldman themselves. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, no, because the -- it -­it would not rule out the need to have some answer whensomeone in a Federal court comes along and says, don'tapply claim preclusion, whatever the reason may be. Don'tapply the claim preclusion rules. There's somethingunfair about doing it here. The answer to that is, look,what you're really asking us to do, when you say don'tapply claim preclusion, is to review what happened in theState court, and we don't sit as an appellate court onState courts. So there's still something for Rooker­Feldman to do on, as it were, Justice -- JusticeGinsburg's claim preclusion argument. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, Justice Souter, I thinkagain, with respect to the hypothetical that you've put tome, the claim preclusion is appropriately -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: It'll get the -- it'll get the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page job done that you say will need to be done if you get tothat point. MR. CASTANIAS: It -- it should get the jobdone. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why won't it? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, there -- there are -­first of all, there are no guarantees. The -- thepreclusion doctrines are -- are riddled with exceptions. JUSTICE SOUTER: Then -- then you -­ MR. CASTANIAS: The preclusion doctrine -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Then -- then you appeal. Don'task for a new body of law. Just say, look, you got theapplication of claim preclusion wrong in this case. We'regoing to appeal. MR. CASTANIAS: I -- I disagree, Justice Souter,that -- that we're asking for anything like a huge, newbody of law or that the Third Circuit was making a huge,new body of law. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you're asking us toextend Rooker-Feldman beyond where this Court has takenit, and if I recall correctly, you really didn't ask forthis. The Third Circuit injected Rooker-Feldman into thecase. Is that not true? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, that's true, Justice Ginsburg, but it's true because of the briefing cycle. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page When we briefed the case, there was no Delaware judgment. And it was only on the eve of oral argument -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Castanias -­ MR. CASTANIAS: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- could -- could I come backto mootness? One -- one could say that not only is claimpreclusion the answer to Rooker-Feldman, it's also theanswer to the asserted mootness here. I mean, you -- youdon't have to move to dismiss it as moot. All you have todo is move to dismiss because of a prior adjudication thathas resolved this question. Do you know of any case in which the existenceof a prior judgment in another court has been held torender a suit that someone wants to press to get a secondjudgment moot? I mean, you'd think there would be a caseon that, and I suppose the reason there isn't is thatbecause the other side is always going to plead resjudicata. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, or the other side is going to give up. JUSTICE SCALIA: Or give up. But is there any case in which mootness isestablished by the fact that there is a prior judgment ofanother court giving you what you are asking for from thisCourt? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. CASTANIAS: Well, Justice Scalia, in the -­in the realm that we're talking about here, the FourthCircuit's decision in the Friedman's case came to amootness conclusion. We've also cited in our brief -- andI don't recall the names of them off the top of my head -­two cases in which the Court either -- either dismissed orremanded for consideration of mootness in light of anotherState court judgment. So I think there is -- there is abody of law, but I also know that it is -- as recently asyesterday looking at Wright and Miller on this issue, thatwhen complete relief has been accorded by anothertribunal, that is the classic case of mootness. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I don't know why -­well, if it's -- if it were so classic, there would be alot of cases, and I don't -- I'm not sure that any ofyours are right on point. And -- and I think the reasonis that you don't need it, that claim preclusion is -- isthe remedy for the party who wants to get out of it. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, and again, I'm -- I'mcertainly not going to fight claim preclusion because thisis a suit that should not be here. This is -- this hashad moving parts since we -- since the petition wasgranted with the Delaware Supreme Court ruling and nowwith yesterday's denial of reargument in the DelawareSupreme Court. What -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it moot? Or even on -­why does claim preclusion apply? I mean, if you win, fromwhat you've said -- somehow convince us that this refusalto apply the State statute of limitations properlyviolated some Federal law, let's say -- then that wouldshow that the State statute of limitations applied andbarred their claim. Would that be sufficient to knock outthe Federal suit too? MR. CASTANIAS: I'm not sure I understand the question, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, is -- does the Statestatute of limitations, if -- if it applied to the State'scase, does it also apply in the Federal cases, theidentical ground that everybody agrees that the Statestatute governs? MR. CASTANIAS: The -- the -- there could be -­there could be issue-preclusive grounds on such a ruling,Justice Breyer, but -- but -­ JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, if you -- if you win,then -- then -- if you win your State case, because of theargument you made, do you also automatically win theFederal case? Is it the same issue? MR. CASTANIAS: I -- I don't think I could say that at this point because -­ JUSTICE BREYER: So it may not be the same th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page issue. Then -- then they say, okay, it's not going to beclaim preclusion, and you'd have to say insofar as it'snot the same issue, it's not claim preclusion. Andtherefore, they could proceed with their Federal case,which is what they want to do I guess. MR. CASTANIAS: And -- and that is a futureevent. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. So we can't say it's mootin any -- and we can't say there's an alternative basis where they'd win, can we? I mean, I'm saying -- I'm thinking if we getinto conference, we're discussing this case, and I say,well, I have to think this through, is it the case that ifyou're right and you end up winning in this Court, thattheir case in Federal court is over? I think no, it maynot be. The answer is it may not be. Then this is notmoot at all. This is not claim-precluded at all. Theythen might proceed with their Federal claim. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, I -- I guess, Justice Breyer -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right or not? MR. CASTANIAS: I don't think it's right. JUSTICE BREYER: Because? MR. CASTANIAS: And -- and I think the reason it's not right is because that just shows that there's no th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page live controversy right now. That's a controversy thatmight happen in the future. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, well, but that -- thatisn't fair to them because, for all I know, they filed theFederal case because there's a different statute oflimitations, say, that governs it that will have expiredif you don't let them file it by the time -- until thiswhole thing is over. They just wanted it as protection. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, two answers to that,Justice Breyer. First of all, that seems to be a -- aplace for State doctrines of tolling to apply, not Federallaw. Second of all, this Court in -- in Heck against Humphrey, which we cited in our brief, solves this -­ JUSTICE BREYER: That's explaining the unclear by the incredibly hard to understand. MR. CASTANIAS: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: It's explaining the unclear by reference to the incomprehensible. But go ahead. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I think I wrote that opinion. (Laughter.) MR. CASTANIAS: And indeed, you did, Justice Scalia. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SCALIA: I never did like it. (Laughter.) MR. CASTANIAS: I -- I've also gotten thatimpression. But -- but Heck I think teaches an important -­Heck teaches an important lesson for this case as well,which is that Heck was just a suit for money damages, justlike this suit. And -- and yet, this Court said thatthere's going to be no cause of action under section because of the intersection of and habeas. Well, wehave the same result here. There should be no Federalcourt case here because of the intersection of section -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, no, because it's whereyou walk in the door. And you started out by saying thiscase, I think as you must, was a proper Federal case. Itwas properly filed in -- and it was properly filed inDelaware. So you can't talk about a case that says, ifyou've got this kind of case, you go in this door. Ifthat kind of case, you go in that door. You have a casehere that could go in either door, the Federal, the State. The usual rule is, is it not, that if Federaljurisdiction attaches, it doesn't get lost because ofsubsequent events. For example, if a defendant moves intothe plaintiff's State and the only basis for Federal th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction is diversity, subject matter jurisdictionisn't lost, is it? MR. CASTANIAS: No, and in fact, the case that'scited against us for that proposition, the Freeport­McMoran case, makes clear, in the portion of it not citedby Exxon Mobil, that that rule is limited to the diversitycontext. And it's not -- it -- it does not have itsgenesis in statute, but it's in policy. We don't want tokeep people from moving across State lines. We don't wantto -- want to impede their -- their free movement. Sowe're going to look at it at the time of filing. But what we have here is a case where maybe itwas original jurisdiction when the case was filed, butit's not original anymore. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Maybe. It's not -- it's not maybe -­ MR. CASTANIAS: Well, in this case, yes. Inthis case, yes. But original jurisdiction when the casewas filed but not anymore because there's nothing originalabout it. JUSTICE GINSBURG: A case can become moot, butwe've already expressed considerable doubt whether that isthe fate of this case. The notion -- you used it derisively -- the insurance policy. Lawyers bring protective actions all th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the time, don't they? There's nothing wrong with doingthat. MR. CASTANIAS: Well, I guess I come back to -­to where I started with Justice Breyer on the -- on themerits of the Rooker-Feldman issue this morning, which isthat the concurrent jurisdiction is something to be dealtwith. This Court has an uneasy body of law in theabstention area dealing with the issue of concurrentjurisdiction, but what it doesn't have is anything that deals with judgments, once you get to a judgment. JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you? It's perhapsan unfair question. The Chief Justice generally likes toconfine our attention to cases of this Court rather thanthe courts of appeals for our primary guidance, and mostof the Rooker-Feldman law is court of appeals law, as we-- we both know. Going back just to Rooker and toFeldman, those two cases, and putting aside ASARCO for aminute, which of those two cases do you think provides youthe stronger support, if indeed any support, betweenRooker and Feldman? MR. CASTANIAS: Well, I -- I would have to saythat Feldman, of the two of them, is probably strongersupport. JUSTICE STEVENS: And that is the case in which the court of appeals was itself a party to the litigation. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. CASTANIAS: That's right. But at the sametime, the -- the Rooker case also dealt with relitigationof the identical issues. And if I could just sum up here, seeing that thelight is on here, the issue in this case is limited toidentical lawsuits, identical claims. The Third Circuit'sdecision in this case, if it constitutes an extension ofRooker-Feldman at all, is only a modest extension becauseit recognizes, consistent with ASARCO, consistent withHeck, and consistent with the very notion, Justice Souter,of de facto appeals, not actual appeals, but de factoappeals being prohibited by the doctrine -- it recognizesthat claims actually litigated in a State suit to ajudgment, if they are litigated anew in the Federal court,that is de facto appellate review. The judgment of the Third Circuit should be affirmed. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Castanias. Mr. Coleman, you have and a half minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY S. COLEMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. COLEMAN: And I'll take just a few of them, Your Honor. I believe the concession that the Federal court exercised original jurisdiction at the time our case was th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page filed is an important concession because I simply do notsee yet still any rationale for this idea of vanishingoriginal jurisdiction. I also see the concession made in response to -­to your question, Justice Breyer, about what happens ifthey win on the statute of limitations issue. Well, oneof the cases they cite on page , footnote of theirbrief, the Northern Natural Gas case itself makes clear -­and there are other cases. They went to Delaware to applythe Delaware statute of limitations. They conceded infront of the Delaware Supreme Court that even if they hadwon that, it wouldn't bar another lawsuit in a differentforum applying a different statute of limitations. Theonly way they could even hope to get the shorter statutewas in Delaware. The Delaware statute would never applyto our Federal claims, so that if somehow it went back onthat procedural ground, it would not bar a trial inFederal court. We don't think that that's likely tohappen, but that is another explanation yet of why it'smoot. We also cited to the Court the Male case. It isan old case, but it does make clear that when there is thequestion of jurisdiction before the court and some othercourt rules on the merits, that does not make the casemoot. In fact, you really wouldn't have a need for claim th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page preclusion if that were the rule in -- in mootness,because once the case is final over there, they'd all bemoot, and you wouldn't need to apply -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that depends on who wins. MR. COLEMAN: You're right. JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if you lost in theother suit, your claim here wouldn't be moot. I mean, it-- it would be precluded, but it's certainly not moot. MR. COLEMAN: I -- I think that's right. I'd also like to address, just very briefly, theASARCO question. The language that the Court used inthere we don't necessarily think was loose orinappropriate, Justice Ginsburg, and the reason was theCourt cites at that point an amicus brief by the UnitedStates and it cites a particular footnote. And what thatfootnote says is it's a recommendation that the miningcompany in that case could file a Federal lawsuit seekinga judgment that the invalidation of the statute was notnecessary. But by challenging the invalidation itself,that -- that looks more like a direct challenge to theState court judgment. It's not simply a relitigation. Sothat behind the Court's language there -- and of course,it was really just addressing standing. It was notdirectly addressing Rooker-Feldman. But the U.S.'ssuggestion in that case was a suit challenging the State th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page court judgment, and in that situation, it looks more likeappellate review, more likely to infringe upon Rooker­Feldman-type interests. In the end, we believe that preclusion doctrinesadequately cover all of this, that it is not true -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Coleman, I don't mean totake your time, but in the ASARCO case, was the Statecourt judgment final at the time in dispute? MR. COLEMAN: Your Honor, there's a questionabout that. I mean, the Court kept jurisdiction, butthere was a determination that the statute was invalidate-- was invalid and then a remand back to the districtcourt for further proceedings. JUSTICE STEVENS: Because if the judgment werefinal, then that would fit right into your -- youranalysis, if the judgment of the State court were final. MR. COLEMAN: Yes, Your Honor, it would. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. MR. COLEMAN: In the -- at the end of the day,we believe that this Court's preclusion jurisprudence isnot riddled with vagaries, that it's not difficult tounderstand, and that it's certainly not more vague ordifficult than the borrowing that they are attempting todo to bring existing preclusion doctrines into -- in orderto expand Rooker-Feldman. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Preclusion is the answer in this case. Webelieve that the district court should be permitted toaddress that in the first instance, and we would ask theCourt to reverse the judgment of the Third Circuit. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Coleman. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page 