 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X UNITED STATES, Petitioner v. : : : No. - FREDDIE J. BOOKER; and : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -: UNITED STATES, Petitioner : : v. DUNCAN FANFAN : No. - : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : p.m. APPEARANCES: PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Acting Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner. T. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, ESQ., Madison, Wis.; on behalf of the Respondent Booker. ROSEMARY SCAPICCHIO, ESQ., Boston, Mass.; onbehalf of the Respondent Fanfan. C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner T. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent Booker ROSEMARY SCAPICCIO, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent Fanfan REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S (: p.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hearargument now in Number -, United Statesagainst Freddie J. Booker and -, UnitedStates against Duncan Fanfan. Mr. Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: This case, and these cases, concern theconstitutionality of the twelve hundred criminalsentencings that take place in Federal court eachweek. If this Court re-affirms its traditionalunderstanding of the relationship between theGuidelines, and the statutory maximum penaltiesset forth in the United States Code, anunderstanding reflected in a series of thisCourt's decisions dealing with the Guidelines,than the constitutionality of those criminalsentencings remains secure. On the other hand, if this Court takes adifferent view, and treats the outer bounds of theGuideline ranges as if they were statutory maximums, then the majority of those criminalsentencings become constitutionally dubious, andthis Court must confront difficult remedialissues. This is, of course, not the first timethat this Court has confronted a challenge to theconstitutionality of the Guidelines or to theCommission. To be sure, in those previous cases,this Court has never considered the precise SixthAmendment issue before the Court today. But,nonetheless, those previous cases are instructive,because all of those cases, Dunnigan, Witte,Watts, and Edwards, all reflect a particularunderstanding of the relationship between theGuidelines and the statutory maximum sentences foreach specific crime defined in the United StatesCode. And all of those decisions suggest that thestatutory maximum in the Code is the relevantfocal point for constitutional analysis. So, in the Witte case, for example, the finding of relevant conduct in the Witte case increasedhis sentence under the Guidelines by two hundredmonths. Nonetheless, this Court rejected thedouble jeopardy challenge before the Court byemphasizing that that consideration of relevant conduct did not increase his penalty beyond thestatutory maximum. Likewise in the Edwards case, this Courtconsidered the propriety of a judicial finding ofcrack cocaine that increased the Guidelinesentence, when the jury was instructed in thealternative, to find cocaine or crack. Now, eventhough the judicial finding had the effect ofraising the punishment under the Guidelines, thisCourt found no serious Sixth Amendment issueraised precisely because the effect of the judge'sfinding did not take the sentence beyond themaximum for a cocaine-only conspiracy. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say we found noserious Sixth Amendment issue raised. Was theright of jury trial issue argued in that case, anddecided? MR. CLEMENT: In the Edwards case, a SixthAmendment issue and, I think, fairly including thejury trial, was raised in that case. Now, I've triedto go back and look briefs in that case and I haveto admit, they're a little difficult to getthrough in terms of the precise issue that wasbeing raised. JUSTICE SCALIA: The right to jury trial is fairly clear and stark, and I just don'trecall that being argued in any of those cases. MR. CLEMENT: Well, it was argued, Ithink, fairly clearly in the Watts case, I mean,there was a section -- Watts, of course, was asummary reversal, so you have to go and look atthe brief in opposition in the Watts case. And ifyou do, there's a separate paragraph in theargument section denominated the jury trialright. And I think in some respects, the Wattscase is a particularly clear indicator that thisCourt has rejected the view of the Guidelines thatRespondents embrace. Because Justice Stevens wasquite prophetic in his dissent in that case. Heembraced the precise understanding of thesignificance of the outer bound of the Guidelinesrange in his Watts dissent, and no member of thisCourt joined that dissent, and no member found thedisposition with respect to Watts JUSTICE STEVENS: That just proves theydon't listen to me as much as they should. MR. CLEMENT: It may very well prove that,Justice Stevens, because you were very clear aboutthe point, just to remind you, in the Watts case there were two cases before the Court, there wasthe Putra case, and there was the Watts case, theywere consolidated. And with respect to Putra, youcan envision that case, or characterize that caseas being sort of a collateral estoppel, doublejeopardy case, but as you correctly recognized,very clearly, in your Watts dissent, with respectto Mr. Watts, the finding, the criminal finding ofacquittal was based on (c), which requires useof a gun. The sentencing enhancement was donebased on an enhancing factor that only requirespossession of a gun. So there wasn't anycollateral estoppel effect in that case. But, nonetheless, in your dissent youpointed out, in footnotes and that it stillhad the effect of raising his sentence above theouter bound of the Guidelines range, and that,because that was done on the basis of apreponderance of the evidence, rather than abeyond a reasonable doubt standard, that thatraised a constitutional problem, and you wouldhave reversed. The rest of the Court was happy tosummarily reverse in that case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, here's theproblem I have with the Government's argument insofar as it does not urge that we reverseBlakely, I know that you want us to do that aswell. But assuming we adhere to Blakely, it seemsto me you have a cure that doesn't correspond tothe disease. You say that the reason the right tojury trial does not apply here is because, afterall, these sentences have not been prescribed, orthese maximums have not been prescribed by thelegislature, but rather, have been prescribed by aquasi-judicial agency. But the right of jury trial is meant toprotect against whom? Who are you worried aboutwhen you say, "I want to be tried by a jury." You're not worried about the legislature, you'reworried about the judges, precisely. So I don'tcare if the upper level of the Guidelines wereactually prescribed by a court, as opposed to theCommission which is, I don't know what it is, butit's not a court. But even if it were prescribed by a court,how would that eliminate the jury trial problem? The whole reason for jury trial is we don't trustjudges. MR. CLEMENT: With respect, JusticeScalia, I'd like to make two observations. One, I don't think the jury trial right is just ajuxtaposition of the role of the jury versus therole of the judge, because if that were the onlyfactor at issue in this Court's Sixth Amendmentjurisprudence, it would be very difficult toexplain why it is that judicial fact-finding canhave the effects that it can under a purelydiscretionary system, yet this Court has upheldthat time and time again. The second point I'd like to make, is I dothink that this Court's Apprendi to Blakely lineof cases ­JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we just go back tothe point you just made, it's a little differentwhen the judge has discretion and there's no -­the judge has discretion to take a whole bunch ofthings into account, but they're not quantified. And I think that was dramatically illustrated, thedifference, by the decision of Judge Lynch when hesaid, "Well, I'll go back to the old ways of doingit, I'll look at the Guidelines for some advice,"he comes out with twenty-four months instead ofthirty-three months. So I think there is a huge differencebetween a judge taking account of many, many factors, not giving them a specific quantity asthe Guidelines require. MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, Ithink there -- there certainly is a differencebetween sentencing under the Guidelines, versus asystem of discretionary sentencing, or even asystem of discretionary sentencing where theGuidelines have an advisory character, I'dcertainly concede that. My point was, though, in making adistinction between the role of the jury and thejudge, it's not just as simple as saying that thejury trial right exists precisely to protect thejury from the judge, because if that were thecase, the kind of fact-finding that Judge Lynchengaged in, or the kind of fact finding that wascommonplace under discretionary sentencing alsotakes roles away from the jury, and gives them tothe judge. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but we're talkinghere about one precise role of the judge or of thejury, and that is, to find a fact that isnecessary to keep you in jail for an additionalnumber of years. And the difference withdiscretionary sentencing is if it's, you know, ten to twenty years, what you know when you do thecrime is that you've laid yourself open to twentyyears. Now, if you get a merciful judge, good foryou, I mean, that's lagniappe as they say inLouisiana, but if you get a hanging judge, you'vegot twenty years, and you know that when youcommit the crime, whereas we have a system nowwhere you are entitled to no more than so much. And Ifind it just incompatible with jury trial rightto say that that fact must be determined, beforeyou can be kept in jail. And yet we're going letit be determined by a judge. That bears noresemblance to the discretionary sentencingsystem. MR. CLEMENT: With respect, JusticeScalia, I think you've built in some assumptionsinto that question, because under our system,generally speaking if somebody wants to know whatthe maximum exposure for a particular criminaloffense is, they would be well-advised to look atthe U.S. Code provision that specifies what themaximum sentence is for that offense, because thatis their exposure, that's what they're told aboutin their Rule colloquy if they plead to the crime, and if the judge makes certain findings, tobe sure, upward departure, whatever it takes in aparticular case, that is the maximum exposure thatthe individual JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the maximumexposure. If, for example, one of the factors iswhether the crime was committed with a firearm, Iknow that if I don't use a firearm, under theGuidelines, I can only get so many years, sosomebody has to find that I used a firearm, and ifI didn't, my maximum exposure is less. MR. CLEMENT: Unless the judge departs forsome other reason, or the like. I mean, but certainlythat's true -JUSTICE STEVENS: Or he makes amistake in finding. MR. CLEMENT: I suppose that's true, too. JUSTICE STEVENS: He finds a gun whenthere really wasn't one. MR. CLEMENT: So there are different waysthat you could get that sentence under theGuidelines system. But if there's no mistake, andno departure on some other grounds, we both understand, I think, how the Guidelines work andyou're describing it correctly. But still, that is a finding that is only necessary because of thedetermination of the Commission and theGuidelines, and that brings us back to thequestion -JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose thedetermination, as is occasionally true of theGuidelines, is made not by the Commission, but byCongress itself? Or made by the Commission at thedirection of Congress? Then the distinction thatyou're making between the maximum set by thelegislature and the guidance provided, or theguidance to discretion under the Guidelines,really doesn't stand up. So at least to theextent that Congress directly enacts Guidelines,would you concede that then, the critical findinghas to be made by the jury? MR. CLEMENT: I would not concede that,Justice Ginsburg, but let me first make clear thatin the case before us today, the Guidelines thatwe have are promulgated by the Commission, andwere not the direct or indirect result of aCongressional act the way that the, say, theProtect Act added particular amendments to theGuidelines, so that question is not directly posedin this case. The reason I would say that even in thatcase there is a difference is because it is stilldifferent when Congress goes in and amends aparticular Guideline in a sense in a sea ofGuidelines provided by the Commission. And Ithink that's true, one, because amending a singleGuideline doesn't change the overall character ofthe Guidelines. But also because, when Congress decides totake action not as a statute, but as an amendmentto a Guideline, it doesn't change the fundamentalcharacter of the Guideline as a Guideline. And soafter -- the Protect Act for example, specifies aperiod in which -- after which the Commission canthen amend that Guideline. Which is obviously nota case that you can have with a statute consistentwith the Presentment Clause. And to just give you another example, theSentencing Reform Act that has brought us heretoday, one of the things it did was make specificamendments to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure. I think when Congress does that, it doesn'tmake Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure astatute, it continues to be a Federal Rule, theFederal Rules Advisory Committee could still modify it after the fact, and so I think even in thatcase, there's a difference in effect. JUSTICE SOUTER: What is the difference ineffect? I mean, that's where I'm having trouble,and I guess others are having trouble. Yes,there's a difference in process, there may be adifference, in some sense, in ultimate status, butthere isn't, it seems to me, any difference ineffect. The defendant in the courtroom is goingto suffer the same effect either necessitated orsufficed by this fact which is just as crucial,whether it's a rule, whether it's a guideline,whether it's a statute, why should that make anydifference for the Sixth Amendment? MR. CLEMENT: I think it should make -­well, I guess what I would respond to that,Justice Souter, is this. I think that one thingthat emerges from this Court's recent SixthAmendment jurisprudence, is that the impact on thedefendant himself or herself is not the only testthat this Court looks to. Because from theperspective of an individual defendant, they don'tcare if they've gotten five extra years because ajudge made a finding under a discretionary regime,or they got five extra years because the judge made a finding that the legislature told the judgeto make, the practical effect is the same. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the practicaleffect is the same but in the moment before eitherin theory they commit the crime or in the momentbefore the trial is over or in the moment beforethe sentence comes down, there is one bigdifference in the two classes of cases. Thedefendant is entitled to claim that he can not besentenced to the higher range unless a fact isfound. In a case of discretionary sentencingrange, within that range, he can not make thatclaim, he can not make that assumption, and the -­that, it seems to me, is the point at which thejury trial right has got to focus. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think again, asJustice Stevens suggested earlier, I mean, thatmay be true if you focus in on that single factunder the Guideline system, but under the myriadof various ways that your Guidelines sentence cango up or down, it may be inappropriate under theFederal Guideline system to focus in on the pointof analysis on that particular interval, of justthe one -JUSTICE SOUTER: Why not? MR. CLEMENT: Because, again, as adefendant, you may have a case where there arefive or six potential enhancements, and there arefive or six potential departures, and yoursentence is going to be a product of the judicialfact finding that goes in, in making those variousconclusions -JUSTICE SCALIA: And each one isappealable separately, each one is appealableseparately, it's a separate legal finding. Andthe judge doesn't, in discretionary sentencing, hedoesn't have to make any factual finding, he canjust look at you and say, "I think you're a badactor, you've got forty years." We have a systemhere where the judge must make factual findings,and each one is appealable if he's made themincorrectly. MR. CLEMENT: I don't disagree with thatcharacterization of the Guidelines, but I stillthink that is a difference from a purestatutory scheme, it's different from a schemelike this Court had before it in Blakely againstWashington, where the statute focuses you in onjust a couple of factors and you really can re­conceptualize that regime as providing for a base offense level and one or two aggravated grades ofthe offense. As Judge Lynch observed in languagethat we quoted on page four of our reply brief, youreally can't re-conceptualize the Guideline systemthat way. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the principalreason you can't, or I think the principle reasonthat you're advancing is, that the Guidelinesystem is so complicated. There are a myriad offactors. As Justice Scalia says, why isn't eachone in that myriad subject to the same claim? Surely, the argument can't be just because it'smore complicated, that the Sixth Amendmentevaporates. MR. CLEMENT: I agree, Justice Souter, andthe point isn't that it's more complicated. If Ijust continue with Judge Lynch's observation,which, as I say, is quoted on page four of ourreply brief, it's not just that it's complicated,it's that the mission of the Guidelines system is,once, assuming that somebody's been convicted ofsome Federal crime with certain elements definedby Congress, then, what the Guidelines ask thejudge to do is evaluate the incident of criminalactivity and assess an appropriate punishment without regard to whether it has met the certainelements of a particular Federal crime. And so,the really, the focus is quite different, and inthat sense, I think there is, there is more than adifference of form between a set of guidelinesproduced by a legislature and a set of guidelinesproduced by the sentencing commission. JUSTICE SCALIA: I find very littledifference between telling him to evaluate it withregard to particular elements of a crime andasking him to evaluate it with regard toparticular sentencing facts. The result is thesame. You're asking him to evaluate it in light of certain facts that he has to find. Whether you call them the one or the other, he'sdoing the same thing. If he finds this fact youget three more years; if he doesn't find it, youdon't. I mean, you know, as far as the realoutcome is concerned, what difference does it makewhether you call it an "element" or a "requiredfact for sentencing"? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think there aredifferences between the two. I think if you lookat the Washington system that you had before youin the Blakely case, it was a product of the legislature, and so, not surprisingly, there was afocus on the crimes as defined by the legislature,there was a presumptive range for each crime, andthen there were a handful of things that got youinto - added three years, like a firearm, andthen there was basically the upward departureauthority or the downward departure authority, andthat was it. And that makes sense; a legislatureis going to be predominantly focused on thestatutorily defined crimes. In the context of the Guidelines, on theother hand, it is a much more widely variantfocused, and what it's focusing on is the criminalactivity as a whole. There are many factors thatcan increase it, there's many factors that candecrease it, and JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that complexity, isthe key or, suppose these Guidelines were proposedby the Commission, just as they are, with alltheir complexity, but they were proposed aslegislation, and then Congress enacted theseGuidelines, would you be able to make the argumentthat you're making, still? The Federal system,now legislative guidelines is viable afterBlakely? MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so. I thinkin that, in that context we would be limited to anargument to asking this Court to overrule Blakely. But that is not to say that, that, what I want tomake the point, though, is ultimately if pushed ­and your hypothetical pushes us - if pushed, theargument is one of form, that the fact that theseemanate from the sentencing commission makes aconstitutional difference. But I don't want tolose the fact in making that concession that thereis still a real difference between the way theFederal Guidelines work and the way the WashingtonGuidelines work, and the Federal Guidelines workexactly as you would expect: sentencing guidelinespromulgated by an entity located in the ArticleIII branch, and consisting of Article III members;and the Washington Guidelines system works JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not so clearanymore, it just happens that there are threemembers, but they don't have to be any judicialmembers, under the current legislation. MR. CLEMENT: That's true, JusticeGinsburg, but there JUSTICE SCALIA:They're still in thejudicial branch, right? MR. CLEMENT: Still in the judicialbranch, Justice Scalia, and there are the samenumber of judicial members on the Commission nowas there were when this Court considered theMistretta decision. And I think Mistretta itselfrecognized that you could have bodies located inthe judicial branch that were auxiliary to thejudicial branch, even if they consisted, quote,"solely of non-judges." So I don't think that's what'sdispositive. I think what's dispositiveultimately is what this Court recognized in theMistretta decision. In the Mistretta decision,this Court made clear that the Commission wasconstitutionally located in the Article III branchprecisely because it did not take on thequintessentially legislative tasks of settingmaximum punishments and defining the elements ofFederal crimes. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mistretta might have come out the other way had it not beenfor that observation. MR. CLEMENT: I think that's exactlyright, Mr. Chief Justice. And I can talk moreabout that in terms of the severability issue, which is question two. But I think especially ifyou get to the point where prospectively theproposal is to treat sentencing enhancementfactors under the Guidelines exactly as if they'reelements of Federal crimes, they would have to beincluded in indictments and have to be charged tothe jury on beyond a reasonable doubt. Then I don't see how Mistretta survivesanymore or at least how Mistretta allows thatparticular judicial remedy to go forward. Becauseat that point, you've really had the Commissionbecome transformed into precisely what this Courtsaid it wasn't, as a matter of constitutional law,in the Mistretta case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The paradigm that thecases discuss in Blakely and in the casesleading up to it from Apprendi, are facts such asthe amount of drugs, was there a weapon, was thereviolence performed against the victim. And if theCourt finds that these are so much like an elementthat they have to be proved, and adheres to itsjurisprudence and invalidates the Guidelines tothat effect, is there any argument that either theGovernment makes or that some of the commentatorswould make, that there are other kinds of sentencing considerations that can be calledfactual, to be sure, but that should be thejudge: say, lack of remorse as demonstrated afterthe verdict; the fact that after the verdict,investigation shows that of the two defendants,one was the real ringleader, streetwise, the otherwas kind of a naive dupe; or that there was afailure to cooperate with the person presentingthe -- preparing the sentencing report. These are facts in a certain way. Is itfor a penny, in for a pound? Do we have to treatall of these as factual, or is there any progressto be made in trying to see if there are some,some facts that are, are like elements and somethat are not. That would be a -- it would take anumber of cases, I suppose, to elaborate that. MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kennedy, I thinkthat the thrust of respondents' position -- theycan obviously speak for themselves to this point,but I think the thrust of their position is in fora penny, in for a pound, that if you extendBlakely to the guidelines, then that's it, theguidelines go out. I think the consequence ofaccepting the Government's position here, that theguidelines are different, would not foreclose the possibility for a more fine-tuned analysis thatfocused on the particular effects of particularguidelines ranges, or the particularly enhancingfactors and the like. And I think one thing that ought to givethe Court caution before it extends Blakely allthe way to the guidelines is, if you look at theguidelines, there are certainly some enhancingfactors or some factors that increase punishmentunder the guidelines, that look nothing like anytraditional element of any crime. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What, what, what testswould you propose, or the commentators? How do wedistinguish the permitted kind of fact that thejudge can find, and those that must be for thejury? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean, two things,Justice Kennedy. I don't want to get too farafield in the sense that we think that forpurposes of this case, the Court could distinguishthe guidelines and could still maintain the verybright line of Blakely as applies to legislativeenactments. But if this Court were going toeither, with respect to legislative enactments orin the particular field of the guidelines, try to develop another test to differentiate elementsfrom - I'm sorry, elements from sentencingfactors, I think this Court could get guidance inthe same kind of analysis that it's done in thecontext of affirmative defenses. As Apprendi itself recognized, in thePatterson case, this Court decided that in thatcontext, it would not adopt one bright line oranother and just give up the enterprise of drawinglines in between. And I think a similarenterprise could be done under the guise ofdealing with the guidelines. But I think thethrust of the Government's position here today isthat you shouldn't accept the Respondent'sparticular challenge to the guidelines becausethat does have the effect of "in for a penny, infor a pound," and wiping the guidelines out. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Clement, followingup on Justice Kennedy's thought, if we adhere tothe strict language in Apprendi itself, as quotedbelow, any - solely on the fact reflected in thejury verdict or the plea of the plea bargain, that's - thatestablishes the maximum. What percent of thetotal number of sentences that are imposed in the,by the Federal system today would violate that rule? MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, letme try to answer it as best as I can. I want tomake the observation, though, that the onlyestimate I can give you is based on retrospectivedata, obviously, and it could be ­JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, let's look at thefuture and assume that in percent of the caseswhich are plea bargains, you could agree on whatthe relevant facts are. That certainly could bedone. And in the percent that are trialed, itis my impression that a very small number of thoseactually involve violations of the Apprendi rule. Is that correct? MR. CLEMENT: I'm not sure that's right,Justice Stevens. Let me answer it this way,because I can only answer it based on the data Ihave. JUSTICE STEVENS: See, it's relevantbecause underlying all this is a question do theguidelines fail in toto, or do they only fail withrespect to those relatively small number of cases inwhich there's a violation of the Apprendi rule? MR. CLEMENT: I understand, and let meanswer it this way, which is looking retrospectively at the data from . If youconsider all the cases that either went to trialor pled and that, they're not differentiated, thetwo aren't differentiated, then about percentof the cases raise a potential Blakely or Apprenditype issue, so that would be the starting pointfor the analysis. Now, as you pointed -JUSTICE STEVENS: In raising the issue, itdepends on what - the issue you describe. A lotof people describe it as an issue when you justuse the guidelines at all. Do they raise anissue, involve it in a sentence over and above theamount that would be authorized by either the juryverdict or the plea bargain? MR. CLEMENT: Yes, that's -QUESTION: Do you think percent of thecases do? MR. CLEMENT: The numbers that we have is percent. Basically, you have percent of thecases involve some chapter II or chapter IIIenhancement or adjustment to the base level. Andthen we've kind of looked, in addition to the percent, we've looked at the drug cases, which bythe nature of the drug sentencing table, virtuallyall of the drug cases, if they don't implicate a mandatory minimum, involve a potential Blakelyupward adjustment. And so what we've done is, inlooking at these numbers, is to basically take allthe drug cases and then subtract that JUSTICE STEVENS: They all, of course,involve a potential upward adjustment. But dothey all involve actual sentences above the amountthat the jury verdict would have authorized? MR. CLEMENT: Well, again, JusticeStevens, I don't know, because that comes to asecond question, which is, if I understand yourquestion, which is, we know that percent of thecases raise a potentially, a potential Blakelyissue. Then the question is, well, if percentof the cases settle, is there a way to sort ofwaive Blakely rights and the like, and make thisworkable going forward? And it's hard to knowwhat the, what, what system will emerge. JUSTICE STEVENS: The thing that -- I'msorry, but I really, it's important to me. Raising an issue, the issue is always raised whenthere's a possibility of a higher sentence, but Idon't think it's fair to assume that that percent ofthe sentences of tried cases actually resulted insentences higher than what the jury verdict would have authorized. MR. CLEMENT: Well, again, I can only giveyou the numbers -JUSTICE STEVENS: It's potentially thatevery case does. But if in fact, most sentencescome within the maximum anyway, it's of course aserious problem in those cases, but system-wide,it's not nearly the problem that the figuresyou've mentioned suggest. MR. CLEMENT: Again, Justice Stevens, Iwant to answer as best I can. The figures I havesuggest that percent of the cases do involve anupward adjustment of some kind. And so there is aBlakely problem. So the only real questionis, all right, percent of cases in theworld where nobody thought Blakely was a problemfor the guidelines involve those kind of upwardadjustments. There may be ways through pleaagreements and the like to have people waive theirBlakely rights in certain ways that may make thesystem work a little bit better or deal with aslightly reduced number of cases. But I think anyway you slice this, this is going to have atremendous impact on the reality of criminalsentencing in the Federal system. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, as to past. I mean,it may have a significant one-shot impact withrespect to cases that were decided without Blakelyin mind. But for the future, I, I just don'tagree with you that changes could make somereduction. I think changes could provide for juryfindings whenever, whenever there's a need for ahigher sentence based on facts. I don't know;what is the problem with that? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I, well let me try toaddress the remedial question then going forward. If this Court were to find that Blakely is fullyapplicable to the guidelines, then that's going toraise some very serious and complex remedialquestions. One question, though, I think ought tobe clear, is that one option that shouldn't be onthe table is the idea that on a prospective basis,the guidelines are severable in a way that makesall enhancements or all upward adjustmentscompletely unavailable, and all downwarddepartures fully available. Because that systemis obviously nothing that Congress intended. Now Respondents, for their part, don'tpropose that rule, although they want to benefitfrom effectively that rule for their own cases. What they suggest is that on a going-forwardbasis, you could include the sentencing enhancingfactors as, in the indictment and then send themto the jury as effectively de facto elements ofthe crime to be found by the jury beyond areasonable doubt. Now with respect, I think thatso-called Blakely-ization of the guidelinescreates an enormous amount of judicial lawmakingand raises very serious separation of powersproblems. JUSTICE SOUTER: What is, what is thelawmaking part? I mean, if I have a choice -- ifI have -- let's put the question this way. Congress has authorized the Commission and theCommission has said, "If fact X is found, then therange is higher." Is there a lot of lawmaking inconcluding that Congress and the Commission wouldhave preferred that range to be higher regardless ofwhether a jury found the fact or a judge found thefact? That doesn't seem like much of a stretch tome. There may be other reasons not to do it. Butin terms of judicial lawmaking, it doesn't seemlike much to me. MR. CLEMENT: Well, with respect, JusticeSouter, I think it is fairly ambitious judicial lawmaking. You do have to take out a fair amountof text to get the sentencing judge effectivelyout of the business of fact-finding. JUSTICE SCALIA: What text do you have totake out? MR. CLEMENT: You have to take out thereference in (b), that talks about what thecourt finds, and then it makes a definitereference to the court needing to find things inorder to have upward and downward departures. JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on what youmean by the "court," doesn't it? JUSTICE STEVENS: Just consider the wordcourt to mean jury. Jury or a judge. MR. CLEMENT: And I think then ­JUSTICE SCALIA: Which - which is sometimesdone, there are statutes that refer to the court,that -MR. CLEMENT: And as we point out in ourbrief, there are plenty of statutes that refer tothe court in distinction from the jury. I thinkthen if you look at (e), which is the appealright, if you look at (e), makes it quiteclear that on appeal, courts of appeals aresupposed to defer to the, to the fact, the facts found by the district court. Now I think in thecontext of the overall provision for judicialreview, that is clearly a reference to thejudge, not to the jury. JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me, whenthere is an ambiguity that construed one waycreates a constitutional statute and construedanother way creates an unconstitutional one, it'san easy call. MR. CLEMENT: Well, with respect, I don'tthink there's any way to avoid a potentiallyunconstitutional system going forward, because ifyou treat these guideline factors that wereclearly created by the Commission and in somecases created by Congress, on the assumption thatthey would be used for judge fact-finding, andthen send them to the jury, then what you've doneprospectively -- it's one thing -- let me put itthis way. It's one thing to recognize that theguideline factors that are enhancements have theeffect of increasing sentences and operate likeelements of crimes for retrospectiveconstitutional analysis, for finding a SixthAmendment problem, but it is quite another thingto prospectively treat those factors exactly as if they're elements of crimes, force them to beincluded in the indictment, send them to the jurybeyond a reasonable doubt. JUSTICE STEVENS: It just means that if adifferent procedure is followed, you'll reachprecisely the same sentences the guidelinesreached. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I actually don't thinkthat follows, Justice Stevens, because I thinktaking guidelines that were clearly designed forjudge fact finding and sending them to the jury --JUSTICE STEVENS: You think judges reachdifferent results on factual issues than juriesdo? Is that part of your submission? MR. CLEMENT: No. What my submission is,is that taking guidelines that were designed forjudge fact finding and sending them and using themfor jury fact finding is going to have a verydisproportionate impact on some cases. Let megive you an example if I could, to make the point. If you think of two fraud cases that under theguidelines JUSTICE STEVENS: But keep it simplebecause we're assuming that in most cases, therearen't a host of factors but usually just two or three, such as the drug quantity and did he find agun. Now in those where there's a fairly simplefact to identify, would it make any difference inthe ultimate sentence that's imposed whether thejury finds it or the judge finds it? MR. CLEMENT: I think it would, JusticeStevens. And if I could -- I'll keep it a verysimple fraud example. JUSTICE STEVENS: Keep to that exampleI've given you. The gun and the drug quantity. Why would it make a difference? MR. CLEMENT: Well, it might not make as mucha difference in the drug case --JUSTICE STEVENS: Wouldn't it make any difference? MR. CLEMENT: Well, here's howit could make a difference,if I could use the fraud example. MR. CLEMENT: And then you may be able tosee how it could or could not relate to themarijuana example or a drug example. In thecontext of a fraud case, two fraud cases that aresentenced the exact same way and treated asuniform and proportional under the current system JUSTICE STEVENS: And there's a difference in sentence depending on the amount ofmoney that the fraud involved. MR. CLEMENT: In the number of victims. And what you'll have is -- if you think of onefraud that involved one victim and a slightlyhigher amount of money, and another fraud thatinvolved many victims and a slightly lower amountof money, the current guideline system basicallytries to treat them the same. Now with a single fraud victim, the ideaof Blakely-izing the guidelines may be relativelystraightforward. You include the loss amount inthe indictment. You put a special verdict formwith the amount of loss on it. And you call inthat one witness, and you can prove up your casebeyond a reasonable doubt. But if you have a case of telemarketing --JUSTICE STEVENS: In that case -- let'stake them one at a time. In that case, would itmake any difference whether the jury made thefinding or the judge made the finding? MR. CLEMENT: I don't think it would,Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: Okay. Then what MR. CLEMENT: But that's what, what I want to contrast it is with JUSTICE STEVENS: Now can you give me acase in which it would make a difference? MR. CLEMENT: Sure. Imagine that you havea telemarketing fraud where a thousand peoples -­a thousand individuals have been milked out of acouple of dollars each. Now under the currentsystem, proving up the fraud amount for the judgeis not that difficult because you can get theprobation officer to testify, or some other way toget the total amount of the fraud in front of thejudge. Under the system that Respondents propose,you're going to have to call in every one of ,individuals who was defrauded. Otherwise, I thinkit's going to be very difficult to prove thatfraud amount in front of the jury beyond areasonable doubt. And that just is one example ofthe disproportionate and disuniform effects JUSTICE STEVENS: You don't think a verylarge fraud such as you've described could beproved through two or three witnesses? MR. CLEMENT: I think it would be very JUSTICE STEVENS: They used the Internetand they had all said -- I am not persuaded. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I suppose ­ JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it can't be, maybethe judges shouldn't go, be going around guessinghow many people have been defrauded. Or you know,saying "more likely than not, on the basis of thekind of evidence we usually don't accept incriminal trials." Why is that okay? I don'tunderstand it. MR. CLEMENT: Well, again, I think whateverelse is true, what you would be doing with such asystem is you'd be taking factors that I thinkeveryone concedes were designed by a Commissionthat was upheld as constitutional preciselybecause it did not have the effect of creating newFederal crimes and statutory limits. JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't make me feelany good if I spend another years in jailbecause of it. Say, "Oh, well, don't worry aboutit, it wasn't an element of the crime, after all." [Laughter.] MR. CLEMENT: No, I understand that,Justice Scalia. I'm trying to talk about theremedial question, though. JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask JUSTICE GINSBURG: - about practical experience in that regard. I understand theDepartment of Justice has told prosecutors thatnow you allege these sentencing enhancers -- likedrug quantity, like amount of property stolen -­you allege them in the indictment, you prove thembeyond a reasonable doubt. Has that provedintractably difficult in cases where it has beenattempted? MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, Ithink we don't have enough experience to know. Ithink I can tell you one thing: that with a lotof enhancements, putting something in theindictment is not necessarily the difficult step. There are some things like relevant conduct thatcan be very challenging to try to formulate in anindictment. But for a lot of the factors thatenhance a sentence, it's relatively easy to put itin the indictment itself. I think the trickier difficulties come upin terms of trying to instruct the jury,especially in cases where there are multipleenhancements. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well certainlyin the case of, say, perjury at trial, youcouldn't possibly allege that in the indictment because you won't know. MR. CLEMENT: That's completely right, Mr.Chief Justice. And those cases are just out. JUSTICE SOUTER: They're not out. They've gotto be separately prosecuted. MR. CLEMENT: And that's never been theunder -- I mean, that's true, there may be somecases that you could bring a separate perjuryprosecution, but this court JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I don't know of anycase in which you can't. MR. CLEMENT: Well, there may besituations where there's an obstruction of justicethat wouldn't necessarily make out all theelements of a perjury prosecution. JUSTICE SOUTER: Then I guess, we oughtto have an obstruction of justice crime withdefined elements that can be prosecuted. MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, withrespect, I mean, this Court, both before theguidelines and after the guidelines, rejected theargument that the only way to enhance a sentencefor obstruction of justice was to bring a separateperjury prosecution. JUSTICE SOUTER: And I, I would, I would take the same position today, unless you weregoing to define it, in terms of a condition thatis both necessary and sufficient to expand thesentencing range of the crime that you arenominally prosecuting the person for. I mean,that's the rub. MR. CLEMENT: But that's JUSTICE SOUTER: Let me go -­MR. CLEMENT: That's what this Court hadbefore it in Dunnigan. And this Court said thatthat was not problematic. It was obstructionduring the trial. And this Court upheld it onreliance on Grayson, a pre-guidelines case, andthis Court said that the additional rigor andpredictability instilled by the guidelines did notmake a constitutional difference. JUSTICE BREYER: I've listed fourcategories of things that you think would be verydifficult to prove to a jury at the trial, but notto a judge at sentencing. The first is the vastamount of information now and prior to guidelinesthat were contained in the presentence report. That information, most of which was used sincehistory was begun, maybe a hundred years ago, issimply not available until the trial is over. The second happens to be the things thatthe Chief brought up, matters committed at trial,such as perjury. The third sort of thing are those thingsthat just get too complicated when you try to list in indictment, such as victim -- put them alltogether -- victim, brandishing the gun, etcetera. And the fourth kind of thing are thethings that are too difficult to explain to ajury. Try explaining even "brandishing" to ajury, and if you can do that one, which may beeasy, try the multiple-count rules. All right. So I have those four things. Now, are there others? MR. CLEMENT: I think that's a fairsummary, Justice Breyer. I think on sort of howcomplicated it gets to take something that wasdesigned for a judge and then send it before thejury in jury instructions, I would ask the Courtto look at the Medas case, which we cite on page of our reply brief. JUSTICE BREYER: All right, if Ibelieve that that is just out of the question,it's so complicated, nobody could do it, it would be a radical change, Congress could never haveintended that, what about a much simpler approach? What you would do is take (b), and you say,"Read the word 'shall' -- i.e. 'shall apply theguidelines' -- to 'may,'" so that the guidelinesbecome advisory, either because the "shall"becomes a "may" or because you give each judge thepower to give any reasonable reason at all as towhy the Commission's guideline, they didn'tactively consider this factor. In other words,read (b) as permissive. And now, assuming I've expressed myself onthe underlying Apprendi questions, so I, butsuppose Blakely does apply, would you -- is -­what would be wrong with taking that approach? MR. CLEMENT: Assuming I understand theapproach you propose, there would be nothing wrongwith taking that approach. JUSTICE BREYER: All right, I have thoughtof one thing that might be wrong. [Laughter.] JUSTICE BREYER: So I'll ask you about it, if you want. [Laughter.] JUSTICE SCALIA: Could it be that "shall" does not mean "may"? Right? [Laughter.] JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, that's not it? "Shall" -­JUSTICE BREYER: All right, well, I -- you see nothing wrong with that. That makes theguidelines advisory, and there are a number ofobjections -- maybe not, maybe big, maybe small. One objection I was worried about is -- I'm givingyou my thought process, you know, and I -- becauseI'm trying to get a -- your response -- is that ifwe did take that approach, you'd leave theappellate section in place. That means every timethe judge didn't use the guideline, the appealscourts would have to review for reasonableness. Now that would be in place. We would discoverjudges all over the country having different viewson that. Courts of appeals would have differentviews about was or what was not reasonable. Wewould be here to review those differences, and wewould become the sentencing commission. I thoughtI had escaped. [Laughter.] JUSTICE BREYER: Now, how, how serious anobjection is that? Or do you recommend that, if you lose on this point, we take the approach of,in that way, making the guidelines advisory? MR. CLEMENT: I would -- I would take theapproach that you should make the advisory -- theadvisory guidelines -- the guidelines as advisory. Now, with respect to whether or not you'veescaped from the burden of serving on thesentencing commission, I don't think that thereading of , the appeal provision, that you'veenvisioned is necessarily foreordained. I think ­-JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, have you escapedApprendi? If discretion is cabined by guidelinesand appellate courts review, for the abuse ofdiscretion in applying those guidelines, why isn'tthat the same kind of entitlement that theApprendi/Blakely opinion is predicated on to beginwith? JUSTICE SCALIA: Absolutely. Vote me forthat. I mean, after all, judges used to definethe elements of crimes, didn't they? And the merefact that the elements at common law were definedby judges rather than by the legislature didn'tmean that you didn't have to have a jury findthem. So if courts are going to establish the guidelines, so long as they are still binding, itseems to me you still need a jury finding, or youhaven't escaped Apprendi. MR. CLEMENT: A couple of observations,Justice Scalia. First of all, you're exactlyright, since we've abandoned a system wherejudges can define the elements of crimes. Andthat's why, if I leave you with one thought on theremedy, I would think that it's inappropriate toallow an entity within the judicial branch to havethat effect on a prospective basis. I think thatwould be a very serious separation of powersproblem. I think it would dwarf the separation ofpowers problem that at least you found quitesignificant in the Mistretta case. Now, if I can address Justice Kennedy'squestion about the appeals system simplyreplicating the Apprendi or the Blakely problem. First of all, we would suggest that the appealprocess that you've envisioned would not violateApprendi and Blakely. And that's one of thereasons that we think the Commission wouldn'tviolate Blakely. Because what we see is adistinction in this court's cases. They have saidthis Court has said that judicial discretionary sentencing doesn't implicate the Sixth Amendment. This Court has said that legislative-directedsentencing does implicate the Sixth Amendment. What the guidelines present is a situation ofjudicial sentencing that's directive. We wouldsuggest -- we would suggest --JUSTICE SCALIA: Judicial discretionarysentencing, as I understood it, never permitted anappellate court to increase the sentence given bythe district judge. Do you have any cases,where an appellate court said the district judgedid not give enough years, where there wasdiscretionary sentencing? MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I canpoint you to the DiFrancesco case, where thisCourt approved an earlier Federal statute thatallowed for appeals in sentencing. JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be understatute, but I do not know, at common law, thatwhen you talked about the discretion in thecourts, it meant that in a criminal case a courtof appeals could increase the sentence because ofa -- because of an abuse of discretion by thesentencing judge. I'm unfamiliar with any suchcase. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there are lots. There are lots, actually. If you -- if -- I ask,"Is it right, that?" [Laughter.] JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean, if you takecommon law to mean England, as well as the UnitedStates, there weren't here, because the sentencesweren't appealable, but in England, they wereappealable, and they had a common law work out ofwhat they called the "tariff," which is what therange of reasonableness was or wasn't. And theprosecution, I believe, could appeal it of beingtoo low; and the defense, being too high. And thequestion was, Was the sentence reasonable? Theappellate court could set it. Now, if we had a system like that -- andthis is my serious question -- is itunconstitutional under Apprendi if appeals courtjudges reviewing a sentence could say, "This isthe range of reason, this is arbitrary up here, orthis is arbitrary down there"? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think our positionwould be that that kind of system would beconstitutional. As I was suggesting to JusticeKennedy, we think, because that system would be constitutional, we think the guidelines are alsoconstitutional. I think Justice Kennedy is right,though, that somebody that says that that systemis unconstitutional and the guidelines isunconstitutional is not going to be particularlyimpressed by that reading of that gets you tothat result. And that's why I want to leave you with animportant thought, which is, that reading of is not foreordained. This court could say thatthe guidelines should be applied in an advisoryfashion, and that all that would be left of theGovernment -­JUSTICE O'CONNOR: That just seems so contraryto what Congress intended. There's no evidencethat they intended this scheme to be advisory. They told the Commission to set up a scheme thatwould be applied, because they wanted to makesentencing more uniformly applied in the Federalscheme of things. I think it's a real stretch totry to argue for the position taken by someFederal judges in one of the amicus briefs that,"It's just advisory, don't worry." And I find itvery difficult to understand how appellate reviewcould be applied to such a scheme. MR. CLEMENT: But, Justice O'Connor,that's why, to be clear, we've only argued infavor of an advisory view of the guidelines if weget to the remedial question, because I thinkyou're absolutely right, if you look at whatCongress actually intended, it's crystal clearthey did not intend the guidelines to be advisory. But it's equally crystal clear they didn't intendthe guidelines to be the basis for jury fact-finding. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, what ifthis Court said the guidelines areunconstitutional, period, and then judges simplylooked to the guidelines, figuring, well, this isas good an idea as anybody else has aboutsentencing? [Laughter.] MR. CLEMENT: I think that actually wouldbe the proper remedy. That's effectively what weask for, Mr. Chief Justice. And -­JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if it were donethat way, why would it be that you would try tochange the word "shall" to "may" in (b)? Why notjust have Section (a), which does list the judges may take into account in sentencing, one of-- among three or four others? MR. CLEMENT: No, I think that's fair,Justice Ginsburg. I mean, in responding toJustice Breyer's hypothetical, I didn't mean thatwas the only way to get to the result we'vepropose. And the particular way, in our briefs,that we suggest that you would get to an advisoryuse of the guidelines on a prospective basis isprecisely as you suggest. You don't read (b)to change "may" to "shall"; instead, you read it,unfortunately, I guess, if we've reached theremedial question, to be unconstitutional. Andthen, at that point, you focus in on (a) -­JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which has theguidelines -­MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely. Absolutely. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- as one of otherfactors. MR. CLEMENT: Exactly. And then if Icould just -­JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that that, asJustice O'Connor suggests, deprives the statute ofits principal purpose, which was to constrain -­to constrain judicial discretion. If there's anything clear about it, that was clear about, itwas that they did not want judges to have as muchdiscretion as they had. And now you say thesethings are just advisory. It seems to me mucheasier to -- I wanted to ask you one very precisequestion. Assuming I think "court" can mean"jury" -- it doesn't have to mean "the judge" -­where in, in the whole guideline system, how manysections do not permit the use of "court" to mean"jury"? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think -­JUSTICE SCALIA: I think there's only onewhere, where it may not work. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't see how itworks in (e), because if you read that sectionin context it's talking about determinations madeby the court, it's talking about determinationsmade by the court after the presentence reportcomes in -­one.JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that may be the MR. CLEMENT: -- and so I think that(e) has to go. I think the fairer -­JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Anything elsehas to go? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the fairerreading of (b) is that it has to go, too. Iknow that you don't agree with -­JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know about fairer. MR. CLEMENT: I think you disagree with meon that. I think -- -- (a), in Title, which talks about the guidelines being for theuse of the sentencing court, I would suggest thathas to go, but I assume you would say sentencingcourt can mean sentencing judge. Then at thatpoint, there's a provision of rule of theFederal Rules of Criminal Procedure that must go,because it talks about the role of the districtcourt in a way that I don't think you can, sortof, find to mean the jury. And then I think,obviously, the sentencing guidelines provisionthat makes clear that it is the judge that's tomake the findings by a preponderance of theevidence, has to go, as well. So I think that is-- that is -- that is the sum total of the carnageof deciding -­[Laughter.] MR. CLEMENT: -- that the guidelines arefully applicable with Blakely. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you -- if you interpret "court" to mean "jury," how many of thesentencing factors which will be submitted to thejury are -- would be a radical departure from thetradition, the role of the jury in the criminalsystem in the Anglo-American tradition? MR. CLEMENT: I think very, very many ofthem. I mean, I can't give you a better answerthan that, in terms of the number. But the Medascase, on page of a reply brief that I suggestedthe Court look at, provides one example. There,you had a case where it had already gone to the,to the jury on a general verdict, and it had thetypical kind of general verdict form you see. It's had a six-count indictment. There were boxes,guilty/non-guilty for each of the six crimes inthe indictment. Then when there was a concernthat Blakely might require jury findings on allthe various enhancements, the Government tried toput in a -page supplemental special verdict thattried to walk through the various factors that thejury would try to find. I think that just, inminiature, shows you the kind of transformationyou're talking about. You go from a -linegeneral verdict form, which is the classic kind ofverdict form used in the criminal system, to pages of a supplemental special verdict form. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you ought to getrid of that prosecutor. That didn't seem to me very sensible at all. MR. CLEMENT: With respect, Justice Scalia, I think if you look at that supplementalverdict form, and you look at the guidelines,there's no other way to do it. And I think, asthe judge in that case said, one of the thingsthat comes up in virtually every guidelines caseis the issue of relevant conduct. Now, that is avery, very difficult thing to try to instruct thejury on. The application notes that theCommission itself have come up in span eight and ahalf pages of very small, single spaced text. Totry to give that as jury instructions, I think,would leave the jury completely bewildered. Then, you'd also, though, even if youcould get past the instruction problems, theeffect of considering relevant conduct is going tohave a transformative effect on what goes beforethe jury, because relevant conduct asks the jurynot to focus on the elements of the specificcrime; the relevant conduct focuses on the otheracts of that individual defendant and, if there's joint criminal, if there's a joint criminalundertaking, the reasonably foreseeable events ofacts of others taken in furtherance of the jointundertaking. Now, the effect of using thatguideline, designed for judges, and sending it tothe jury, is effectively to transform many, manycases from individual defendant cases to schemecases or conspiracy cases. So in tallying up the carnage and thewreckage of applying these guidelines designedclearly for judge fact-finding and willy - nillysending them to the jury, I think you have toinclude the confusion and the difficulty of that. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Clement can I -- youdon't have an awful lot of time left, and I wantto ask you one rather important question, to me. There's been a lot of talk about severability ofthe statute, and I can understand the concept thatwe'll only apply it in certain categories ofcases. But normally when I consider severability,I'm thinking of the text of a written statute. Isthere a particular provision of the sentencingguidelines that you think can be severed from therest of the statute? MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, I think with respect to the Sentencing Reform Actitself, the statute, the provision that we thinkneeds to be severed is (b). Then, withrespect to the Guidelines, I think our view on theguidelines -­JUSTICE STEVENS: Just sticking to thestatute, take out (b) in its entirety, youjust -­MR. CLEMENT: Well, the specific referenceto "shall" -- this is basically the "shall/may"issue -- I think that needs to be severed. I'mnot quite sure what of (b) is left after youdo that, but that's -- that's the important thing. JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm just not sure what'sleft of the whole statute if you take thatprovision out entirely. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think, as JusticeGinsburg suggests, (a) still stands alone astelling the court that it should consider that. And I think, in fact, if you look at thelegislative history, I actually think the languagein (b) was, was a floor amendment that wasadded later. So it certainly doesn't pull thewhole statute down to take that one provision outof the statute. If I could reserve the remainder of my CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Mr. time.Clement. Mr. Kelly, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF T. CHRISTOPHER KELLYON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT BOOKER MR. KELLY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: The first years of Freddie Booker'ssentence punished him for crimes that were provedto a jury. But the judge added another eightyears to his sentence, years that were onlyauthorized by the judge's finding that Bookerprobably committed other crimes. Like thousandsof other Federal defendants, Booker's sentence wasincreased based on crimes that were never provedto a jury beyond a reasonable doubt. The finalyears of a Federal sentence are as worthy ofconstitutional protections against undeservedpunishment as are the first years. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose that the judgehad simply sentenced the defendant, let's say, toten years, but looked at these other crimes andsaid, "In my practice, I go to ." All right? That's the basic situation. Is thatunconstitutional? MR. KELLY: Under the guidelines or underthe -­JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, there are noguidelines. MR. KELLY: No, that is notunconstitutional. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now supposethe people who do exactly the same thing is theCourt of Appeals applying the word "reasonable,"these officials of the judicial branch. See,they're reviewing the sentence for reasonableness. They say, "In our practice when a person commitsbank robbery, if it's just an ordinary case, we thinkit's reasonable five years; but if he has a gun,seven years." So if there's no gun, five years isthe most that isn't arbitrary. But if there's agun, you can go to seven years. In other words,an English-type tariff system. Is thatunconstitutional? MR. KELLY: I believe it would be, JusticeBreyer.So -­ JUSTICE BREYER: You would think it would be. MR. KELLY: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- now suppose the peoplewho do it are the parole commission -- as happento be in the United States, executive branchofficials. For the last hundred years, they getsentences, for example, that were indeterminate,or might have been for years. And what theysay, "It is our practice, assuming good behavior,that if it was just an ordinary bank robbery we'llkeep him in for five years, but if he had a gun,he's going to stay in for seven." Is thatunconstitutional? MR. KELLY: Parole commissions don'tincrease sentences. Parole commissions decreasesentences. JUSTICE BREYER: No, what they have is anindeterminate sentence. MR. KELLY: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: California. MR. KELLY: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And what they say is, "Inour practice, what we do is, we think it'sreasonable, and we will keep a person in prisonfor five years in an ordinary bank robbery, butfor seven years if he has a gun." I'm asking if that's constitutional. Because that's thepractice that they follow under parole commissionguidelines, and they've done it now for a decade,I make up. MR. KELLY: That is constitutional, YourHonor. And the reason is -­JUSTICE BREYER: That's constitutional. JUSTICE SCALIA: Does he have anentitlement to a certain number of years under anyof these questions? MR. KELLY: As I -­JUSTICE SCALIA: When you're sentenced toan indeterminate sentence, he's not entitled toparole at any time -­MR. KELLY: Other than venues --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- is he? MR. KELLY: No, not at all. And as I -­JUSTICE BREYER: What I'm trying to driveat -- and I'll be -- is that I can't imagine acourt holding that a parole commission in theexecutive branch that has exactly this same systemwould be behaving unconstitutionally. It'sdifficult for me to imagine -- though you say I'mwrong on that -- a court holding it'sunconstitutional when a court of appeals does the same thing reviewing for arbitrariness. MR. KELLY: Well, perhaps I misunderstoodyour second hypothetical, Your Honor. But myunderstanding of the hypothetical was that if thejudge gave five years and the appellate courtsaid, "No, you should have given seven yearsbecause of the existence of a certain fact" -­JUSTICE BREYER: You know, I -­MR. KELLY: "you must -- you must increasethe sentence --" JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not phrasing thequestion well. I'm trying to imagine sentencingguidelines run by a parole commission, executivebranch officials. I'm trying to imaginesentencing guidelines run under the word arbitraryby ordinary courts of appeals panels reviewing thesentences. And if those are both constitutional,then, I would ask, why is it unconstitutional toput the executive branch and judicial branchofficials together in one group called thesentencing commission? MR. KELLY: The relevant constitutionalprinciple doesn't have to do with whether it's theexecutive branch of Government or the judicialbranch of Government; it has to do whether a fact is necessary in order to increase a sentence. JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that. And ­- well, maybe I'm just not going to get myquestion across. I am trying to imagine Apprendi. Would Apprendi apply to parole commissionguidelines? I should think the answer, unlesswe're going to reverse a hundred years of history,is no. Would Apprendi apply to a court of appealspanel with the power to review sentences forarbitrariness? MR. KELLY: No. JUSTICE BREYER: I would think the answeris no. And, therefore, I wonder why it applies ifwe take judicial officials and executive branchofficials, and they do exactly the same thingunder the heading Sentencing Commission. MR. KELLY: In your hypotheticals, JusticeBreyer, as I understand them, each of thoseentities is decreasing a sentence. We're talkingabout a sentencing commission that authorizes acourt and, in fact -- well, authorizes a court toincrease a sentence after finding a particularfact, and that is what triggers the SixthAmendment protection. It's the fact that a judgeis authorized to give a longer sentence because of the existence of a fact than he would otherwise beauthorized to impose. And that is the essentialprotection against which the Sixth Amendment jurytrial right protects. That is a fact that has tobe found by a jury, not by a judge. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what is yourposition if judges simply have complete discretionto sentence within a maximum range, and Judge Agives a lot of maximum sentences, and Judge Bdoesn't? Is that system constitutional? MR. KELLY: There is no Sixth Amendmentproblem with that system, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is it in our legaltradition -- what policies are served bypreferring unexplained, unarticulated,standardless discretion to a system in which thejudge gives reasons and follows careful standardsand follows -- and follows standards that giveconsistency from one sentence to the other? Whyshould the former be preferred? What are we doinghere? MR. KELLY: I think, Justice Kennedy, thatBlakely answers that question. Blakelydistinguishes between a discretionary system inwhich the judge has the authority to consider a number of different factors in order to do whatthe judge thinks is fair, but is not required to ­---JUSTICE KENNEDY: What policies -­MR. KELLY: -- give any particular weightJUSTICE KENNEDY: -- are being furtheredby that, other than wooden adherence to Apprendiand Blakely? MR. KELLY: The policy is that if ajudge's sentencing authority increases by findingof fact, which is not the case in a discretionarysystem. That fact is the kind of finding that weleave to a jury, because juries -­JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that, isn'tthat ultimately formalistic and contrary to ourwhole design of our system, which is to learn overexperience and to codify and to explain whatconsiderations we take into account in applyingthe law? MR. KELLY: I don't think it's contrary toour system, Your Honor, to say that if a moreserious sentence attaches to a more serious crime,or to a more serious version of a crime, that it'sup to the jury to decide whether the more serious crime or more serious version was committed. Infact, that is essential to our system. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So suppose, in JusticeBreyer's hypothetical -- like the Californiaindeterminate sentencing regime which applieduntil about years ago, after an indeterminatesentence, the parole board interviews two peopleconvicted for the same crime; one was theringleader, street-hardened offender, and theother was just a novice, a guy that went along,although he -- they both committed the same crime. Under the California system, the former would begiven a projected release date of ten years; andthe other, a projected release date of about twoyears. Would that be constitutional? MR. KELLY: Yes, it would, because, again,under a discretionary system, the judge'ssentencing authority is unaffected by the findingof a fact. If the parole commission determinesthat one offender's sentence should be decreasedand the other offender's should not be decreased,that has no Sixth Amendment application or SixthAmendment -­JUSTICE BREYER: Look, we're trying to goto the same point, and I think you're actually given me a pretty good answer. The --MR. KELLY: Thank you. JUSTICE BREYER: I'm imagining my systembeing the system that Apprendi forbids. So I'mnot doing increase/decreases. I'll think of thevery kind of system. And I take it your answer isthis -- and remember, I dissented in Apprendi. MR. KELLY: I remember. JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't agree with it. Right. But there we are. And so I'm trying tosee how far it goes. So I wonder, we take ourApprendi system and now it's being administered bya parole commission. We take our Apprendi system,and now it's being administered by a court ofappeals using the legal standard arbitrariness. And I take it your answer is those are just asunconstitutional. MR. KELLY: No, no, again, I'm not -­JUSTICE BREYER: Now you understand whatI'm doing, because I'm saying you either have tofollow the force of your logic and make thoseunconstitutional, too, or you have to say there'sa difference. And, by definition, the onlydifference is who promulgated it. And then, ofcourse, I'm going to ask you, if there's a difference right there, why doesn't this one,which is executive plus judicial, fall on my sideof the difference? MR. KELLY: Well, maybe I -- maybe I don'tunderstand your hypothetical, Justice Breyer,because parole commissions do not increasesentences; parole commissions decrease sentences. JUSTICE BREYER: No, I -- in my imaginaryparole commission --MR. KELLY: Okay. [Laughter.] JUSTICE BREYER: -- I will argue adifferent point. MR. KELLY: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I will argue itanother time. I've seen a lot of parolecommission guidelines, and I would say they, a lotof them did fall within the Apprendi boundaries. But if we did take it and have the parolecommission do it -- "it," being the Apprendiforbidden system, in your view, is itunconstitutional? MR. KELLY: It would certainly beunconstitutional for a parole commission to find afact that increased a sentence. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Okay. MR. KELLY: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And then the same thingis true of a -- of a court of appeals panel. MR. KELLY: If it could find a fact thatincreased a sentence, yes, because those factsmust be found by a jury. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Kelly, I would beinterested in hearing you address some of theseverability problems that the Government has beenraising. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I could just ask onemore question, because this is important to me. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What about the previousCalifornia system in which it was an indeterminatesentence and the correctional authority madefindings which set the sentence? They were -­they were committed to the California -­MR. KELLY: Sure. JUSTICE KENNEDY : -- correctional authorityfor the term prescribed by law, and that was setafter the fact, post hoc, by the California AdultAuthority. MR. KELLY: If the agency were increasing an authorized sentence -­JUSTICE KENNEDY: They're not increasing it.-sentence. MR. KELLY: -- on the basis of a finding ­JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's an indeterminate MR. KELLY: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: They set the sentence. MR. KELLY: After the -- instead of thejudge or after the judge? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. It was justsentenced, the judge, for the term prescribed bylaw. And an agency, after interviewing thedefendant, after looking at the probation report,set the sentence. The term prescribed by lawcould be for life. MR. KELLY: If there were facts which werenecessary to authorize -­JUSTICE STEVENS: He sets the sentencewithin the range authorized by the jury's verdict. That's the question. MR. KELLY: Right, that's fine. If it'swithin the range authorized by the jury's verdict,it's fine. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well. What if, what if the statute says "every felony inthis state shall be punished by a term of not lessthan one year, or, on the other side, life," andyou're committed to the parole authority, and theparole authority will decide between thoseboundaries? MR. KELLY: Assuming that authority isgiven to the parole commission to select asentence, and no further findings need to be madebeyond those made by the jury, there's no SixthAmendment problem with that. JUSTICE SCALIA: There might be a dueprocess problem. MR. KELLY: In fact, there might be a lotof other constitutional problems, but not a SixthAmendment problem. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I hope you will go overto the -- to the severability problem, because, asI understood it, you and the Government were verymuch at odds about what should be severed and whatshouldn't, and we didn't get to ask Mr. Clementabout his severance, which was going to be that tothe extent no plus factors are involved, nosentence-enhancing factors are involved, the guidelines remain binding. He didn't get a chanceto say that in his argument, and I hope he'lladdress it. And you say, "Whatever you do, don't makeit half binding and half advisory." MR. KELLY: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And why would it be soterrible to say, "Well, to the extent that thereare no sentencing enhancing factors, let'spreserve what Congress did, let's make thembinding when the jury doesn't have to findanything"? MR. KELLY: For a couple of reasons,Justice Ginsburg. The first is that Congresscertainly didn't intend to have dual systems. That destroys the congressional purpose ofuniformity because you would have sentences, Isuppose, being uniform under systems -- the systemwhere guidelines applied, but certainly not underthe system where the guidelines don't apply,because there are guideline facts that need to befound. So that congressional purpose is notadvanced. The second problem is that it's such aneasily manipulable system, particularly by the Government. If the Government wants to be in theguidelines, it doesn't allege a sentence-enhancingfact, or a guideline fact. If the Governmentdoesn't want to be bound by the guidelines, italleges a guideline fact, and that takessentencing out of the guidelines. And that cannotbe what Congress intended. JUSTICE SOUTER: Is it any less uniform,any more manipulable, than on your proposal? MR. KELLY: Our -­JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean, uniformity isgone. A certain manipulability has got to befaced as a fact, and I'm not sure that you'reproposing a better solution, I gather. MR. KELLY: Well, I think our proposaldoesn't really allow for any manipulation at all,Justice Souter. We're simply saying that the factfinder must be a jury instead of a judge. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, except that themanipulation, at that point, is the manipulation,in a way, in the present system, and that is it'sthe manipulability of charge bargaining. MR. KELLY: Well, that's certainly true,and that exists under the guidelines. It existswithout the guidelines. It exists in discretionary systems. JUSTICE SOUTER: Yeah. JUSTICE BREYER: It does exist under the guidelines? How does it? MR. KELLY: I think it does, because -­JUSTICE BREYER: How? MR. KELLY: Well, certainly, to the extentthat prosecutors make decisions about what chargesthey're going to bring -­JUSTICE BREYER: No, only, only, only ifyou have statutes that have mandatory minimums orthat have lesser sentences. That's true. MR. KELLY: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: But compared to thestatus quo, if you have the guidelines alone, oneof their basic objectives was to prevent that kindof manipulation. And, by and large, I thoughtthey had succeeded on that point. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, hasn't chargebargaining simply been replaced with factbargaining? MR. KELLY: It has, to a large extent. JUSTICE BREYER: Is that lawful under theguideline? Is the judge required to accept thefacts as the -- as the prosecution and defense agree to present them? MR. KELLY: The judge is not required to ­-JUSTICE BREYER: No. MR. KELLY: -- accept the facts. Thejudge typically does. JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm not sure that Iunderstand why you wouldn't have the samealternatives under your view. Because is it notcorrect that if the, if the sentence -- the changeunder consideration is a decrease, those findingscould be made by a judge. Whereas, if it's anincrease, you'd say they have to be found by ajury. So why don't you have the same possibilityof a two-track system under your view? MR. KELLY: I guess -- I wouldn't viewthat as a two-track system, because the guidelineswould continue to apply in either case. It wouldnot be a situation in which the guidelines applyto some criminal sentencings, but don't apply toother criminal sentencings. The guidelines willapply in every criminal sentencing. Whether afact finder needs to be a judge or a jury dependsupon whether the fact to be found increases thejudge's sentencing authority. JUSTICE STEVENS: So you would say -- youwould say your proposal is closer to what Congressreally wanted, because it would leave in place allof the sentences that would be commanded by theguidelines, but just require a different factfinder in some of the cases. MR. KELLY: That's exactly right, JusticeStevens. You -­JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then what about allthe factors -- Justice Breyer outlined fourcategories of, of guideline factors that are noteasily, if at all, presented to the jury. TheChief Justice mentioned the one of perjury at thetrial itself. Could never give that to a jurybecause it hasn't happened until the trial. Andsome of the others that become very complicated,like he mentioned, other -- other relevantconduct, relevant conduct, yeah. MR. KELLY: I agree that perjury is notsomething that could be submitted to a jury -­perjury during trial is not something that couldbe submitted to a jury. That's -­JUSTICE GINSBURG: So that would just beout. MR. KELLY: That would be out. That's one of the very few. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It would have to beprosecuted as a separate -­MR. KELLY: It would have to be prosecutedas a separate crime. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well couldn't he have asentencing phase afterwards? I don't know. JUSTICE STEVENS: Could I interrupt forthat? JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure. JUSTICE STEVENS: There's one thing that'srunning through my mind. What if the defendantgets on the stand and testifies to a version ofthe events that the jury must have disbelieved inorder to convict? Could not the judge -- ineffect, he would be making the finding -- he wouldsay, "The jury has really found this fact, and,therefore, I can rely on it." MR. KELLY: I don't think so, JusticeStevens, because the judge is still making thefinding that the witness deliberately lied, asopposed to being mistaken in his testimony. Andthat is a finding of fact that increasessentencing authority. So I don't think that ajury returning a guilty verdict in every case means that the jury disbelieved, or thought atleast, that the defendant was lying. JUSTICE BREYER: What is your answer toJustice Ginsburg's question? And I'd appreciateyour focusing on what I thought were the two mostimportant ones, which is, first, the -- I thoughtthat sentencing for a hundred years had gone onprimarily on the basis of the presentence report. And the idea was, the person is convicted and nowwe're going to decide what to do with thisindividual who's convicted, and we're going toread what the probation officer writes about it,and he'll go interview people after, as he does. And many, many, many, if not most, of the facts inthat presentence report were not available at thetime of trial. They're about the history of theindividual, and they're more about the manner inwhich the crime was carried out. And the other main thing is the -- is thevast number of really complex operations,multiple-count rules, relevant conduct, all kindsof things that -- try even "brandishing." I mean,that's the second thing, the complexity. So the presentence report -­MR. KELLY: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: -- and the complexity. JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, thetradition was that we asked the jury to determinewhat crime was committed, and the sentencing judgeto determine the context in which it wascommitted. MR. KELLY: And that still happens, evenunder our proposal, to a large extent, Your Honor,because the presentence report has historicallyguided a judge in exercising his discretion atsentencing. To the extent that the judgeexercises discretion in selecting a sentencewithin a guideline range, the judge will stillrely upon the presentence report. And, frankly,most of what's in a presentence report doesn'thave to do with finding extra facts; it has to dowith guiding discretion in selecting a sentence. So I don't think that that really changes underour system. With regard to the complexity, it's beenmy experience in defending Federal criminal casesthat although the guidelines are lengthy, thereare only two or three that are likely to apply inany particular case, and it's not particularlycomplex to figure out what those are, and it wouldn't be all that complex to charge a jury withregard to how to determine facts that are requiredby the guidelines. We give juries juryinstructions that are complicated all the time. We do it in RICO -­JUSTICE BREYER: Congress's basic --that's a good answer. Congress's basic objectivehere is -- was uniformity. I think it was a nobleobjective, whether or not it's been achieved or,but are you saying to Congress, Sorry, theConstitution prohibits you, in Congress, fromtrying to create uniformity, or greateruniformity, of sentencing among district judges? There's just no way you can do it, because if youthrow everything to a jury, you know, you throw itright into the hands of the prosecutor todetermine what to charge, what not to charge, whatfacts to agree upon, et cetera, no way to do it? We're back to our two cellmates -- one day served, years served -- though the real conduct was thesame. MR. KELLY: The real conduct can still beproved to a jury, as long as it's charged andproved to a jury. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: How about the form of verdict under your system? Is there oneline for the basic offense, and then other linesfor each additional factor that's alleged in theindictment? MR. KELLY: There may be, depending onthe case. There may be cases in which a generalverdict is adequate because there are no guidelinefacts to find that would increase sentencing -­CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: But you'resuggesting, then, a special -- a special verdictin every case where there are guideline facts tobe found. MR. KELLY: Just as special verdicts havebeen used since Apprendi to find drug quantitiesand other facts that increase maximum sentences. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But a special verdictwouldn't do from the point of view of thedefendant, I think would resist it very heavily,if what the findings have to be are, say, a muchlarger drug quantity, the relevant conduct. Theseare things that could be damning for a defendant. So a defendant surely would not want that, all ofthis to be tried to the jury that's going to trythe basic case. The defendant would much preferto have the jury not know about that it wasn't five ounces, that it was grams, or that, atthe same time, the defendant did a lot of otherbad things. MR. KELLY: Your Honor, I think we cantrust district judges to fashion proceduralprotections that assure that trials are fair. That might, in some cases, mean bifurcating theunderlying elements of the offense and thedetermination of those elements from the findingof guideline facts -­JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you would have tohave, then, essentially two trials. MR. KELLY: In some cases, yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, isn't it -- isn'tit -- isn't that going to be so in every relevantconduct case in which the Government thinks therelevant conduct is a serious factor? There'seither going to have to be a separate jury verdicton sentencing, or the district judge is going tobe limited simply to whatever range the jury factfinding provides as the maximum range. There areno other possibilities, are there? MR. KELLY: Well, in some of those cases,Your Honor, the additional facts would come in onthe main trial anyway, as (b) kind of evidence that is relevant to proving the underlyingcharges. And if it's going to come in anyway,then there probably wouldn't be a second part ofthe trial. So I think -­JUSTICE SOUTER: But isn't the defendantin that case going to say look, I, I'm claiming aserious problem, if you're asking the jury to makea specific finding that I committed relevant factsA, B, C, D, and E, even though I don't happen tohave been subjected to a criminal guilty verdictwith respect to each one. By, by requiring thosefindings, you're going to skew the jury's mind tothe point where I'm not going to get a fair shakeon the guilty/not guilty finding or special factfinding most immediately relevant to this case. Every defendant is going to demand a separate juryproceeding for that, isn't he? MR. KELLY: It's certainly possible thatthey'll demand separate, or bifurcation -­JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, but you wouldn't sitback and allow that focus, if you're the defenselawyer you're not going to allow that focus to bemade at the time of the basic guilty/non guiltyfinding, are you? MR. KELLY: Well, I've had experience with that. And my experience has been, as I've saidbefore, I might ask for a bifurcated trial, but ifthe judge thinks that that evidence is going tocome in against my client anyway, the judge isgoing to deny bifurcation. If the judge saysyou're right, this would be prejudicial tointroduce this evidence in the main case, thenwe'll bifurcate the trial, and we'll let the juryfind guilty not guilty and then findsentencing facts if a guilty verdict isreturned. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you know what theKansas system is? I mean, right after Apprendi,they transformed their guideline system into onewhere the jury makes the findings, but are all oftheir trials bifurcated? MR. KELLY: I don't know if they bifurcateall their trials. My understanding is that itworks in a way that's similar to what I'msuggesting could happen in Federal court. JUSTICE BREYER: As long as you're on thesubject, I'm quite --- you're going to --- what isyour reaction to what I've written, which you've,you're just going to say wrong, wrong, wrong, but I want toknow why. And what I know why in particular is I speculated somewhat, that the reason that thismight work, your side of it, if it works despitethe, the complication, the bifurcated trials,etc., is that percent of the cases are handledthrough plea bargaining, and this will give you alittle bit of a leg up, which I speculated thedefense bar likes. I'm not surprised. But then,I thought with in the long run, you just can'thave a system of justice that depends for itsworkable nature upon plea bargaining, which infact depends on the weapons you give toprosecutors. And so I endedup thinking, I just can'tunderwrite such a thing. And I'd like to getyour, your, your reaction to that. MR. KELLY: Your Honor, here's how pleabargaining works now. The prosecutor charges theeasiest crime to prove that he can prove. Thereis no effective plea bargaining in most of thosecases because the prosecutor knows he's going towin that trial. So the defendant pleads guiltybecause he doesn't want to lose his, his reductionfor acceptance of responsibility. I think whatchanges is probably if our proposal is accepted,that there is more meaningful negotiation and that prosecutors and defense attorney's will come to anunderstanding in most cases of what sentencing factsare provable, and what are not, and cases willcontinue to plead out much the same as they doright now, except more effectively because weeliminate the problem of the prosecutor being ableto prove the easiest charge and save the heart ofthe case for sentencing. I think with that, Your Honor, I will,unless there are other questions, defer to mycolleague. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Kelly. Ms. Scapicchio. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROSEMARY SCAPICCHIO ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT FANFAN MS. SCAPICCHIO: As to question one,there's no meaningful difference between theFederal Sentencing Guidelines and the WashingtonState Guidelines. The Government conceded as muchin their brief to this Court in Blakely. Whenthey filed an amicus brief in Blakely they toldthis Court, or they urged this Court not toinvalidate the Washington State Guidelinesbecause, they told this Court, if you do, they areso similar to the Federal Guidelines that the Federal Guidelines will fall as well. And herethey are, less than five months later, standingbefore the same Court, saying something completelydifferent. Now, it's not that they're so similarto the Washington State Guidelines, but thatthey're completely different, and that they don'toperate in the same manner at all. And what it comes down to is that forSixth Amendment purposes, the source of the lawdoesn't matter. The Government got it right whenthey filed their amicus brief in Blakely. Itdoesn't matter to a defendant whether or not thesource of the law is legislative, or the source ofthe law is by commission or regulatory body. Ifthe sentence is going to increase, based on a factthat, that the law makes essential to punishment,that fact must be pled and proved to a jury beyond areasonable doubt. JUSTICE BREYER: So can I ask you the samequestion? Imagine that the statute says bankrobbery is zero to twenty years. Case one, aseparate statute says a guideline commission willmake distinctions, and the guideline commissionsays, "five years in the ordinary case, sevenyears with a gun." Case two, the same thing but a parole commission does it. Case three, the samething, but a court of appeals panel does it, underthe guise of what's arbitrary, what isn't. They're all, in your opinion, to be treated alike. MS. SCAPICCHIO: If there's a factnecessary to increase the sentence --JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there is just what I said, just what I said. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Then yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MS. SCAPICCHIO: With respect to Mr.Fanfan in this case, Mr. Fanfan's sentence waspromulgated based on the jury verdict alone. Mr.Fanfan, the Government chose to indict Mr. Fanfanon a single count of conspiracy. He went to trialon a single count of conspiracy. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Conspiracy towhat? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Conspiracy to distribute grams of cocaine. The Government knew at thetime of trial that Mr. Fanfan was arrested with grams of crack cocaine at the time of hisarrest. The Government chose not to indict himfor that grams of crack cocaine, and instead,they chose to prove the easiest possible indictment before the jury. Once the jury wasdismissed in this case, the Government then soughtto increase Mr. Fanfan's sentence by months,based on the possession of the crack cocaine thatthey knew about at the very beginning, and we'resuggesting that Judge Hornby did the right thingin limiting Mr. Fanfan's sentence to that whichwas supported by the jury verdict alone andnothing else. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Judge Hornby had somedistress in doing that, didn't he, because thedifference was quite large? Based on what thejudge found, it would have been fifteen or sixteenyears as opposed to five or six years? MS. SCAPICCHIO: What Judge Hornby did forMr. Fanfan was, he conducted what he called apresentence, a pre-Blakely hearing, and at thepre-Blakely hearing he allowed the prosecutor topresent evidence relative to relevant conductinvolved in the offense. And the prosecutorpresented evidence that the relevant conductincluded this possession of grams of crackcocaine, as well as a case agent who claimed thatMr. Fanfan was the leader of this entireconspiracy. And then Judge Hornby went on to say, based on everything that he heard in the pre-Blakely hearing, if given the opportunity, hewould sentence my client to between to months. JUSTICE GINSBURG: He didn't say it, thatthat was his discretionary choice. He said that -­-MS. SCAPICCHIO: He was required. JUSTICE GINSBURG: He made, he made thosefindings of fact, that -- leadership role and thequantity of drugs. MS. SCAPICCHIO: He did. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on the basis ofthose two he said the guidelines would require meto come up with this higher sentence, not thatusing the guidelines as advisory he would havegotten -­MS. SCAPICCHIO: Absolutely. It was theguidelines required him to impose sentence between to months. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then the other,that's the high range, and the low range is, I'lljust stick with the crime that he was indictedfor, and that's five or six years. MS. SCAPICCHIO: He, what Judge Hornby did is, is he sentenced Mr. Fanfan based solely on thejury's verdict. The jury only heard evidence ofthe conspiracy to distribute grams of crackcocaine. Because the jury only heard evidence,and thus returned a verdict based solely on the grams of crack cocaine, then Mr. Fanfan'ssentence, according to Judge Hornby after thisCourt decided Blakely, was limited to the juryverdict alone. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's quite a windfallfor Mr. Fanfan, isn't it? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Well, in this particularcase I would say no, because the Government knew when this Court decided Apprendi,and certainly knew by the time thisCourt decided Ring, that if they wantedto increase a defendant's sentence beyond thestatutory max, that they should plead it and proveit in the indictment. And in this case, theychose not to. And so, whether or not Mr. Fanfanmay -- get some benefit because of thisCourt's decision in Blakely, certainly he does. I'm not denying that he doesn't. But only becausethe Government didn't do what this Court told themthey should do in both Apprendi and Ring. CHIEF JUSTICE STEVENS: Did the trialjudge give any indication of what sentence hewould have imposed if he were not constrained bythe guidelines? MS. SCAPICCHIO: He did not. He indicatedthat, if the guidelines applied, that he believedMr. Fanfan fell between and months. Therewas no discussion at all as to whether or not hehad discretion to sentence anywhere outside theguidelines during this proceeding. And, with respect to question two in thiscase, whether or not the guidelines are severable,which of course is the more difficult questionbefore the Court, our proposal to sever out thoseportions of the guidelines that require judicialfact finding by a preponderance of the evidencewill accomplish the sentencing reform goals. Thegoals of the sentencing reform were uniformity,proportionality, and certainty. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You wouldn'tsever out the ones that would permit a downwarddeparture, would you? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Would we sever theportions of the statute that require --­CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You would leave in place the provisions for downward departures? MS. SCAPICCHIO: We would leave in placethe majority of the sentencing guidelines. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, and -- butcould you answer my question? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Mr. Chief Justice, wouldI sever out -- CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Would you leavein place the provisions for downward departure? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Yes. JUSTICE STEVENS: How can you do that? The statute that makes the guidelines mandatoryapplies to both upwards and downwards departures,so I have always had trouble knowing whatprovision of the statute anybody severs. I canunderstand your saying that there's a bunch ofunconstitutional applications of the statute, andyou have to set aside the sentences in thoseparticular cases, but I simply don't understandsevering a single provision that covers bothupward and downward departures. How do you severit? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Well, I think you sever itby severing out the unconstitutional portions ofit. And you sever it by getting rid of anything that indicates that it's a judicial factfinding by a preponderance of the evidence. JUSTICE STEVENS: But that's the same,that's the same provision that allows departuresfor the same -- by the same procedure. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Well, the departures in ­--JUSTICE STEVENS: It seems to me you're notsevering a piece of a statute, you're justsevering a bunch of applications of the statuteyou think are invalid. MS. SCAPICCHIO: The applications of thestatute that are invalid in this case are the onesthat require judicial fact finding by apreponderance of the evidence. JUSTICE STEVENS: Correct. I understand. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Those under Blakely needto be severed. What we're left with now is astatute that needs to, that needs to function interms of saving the guidelines. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: But would it -­would it really save the guidelines in the waythat Congress intended them, to strike basicallythe provision for enhancements, and leaving inplace the provisions for downward departures? MS. SCAPICCHIO: It's not going to operateexactly the way Congress intended. BecauseCongress never intended to pass a statute that wasunconstitutional. And so it has to undergo somechange. And in this particular case, what we'resaying is, minimize the amount of changes that thestatute has to undergo in order to preserve it. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, maybe we shouldjust leave it to Congress to decide, because itdoesn't sound like the scheme Congress intended. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Well, Congress intended amandatory system. It's clear that Congressintended a mandatory system. The Government -­JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And it intended factfinding by a preponderance for both upwardadjustments and downward. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Not necessarily factfinding by the judiciary. It's not one of thelisted goals of the sentencing reform act. Thoselisted goals are uniformity, proportionality andcertainty, and those goals can still be met underthe proposal that we're suggesting the Courtadopt. There will still be uniformity insentencing, there will still be proportionalityand there will still be certainty of sentence. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, but willthere be proportionality if the sentences,sentences can be downward, the jury verdict couldbe adjusted downward, but not upward? MS. SCAPICCHIO: If it turns out, Mr.Chief Justice, that there is some, some differencein the severity of a sentence that a defendantreceives, certainly Congress could, could come inand make the appropriate changes if that's theresult of the proposal that we're suggesting, butthe proportionality wouldn't change. You know,the degree of crimes is still going to line up inthe exact same manner. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: But you can saythe same thing if we simply said that the wholeguidelines fall, and they're simply there forjudges to apply if they wish. You can say, "Well,if Congress doesn't like that they can come in andput a new system." That's true any time Congressacts. MS. SCAPICCHIO: But -- absolutely, Mr.Chief Justice, it is true any time Congress acts,but in this particular case, the Government hasthe burden of proving the inseverability of thestatute. We're attempting to show that the statute is severable to save the guidelines inthis case, and we're attempting to show that bysuggesting to the Court that you don't have tothrow out twenty years of sentencing reform. Thatthe guidelines should still be mandatory; we'resuggesting that the mandatory portions of theguidelines remain, the bulk of the guidelinesremain, and we're changing the fact finder. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you -- why do youhave to call it severability? Suppose we justsaid it's clear that whenever these facts have notbeen found by a jury, the guidelines cannot beapplied? That the guidelines areunconstitutional, as applied, when there's been nojury finding, and leave it. We're not severingany particular language, we're just saying thatthat portion, that proceeding in that fashionproduces an unconstitutional sentence. And thenlet the Government work out how it wants to findits way around that problem. MS. SCAPICCHIO: That's certainly anoption that the Court could consider. JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm just not sure, I shareJustice Stevens' perplexity as to whether that'sreally properly described as severing part of the statute. JUSTICE STEVENS: And may I add thisthought, that it seems to me, I don't know whetherthis is true; Mr. Clement and I had a dialoguethat was inconclusive; I had been under theimpression, perhaps erroneous, that in fact thenumber of unconstitutional departures if onefollows Apprendi as being the constitutional rule,is actually a small percentage of the total, andif it should follow that only three, four, five,six percent of the sentences that have heretoforebeen imposed or will be imposed in the futurewould be unconstitutional, that's a pretty weakreason for saying the whole statute isunconstitutional on its face, or even in oneprovision of the statute. It seems to me you justsay, "Oh, okay, you can't impose those sentencesin those three percent of the cases." I don'tknow why that's a departure from our priorpractice. MS. SCAPICCHIO: I, Well, I think becausewhat's left is, is that the system will then beopen to some manipulation, under that scenario. If the Government can control who it is that willbe sentenced under the guidelines and who will not be sentenced under the guidelines, then the systemis, is ripe for manipulation. JUSTICE STEVENS: No, my suggestion iseverybody is going to be sentenced under the Guidelines;the only difference is that in three or fourpercent of the cases you may have to bring a juryin to get an enhanced sentence. MS. SCAPICCHIO: In, under that scenario,if any fact that needed to increase a defendant'ssentence was pled and proved to a jury, that wouldsuffice. JUSTICE SCALIA: You wouldn't care whetheryou call this severing, severability or not, wouldyou? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Absolutely not. JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't think you would. MS. SCAPICCHIO: It produces the sameresults, whether it's, you call it severance orthe way that the statute works. JUSTICE SCALIA: And I assume, don't you,that any solution we come up to is likely to be aninterim solution anyway? MS. SCAPICCHIO: It's very likely to bean interim solution and the legislature will tell uswhat they really want us to do and we'll all make the appropriate adjustments. JUSTICE BREYER: But the idea is that thisworks because most cases are plea bargained. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Most cases are pleabargained. JUSTICE BREYER: So what you'll do ifyou're right, is all you would say is any timethat the prosecutor wants to say that youcommitted the bank robbery or you committed thedrug offense with more than a minimal amount ofmoney or more than a minimal amount of drug, orthere were guns, they get into a bargain, and theyend up with a sentence once they bargain -- ifthat's the sentence, because they're not evengoing to contest it before the judge, both sideswill come in and agree. But in those few caseswhere they do contest it, you would have to havethe jury find the facts. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, the only reason thatI find it disturbing is to think that Congresscould have wanted such a system is given otherdevelopments in Congress, mandatory minimums andall kinds of things, that seems to me to be asystem that would really, might make non­ uniformity in reality, worse than it was before. See, I mean, my goodness, everyprosecutor's going to be doing somethingdifferent, every defense attorney; everything willdepend upon the bargains. The judges when theycome in will think different things. I mean -­MS. SCAPICCHIO: The -­JUSTICE BREYER: Should we upholdsomething like that in the face of a Congress thatwanted uniformity? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Yes, and I'll tell youwhy. Because that's exactly the way that theguidelines operate now. The only thing that'schanging is the identity of the fact finder. Thatthe Government can come in now and charge whateverit wants, because it's free to charge whatever itwants, and that, the Government in this case, orin any case, could then bargain with defensecounsel and the defendant as to which facts theymay want to plead to, as to which portions of theindictment they may want to plead to, happensevery day. And, and, and so, if that's the case,changing the identity of the fact finder isn'tgoing to change that process at all. JUSTICE BREYER: Did you find out anything in your research on this where anybody in the -­this discussion on the guidelines began, I think,in the early 's, it's been around for years. The guidelines have been law for years, anduntil recently with Apprendi, is there a historyof anything being written on the guidelinesbeing unconstitutional for the Sixth Amendmentreason? Did any group of judges, or defenseattorneys, or academics or anybody write anythingthat we could look at until quite recently inwhich they thought this was a possibility? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Before quite -- beforethis Court's decision in Apprendi? JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, before we began withApprendi? . MS. SCAPICCHIO: I don't believe so. JUSTICE BREYER: Nothing. MS. SCAPICCHIO: I'm not aware of any. JUSTICE STEVENS: Have you read JusticeThomas's opinion in Apprendi? He's got a lot ofprior law that's in there that maybe would be ofinterest to you. MS. SCAPICCHIO: And with respect to Mr.Fanfan in this case, Your Honors, we're askingthat this Court give intelligible content to the jury's verdict by affirming the district court'simposition of a -month sentence based solely onthe facts found by the jury beyond a reasonabledoubt. JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask just one, onelast question? Do you agree that within theguidelines ranges, which sometimes are fairlylarge, the judge does have the discretion toimpose any sentences he wants to based on theconduct of the defendant, whether or not it'sproved by the jury? MS. SCAPICCHIO: Within the guidelinerange? Yes. JUSTICE STEVENS: You get to the range bythe jury finding, the judge still retainssubstantial discretion within the, within therange. MS. SCAPICCHIO: Substantial discretionwithin the range, yes. If there are no furtherquestions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you Ms.Scapicchio. Mr. Clement, you have four minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice. This Court in Mistretta expressed itsunderstanding that the commission wasconstitutional because it would pursue traditionaljudicial tasks related to sentencing, and it wouldnot get involved in quintessentially legislativeacts of setting maximum penalties, or defining theelements of the crime. Now, we of course, thinkthat's quite relevant for the Sixth Amendmentissue that's raised in question one; but even ifyou disagree with us on that, even if you thinkthe non-legislative origins of the guidelinesdon't matter for purposes of question one, surelythey do matter for purposes of the severabilityanalysis under question two. Because if one takesthose elements, those enhancement factors in theguidelines, and treats them like true elements ofcrimes that must go to the jury, then you aregiving this non-legislative body's work productthe effect of Federal criminal statutes, andthat's something that not only Mistretta suggestsis problematic, but United States v. Hudson in suggests is problematic. And the effect isreally breathtaking; it is an understatement to say that the effect of that judicial remedialdecision would be to create thousands of newFederal crimes. Now, let me talk just for a second aboutthe language of severability. There's been somequestions about whether what we're really talkingabout is severability. First of all you're goingto have some cases where there's going to be noenhancing factor at all. And in those cases youdon't need to talk about severability. If there'sno Sixth Amendment issue raised in a case, there'sno reason to strike anything down and that wouldbe a simple matter of traditional principles ofthird party standing and facial challenges. Thefact that you might have a constitutional problemin this case, doesn't mean that you invalidate theguidelines in those other cases, where they applywithout problem. The real question becomes, what do you doin a case where there is a Sixth Amendmentproblem, assuming Blakely applies to theguidelines? At that point, I think severabilityis the right way to talk about it. One way ofdealing with the case at the point you recognizethere's a Sixth Amendment problem in this case is to say, "Well, there's nothing we can do about it,we can't sentence this individual to any more thanthe upper bound of the sentencing range." Thesecond thing you can do is you can say, "Well,okay, there's a constitutional problem, but theresult is that we sever (b), we don't make theguidelines mandatory, and we allow the judge toimpose a discretionary sentence within the rangeof the statute." That is what we think is theappropriate solution. As a couple of you have mentioned, what wemay be talking about here is an interim solutionAnyway. Congress may well get involved. That'swhy in considering what regime of remediability orseverability best serves the interests of Congressin uniformity and proportionality, it pays to payparticular attention to the cases that are in thepipeline now. And on those cases, there's noquestion which proposal better serves the interestof uniformity and proportionality. Respondentshave to admit that they are seeking a hugesentencing windfall here. One other point that bears mention is thisidea of, the suggestion that because theguidelines will not be binding in every case, the Government somehow controls the decision as towhether or not it's a guidelines case or not. That is not the case. That decision under thesystem will rest with the judge. If there is anenhancement sought, but it's not found in thebasis of the judge, then there's no SixthAmendment problem in that case, and the case cango forward. The irony, of course, is that theconsequence of applying Blakely to the guidelinesis to create more power with the prosecutor,because as Justice Breyer pointed out, under thecurrent system of the guidelines, the prosecutorcannot control through the indictment exactly whatsentencing factors the judge will consider. TheBurns case, for example, that this Court hadinvolved a situation where the judge sua sponte tooknotice of sentencing factors that neither theprosecutor nor the defendant very much wanted infront of the court. That will no longer bepossible under a system where everything has to bein the indictment, so the result is to strengthenthe hand of the Government. The last thing is this idea of bifurcationis not a panacea. I know Justice Scalia, you've thrown that out in a number of instances, but thetraditional rule in cases with real elements ofreal Federal crimes is that you don't get tobifurcate out one element that the defendantdoesn't want to put before the jury. That's the,that's the binding law in cases like Collamore outof the First Circuit and Barker out of the NinthCircuit. So, I think it's wrong to simply suggest that,that bifurcation is going to solve all theseproblems. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Clement, the case is submitted. (Whereupon at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 