 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X EXXON MOBIL CORPORATION, Petitioner : : v. : No. - ALLAPATTAH SERVICES, INC., ET AL.; and MARIA DEL ROSARIO ORTEGA, Petitioner : : : : : v. : No. - STAR-KIST FOODS, INC. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner in -. ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent in -. EUGENE E. STEARNS, ESQ., Miami, Florida; on behalf of the Respondents in -. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page DONALD B. AYER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner in -. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner in - ROBERT A. LONG, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent in - EUGENE E. STEARNS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents in - DONALD B. AYER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner in - REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner in - PAGE th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) JUSTICE STEVENS: We will now hear argument intwo different cases: Exxon Mobil against Allapattah andOrtega against Star-Kist Foods. Mr. Phillips. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN - MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: This Court years ago in Zahn v. InternationalPaper affirmed that a class action could not proceed under U.S.C., section , the diversity statute, if it wasclear that some of the unnamed members of that class donot satisfy the amount-in-controversy requirement. The question in this case is whether Congress in overturned this Court's ruling in Zahn and itsinterpretation of section not by amending section but, instead, by enacting a supplemental jurisdictionstatute, section . The answer to that question, YourHonors, is no. Plaintiffs in the lower courts that have feltconstrained to conclude that the language of section requires the conclusion that Zahn and, candidly, also thisCourt's decision in Strawbridge were overruled by do th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page so by gliding past the express language in (a) that isthe primary basis upon which our argument stands. In the appendix a to the petition, there's -­the central language is in (a). It says, in any civilaction, of which the district courts have originaljurisdiction. That language by its terms and -- clearlyindicates that Congress did not mean to make anyadjustments in the background law that exists that defineddiversity jurisdiction or Federal court jurisdiction,Federal question jurisdiction as a condition to goingforward. So what the Congress says is, look at the law asit exists in , as it's been interpreted by this Court,and then determine whether or not there's Federaljurisdiction, either for diversity or Federal question,and if there is, then you proceed forth from that point. And what we know is that there are twosituations that will not satisfy original jurisdictionunder those circumstances. The first one is in the Zahn situation. Whereyou have both satisfying and unsatisfying plaintiffs inthe unnamed -- who are in the unnamed members of theclass, this Court said you cannot proceed forth under thediversity jurisdiction. The second one is the classic sort of joinder situation, and what the Court held in Strawbridge is that th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page simply because you have a plaintiff who satisfies theamount-in-controversy requirement and satisfies thecomplete diversity requirement does not mean that you'reallowed to join under rule an additional plaintiff whodoes not satisfy both of those requirements. And if youbring someone in under those circumstances, that defeatsjurisdiction at the beginning before you ever took totrying to decide what the scope of section (a) and (b)mean from that point forward. So then the question is, if that's the correctinterpretation of (a)'s predicate language, then whatwork does (a) and (b) do, and does ourinterpretation do any violence to the structure of thestatute? And the answer to that is clearly no. Here we start by looking at what was Congress'clear intent, manifested primarily in the last language of(a), where it says supplemental jurisdiction shallinclude claims that involve the joinder or intervention ofadditional parties. Here -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, before youproceed to going on to (b), the -- you have set up adichotomy between a Federal question case where, as longas you have a Federal question claim in the case, youqualify within those words, of which the district courtshave original jurisdiction. But you say that in a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page diversity case, that's not so if you have people not ofthe same citizenship -- of the same citizenship on bothsides of the party line, so that you have to have atotally qualifying action on the diversity side to comewithin -- to -- to be within (a). But we have had at least two cases where thestarting lineup did not satisfy the complete diversityrule. One was Caterpillar and the other was Newman-Green,and the Court said, yes, on the day one there wasn'tcomplete diversity, but that's curable later on, in theone case before the case was tried, in the other in thecourt of appeals. So don't at least those two casessuggest that you can have a diversity case legitimately inthe Federal court even though at the outset you don't have-- fill all the requirements? MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I don't think that's theright conclusion to draw from those cases, JusticeGinsburg, because what happened is by the time that -­those cases got to this Court, the jurisdictional problemshad been solved and the Court was faced with a question -­with what I perceive to be purely a remedial question, iswhat do you do in terms of trying to put the omelette backinto the egg at that point when the litigation has goneforward. And the Court, as a matter of judicialefficiency, decided essentially to ignore the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdictional problem. Here, by contrast, this jurisdictional problemexisted on day one, and the complaint was filed -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the Court saidthat -­ MR. PHILLIPS: -- and continues -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the Court didn'tsay they were ignoring it. I thought they said it wascurable. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it -- it's curable in thesense that you can eventually excise out portions of thecase, but what you cannot do is -- is allow the case to go-- it remains still jurisdictionally barred to proceedforth with parties who are not properly before the court. That's -- that's what this Court said specifically in -­in Zahn itself. It said the problem is that you cannotsimply go forward with the Federal claim and with theState claims in that -- in that format. You surely canexcise portions of them, but then you start over again. Once you excise them, that's a new complaint. It's a newcase. That's the fundamental difference. JUSTICE GINSBURG: They didn't start over in Caterpillar. MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Caterpillar didn't start th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page over and Newman-Green wasn't detected till appeal, but theappeals court didn't say start over. MR. PHILLIPS: No, I understand that the Court'sultimate remedy in both of those cases was not to do a do­over, but you also have to remember -- I mean, I thinkthere are two questions here. One is do you ignore thejurisdictional problem. And what I'm proposing to you isthis Court has never ignored the jurisdictional problem. It always solves the jurisdictional problem somehow,whether it dismisses the case, as it did in -- in GrupoDataflux, whether it dismisses the case, as it -- as itproposed would have to happen in Zahn if they didn'texcise one of the parties, or whether it makes anadjustment. The Court always takes account of thejurisdictional problem and finds a method of fixing it. So that's the -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: But why can't it make an adjustment in this case, Mr. Phillips. MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry, Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: Why can't it make an adjustment in this case? MR. PHILLIPS: The -- well, the -- and thequestion is what adjustment should it make. And the -­and -- and our argument is at a minimum you have todismiss all of the class claims. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: But why is that the minimum? Wouldn't the minimum be just to dismiss those parties whodon't have the aggregate -- the necessary jurisdictionalamount? MR. PHILLIPS: And that takes you back to whatthe district court ruled in Zahn and -- and, in effect,what this Court affirmed in Zahn, which is that there's afundamental difference between sort of finding a single,individual plaintiff and saying, you know, this person, ifyou could just excise that claim, drop it under rule -­that person under rule , that fixes it. There's afundamental difference. I mean, the question here is what's the civilaction because there are res judicata, collateralestoppel -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but you do have caseswhere a complaint is filed seeking to be a class actionand then the district judge does not certify the class andthe case, nevertheless, goes forward. Now, why couldn'tyou do that here? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that would -- one of thealternatives on the table -- I think it is appropriate -­is for the Court to excise the class action allegations -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. MR. PHILLIPS: -- and dismiss the entirety of th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the class and proceed forth solely in the name of the fourindividual plaintiffs. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, maybe. Why isn't itpermissible just to dismiss those parties who don't havethe requisite jurisdictional amount? That's what I -­where I stumble with this. MR. PHILLIPS: I think the Court has theauthority to do that. I think the practical implicationsof that are overwhelming and should be -- and should berejected for that reason because in order to be able tohave res judicata/collateral estoppel effects, you have toknow what the civil action is. And with a class ofunnamed members, who are, in many instances, unknowable in-- in some respects, we don't know what the res judicataor collateral estoppel effects are if your solution is totry to excise those who do not satisfy the amount-in-controversy requirement. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't -- I don't followthat entirely, Mr. Phillips, because the -- Exxon lost at-- at this trial, and preclusion doctrines -- that meansthat Exxon had one full and fair opportunity to defend. So Exxon is going to be bound by that -- by thedetermination. Somebody who was not in the litigation andmight say, well, I want more, say, somebody who had optedout -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, you'd have thesame issue of preclusion problems if you had done the casefrom the beginning the way you contend it ought to havebeen done. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I think the caseshould never have been allowed to go forward except withthe named plaintiffs. Okay. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I mean, Justice Ginsburg'spoint is you -- you -- even with a -- a few properly nameddefendants, you're going to have the same issue preclusionproblem. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, not -- but -- but it's amuch more complicated issue preclusion problem because thequestion is, is there jurisdiction? This is a judgmentthat's been entered without jurisdiction. The courtdoesn't have proper jurisdiction here -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, if it's under thelanguage of section , I think it makes more sense tosay the court has original jurisdiction over the action,but lacks original jurisdiction over the defective claims. I mean, that meets what seems to say on its face. MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I would -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And I hope you will addressthe fact that Congress very recently has enactedlegislation that makes all this in the future at least th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page non-objectionable. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it doesn't eliminate itcompletely, Justice O'Connor. The Class Action FairnessAct only applies to claims where there are plaintiffs whoexceed the number of , plaintiffs over , and -- andthe $ million amount-in-controversy -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Right, and it's notretroactive. MR. PHILLIPS: But it's not retroactive. Buteven prospectively, there will be situations where thisprecise issue will arise in the future. So there isreason for the Court to go ahead and resolve this questionthat has so badly divided the courts. But, Justice O'Connor, to answer your firstquestion, I would have -- I would have thought theconclusion was exactly the opposite, that what -- what -­the statute says you don't have jurisdiction over civilactions over which you didn't have jurisdiction prior to, but you do have jurisdiction over claims that thencan be appended to those for which you have jurisdictionin . So I would have thought the more sensible way,at least from my perspective, to read this case -- to readthis statute is to say, is this a claim that could havebeen brought in ? And the answer from Zahn is th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page absolutely no, it couldn't. And similarly with the -­with the joinder cases. They could not have beenbrought -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Unless effectivelyoverturned Zahn. MR. PHILLIPS: And -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: It was enacted later. MR. PHILLIPS: It clearly was enacted later, but my point here is that I think the language -- when the Congress both in (a) and (b) harkens back to in any civilaction of which the district courts have originaljurisdiction, it's clearly not trying to amend or. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it's not -- the weaknessin your point, I think, as I -- as I understand it, whichis a very optimistic assumption, given the complexityhere -­ MR. PHILLIPS: I hope that's not a criticism of the writing. JUSTICE BREYER: -- is -- is that you want toread (a) as if it applies to arising-under jurisdictionand not to diversity jurisdiction. Very simple. Arising­under jurisdiction, you do maintain jurisdiction over theoriginal action. You can add a claim, but as long asthere's one good claim arising under, there's original th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction. Diversity, there isn't. MR. PHILLIPS: No. JUSTICE BREYER: If you add that plaintiff, youdon't get the original -- that's not right? MR. PHILLIPS: No, that's not right, JusticeBreyer. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. PHILLIPS: The -- the -- you know, the traditional case. You're from one State, I'm from another State, I have a claim against you for at least $,, Isue you in diversity jurisdiction. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: That is a civil action of which district courts have original jurisdiction. So I've sued you. You have an insurer who's going -- who -- who lives in the same State I live. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PHILLIPS: You bring in the insurer in athird party -- in a third party claim under rule . Okay? That claim doesn't satisfy the $,, whateverthe amount-in-controversy requirement is that applies,because you've got a -- a retention. Okay? Then -- andso your -- your claim against them is only for $,. That wouldn't satisfy the amount-in-controversyrequirement but it does satisfy the supplemental th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction over claims brought separately. JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so, in -- in other words,in that situation, it's a third party claim by thedefendant against another person. MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. That would be one easy -­ JUSTICE BREYER: So that's then -- that does fall within (a). MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely falls within (a). JUSTICE BREYER: And then (b) knocks it out insofar as the plaintiff wants to assert a claim. MR. PHILLIPS: Exactly. JUSTICE BREYER: But that person can assert a claim against a plaintiff. MR. PHILLIPS: Exactly. That would be precisely how it operates. JUSTICE BREYER: So that, you say, is the answer to what I was going to ask -­ MR. PHILLIPS: Which is? JUSTICE BREYER: -- which is why didn't theyjust use the word . And the reason they didn't justuse the word is there is a subset of diversity claimsthat also have to fall within (a). MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I picked one. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. PHILLIPS: There's another one that fits -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE BREYER: So the other thing, of course,is if these three professors who wrote this had -- hadfigured this out so well, why in heaven's name didn't theyat least write an article about it so we'd know what wewere doing? (Laughter.) MR. PHILLIPS: Well, my guess is if they did,you probably wouldn't want to rely on it as theauthoritative source for interpreting the language of the statute in any event. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you're saying, Mr.Phillips, I think is that does nothing with regard towhat was in the old days at least (a), what was calledancillary jurisdiction. It changed pendent jurisdictionto overrule the Finley case. MR. PHILLIPS: Pendent party jurisdiction. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so you could haveappendant parties, but what was once known as ancillaryjurisdiction, applicable in diversity case, was notchanged at all by (a). I think that's what you'resaying. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no. Actually what I'msaying is that (a), in effect, codifies both aspectsof the Kroger -- of this Court's decision in Kroger. InKroger, the Court said you would have ancillary th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction over the third party claim that I identifiedfor Justice Breyer, and that that would fall within(a) under my interpretation of it, but that (b)would not allow the plaintiff then to bring a subsequentaction against the third party defendant. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But whether you -- whetheryou call it codify or anything else, there would be nochange. , as you read it, made no change. (a) onthe Federal question side certainly did. It overruledFinley. Before, you could have pendent partyjurisdiction. Now you can. But Kroger was unchanged. Ithink what you're -- you're telling us is that except forsome difference in (b), (a) leaves ancillaryjurisdiction as it found it. It doesn't make any change. MR. PHILLIPS: The only way I would just -- youknow, the only point I would make with respect to that isthat I do think that in Finley this Court's opinion castsome doubt on the entire pendent and ancillaryjurisdiction doctrines, and I think that (a) isclearly designed to -- to eliminate that issue goingforward because it says there is a role. There is now a-- an express provision from Congress to the courts ofsupplemental jurisdiction. And then the question is underwhat circumstances does it apply. So to go back to the Owen case, you know, we all th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page assumed that there was ancillary jurisdiction over thethird party claim. This statute makes it absolutely clearthat there is jurisdiction over the third party claimbecause it -- it extends to that claim. And we know thatby the express language of the provision. It wouldn't have changed anything if you acceptthe idea that the Court had inherent authority to do that. If you question that, then this is the basis on which thatjurisdictional grant is provided. And so that is an important part of (a) that affects -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what -- what is thelanguage in (a) that effects any -- any change indiversity jurisdiction, what was once called ancillaryjurisdiction? I don't see that there's any change. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I -- I would go back -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: You may -- you may say that there's a confirmation of what was, but there's no change. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it just depends on whetheryou accept as a given that the third party claim and othermulti-party litigation was clearly going to fall withinthe Court's ancillary jurisdiction without the benefit ofan express statutory provision granting that authority. If you accept that, then this makes a fundamental change. If I could -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that's what Kroger th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page was about. It said, yes, that you could do it -- that theplaintiff then couldn't turn around and sue the thirdparty defendant. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that you did not needdiversity between the defendant and the third partydefendant. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but the -- the question iswhat was the statutory authority for that part of -- forthe first part of ancillary jurisdiction, which is thebringing in of the third party defendant. And that's what(a) does in the diversity context. If I could reserve the balance of my time, Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Long. Mr. Long, yourepresent the respondent in the second case. Is thatright? ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT A. LONG, JR. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT IN - MR. LONG: Yes, Justice Stevens. Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: I have three basic points. First, section does not alter therequirements of section for original jurisdiction ina civil diversity action, and therefore, the plain th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page language of section does not alter the completediversity requirement or the requirement that eachplaintiff in a diversity action must have more than$, in controversy. Second, there is no sound basis fordistinguishing between the two jurisdictional requirementsof section , and therefore, if section alters thematter-in-controversy rule of Zahn and Clark, it alsoalters the complete diversity rule of Strawbridge. And third, the best interpretation of section and the one that causes the least harm is that itoverturns the result in Finley and otherwise, with a fewexceptions, codifies the pre-Finley understanding ofsupplemental jurisdiction. Now, our -- our primary argument has alreadybeen addressed, and I don't want to waste time on it butit is crucial, critical to our argument. And that is,that the language of (a) is that supplementaljurisdiction is conferred but only in a civil action, ofwhich the district courts have original jurisdiction. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then you say the civil action has to give -- be diverse as to all claims. MR. LONG: Well, yes. I mean, basically each -­as to each plaintiff, they must be diverse from eachdefendant and each -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE KENNEDY: Over every claim -- everyclaim in the class. MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, in -- in City of Chicago,we did not give that meaning to the term civil action. Now, then you would say, well, City of Chicago is aFederal question case. MR. LONG: Exactly. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then I would say thenyou're asking us to interpret civil action differently intwo statutes. MR. LONG: No, I don't think so. I think whatthe plain language -- and -- and here we are, I think -­we can rely on plain language. What (a) says is thatin each case you must look to some other statute thatconfers original jurisdiction. It can be . It can be. And of course, although those statutes use the sameterm, original jurisdiction, there are -- there'sdecisional law that comes along -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but they also use theterm, civil action, and it seems to me that yourinterpretation of the two differs if -- if the City ofChicago -­ MR. LONG: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is -- is correct. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. LONG: Well, but I think it's the sameanswer. Original jurisdiction and civil action are found-- each of those terms is found in and . And Ido think it comes out of this Court's decisions that ifyou have a Federal question -- so you're claiming originaljurisdiction under -- then yes, that is sufficient togive original jurisdiction over the action. That is whatthe Court held in the City of Chicago case. But it really can't be the same in a diversitycase if, for example, there's going to be completediversity. What -- what the courts have said that havethought that the plain language of compels thisresult that Zahn and -- and also Strawbridge go, they saylook, the only way we can read this is if there's originaljurisdiction of -- of one claim by one plaintiff againstone defendant, then we've got original jurisdiction overthe civil action. Then we're into supplementaljurisdiction and all we ask is -- is that within the samecase of controversy, and then there are some exceptions in(b). But -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then what you're saying isthat this statute, as far as class actions go, changednothing. MR. LONG: Well, of course, our case is not a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page class action, but -- but we would say that -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Or party joinder, which isyour case. MR. LONG: Or -- yes, exactly. It carriesforward the rules of party joinder under . Strawbridge is an interpretation of what is now , therequirements for original jurisdiction. There has to becomplete diversity. You can't simply look at oneplaintiff and one defendant -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Strawbridge has become lesshallowed in light of the new congressional enactment. What's it called? The Sunshine in Class Action? What isit? MR. LONG: I didn't bring -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Class Action Fairness Act. MR. LONG: Class Action Fairness Act. Well, but I think that in -- in a way it -- itshows what Congress -- when Congress means to amendsection and make exceptions to these requirements fororiginal jurisdiction under -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I understand in Congress doesn't necessarily express what was before, butit -- it seems to me there's an institutional judgmentthat Strawbridge is not that hallowed a -- a principle. MR. LONG: Well, I -- I think you could fairly th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page say the -- the new statute reflects a judgment by Congressthat in these class actions of national importance, whichmeet certain requirements, minimal diversity should besufficient. And, of course, that's constitutionallypermissible. But I don't think there's been anysuggestion that in the -- the more run-of-the-mill casesthere ought to be simply minimal diversity. I mean, there -- there are millions, literallymillions, of civil actions filed in State courts eachyear. About , end up in the Federal courts on thediversity side of the docket. If even percent of thosecases moves over to Federal court, that's going to be adoubling of the Federal courts' diversity docket, which isabout half the trials. So -- and I don't think there's been anysuggestion by Congress -- and, of course, completediversity and matter-in-controversy are the two rules thatkeep that from happening. Now, the -- the class actionswill be a sufficient -- a significant additional burden onthe Federal courts, and to my knowledge, there aren't anyadditional resources to do that. JUSTICE BREYER: What -- what is the -- can you-- this is something I should know, but I don't know. Allright. It's very elementary. If you have two partiesfrom different States, diversity claim, they're in court th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page perfectly properly. Now, if somebody intervenes under,say -- say, rule or suppose it's rule , a necessaryparty, and that destroys the diversity, does the -- doesthe Federal court still have jurisdiction? It does, Igather, under rule if the defendant impleads or bringshis own lawsuit -­ MR. LONG: Yes, but that -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- against a third party. What -- what happens under -- that doesn't destroy it, rule . Right? MR. LONG: The way -- the way this was understood to work -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. LONG: -- and it's in -- and this is theanswer to the point that, well, there can never be anysupplemental jurisdiction on our view in a -- in adiversity case. Yes, there can because in a variety ofsituations -- and -- and you've named where there's a rule third party claim and that's by a defendant -­ JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that. What about and ? MR. LONG: Well, before -- this -- this isexactly an excellent example because it's one of the fewthings that was clearly changed by , and it waschanged in the direction of narrowing the -- the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction. The understanding was that you could -- if a party came in on its own under rule , said I -- I can intervene of right -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. LONG: -- but they were coming in on their own -- that was allowed. I mean, this could potentially be a problem under this rationale of Kroger. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So you mean by allowed that plaintiff is -- one -- he's from the same State and destroys the diversity. MR. LONG: Yes. It would otherwise -­ JUSTICE BREYER: He can do it, though. MR. LONG: It -- it would be allowed. That was allowed before. JUSTICE BREYER: And what about under rule ? MR. LONG: Under rule , the rule was that you couldn't do it even if -­ JUSTICE BREYER: You could not? MR. LONG: You could not, and the idea was this was getting too close to the Kroger problem -­ JUSTICE BREYER: And rule you could not? MR. LONG: Could not. It was -­ JUSTICE BREYER: And rule you could. MR. LONG: The Kroger problem is if you -- you certainly couldn't put in these nondiverse parties in the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page initial complaint. And of course, Kroger worried about,well, the plaintiff leaves them out and then they come inin a second stage, and that's an evasion of completeddiversity. But we can see very clearly from subsection (b),this is -- this is one part of the statute that is clear-- that the -- it has now been changed so that claims bypersons proposed to be joined as plaintiffs under rule or rule will not be permitted unless they can satisfythe requirements of section , that is, completediversity and matter-in-controversy. So this was the kind of thing that was beingthought about in the statute. The fact that this wasactually not permitted, clearly not permitted, shows thatthis statute is very concerned about preserving therequirements of complete diversity and matter-in-controversy. So I think that's actually a good example tofocus on. Another one -- sometimes examples help. In -­ in the Owen -­ JUSTICE BREYER: The difficulty, I guess, is that I'm having is let's imagine rule or . MR. LONG: Okay. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you're saying that is an instance where, if you bring the party in and he destroys th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page diversity, you're out. That was true before this statute. MR. LONG: Well, what would happen is -- I mean,you wouldn't get to that stage, Justice Breyer, becauseyou wouldn't let the -- the court would not let the partyin. case -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. LONG: And sometimes you have to dismiss the JUSTICE BREYER: So there -- before thisstatute, there never is going to be a circumstance inwhich you bring in a person under rule and diversity isdestroyed. MR. LONG: Right, because you won't let them in. Now, sometimes you'll have to dismiss the entire case. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now -- now, this is one of the things that mixes me up here. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what you mean, sometimes you'll have to dismiss the entire case. MR. LONG: If -- if it turns out that the party is indispensable under rule . JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, is indispensable. JUSTICE BREYER: Then -- then what's confuse -­now, we look at (b) and it says the district courtshall not have supplemental jurisdiction over a claim bythe plaintiff against a rule person who is brought on th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the defense side. MR. LONG: Right. Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Where the inconsistent -- i.e.,it would be nondiverse, but you said there couldn't besuch a situation. MR. LONG: Well, I -- I may have misspoken. What -- what is happening here in (b) is that it'spossible for parties to come in under rules , , , or. We think the reading of that is that Congress wantedto allow that. So it's not impermissible, but then ifplaintiffs want to turn around and assert a claim againstthem, it's got to be one that satisfies complete diversityand matter-in-controversy. And that's to protect the OwenEquipment rationale. But then -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Michigan plaintiff against Iowadefendant, necessary party, Michigan defendant, rule . Now we bring him in. And you're saying before thisstatute, not going to come in because it will wreckjurisdiction. Right? MR. LONG: I think that -- well, I think that'scorrect, if the -- at least if the plaintiff was trying tobring it in. You may have got me to a point where I'm notgoing to be able to -­ JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, then I'm going to stop asking -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. LONG: -- give you the exactly right -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- because it's very easy to meto reach the outer limit of my understanding. MR. LONG: Well, it would be easy for you toreach it with me. But -- but the -- the gist of it is certainly if-- if the -- if the party is coming in under rule as aplaintiff or you can come in as a defendant -- maybethat's the answer. That's -- that's permissible. You can join parties as to plaintiffs or defendants. JUSTICE BREYER: You could have before this statute. MR. LONG: Right. Let me -- let me try another simpler example. Maybe this one will work better. There are a number of cases that are actuallycited in the Court's opinion in Owen Equipment, and theygive a sort of brief summary of these situations in whichyou could actually bring in extra parties and claims in adiversity case and the extra parties or claims would notbe satisfying complete diversity or matter-in-controversy,and yet the original jurisdiction of section wouldnot be destroyed. Footnote of Owen Equipment cites one of thesecases. It's called Scott against Fancher. It was a FifthCircuit case. There was an accident with three trucks. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page One of the drivers was from Texas and the other two werefrom Oklahoma. So the -- their case was brought in Texasagainst the two. The Texas drivers sued the two Oklahomadrivers, so there was complete diversity. It did meet thematter-in-controversy. So one defendant filed a compulsorycounterclaim. That was one of the examples, and this isall mentioned in Owen Equipment. And that was okay. Ofcourse, the citizenship would be the same, but no questionabout whether the amount in controversy was -- was up tothe required level. And they also filed a -- a cross claim againstthe other defendant, and that was also allowed. Andagain, no -- of course, now you have two citizens fromOklahoma. So that would not be complete diversity, butthat -- that was allowed. And again, it's because thedefendants are bringing in -- this is the language thatthe Court used in Owen Equipment, that when a defendant ishailed into court against its will, then some of theseancillary claims are going to be permitted. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But not all. You couldn't have a -- if I remember right, a permissive counterclaim. MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The defendant -­ MR. LONG: Yes. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- can have a -­ MR. LONG: And I'm thinking again this all -- Ithink this all traces back to Owen Equipment in thisrationale that we're not going to allow evasion of therequirements of complete diversity in matter-in-controversy by the plaintiff. And I think there's textual evidence in that this is what Congress was doing. I mean, if you lookin subsection (b), you can find textual evidence for thisinterpretation. I mean, first of all, it refers to thisrule situation, the impleader of a third partydefendant. That was exactly the situation that was atissue in Owen Equipment against Kroger. And then it uses this somewhat strange language,this language of claims by plaintiffs against persons madeparties under these rules. This is what Justice Breyerwas getting me tripped up on a minute ago. But the -- thepoint here is that these people can come in. I mean, thislanguage doesn't make a lot of sense if they can't come inat all. JUSTICE BREYER: No. They could at least come in if the defendant -- person. MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- under rule joined another th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page join -- . MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And then person X wanted to MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- that part of the action -­ MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- that could be a , , or MR. LONG: Exactly. Exactly. That's -- and so there is work to be done in subsection (b) even in a diversity case. The only other point I'll make here is thatcounterclaims and cross claims come in under rule ofthe Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and there isactually rule (h) which says very specifically thatparties may be brought in -- additional parties may bebrought in under rules and , once you get acounterclaim or a cross claim going. So that is -- couldexplain why there are these references to rules and ,as well as and , in subsection (b). I do want to get to the argument that's made by-- or the petitioners in our case, which is really -- as Iunderstand their argument, they accept that there must beoriginal jurisdiction over the entire civil action, andthey accept that that means that there must be complete th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page diversity. But then they say, well, matter-in-controversyis really different. It should be treated differently. It really doesn't go to whether the court has jurisdictionover the civil action. It only goes to whether it hasjurisdiction over a particular claim. And we don't think that's tenable. And -- andhere would rely on statutory language, and it's thelanguage of section of , which sets out the tworequirements for original jurisdiction of a civil action. Strawbridge is an interpretation of that requirement. Tohave original jurisdiction over the civil action, theremust be complete diversity. Petitioners agree with that. The decisions like Zahn and Clark are an interpretation ofthe other requirement to have -- to meet the matter-in-controversy requirement, and to have original jurisdictionover the civil action, each plaintiff must meet thatrequirement. So -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we descend from the levelof parsing the -- the statute to what's going on in thesecases, in your cases I take it there was an injury to achild. MR. LONG: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that qualifies under the amount-in-controversy. MR. LONG: Yes. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE GINSBURG: And her mother or sister and,I think, father wanted to come in and -- and bring claimsthat were entirely derivative of the injured child'sclaim. MR. LONG: That's correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And on your reading of ,there's the -- the -- there's no accommodation for that. So you'd either have to have the whole lawsuit in thecourts of Puerto Rico or you'd have -- let the child suein the Federal court and the parents would have to bring aseparate suit? MR. LONG: Well, I mean, it's not -- it's -­that is the rule of Zahn and Clark that has been the rulefor many decades. Yes, the problem can be cured bydropping some of the plaintiffs. That's a possibility,but you cannot have this piggy-backing, bringing inadditional claims that are jurisdictionally insufficient. You can't get around Strawbridge and complete diversitythat way, and you can't get around the matter-in-controversy that way either. They -- they are parallel inthe language of . JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what a legislaturemight think, well, now this Finley has -- we've been -­taken care of that. And your case looks very much thesame in terms of breaking up a lawsuit into two when it th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page makes sense to try it all together. So we think that -­that old case should go just the way Finley went. And the same thing with Zahn because, after all,Zahn doesn't fit very well with Ben Hur. If you're sayingthat the Strawbridge rule -- I mean, what really counts isdiversity, and -- and Ben Hur says the only namedrepresentative citizenship counts and yet the amount-in-controversy, the lesser thing in your view -- every singlemember of the class has to meet that amount, but only the named representatives have to be of diverse citizenship. MR. LONG: Well, you've made a number of points. I wouldn't agree that the matter-in-controversy is thelesser requirement. I mean, indeed, in the class actionsituation, because of Ben Hur, that's the only rule thatkeeps out additional plaintiffs. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you -- does it makesense to have a rule that says we're going to ignore thecitizenship of the members of the class for diversitypurposes, for diversity of citizenship? Only the namedrepresentative counts. Well, then why shouldn't only thenamed representative count for amount-in-controversy? That would have been a rational thing for Congress if theywanted to fix that. MR. LONG: Well, in -- in the class action context -- and again, my case is not a class action -- I th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page frankly can't explain how you reconcile Ben Hur and Zahn. I think those -- the cases -- for the same -- if -- if therationale of Ben Hur is that the class members are notreally parties in the full sense and so we don't need toworry about their citizenship, I would think you couldmake the same type of argument as to matter-in-controversythat as long as the representatives satisfy it, they'rethe parties in the full or true sense and so that's allthat counts. But the Court decided Zahn. There was really nodoubt about that. Congress never indicated that it hadany -- any difficulties with that decision, and it's nowwell established. And I think -- the final point I'd just makevery briefly is that if you were to interpret to havethis broad effect of opening up diversity actions tounlimited joinder of plaintiffs, nondiverse plaintiffs,plaintiffs with -- who don't have the requisite amount incontroversy, it -- it really would be absurd, not in thesense that doing that on its own is absurd. I don'tcontend that. But it -- it is not -- it would not berational for Congress to go to all this trouble that itwent to in subsection in (b) to rule out all these sort ofindirect situations where the plaintiffs leave out a partyin the initial complaint and then wait for the party to th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page come in some other way -- I mean, things that frankly arenot likely to happen in a lot of cases -- but then say,oh, but the -- the doors are -- are wide open under rule, bring in as many plaintiffs as you want right at theoutset or later on if you'd prefer, don't worry aboutdiversity, don't worry about the amount in controversy. Those two things just -- just don't go together. There are -- there are other things aboutsubsection (b) that don't make good sense under thepetitioner's view. I mean, for example, this is just oneof them. If you just look at the language of subsection(b), it says you shall not have supplemental jurisdictionunder subsection (a) over claims by plaintiffs againstpersons made parties under -- a list of rules -- and thenone of them is rule . Well, whenever you have more than one defendantin a case just named in the complaint, you use rule getin more than one defendant. So read literally, that saysif you had this broad view, plaintiffs can bring in asmany additional plaintiffs as they like under rule . But on the defendant's side, as soon as you've got asecond defendant in the case, suddenly all thissupplemental jurisdiction goes away. Now, that makessense under our view because plaintiffs are not supposedto be asserting these kinds of claims anyway. Whether th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page there's one defendant or two, it's the rationale of OwenEquipment. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Long. Mr. Stearns, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EUGENE E. STEARNS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS IN - MR. STEARNS: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: I believe what's at stake here is whether thisCourt was serious in the Finley decision, and it'sinteresting that it was a to decision, in which fourof you concluded that pendent party jurisdiction was alogical extension of Gibbs and five among you concludedthat it was not up for this Court to make thatdetermination, that only Congress could make thatdetermination, and in the years of history of theFederal courts that had preceded Finley, that the trackrecord of this Court and the lower courts in expandingFederal jurisdiction had been a rocky one. But youweren't going to do it anymore. Now, that wasn't the first time this Court hadsaid those words, we're not going to do it anymore, but itwas said in a way that got somebody's attention. And ifthere was a surprise, it was within a year Congress did th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page precisely what you asked them to do. They adopted ,and they did it in the way that Congress does things. It's better not to watch. They don't necessarily explainit carefully. They don't do it in an organized andcomprehensive way. It is a matter that was of greatinterest to a small number of people and of no interest tothe great body politic. Let's face it. Diversityjurisdiction is of great interest to you and me; it's oflittle interest to the people until they're hauled into court and find that only part of their case can be there. And when we look at the history of Federaljurisprudence, what do we see? We see that the history ofthis Court has been largely to allow defendants hauledinto court to ignore rules that we once thought weresacrosanct, for example, the notion of destruction ofjurisdiction. And in law school we all learned aboutdestruction of jurisdiction. It doesn't apply. When adefendant is brought into court, we ignore Strawbridge. We did because this Court and other circuit courts saidyou could. And incidentally, when they're brought intocourt, they're brought into the same civil action as anyplaintiff or defendant in the original complaint. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you talking about a claim mover? I'm not -­ MR. STEARNS: Any claim, Your Honor, that's th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page brought in in a third party practice, any claim that'sbrought in an additional party claim is part of the samecivil action. There's only one form of action. All theclaims are in that one form of action. The importance of this, incidentally, is thattheir entire argument depends on interpretation of the twowords, civil action. Does the district court haveoriginal jurisdiction over a civil action if the civilaction includes claims over which there's clearly original jurisdiction and claims where there is not? Now, historically -- incidentally, Exxon has tobasically make new law, and they do it by saying that Zahnstands for the proposition that there's no jurisdictionover a class action which includes smaller claimants. I-- I dare you to read Zahn and find those words. Theydon't exist. All Zahn says, all Snyder said, whichpreceded it, is that every class member's claim must beviewed individually. Now, that's a very interestingconclusion. In other words, it doesn't say there's nojurisdiction over the class action. It simply says theclaims of the absent class members who don't meet thejurisdictional amount should be dismissed. Now, interesting, look at the language in . It says the district courts shall have originaljurisdiction of all civil actions where the matter in th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page controversy exceeds the sum or value of $,. Well,when we read that statute and we apply Zahn and Snyder, wesay civil action doesn't mean the aggregate of all claims.There we say what it means is we must evaluate eachindividual claim to determine if each individual claimwithin the civil action meets the jurisdictional minimumof the diversity statute. JUSTICE BREYER: I imagine that if you filed aclaim and the plaintiff was a class and the classcontained a number of people who did not meet thejurisdictional minimum and they file a claim against adefendant in a diversity suit, I imagine the first thingthe judge would say would be, I've read Zahn and we don'thave jurisdiction over this action. MR. STEARNS: Indeed. That was prior to the -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, that was prior to the statute. So -- so they say, well, that's what the judgewould have said, and moreover, if you had not a classaction and you had three plaintiffs and one of them wasfrom a different State than the defendant and the othertwo were not, the first thing the judge would say is, I'mvery sorry. There is not complete diversity. I do nothave jurisdiction over this action. And so I take it their point is by coincidence th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page or not, that's what this statute says. MR. STEARNS: I'd -­ JUSTICE BREYER: And since that's what the statute says, that's what it means. MR. STEARNS: Well -­ JUSTICE BREYER: It means that this kind of asituation does not fall within (a) because there wasnot jurisdiction over that action. So I agree with you that those words are whattheir claim depends upon, but what is the answer to thatcontention? MR. STEARNS: Isn't it interesting, Your Honor,that what drove was this Court's decision in Finley? And what's interesting about the argument that Exxon makeshere is that Finley discussed the words civil action. Andin fact, what Finley said in civil action is rejected, thevery argument Exxon makes here -­ JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. Finley happened to bean arising-under case, and in an arising-under case, aslong as there is one claim that arises under, there isjurisdiction over the action. MR. STEARNS: Justice Breyer, I -- I agree that -­ JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, if you agree -- and I'm -- when I'm saying these things in such a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page definite tone of voice, they reflect deep insecuritybecause I -­ (Laughter.) MR. STEARNS: Let -- let me tell you -­ JUSTICE BREYER: But -- but I -- I want to knowwhat is the answer to that point. MR. STEARNS: Well, I -- I was going to agreeand disagree. I agree that Finley was a Federal questioncase. That, however, doesn't go to the point of what thisCourt said about the words, civil action. What you saidwas the recodification came relatively soon after theadoption of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, whichprovide that there shall be one form of action to be knownas civil action. Consistent with this new terminology,the ' revision inserted the expression, civil action,throughout the provisions governing district courtjurisdiction. And what the Court held is there's nomeaning to those words, especially when the revision ismore naturally understood as stylistic. So the words,civil action -- and when you look at , which is whatZahn is based on, if their interpretation of the words,civil action, was correct, then Zahn was wrongly decidedand Snyder was wrongly decided. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stearns, there's a difference. It's not just style. There's a difference th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page between a claim and a civil action. A civil action canbundle several claims. MR. STEARNS: Indeed, Your Honor, but if theirargument was correct, that the civil action bundled theclaims, as they suggest, then Zahn was wrongly decided. Then the amount in controversy in Zahn was the totality ofall the claims. In other words, to preserve Zahn, whichconcluded that the civil action word means an individualanalysis of every claim within it, to preserve thatconclusion, they have to argue the opposite conclusionthat the words, civil action, mean all the claims areaggregated. The problem with that argument is that thehistorical practice of this Court -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think they -- what -- theargument that I heard was not that all the claims have tobe aggregated, but that they can't get in the door. MR. STEARNS: Their -- well, Your Honor,respectfully, Congress created two doors. And they have a-- a door which is the door that existed under theConstitution, which is Article III jurisdiction. You cancome in as a diversity plaintiff into -- into thecourthouse. Now, Congress says there's another door. Congress went through and cleaned up years of Federalcourt jurisprudence. And incidentally, it is anathema to law th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page professors who have written books and tomes and lecturedto law students, Your Honor, who don't understand whatthey're reading. The notion that in in one page,Congress could write down everything you needed to knowabout supplemental jurisdiction is horrifying to a host oflaw professors -- JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't see -- where I'mstarting from this -- because at some point I'd like youto get to the -- the virtue of their position in my mindat the moment is, one, it is consistent with the language,which says civil action, not claim. Two, it is consistentwith the only instruction I read that any legislator gaveto the people who were writing this, staff, namely, writesomething that's noncontroversial. And third, I can, ontheir interpretation at least, I believe at least late atnight, make sense out of all the words in these threedifferent sections. MR. STEARNS: Well -­ JUSTICE BREYER: So at some point, I would appreciate your addressing that. MR. STEARNS: Well, and I appreciate that, Your Honor, because let me start with the first premise. Three law professors didn't write this article-- didn't write this language. That's incorrect. Thearticle is written by a subcommittee of the Federal Courts th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Study Committee that was chaired by Judge Posner. JudgePosner is the author of one of the decisions that affirmsthe -- has the same view as the Eleventh Circuit. JudgePosner had a member of his subcommittee, Mr. Kastenmeier,who was a Representative who just so happened to bechairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee thatpresented this language. What happened -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Federal -- the Federal Study Committee was divided on Zahn issues. MR. STEARNS: But -- JUSTICE BREYER: They -- they didn't make a recommendation one way or another on it. MR. STEARNS: That's partially correct, butsignificantly incorrect, Your Honor. The subcommitteespecifically said Zahn was wrong and wrote language tooverrule Zahn. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, and the whole committee said we do not want to take a position on Zahn. MR. STEARNS: Respectfully, Your Honor, you haveto follow it through. The subcommittee said we intend tooverrule Zahn. The words in this statute were written bythe people who said we intend to overrule Zahn. JUSTICE STEVENS: I thought the -- MR. STEARNS: It goes to the full committee. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: -- I thought the committee report said we do not intend to overrule Zahn. MR. STEARNS: No. Actually the subcommittee report said we did, of the Federal Courts Study Committee. JUSTICE STEVENS: Did not the House committee report say we do not intend to overrule Zahn? MR. STEARNS: What the House committee -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Did it? Am I correct or incorrect? MR. STEARNS: The House report -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Am I correct or -­ MR. STEARNS: -- yes, said we do not intend to overrule Zahn, Your Honor. JUSTICE STEVENS: Right, and that was also the same report that was filed in the Senate proceedings as well. MR. STEARNS: Well, it is the report that was filed in the Senate. It has a footnote that says we don't intend to overrule Zahn or Ben Hur -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. MR. STEARNS: -- which I think everybody has concluded are mutually exclusive positions, but that's what it said. But, Your Honor, respectfully, we now know, because they've all written Law Review articles, that the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page people that wrote the House report, because they've saidit, wrote those law -- wrote those words because they knewthat the language did overrule Zahn and they didn't wantto achieve that outcome. JUSTICE STEVENS: I think -- I think you'reoverstating what they say in the article. MR. STEARNS: Well, Your Honor, respectfully,what we do have is undisputed fact here because if you seeJudge Weis' conclusion, for example, Judge Weis is one ofthe people who has adopted one of the opinions opposingour view of -- of this position. JUSTICE GINSBURG: He was the chair of the -­ MR. STEARNS: He was. And Judge Weis, even inhis own opinion, acknowledges that his subcommittee thatwrote the language intended to overrule Zahn. And so whathe says is -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you sure he said that? MR. STEARNS: He does, Your Honor, and what he says is -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Where did he say that? MR. STEARNS: He says it in a footnote, and he says he was -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: In a footnote to what? MR. STEARNS: To his opinion in this -- in the decision. It will take me a second to find it. His th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page opinion in the Meritcare v. St. Paul. In a footnote, heacknowledges -- what he says is he was upset that -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: That's in an opinion writtenafter the statute was adopted. Right? MR. STEARNS: Yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor. Whathe says -­ JUSTICE BREYER: When he did this thing -- whenhe was trying to write this statute, he seemed fixated onone thing, Kroger, and -- and (b) seems to reflect an effort to make -- put in statutory form Kroger. MR. STEARNS: To put it in context, thesubcommittee of the Federal Courts Study Committee saysZahn is bad law and doesn't make any sense, which by theway, respectfully, I think it is. So then you go to the full committee. The fullcommittee -- Judge Weis doesn't like diversityjurisdiction at all. He wants to abolish all diversityjurisdiction. They make no recommendations. JUSTICE BREYER: No, but they do say in no eventshould the enclosed materials be construed as having beenadopted by the committee. MR. STEARNS: Precisely. That's the point hemakes in his footnote. He acknowledges what thesubcommittee did. But it's -- it's important to knowRepresentative Kastenmeier was a member of this th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page subcommittee. The Federal Courts Study Committee is notCongress. It's merely an advisory body. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stearns, one of thethings that we do know was that Congress intended to makea modest change. They had their eye on Finley. Theywanted to overrule that. And if there's an ambiguity,isn't a court well advised to make the least change? MR. STEARNS: Well, let's take those points. The answer is you make the change that Congress says in the statute you should make. And so when you have an -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if -- if you have astatute with a clear meaning, I agree with you, but thisstatute seems to be a bit of a muddle. And if you couldread it in two different ways, then why don't you say,well, I'll pick -- if they're both plausible, I'll pickthe one that doesn't introduce any radical change, thatjust makes a minor change? MR. STEARNS: Your Honor, respectfully, if welook at the changes that were adopted in , not asingle one of the ones you're hearing argued today anybodycan seriously argue are significant. For example, theZahn issue. Zahn has no material significance onlitigation in the Federal courts. And why is that? It'sbecause most plaintiffs don't want to be in Federal court. These plaintiffs are different. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page And incidentally, by the way, this is not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: It -- it does -- to theextent that Strawbridge is involved, it -- it is -­ MR. STEARNS: Your Honor, respectfully, thisCourt has been looking the other way on Strawbridge for years, and what Congress did was ratify some of yourprevious abrogations of Strawbridge and they made anotherminor adjustment. And you know what it -- what did theydid is, again, consistent with years of friendlinessto defendants in Federal court. The whole notion ofdiversity jurisdiction -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Wait. On your last statement, I -- you -- something that I hadn't focused on. MR. STEARNS: The whole -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Can you just -- you said itdoesn't make any difference. I thought it's thedefendants who want to be in Federal court. MR. STEARNS: Indeed. JUSTICE BREYER: But they can't remove the action unless it could have been there in the first place. MR. STEARNS: Precisely. JUSTICE BREYER: And therefore, thisinterpretation, if you're overruling Zahn, would have madea big difference because it would have meant thedefendants could have brought a lot of cases into Federal th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page court by the removal, and you would have seen theplaintiffs bar up in arms if, in fact, this provisionwould have allowed for easier removal. MR. STEARNS: Your Honor, respectfully -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: As -- as indeed they were inthe Class Action Fairness -­ MR. STEARNS: Yes. I was going to get there,Your Honor, but in fact, Your Honor, respectfully, I hateto disagree with Your Honor, but I believe you'reincorrect. Is that what you see in the Class ActionFairness Act, for example -- and we filed it in our brief-- the House and Senate committee reports which discussedthis case and the fact that the majority of circuits ofthe circuit courts have agreed with our view -- there hasbeen no class actions of any materiality filed. In fact,they made the note in or ' more class actions werecertified in one county in Illinois than filed andcertified in the entire Federal system. And the reason they said that is because mostplaintiffs lawyers, notwithstanding Zahn -- it isn't -­Zahn isn't the issue. Snyder was the issue. It'saggregation that's the issue. All plaintiffs lawyers hadto do to avoid removal is simply put named plaintiffs thatdon't meet the jurisdictional standards for diversity,create imperfect diversity, have amounts in controversy of th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page less than the amount in controversy required, and thenthey could never be removed. So Zahn is simply afootnote, and it got it -- all the billing of Zahn, Zahn,Zahn -- the reality is the predecessor to Zahn, which isSnyder that says that you can't aggregate under theamount in controversy, that was the significant decision. And what Congress has now done a few weeks agois to take up the Snyder case and has overruled Snyder. And what they've done is to say, when there's an aggregateclaim of more than $ million, it goes into Federal court. But look at what Congress has said. Look at -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: They haven't overruledSnyder. They said in this class action context if youmeet the standards that they set, you can aggregate. MR. STEARNS: But Snyder was a class action casethat says you cannot aggregate claims under . And sowhat Snyder says is because -- because the Class ActionFairness Act is restricted to diversity cases or diversitytype cases, what it says is that -- and, therefore, is anamendment to . What it does is add a new section tocreate original jurisdiction in diversity cases involvingclass claims. And incidentally, the significance of that inthis case is -- Justice O'Connor, you said is itretroactive. The answer is yes and no. It's applicable th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page to all cases filed after its effective date, which isalready effective as of a couple weeks ago. If Exxon getsdismissal of this claim and gets it refiled, we will beapplicable to the Class Action Fairness Act and be rightback in Federal court where we started. And so whatyou're left with is all they're really looking for herenow is a new trial, and this is just a procedural game tocome back. But there's very -- one important point I wantto make to you. You said in Finley we're going to notmake -- do this with jurisdiction anymore. We're going toask Congress to do it. And Congress did it. And so youread and, respectfully, it is clear. Every courtthat read it at a certain point said it was clear, and theonly ambiguity is created by a House report that says,notwithstanding what it says, we meant something else. That's -- the ambiguity is not created by the statute, butby an -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: That's not a direct quote of the House report, I might find out. (Laughter.) MR. STEARNS: I'm sorry? JUSTICE STEVENS: I say that's not a direct quote of the House report. MR. STEARNS: I paraphrased, Your Honor. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page (Laughter.) MR. STEARNS: What we're left with here in thiscircumstance is that -- that what -- by the way, what youclearly have in the legislative history is -- for example,they obviously made a comment, a joke about what thisCourt will do when you look at the plain language of thestatute and the history that they put in it. And by the way, these three gentlemen did notwrite the statute. It should be perfectly clear. Theywere there observing what was going on when it was goingon. JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you think they were beingintellectually honest in their Law Review or do you think-- accuse them of something other than honesty in whatthey said? MR. STEARNS: Justice Stevens, I think whetherit is or not, it demonstrates the mistake of relying uponsomething other than what's in the plain language of astatute because once you begin to encourage that kind ofgame to be played, then how would you have a trial overwhether these professors were being honest or not? Whatdo we know? They did write Law Review articles and theydid pretty much admit what they did. Now, I may have adifferent take on it than someone else. But what are we doing here? These -- these th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page plaintiffs filed this lawsuit in Federal court. Theydidn't go to Madison County, Illinois to sue one of thelargest companies in the world. They didn't go to afriendly State court forum. They read to say, okay,we got original jurisdiction here under of the civilaction, and we read civil action, because we just readFinley and Finley says civil action are just words of art. It doesn't mean what they say it means. So we filed inthe Federal court and through the second door come these supplemental claims. And the supplemental claims are -- are -­incidentally, so it's perfectly clear, in a class actioncontext under rule , the named plaintiffs representthemselves and they assert their own claims, all of whichwere within the jurisdictional minimum, and they representthe claims of unnamed class members who they havejurisdiction over those claims through the exercise ofsupplemental jurisdiction. Any way you cut it, this case -- all it is iscome back again and try it again. It's been in theFederal courts for years. years. Enough. It'sover. They were found guilty. Judgment should beentered. And incidentally, that last point. They want to reverse a judgment. There is no judgment. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: But do you agree that ifthey're right on the interpretation of , the judgmenthas to be reversed? MR. STEARNS: There is no judgment, Your Honor,because the district court was well aware of the issuethat existed here, notwithstanding his disagreement withsome other courts, and he refused to enter judgment untilthe claims process went through where it was determinedwhether each claimant was above or below thejurisdictional amount. And so what he did in doing thatwas to -- there is no judgment entered and he said, I'mnot going to enter final judgment until this process isover. And every single case -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me modify the question. Do you agree that if they're correct, the entire actionhas to be dismissed? MR. STEARNS: There's no case that is -- that would support that outcome, including the cases they cite. JUSTICE STEVENS: Your answer is no, I gather. MR. STEARNS: The answer is no. Newman-Green doesn't say that. Caterpillardoesn't say that. No reported case says that. Noreported case has ever found jurisdiction destruction in ajurisdictional amount case ever in the annals of Federaljurisprudence. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page And when people -- you invite people to look ata statute, you invite Congress to write one, and peoplelook at it and read it, they ought to be able to rely uponit and not what some staff person put in the back door ina legislative report that's inconsistent with the words ofthe statute itself. Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Stearns. Mr. Ayer, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. AYER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN - MR. AYER: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: We have a little bit different view I think ofthe statute than the other counsel arguing this morning. We -- we believe that the statute actually makes quite alot of sense, and we also believe emphatically that itdoes not reverse the complete diversity requirement. I think the clearest indication of theincorrectness of Mr. Phillips' and Mr. Long's position isthe comparative treatment under their reading of theFederal question case that is in Federal court and thediversity case. Under their reading, it's perfectly clear-- and I think everyone agrees -- that -- that whenadditional claims, as in the City of Chicago case, are th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page joined with a Federal question case and they are -- theyrelate to the same subject matter, that it will, in fact-- they will be within the supplemental jurisdiction. Most importantly, for purposes of this comparison, theywill not destroy the original jurisdiction over a civilaction even though they are claims that are not themselveswithin the original jurisdiction. Somehow or other, the argument is advanced thatwhen you have a diversity case in Federal court where allparties are diverse and there is the jurisdictional amountsatisfied and you bring in other parties who do notdestroy complete diversity and therefore do not destroythe jurisdiction of the court over the initial matter thatwas before it -- somehow or other the argument is advancedthat the jurisdiction over the civil action in thatsituation is destroyed even though it is not destroyed inthe Federal -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't know what you meanwhen you say they -- they don't destroy completediversity. You mean that the original plaintiff and theoriginal defendant are still who they used to be? MR. AYER: No, no. No, I'm sorry, Your Honor. I -- I must have misspoke. What I mean to say is that -­that in the case where a -- a diverse additional plaintiffcomes in to bring a claim -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SOUTER: You're talking aboutgeographical diversity -­ MR. AYER: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- not jurisdictional. MR. AYER: Correct. I'm -- I'm drawing -­effectively what -- the point I'm making is that thisdistinction between the Federal question case joined withcases that are not within the original jurisdiction andthe diversity case, which is clearly within the originaljurisdiction, because all parties are diverse, but it isjoined with claims that are below the jurisdictionalamount, so that they are not within the diversityjurisdiction. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I don't understand thedistinction that you're making between diversity ofcitizenship and amount in controversy since includesboth. To qualify for diversity from the very beginning,you have to be of the opposite -- you have to be from adifferent State than your opponent and the matter incontroversy must be X. And that's always been part of thediversity -- diversity jurisdiction. There were twocomponents. One was the citizenship of the parties. Twowas the amount in controversy. MR. AYER: Correct, Your Honor. The -- the question -- I think the difference is that the concept of th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page complete diversity, which this Court for years hasarticulated as in the statute that grants diversityjurisdiction is a relational concept. In order todetermine whether you have jurisdiction over any partiesin a case, you must look at all of the parties in thecase. With regard to amount in controversy, it'sperfectly clear, and -- and changes nothing about thefact that jurisdiction requires meeting the amount incontroversy. But if has conferred, as it has,supplemental, additional jurisdiction, then the questionthat has to be asked is, does the fact that a party comingin with what is otherwise a supplemental claim -- does -­does the presence of that party destroy the originaljurisdiction that exists where the new party coming in isdiverse but doesn't meet the jurisdictional amount? JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they're saying what'ssauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. If it doesin the amount, it does so in the -- if it's -- if -­you're trying to drive a wedge between the geographicaldiversity and amount. MR. AYER: Correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: And they say you can't do thatunder the statute. If you're prepared to say thatbringing in a new plaintiff from the same State as the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page defendant does destroy diversity over the original action,you must also be prepared to say that bringing in a newplaintiff who only has $ at issue destroys the originaljurisdiction because there's no way, in terms of theoriginal jurisdiction and the wording of , to makethat distinction. MR. AYER: Well -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Now, you respond to that what? MR. AYER: I -- I will. Well, I will. I'llrespond in terms of the City of Chicago. City of Chicagois a case where you have issues, claims within the Federalquestion jurisdiction. Additional claims in the casearise under State law. They are not within the Federalquestion jurisdiction, but they are related to the samecase or controversy. The Court said, with no difficulty,both for purposes of and for purposes of , thatis a case within the original jurisdiction. It's a civilaction. In both statutes, the same language. It's acivil action within the original jurisdiction. And -- andif that is the case, in a Federal question case -- I thinkI want to -- I'm going to get to the important point here. This Court has many, many decisions and manyother courts have many decisions saying emphatically thatwhen you add a party or when there is a party in a casewho destroys complete diversity, the court loses th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jurisdiction over the entire matter. To my knowledge, thelast time the Court said it as a holding was in theSchacht case a few years ago. There are, I think, dozensof cases from this Court. We cite about five of them onpage and of our blue brief. That is a fundamental principle and it isbecause the concept of complete diversity is a relationalconcept. It depends on who the parties are in the case. As has been said many times, the requirement of amount incontroversy is individual. The fact that a party submitsa complaint and the complaint has one party, as in ourcase, whose claim comes within the diversity jurisdictionand includes other parties who we agree their claims donot come within the original jurisdiction -- does the factthat those claims are all put on the same piece of apaper, put on a complaint, does that mean the court, thetrial court, lacks jurisdiction over the first claim as towhich all the requirements are met? There are no nondiverse parties here. We havecomplete diversity. We have a claimant who meets thejurisdictional amount. We have a civil -- a civil actionwithin the original jurisdiction. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you -- you could say thesame thing about -- about a -- a second claim thatdestroys diversity. You could say the same thing. Does th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page that -- does that -- does the absence of diversity in thissecond claim destroy the diversity that existed in thefirst claim? MR. AYER: Well, it does, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, no, I doesn't. I mean,the diversity that existed in the first claim is stillthere. MR. AYER: Well, I'll -- I'll give you anexample of a situation that is often trotted out as aproblem under our reading of the statute, and we think -­the irony of it is, I think, none of the parties actuallythink it's a problem, and I certainly don't, and that is,the problem of a rule plaintiff who is not listed in(b). But let's just say a -- a plaintiff comes in andfiles a -- a complaint. There is complete diversity. Clever plaintiff says, aha, here I am. I've gottenthrough (a). We're in court. Now, I'm in (b) and I am -­I'm a rule . I'm going to add some rule plaintiffs,and I've got these folks who are not diverse and we'regoing to bring them in. Well, we -- we have cited cases, I think on page of our brief, where it's perfectly clear that no court,I think, in its right mind is going to turn around weekslater and say, oh, you got me. You know, we're going to th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page have to let these nondiverse plaintiffs in. We're goingto have to go forward with this case because you did it inthe right order. If you had filed it all in onecomplaint, you'd be out of court, but you're a clever guyand you filed it in two different steps. So supplementaljurisdiction. You come in. JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly, but that's the reasonfor saying that -- look, as I understand it -- and this is-- the -- the thing that got me thinking they may have apoint here is A, B, and C are dealing with three separateproblems. The first problem is how to overrule Finleywithout affecting anything else like Zahn or any of theothers. MR. AYER: Well, we -- we disagree with that. JUSTICE BREYER: The second problem B is simply Kroger. B is how to make statutory Kroger. And C is United Mine Workers v. Pennington tomake sure they have discretion to get rid of supplementaljurisdiction. Now, once you see it as three separate problems-- I know they wanted me to see it this way, but once yousee it as three separate problems, the words fall intoplace as long as you do interpret that word, civil action,to mean, well, there is no jurisdiction over the civilaction where what's happened is you've simply added as a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page defendant a nondiverse party or you've added as aplaintiff a nondiverse party or a party that doesn't meetthe jurisdictional amount. Now, I spell all that out because I hope in thenext minutes you will tell me why that's wrong. MR. AYER: Well, I -- we agree entirely with thefirst part of what -- what Your Honor has said. We -- weagree completely that the complete diversity requirement,which has been articulated so many times, means that whenyou bring in a -- a nondiverse party, it destroysjurisdiction. There is not a single case from this Courtor that I know of any other court that states that thejurisdiction over the original action is destroyed. One of the things that was said here very -­somewhat cleverly this morning is that in Zahn the -- thecase was not allowed to go forward because of the presenceof these other parties. That isn't what they said. Threedifferent times in Zahn the Court said these parties mustbe dismissed. There is no jurisdiction over these partieswhose claims are small. They are out. No one ever said,oh, my goodness, we're going to lose jurisdiction over thecase. Every time this issue arises in the context of -­of complete diversity, the court says, oh, my goodness, wedon't have jurisdiction. We can't hear any part of this. JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Ayer, let -- maybe I'm th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page going to oversimplify to the point of the absurd but letme try it. The argument that you're answering is theargument that there is no textual basis in (a) todistinguish the geographical diversity requirement fromthe amount-in-controversy requirement. Your answer is, Ithink, that when the drafters in (a) refer to action andjurisdiction, those terms have to be understoodhistorically as we have understood them, and thesignificance of a -- a geographical problem, which doesdestroy jurisdiction traditionally, is different from anamount-in-controversy problem which is -- which does notand is dealt with more simply. Is that your -­ MR. AYER: That is correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MR. AYER: That is correct. And -- and I would just like to go on and sayone other thing, and that is, this Court has written howmany hundreds I don't know, but hundreds of casesarticulating nuances -- and -- and I've learned howremarkable they are, the nuances -- of law under andunder what amounts to a case within -- it's incredible howcomplex the law that this Court has spelled out is under. Our view of the statute is that that body of law th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page has been preserved and it's been preserved in two places. It has been preserved in the first clause of (a),which is really all that's at issue right here, and it'salso been -- been preserved in the last clause of (b)which says that -- that as to the list of enumeratedexceptions -- in essence, (b) says if you've got a casewithin the original jurisdiction, then it says, withregard to plaintiffs' claims against parties joined under, , , and and with regard to claims brought bypersons to be joined under or , then you don't havesupplemental jurisdiction if to do so would beinconsistent with the requirements of jurisdiction under. What does that mean? That means that thoseexcepted claims may not come in if they could not havebeen brought in the case originally without destroyingoriginal jurisdiction under . It can't possibly mean,as our opponents I think read it, that the only time youhave supplemental jurisdiction over these claims is whenyou already have jurisdiction over these claims. That isn't supplemental jurisdiction. It would makeabsolutely no sense to read the statute that way. So how do we read it? We read it to say ifthese are claims whose presence in the case at thebeginning would have destroyed the anchor that gets us th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page into court, which is a case under , then the wholething goes out the window. And furthermore, I would say -- and again, thisis not an easy point to spell out in all of its nuances,but at any point in the case, which will not be many andwon't be often -- but at any point in the case where thisCourt's cases would say that you just lost jurisdictionunder -- and I say that's not often because basicallythere's a time of filing rule and there are many, many, asyou all know better than I -- there are many nuances as towhat exceptions exist to that and what don't. But thebottom line is if the case falls out of jurisdiction,such as when the clever plaintiff tries to join a rule compadre to come in and bring a nondiverse claim, goodbye. You're out of court because -­ JUSTICE BREYER: See, that -- that's what Ithought was their view of -- of (b). To go to (b), youunderstand (b), you have to go back before Kroger. AndKroger was worried about some clever plaintiff, as yousay -­ MR. AYER: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- getting a defendant. Heknows this defendant is going to bring a third partycomplaint against Smith from the same State, and he says,ha, I'll sue this defendant. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page And analogous things happen with rule and ,not really with they said, but and . And thenKroger says, hey, you can't do that. MR. AYER: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And so (b) was Judge Weis'effort to make sure that was codified. It wasn't reallymeant so much as some kind of exception from (a). MR. AYER: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: It was meant to have an independent basis there. So I didn't see, if you give it an independent basis, how anything odd happens -­ MR. AYER: Well -­ JUSTICE BREYER: -- by giving it their reading. MR. AYER: Well, I -- I just think that thewhole statute makes a very great deal of sense. I mean,one question is, does the first clause of (a) -- is -- isthat a gate you have to get through and once you getthrough it, you're done? I think the answer is no. Ithink -- I think clearly you've got to have a case withinthe original jurisdiction under , and if you lose it,the supplemental jurisdiction is a tail that falls off. It -- it goes away. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Ayer, may I ask you a question on your interpretation? I think you were th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page -- your position is that Clark against Paul Gray has beenoverruled, and whatever one may say about the attentionthat was focused on Zahn, Clark against Paul Gray has beenon the books since . And it seems unlikely thatCongress would have overruled that without even making apeep to that effect. MR. AYER: Well, Clark, of course, is a Federalquestion case. Clark is a case at -- at the time whenthere was an amount-in-controversy requirement. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. It's about an amount­ in-controversy rule. MR. AYER: Right. I -- I understand, YourHonor. I -- I think -- I mean, I -- I would -- it seemsto me that at the end of the day, we have to say that thestatute did what it did, and -- and if -- if it reversedZahn, it seems to me that it certainly reversed -­reversed Clark, and frankly, we think the conclusion iseasier for all of the reasons based in the statute. One thing I would like to do before -- beforethe light goes off here is -- is talk a little bit aboutthe legislative history. And of course, our positionfirst -- in the first instance is that there really isn'tany reason to consider it because this is not a statutethat destroys complete diversity. It doesn't do anythingradical. It actually is quite sensible and limited and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page clear when you read it. So we don't think you need to goto it. But if the Court is going to go to it, we wouldsubmit that there is a far more sensible way of thinkingabout the legislative history than grabbing one sentenceout of the House report, which I'll talk about in a minuteas to what significance it really has anyway. But essentially the sequence of events here -­and I'll try to go through it quickly -- is that you -­and as Mr. Stearns said, you have basically three versionsof this -- of this enactment. The last one got tweaked alittle bit at the end. The first version is the -- is the subcommitteereport. And as he indicated, the subcommittee report,which actually appears at page and of our brief, ofour yellow brief -- if you read the text of (a), whichappears on page , what you see is language which on itsface clearly does reverse Zahn, and then you have thecommentary that went with it in the working papers to thesubcommittee, and that commentary could not have been moreemphatic of -- of the intent to reverse Zahn. The second enactment, which we have put in anaddendum to our yellow brief because it, frankly, playslittle role in the case in -- in thinking through thestatute, is the section of House Resolution . And th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page essentially when Congress -- it's quite correct that theFederal Courts Study Committee did not specificallyendorse the subcommittee proposal. It passed it along,saying it wasn't taking a position. When it got toCongress, from somewhere a new enactment came forward ontothe floor or onto the committee that was addressing it,and that's this provision in the addendum of our yellowbrief. And all I'm going to say about that is that whenyou look at that, number one, it looks entirely different. Number two, it actually does a much poorer job ofpreserving complete diversity, and it does, in fact,explicitly overrule Owen Equipment v. Kroger. Judge Weis came in and testified and said,that's bad, don't do that. You know, you've got to showmore respect for complete diversity, and -- and youshouldn't do that. That got put into the ash can. Sothat's the end of . And the next thing he did, attached to his sametestimony, was -- was submit a proposal, which is in ouryellow brief at page . And this -- this is what we saidwe think you should enact. If you compare the language of(a) with the language of (a) in the enactment on page ,you will see that it's a couple lines longer. It has afew more embellishments and words, but it is substantivelyindistinguishable, the provision in (a). And so what we th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page have is Judge Weis putting forward a proposal that can'tbe substantively distinguished from the one that thesubcommittee said, clearly correctly, would reverse Zahn. The last question here is what happened then,and what happened then to provision (a) -- there areessentially three things that happened to this wholeprovision that I'm aware of. One is they took out thewords, on a claim, and that's the argument that'sprincipally advanced here. They took those. So it'scivil action on a claim. They took out on a claim. Theyalso changed the last clause of (b) and they also changedthe reference in the supplemental jurisdiction from caseor -- from -- what is the -- the transaction or occurrenceto case or controversy. And those are all the changes. We would submit that there is no basis to inferfrom any of those things, and particularly not the firstone that dealt with (a), that they meant by dropping on aclaim to somehow say, oh, my goodness, you've got to havejurisdiction over all of the claims before you. Again, that is inconsistent with the Court'sopinion in City of Chicago. You can't come out the sameway in City of Chicago if the presence of anonjurisdictional claim destroys original jurisdictionover the civil action. The last thing I -- I want to say about the -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the jurisdiction which the other side relies upon -­essentially it's a sentence that says there was no intentto, quote, affect the jurisdictional requirements of in diversity-only class actions. And then there's a cite,a footnote to Zahn and Ben Hur. That's pretty much whatthere is that they talk about. Well, number one, as has been said, the authors-- apparently the authors of that language, the ones whoput it in conceded that this legislative history was anattempt to correct an oversight in the statute, which itwould have been better to have corrected in the statute. We think that's significant. But I would go beyond that and say that if youjust look at this language, no -- no intent to affect thejurisdictional requirements of in diversity-onlyclass actions, number one, most importantly, we don'tthink there's been a change in the requirements under. As I've said before, this statute engrafted thisCourt's entire body of jurisprudence in the firstline of -- of clause (a) and in the last line of clause(b), and so it's all there. No one has changed . This is supplemental jurisdiction additional to it. And secondly, this is not a class action. There's nothing in our case that relates to a classaction. That's an issue, if you think this is relevant, th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page you have to deal with in -- in the other case, but youdon't have to deal with it in our case. I guess the last thing I would say aboutlegislative history is that we think probably the mostimportant legislative history here, other than thetracking of these provisions, which we think is quiteindicative, is -- is that the -- the House report, amongother things, also said that what they were trying to dowas to provide, quote, a practical arena for theresolution of an entire controversy. And we think that inthe context of our case, as -- as has been pointed outhere already by Justice Ginsburg, it makes very littlesense to resolve our case by splitting it in two andsending it to different courts. Thank you very much. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Ayer. Mr. Phillips, you have another minutes, and Isee that will be adjournment time, I will let everyoneelse know. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER IN - MR. PHILLIPS: Thank -- thank you, Justice Stevens, and I'd just like to make a few points. First of all, Justice Kennedy, you asked about the City of Chicago case, and Justice Ginsburg said this th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page sort of feels like a Finley type case in the -- in -- inhow it applies in the diversity context. But thefundamental point here is that there is a very differentapproach and there has always been a very differentapproach to Federal question jurisdiction and to diversityjurisdiction. Federal question jurisdiction has alwaysbeen claims-driven. Diversity jurisdiction has alwaysbeen party-driven. And the Congress that enacted in had to have understood that. It's been the law foras long as -- as we've had -- for the years thatStrawbridge has been around, that distinction has -- hasexisted. And so we're not asking the Court to interpretcivil action differently in this particular statute. We're asking the Court to focus on civil actions of whichthe district court has jurisdiction. That incorporatesall of the requirements of and . Second, Justice Breyer, I'm a little reluctantto get into this rule , rule to try -- but I think Ican help at least clarify at least some aspects of it. Rule by its terms excludes situations thatdefeat jurisdiction. So it says in the rule that ifyou're bringing in a necessary party -- remember, this isthe defendant who is bringing in a necessary party -- ifit would defeat jurisdiction, you can't do it, and if it th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page still is indispensable, you have to dismiss the entiretyof the case, which is precedent for the notion thatsometimes you have to dismiss the entirety of the case insituations where you don't have jurisdiction over aparticular party. But the -- the second question, rule . Ithink the standard is that you could bring in a rule party within supplemental jurisdiction that doesn't defeatanything with respect to the original civil action. Ithink that was the rule prior to . But to the extentit was or wasn't, I think (a) and (b) combine to allowthat to happen. (b) then says that if someone intervenesas a party, the plaintiff cannot bring a claim againstthat -- that intervening party. Justice Souter, you asked about the differenttreatment between the amount-in-controversy requirementand the geography requirement. If there is a distinction-- and I don't think this provision allows any kind ofmeaningful distinction between the two as it applies inthe context -- it is that the amount-in-controversyrequirement is more important. That's what Zahn held. You can dispense with the geography requirement in BenHur, but you cannot dispense with the amount-in-controversy requirement. And the reason -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: This didn't make a whole lot th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page of sense. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, except it does because the-- the amount-in-controversy requirement keeps a lot ofsmaller cases out of Federal court that otherwise would bein there. It is a protection of this Court's docket andall the Federal courts' dockets, and that's important. And that's also a distinction between the Federal questioncases and the diversity cases. If you resolve diversity in favor of drivingcases to State court, you are promoting federalisminterests because State courts should decide law. If youdrive more cases into Federal courts under Federalquestion, that's right because you think Federal courtsare, in general, better suited to resolve Federal courts-- Federal questions. And then finally, with respect to the remedy,Justice Ginsburg, Newman-Green says you can simply excisesome parties if there is no prejudice. And what I submitto you is we have a case that has been litigated from dayone without jurisdiction involving more than ,plaintiffs. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That -- this point was not -­would be you're asking us to decide it in the firstinstance. You, I would expect, make argument to thedistrict judge when you go back. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page MR. PHILLIPS: Well, except that this Court inDataflux didn't send it back. This Court in Datafluxdecided that the right -- in Grupo Dataflux that the rightanswer is that the remedy for this mistake is thedismissal certainly of the class, but I think frankly thedismissal of the entirety of the case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's because theCourt conceived of there -- there being one entity, so youcouldn't -- you couldn't change -- split that one entity into two fictitious persons. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that's -- and that's whatthe district court held in Zahn, which is the reason thedistrict court didn't allow this case to come -- didn'tallow this to go forward as a class action. And that'simportant to remember. This Court didn't say you dismissout anything in Zahn. Zahn came up without it being aclass action. The district court dismissed the classaction. It came up trying to reinstate it. This Courtsaid you can't reinstate it. Thank you, Your Honor. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Mr. Phillips. This -- these cases are submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page 