 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X CARMAN L. DECK, Petitioner : : v. MISSOURI. : No. - : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Tuesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : p.m. APPEARANCES: ROSEMARY E. PERCIVAL, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender, Kansas City, Missouri; on behalf of the Petitioner. CHERYL C. NIELD, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Jefferson City, Missouri; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROSEMARY E. PERCIVAL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner CHERYL C. NIELD, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROSEMARY E. PERCIVAL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page P R O C E E D I N G S (: p.m.) JUSTICE STEVENS: We'll hear argument in Deck against the State of Missouri. Ms. Percival. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROSEMARY E. PERCIVAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. PERCIVAL: Justice Stevens, and may it please the Court: The question before the Court today is whetherthe trial court violated Carman Deck's rights to dueprocess and a fair and reliable sentencing proceeding, asguaranteed by the Sixth, Eighth, and FourteenthAmendments, when the trial court forced him to appearhandcuffed to a belly chain and shackled in legironsbefore the jury which would determine whether he was tolive or to die. Counsel objected to the restraints and filed amotion asking for the procedures set forth by this Courtin Holbrook v. Flynn. Holbrook described shackling as aninherently prejudicial practice and set forth a procedureby which courts would exercise their discretion inmaintaining courtroom security while protecting the rightsof the defendant. If the court is to impose an inherently th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page prejudicial practice like shackling, it first mustdetermine that the shackles are necessary to further anessential State interest specific to the trial and mustfind that no lesser means is available to meet those Stateinterests. The court abused its discretion in failing toapply the Holbrook standard in penalty phase. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the -- did counselsuggest less intrusive restraints? MS. PERCIVAL: Counsel had filed an extensivemotion in which it set forth a number of different ways inwhich courts in Missouri and in other jurisdictions haddealt with the problem where the -- where the courtsminimized the effect of the shackles on the jury by hidingthem from view such as by placing boxes around counseltable, ensuring that the defendant was already in place inthe courtroom before the jurors entered, that sort ofthing. And the court summarily overruled that motion. JUSTICE SOUTER: What was the basicjustification in the first place for shackling? I mean,were there insufficient bailiffs or -- or why did they doit in -- even in -- during the trial itself? MS. PERCIVAL: The court did not establish arecord for why the shackles were -- were warranted. Theonly justification that the court gave was -- at this th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page penalty phase retrial was that Deck had been convicted,but there's nothing else in the record as to whatjustification the court had. JUSTICE SOUTER: Is there any indication thatthere were or were not present court security officers? MS. PERCIVAL: There's nothing in the record asto security officers in the courtroom. JUSTICE SCALIA: Who -- who should -- whoseresponsibility should it be to get something like thatinto the record? I mean, I read it. I don't -- I have noidea whether there was a good reason for the shackling ornot. MS. PERCIVAL: Once defense conviction objectsto the use of shackling, it is incumbent upon the State toshow that the restraints were harmless, and by doing so,they would need to make a record that -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: What's the authority for theburden of proof question? What -- what -- which of ourcases do you rely on for that? MS. PERCIVAL: Well, it's basically Chapmanbecause shackling is an inherently prejudicial procedure,and when the court imposes that without justification, theburden falls on the State to show that it was, in fact,justified or that the shackling was -- was harmless andthat the jurors could not see it or that sort of thing. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE KENNEDY: So the principle is there's a right not to be shackled, and when the State says that that right has to be compromised, then the State has to have the burden of proof? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I looked -- and I find that rule in Chapman? MS. PERCIVAL: No, it would not be in Chapman. It would -- it's -- it flows from Holbrook and Illinois v. Allen and Estelle v. Williams. Those cases set up the standard that is really enunciated in Holbrook. JUSTICE SCALIA: Those -- those are all, are they not, cases involving the -- the guilt phase of -- of a trial? Right? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, this is a little different. He -- I mean, when you shackle somebody who hasn't yet been convicted, you -- you send a message to the jury that, you know, this -- this person belongs in irons. But the jury had already found this person guilty. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: He was -- he was convicted. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, and -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Should that make no difference? MS. PERCIVAL: The reason that this presumption th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page applies in penalty phase as well, the presumption of -­that shackles are inherently prejudice, it stems from -­we could start the analysis in guilt phase. In guiltphase, courts have held that shackles are inherentlyprejudicial because they make the defendant appear -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Guilty. MS. PERCIVAL: -- dangerous, violent,untrustworthy, and then hence, they are more likely to beguilty. Notably in -- in guilt phase, there's noquestion as to character. In penalty phase, however,where the State still has a burden of establishing thatthe defendant is worthy of a death sentence by evidencepresented in court, the question of character is a keyfactor that the jury considers. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can -- can I ask you? You saycounsel proposed some alternatives to -- to the visibleshackling. Did counsel object that there shouldn't havebeen any shackling at all? MS. PERCIVAL: Counsel filed a motion sayingthat there should not be restraints at all, but withinthat motion, he explained how courts in Missouri hadaccommodated -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MS. PERCIVAL: -- both interests successfully. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SCALIA: But he did take the positionthat there was no need for shackles at all. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Back on your earlier part ofyour answer to Justice Scalia, that it's inherentlyprejudicial in the sentencing stage, if one of us were toagree or the whole Court, the majority, were to agree withyour position and write the opinion out, what would wecite for that, other -- other than our -- our own assumptions as to how the system worked, judicial notice? MS. PERCIVAL: Well, I think that you couldfollow Holbrook pretty closely and that I think what you'dneed to -- to deal with is there's a whole bunch ofprecedent regarding how prejudicial shackling is. We knowthat character is essential in penalty phase, and theother characteristic of penalty phase is the heightenedfor reliability which is not present in the guilt phase. JUSTICE KENNEDY: With -- with character, we know -- we know he's a murderer. MS. PERCIVAL: We know that on that day yearsprior that Carman Deck was dangerous to those people inthat situation. But what the jury is being asked toconsider is whether his acts on that day were really inconformity with what his character is and what it -- howhe would behave if he were sentenced to life without th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page parole. JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you sure that it's as -- asprejudicial in the -- in the penalty phase as it is in theguilt phase? I mean, in the guilt phase, it does make theperson look like a criminal. In the penalty phase, I -­I'm really not sure if I -- if I were a prosecutor whetherI would prefer to have the defendant shackled or not. Theissue before the jury is whether to leave this person inhis -- in his current incarcerated state for life or toexecute him. And I -- I might think that showing, youknow, what -- what kind of an existence it is to be -- tobe a life prisoner walking around with the legirons andchains -- I'm not sure that that is going to cut in favorof the jury's giving the death penalty or -- or to thecontrary, make the juror think, boy, what a wretched lifethis is and -- and that ought to be enough. MS. PERCIVAL: Well, Your Honor, in Beck v.Alabama, a similar situation arose. In Beck, the questionwas whether Alabama's statute which prohibited the juryfrom getting lesser included offense instructions in afirst degree murder case was constitutional. And JusticeStevens in his opinion writing for the Court stated thatthere may be factors that cut in favor of the defendantand factors that cut against the defendant, but theuncertainty and unreliability that is forced into the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page fact-finding process is what the problem is. So as in this situation, perhaps some jurorswould -- would think, you know, he's wearing theseshackles just because he was convicted. Others might -­may, as well, say he's wearing them because he'sparticularly dangerous. We don't know, and there's thatunreliability of the -- the fact-finding process since thedefense has not been able to confront this evidence and ithasn't come in from the stand. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: What are the factors inMissouri that the State would be trying to prove to urgethe imposition of death versus life imprisonment? Whatare the things in Missouri that are deemed relevant? MS. PERCIVAL: Well, there are statutoryaggravating circumstances, and the jurors are also allowedto consider non-statutory evidence. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Is future dangerousness an issue in Missouri? MS. PERCIVAL: It is not a specific aggravatingcircumstance, but it's something that is -- is certainlyrelevant and that the jurors can consider. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does your whole case turn onhow shackling affects the argument that you're -- that theaccused is making that he's not dangerous, et cetera, oris there some other different standard that we could use th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page to the effect, say, that it's just not consistent with thedignity in an American courtroom, something like that? MS. PERCIVAL: Well -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does your whole case turn onwhether or not this is prejudicial to the fact-findingprocess on the specific issues or is there some moregeneral standard? MS. PERCIVAL: Well, there are certainly otherconsiderations that shackling affects. Shackling impedesparticipation in the trial by affecting how the client cancommunicate with counsel and that sort of thing, how thejurors will gauge his demeanor, whether his mentalfaculties will be diminished through the shackling. Ourargument here -- because counsel did not specificallyobject on grounds of right to be present, our argumenthere focuses on how the jury viewed the defendant, giventhe fact that he was in these -- this extreme form ofrestraints, and these extreme restraints were unjustified. JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the prison setting, doeshe wear such restraints? Justice Scalia suggested thejury might say, wow, that's the way he has to go aroundthe rest of his life with the -- all chained up. But in-- do we know whether in the prison he would be routinelywearing these restraints? MS. PERCIVAL: No, he would not be unless he was th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page a very disorderly inmate or something like that, but Ithink most of the jurors would -- would know from seeingjail shows and jail movies that inmates are typically notrestrained in that fashion so that -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, I think the -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it's still an oppressivereminder of -- of how this individual, if sentenced tolife, is -- is subject to -- to the orders of prisonauthorities which on some occasions will subject him tothis kind of restraint. I -- once again, if I were a prosecutor, I'drather have him dressed up in a nice, new suit and hishair combed and smiling. I would much prefer that tohaving him in shackles. JUSTICE STEVENS: Are you aware of any cases in which prosecutors have objected to shackling? MS. PERCIVAL: No, I am not, Your Honor. JUSTICE STEVENS: So Justice Scalia would have, I suppose, but he's unusual as a prosecutor I think. (Laughter.) MS. PERCIVAL: No. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I think there is -­is something to the point that if I'm a juror and thedefendant is sitting about as close to me as you are at th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the counsel table and I see that he can't suddenly jumpout at me, I have a certain -- certain security in makinga deliberated judgment. I -- I do think it may cut bothways. And that's why I'm asking you is if there are someother considerations here. MS. PERCIVAL: Well, I think -- I don't thinkthere's other considerations other than, you know, this ispenalty phase of a capital trial where we have to have thereliability of the fact-finding process. And the jurorsare gauging the character of this defendant. And as youmentioned in your concurring opinion in Riggins, the juryis searching to discover the heart and mind of thisdefendant, and considerations such as character or futuredangerousness are very important and may, in fact, bedeterminative of what sentence the defendant receives. Shackling a defendant basically places a thumbon death's side of the scale and dehumanizes thedefendant, making it easier for the jury to find that heis worthy of a death sentence. The Holbrook standard that this Courtestablished is a great standard. It has been in effectfor -- for decades and it works. It is efficient and itis just as easily applied in penalty phase. Holbrook promotes the reliability of a death determination by limiting the risk that impermissible th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page considerations will come into play. It also allowsconsideration of the individual circumstances of the casethat is so crucial in the penalty phase. Holbrook -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this. You, ofcourse, would object to having to show prejudice in anyindividual case. Then it seems to me, to follow, thatthat's prejudice -- that that means because prejudice isdifficult to show. And if prejudice is judicial -­ difficult to show, why should we rule for you anyway? MS. PERCIVAL: Because we are concerned with thereliability of the death sentence. If -- if shackles areinherently prejudicial in guilt phase where characterisn't even at issue and that has a lesser standard ofreliability, then they certainly are inherentlyprejudicial in the guilt -- in the penalty phase where thedefendant's life is at stake. And as Justice O'Connor has recognized in herconcurrence in the Eddings v. Oklahoma case, this Courtgoes to extraordinary measures to ensure that thedefendant sentenced to be executed is afforded processthat will guarantee, as much as humanly possible, that thesentence was not imposed out of whim, passion, prejudice,or mistake. Shackling opens the door to prejudice and th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page mistake by giving the jury the impression that thedefendant is particularly dangerous and therefore worthyof a death sentence. JUSTICE BREYER: Is -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you make of the judge-- well, the jury, already having been polled, and everyone of them said this would not affect our judgment? MS. PERCIVAL: This Court in Holbrook dealt withthe same situation, and the Court in that case held thatwhen a procedure presents such a probability of prejudicethat it is inherently lacking in due process, little stockneed be placed in jurors' claims to the contrary becausejurors may not even be conscious of the effects thatshackling will have. And at that point in the proceedings, the jurorshad not been instructed as to what specific factors theywould be looking at. They did not know that Missouri hasfour steps in their sentencing procedure. They did notknow how this would play into it. So their response thatthey would not be affected really should have littlebearing here. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the judge had said thisdefendant has just been convicted of killing two people. He convicted them -- as the jury knows, he was convictedof having killed them because he wanted to avoid being th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page sent back to prison. The jury may sit there and think,well, if he killed two people to avoid being sent back toprison and we've just voted him guilty, maybe he's goingto try to lunge out in the courtroom and get us. Andtherefore, I want him shackled. Now, suppose the judgehad said that. Would that be an adequate reason? MS. PERCIVAL: No, I don't think it would. Iguess what you're saying is if the jurors believe that theshackling is done for their protection. Then that givesthe jurors the idea that -- that this man is going to -­has done something to indicate -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I think you have to givethat answer to Justice -- to Justice Breyer, and that'swhy I'm asking. I -- I think you just have to say thatthis is inherently inconsistent with the atmosphere wewant to have in a courtroom. It seems to me -- I -- I'mnot quite sure I can find a lot of authority for that, butit seems to me that has to be your argument. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, it is. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, Ms. Percival, would youstill be here today with this argument if the defendanthad simply had shackles around his ankles that would haveprevented him, in -- in effect, from running or lunging atanyone, but that that had been concealed by appropriatecovers around the table where he was sitting so that the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page jury was unaware of that situation? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Would you still be here -­ MS. PERCIVAL: No. I -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: -- making this argument thatit's inherently prejudicial even though the jury couldn'tsee it? MS. PERCIVAL: I would not be here arguing thatif the court had gone to -- had -- had balanced bothinterests and had limited the risk that this impermissiblefactor would come into play. And in fact, at the firsttrial and penalty phase, Deck wore leg braces underneathhis clothing and he behaved perfectly fine. It was onlywhen he came back on -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: That wasn't obvious or visible particularly to the jury. MS. PERCIVAL: No, it was not. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but then you're givingaway the Riggins argument, which is that this somehowaffects the psyche of the defendant and he can't fullyparticipate, et cetera, which I thought was your argument. MS. PERCIVAL: Well, that -- that is one of theproblems with excessive shackling. I think with -- withleg braces -- there's -- there's a balance with -- withHolbrook. And the court is balancing the State's th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page interests and courtroom security with the defendant'sinterest in a fair trial. The leg braces was an effectivebalance because it protected the courtroom security, butit also enabled Deck to be judged on -- just on theevidence presented in court and to have the freedomnecessary to -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: So can every defendant haveleg braces in every case? MS. PERCIVAL: No, Your Honor. No. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, is -- you -- you have -­Justice Kennedy alluded to one of your earlier arguments,and that is the -- somehow the -- the shackling affectsthe capacity to participate. I thought you meant by thatif the -- the hands are shackled, he can't write notes tocounsel. Do you mean something else? MS. PERCIVAL: Well, there are two differentangles on that. First, there's the ability to communicatewith counsel, such as by taking notes. The other aspectis if the shackles are so distracting to the defendant orcausing him pain that he will not be able to concentrateon what is going on at the trial to enable him to help hisattorney and participate. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I -- I would grant you if-- if they -- they are so tight that it's causing pain,you've got a separate problem, but short of that, does the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page so-called capacity to participate suffer simply becausehe's -- he's in irons? I mean, the only participationthat he's going to do, I presume, is -- is sit there and-- and communicate with his lawyer. It's going to affecthis capacity to write a note to his lawyer. What else isit going to do? MS. PERCIVAL: If the shackles are -- are veryobvious, it might deter the defendant from coming to courtin the first place, lest he be characterized as this dangerous person. JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you know of any instance of that? MS. PERCIVAL: I cannot cite to any right now, Your Honor. But -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he does have to stand up when the judge comes in -­ MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, when the -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and presumably when the jury files in. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes. When the judge comes in,when the jury comes in, the defendant would stand up. Andso -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: But your -- your problem withthat, as I understand it, is simply that at that pointwith all these chains and so on, he's giving an impression th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page or the State is requiring him, in effect, to give animpression to the jury that may be a -- a falseimpression. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, it is. JUSTICE SOUTER: But back to participation. MS. PERCIVAL: It could also prevent him from testifying if he knows that he would need to walk from defense table up to the witness box. JUSTICE SOUTER: But that would be true if he were in the legirons. MS. PERCIVAL: That -- you're right, Your Honor. But there's other measures that the court could take toensure that the defendant was in place at the witness boxbefore the jury would come in. JUSTICE SOUTER: True, true. MS. PERCIVAL: But in this case the judge tookno remedial measures. The judge was perfectly satisfiedby the fact that the jury could see these restraints. JUSTICE SCALIA: I gather there was someevidence or perhaps it's conceded that he was put on asuicide watch before his first trial. This was the secondtrial. Right? MS. PERCIVAL: Right. When -- th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SCALIA: That he had been put on asuicide watch and that he had tried to injure himself byknocking his head against the cell wall? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if the judgehad specifically stated I'm putting him in irons becausethe man is -- is violent enough towards himself or othersthat I'm worried about the safety of the jury. MS. PERCIVAL: Well -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: What if the judge had said that? MS. PERCIVAL: Okay. That incident -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Would that have been enough? MS. PERCIVAL: I -- I don't think it would havebeen in this case because that incident had happened wellprior to the first trial, and at the first trial, he waswearing the leg braces underneath his clothing and theysufficed. Deck was a perfectly calm, orderly defendant inthe courtroom. There were no problems. And so there's two issues. There's the issue ofwhether the shackles were warranted and then whether the-- they were excessive. And these -- handcuffing him to abelly chain and forcing him to wear legirons wereexcessive. May I reserve the rest of my time, Your Honor? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, you may, Ms. Percival. Ms. Nield. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHERYL C. NIELD ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. NIELD: Justice Stevens, and may it pleasethe Court: The State of Missouri and Mr. Deck agree thatthe trial court needs discretion to fashion securitymeasures such as restraints. That's particularly so in acase like this where we're talking about a penalty phase. Mr. Deck, at the time of his penalty phase retrial, hadalready been convicted, among other things, of two countsof murder. So by definition, he was a dangerousindividual. In those circumstances -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, isn't -- isn't the question whether he -- he was dangerous in the courtroom? MS. NIELD: That is part of the question. That is true. JUSTICE SOUTER: There's no question he wasdangerous when he committed the murders, but -- but Idon't know that that means he's dangerous in a courtroom. MS. NIELD: Well, I think that certainlysuggests that he's dangerous right off. In terms ofwhether or not he's dangerous in the courtroom, there'sother facts that are conspicuous upon this record. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, is there some burden onthe part of the prosecutor and the court to consider atleast alternative restraints or measures to make sure thatthere's no misbehavior? MS. NIELD: There may be but prior to that,there -- there should be a burden on the defendant to,first of all, articulate that the restraints are visibleand make a record on that. And second of all, to -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, apparently that wasdone. Do you say that there was no motion made by defensecounsel and that alternatives were not proposed? MS. NIELD: I think I disagree with thecharacterization. There was a motion filed pretrial thatcontained a lengthy discussion of the law, which includeddiscussion of various cases and alternatives to restraintthat had been used. But that said, the motion itself isstyled motion to have accused appear at trial free ofrestraints. The relief requested was that Mr. Deck shouldappear free of restraints both -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you -- do you take theposition that every defendant can be restrained if therestraints are not visible to the jury? MS. NIELD: It -- it would depend on the natureof the restraints, but if the restraints are notvisible -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE KENNEDY: Legirons strapped to the leg of the -- of the table but not visible. MS. NIELD: Right. If not visible, then that would be fine. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why don't you limit it to double murderers anyway? MS. NIELD: Certainly that would be fine. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but I want to know what your position is. Traffic offenders? MS. NIELD: Again, it -- it depends upon the circumstances, but if they're not visible to the jury, the defendant has a difficult time -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, the circumstances that you were given was a traffic offender. MS. NIELD: A traffic offender who is restrained where it's not visible -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: With -- with non-visible restraints. Is that perfectly okay? MS. NIELD: Yes, it is. Yes, it is because if the jury doesn't see them, then -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: It's kind of an extreme position, isn't it? MS. NIELD: That's true, but it points up the importance of making a record on the visibility. If they th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page are not visible -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Is -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this -- this is given -­I mean, this is legirons. It's not leg braces. Bellychain. You don't need to make a record to -- to know thatthose things are visible. Is there any serious doubt thatthey were visible? MS. NIELD: Well, I -- I think there was seriousdoubt and that's borne out by defense counsel's questionto the voir dire. He said to the -- during the voir direto the panel, you either do or will know that Mr. Deck isrestrained, and I guess that's what happens when you'reconvicted. That's a rough paraphrase. But the either -­the part that he said, you either do or will know, that'sa direct quote. So defense counsel himself was not evennecessarily -­ JUSTICE BREYER: What about his motion? Is Mr. Leftwich -- is that defense counsel? MS. NIELD: One of them. That's true. And there was a gentleman -­ JUSTICE BREYER: All right, fine. He says Iwould ask that or like to move to strike the entire jurypanel for cause because of the fact that Mr. Deck isshackled in front of the jury and makes them think that heis going to -- that he is violent today and going to do th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page something in the courtroom. And I read that, he's saying,of course, they can see it. MS. NIELD: Again, we -- JUSTICE BREYER: That doesn't say he can see it-- they can see it? MS. NIELD: I think that's an allegation bycounsel that that may be the case. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So has anybody said-- he said, Judge, I would like you to get rid of thisjury which happens to be looking at the shackles. Okay. Now, at that point, you have to do -- then isn't it up tothe prosecution to say, what do you mean looking at them? They can't see them. They're hidden. MS. NIELD: Well, recall at -- at this point thesequence is critical. By this time, defense counsel inhis voir dire questioning had already let the cat out ofthe bag. Either you do or will know that he's restrained. But by -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, are you taking theposition here that this record does not disclose that thebelly chains and the handcuffs and the other restraintswere not visible? MS. NIELD: Yes. I'm taking the position that we don't know from this record that they were visible. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: That there's nothing in the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page record to show that. MS. NIELD: That's right. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And you don't concede it. MS. NIELD: I do not. I do not concede it. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but your position would be precisely the same if the record made it perfectly clear that the jury could see everything, I think. MS. NIELD: I think the test would be the same. That's -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. MS. NIELD: That's true. JUSTICE STEVENS: So this is an alternative argument that you're making. MS. NIELD: That's true. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the State of Missouri is submitting to us the proposition that every defendant in every case can be shackled so long as it's not visible. And I -- I find that an extreme position because it's an indignity on the defendant and the defendant is entitled to dignity in a courtroom. MS. NIELD: Well, this points up the distinction in this case between guilt phase and penalty phase. And what we're talking about here and the rule that I am urging this Court to adopt relates to the penalty phase. And in the penalty phase, like Mr. Deck's, we have a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page person who's been convicted of murder. Now, in a guiltphase, certainly there are issues of presumption -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could he be forced to wearprison clothes once he's convicted and it's the sentencingphase? MS. NIELD: I think he possibly would be ableto, yes. Yes, I do because prison clothes identify thedefendant, and if a defendant is an escape risk, forexample, that would identify the defendant in case he were to bolt from the courtroom, for example. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no for examplehere because the court said, in answer to the lawyer'sobjection -- the -- the lawyer says, it prejudiced him -­prejudices him toward the jury and it makes him lookdangerous. The court's answer: the objection you'remaking will be overruled. He has been convicted and willremain in legirons and belly chain. The only thing thatwas relevant, according to the trial judge was he has beenconvicted. MS. NIELD: That is the only stated reason, thathe has been convicted. I think what that means is he's atwice convicted murderer. Of course, he's dangerous. Further, there are reasons spread upon thisrecord. And keep in mind the same judge from the penaltyphase retrial has been with this case from the beginning. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page There are reasons spread upon this record that justifyadditionally the use of restraints against Mr. Deck. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why? He went through theentire guilt phase with the more moderate restraints, justthe leg brace, and there was no incident. There was nodisturbance in that trial. He didn't try to lash out atanyone. Why wasn't that the best example of what onecould anticipate in the penalty phase? MS. NIELD: What you state is true, but by thetime of the penalty phase retrial, Mr. Deck's position, toparaphrase from Martinez v. Court of Appeal, had changeddramatically. He had already been convicted. Add to thathe had already pursued his direct appeal through theMissouri Supreme Court. JUSTICE STEVENS: Is the fact of convictioncritical for your point of view because it doesn't reallymatter if there's prejudice or that because there's no -­no danger of prejudice? MS. NIELD: I'm not sure I understand your question. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, do you concede that eventhough he had been convicted, it would, nevertheless, beprejudicial in the eyes of the jury to see a man shackledwhen one of the issues they'll have to decide is whetherhis future dangerousness might -- might justify his th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page execution? Do you think there is prejudice there, or doyou share Justice Scalia's view that it would be a goodthing for the defendant? MS. NIELD: I think it would depend. Somejurors might take away that the person -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: And if it depends, why wouldit not be appropriate to have a rule that the trial judgeshould be required to explain the basis for his decision? MS. NIELD: Certainly here it would have beensimpler had the trial court been a little wordier, andthat's not the case. That said, I think the test shouldbe, looking back, has the trial court done somethingthat's reasonable. And then to get into the prejudice issue, Ithink you have to look at the facts of this case. Interms of whether or not the restraint could prejudice Mr.Deck, one thing to look at is the defense that he offeredin mitigation. His defense in mitigation was not that hewas not a dangerous individual. It was not that thesemurders were an aberration -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but would you not agreethat it's always of relevance to a jury in decidingwhether the -- the man should be executed, is howdangerous is this guy? MS. NIELD: Yes, certainly juries can consider th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page that, and jury case law is in accord. But on the facts ofthis case, Mr. Deck's defense in mitigation was not thathe was a safe individual or, again, that the murder ofthese two people was an aberration in an otherwise saintlylife. That's not the case. The mitigation defense was that he did thesehorrible things. He is some -- a nefarious individual,but that he should not be sentenced to death because thatwasn't his fault. It was his parents' fault. They haddone a poor job in raising him. He had suffered difficultcircumstances growing up. So there's simply nointersection between the mitigation defense offered hereand whatever the jury might take away that might benegative from the fact that he was restrained. JUSTICE SOUTER: But the fact -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could they put him in a cage? MS. NIELD: Could they put Mr. Deck in a cage? I don't think so. Could they put -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: He's -- he's been convicted. We know he's dangerous. MS. NIELD: Right. JUSTICE STEVENS: It seems to me your argumentis much like arguing on the merits of the -- at theoriginal trial that his defense was alibi or somethinglike that, therefore you don't have to worry about the th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page prejudice that arises from the restraints. MS. NIELD: Well, I think in the penalty phase,we're looking at reliability. And -- and the bottom lineis restraining somebody who's twice been convicted ofmurder is not in any way unreliable or misleading. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but the bottom line fromthe other point of view is that shackles are alwaysprejudicial, and you try to have the scales evenlybalanced when you're deciding whether the man should die or not. MS. NIELD: In terms of making that decision,it's important to remember that Missouri has procedures inplace to channel, at the front end, the jury's decisionwhether or not to impose death. Among those areaggravating circumstances. And in this case theaggravating circumstances did not relate at all todangerousness or future dangerousness. In fact, inMissouri -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, the -- the statedaggravating circumstances didn't, but the point of -- onepoint of the argument is that by shackling the man in -­in this complete and visible way, you are creating theimpression that no one could fail to -- to perceive thatthis guy is so dangerous that they can't even depend uponcourtroom security either to protect him from the -­ th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page protect the jurors or courtroom personnel or to preventescape. That -- excuse me. That may not be a verbalargument about dangerousness, but it seems to me that itis an unmistakably visible one. What is your response tothat? MS. NIELD: Two responses to that. In terms ofthe dangerousness, again, this jury in particular knewthat Mr. Deck had been convicted of murder. They knewthat the choice they faced was both stark and veryserious: life without probation or parole or death. Andso to present Mr. Deck in restraints could hardly come asa shock. To the contrary, it might be confusing and causeconsternation to have a twice-convicted murderer sittingat counsel table no more restrained than counsel or thepeople in the courtroom. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we know why the judgeapparently changed his mind? Because if I remembercorrectly, at the pretrial hearing, the court said thatthe defendant would be allowed to, A, wear his own clothesand, B, to have leg braces underneath for security. Andthen sometime after that pretrial hearing, the judgeapparently changed his mind. Do we know what triggeredthat? MS. NIELD: We -- we do not. There is no record of any such pretrial hearing. The only way we know about th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page that is from allegations in the motion for new trial. Sothere is -- there is no record on that at all. If possible, I'd like to get back to the cagequestion, Justice Kennedy, that you posed. That's a -­that's an extreme form of restraint. Could that ever beused in a case? It's possible. But then I think we get into questions ofwhether or not the trial court's action was reasonable. And in looking at reasonableness, we can consider arethere other perhaps less visible, less dramatic forms ofrestraint that might do the job equally well. That's notto say, however, that a -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, how about the ones thatwere used on Mr. Deck during the trial? Was that analternative that was reasonable? MS. NIELD: I think it was an alternative inthis case, and the defense didn't proffer, at the time ofthe objection, anything that they thought that might beless. And I think the trouble comes in here -- again, Idon't believe a least restrictive alternatives approach isappropriate, but when you talk about least restrictive, Ithink it's sometimes difficult to tell what is lessrestrictive than something else because not allrestraints -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Well, in part it depends on th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page whose burden it is. Is it the burden of the State, if they're going to use shackles, to somehow establish that it's needed? MS. NIELD: I think -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Or do you take the position that they're free to impose shackles in every case, even a traffic offense, if the prosecutor wishes to do it, without any justification? That's your position apparently. MS. NIELD: Well, I think if it's non-visible restraints -- right. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Is that right? MS. NIELD: I -- I don't think that's -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Is that your position? MS. NIELD: No. I don't think that's precisely JUSTICE O'CONNOR: No? MS. NIELD: I think if it's non-visible restraints, we have a non-issue. If the jury doesn't see it, it doesn't really matter. That's -- that's -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: That's not my question, and -- and it relates to what is the burden of the State in these situations to use the visible restraints? MS. NIELD: The burden is for the State to show that the restraints were reasonable, were not completely th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page out of proportion -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: And where in this record do I find that the State carried that burden -­ MS. NIELD: The record -­ JUSTICE O'CONNOR: -- and that there was a finding by the trial judge on it? MS. NIELD: There was not a finding per se, but the facts of this case, spread upon the record, support the use of restraints in this case. JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Could you point me to places in the record where it supports your position on the use of the visible restraint? MS. NIELD: Yes. Mr. Deck had an aiding escape conviction that was presented to the jury. There was the attempted escape that Justice Scalia referred to. Or excuse me. He referred to the -- the suicide -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Had that not occurred before he was even tried? MS. NIELD: That had, yes. Yes, that's true. JUSTICE STEVENS: And what were the facts of the aiding escape? Was he trying to get away or was he helping somebody? MS. NIELD: He was assisting somebody. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, what did he do? Draw a map or what? th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page (Laughter.) MS. NIELD: He -- he had a saw blade and heassisted these other individuals in sawing their way out. So there's that, both a conviction -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Which really has very littleprobative value on this issue. I mean, the fact that hetried to saw his way out of a cell hardly speaks to therisk of fleeing from the courtroom while the proceedingsare going on. MS. NIELD: I -- I must disagree. I think ifhe's aiding other people in escape, he himself tried toremove the glass from the window when he was held in jailprior to trial by removing the caulking. If he is willingto escape in those circumstances, what's to say he's notwilling to escape in the Jefferson County courtroom? JUSTICE GINSBURG: So we already know that -­that that effort was made before he was tried in the guiltphase. MS. NIELD: That's true. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And whatever inference youmight draw, it didn't prove out. So it seems to me the -­the closest in time is the -- and -- and in fact is theepisode he's just been through, the trial episode. So whywouldn't that be -- the -- the judge would start with thatin mind. Well, I tried this man and he didn't give me any th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page problems, so I have no reason to anticipate problems now. MS. NIELD: That's true. But again, we alsohave the fact that he had -- between the initial penaltyphase and the penalty phase retrial, Mr. Deck had pursuedhis direct and post-conviction appeals. They had not beensuccessful on the issue of guilt. The issue of guilt isdone. He's a twice-convicted murderer. And he knew thatat that time. Furthermore, we have the fact that the firstjury in the penalty phase found one of the six aggravatingcircumstances -- actually they found all, but one of themwas that Mr. Deck killed in order to avoid lawful arrest. He has convictions on his record, and at the time thathe killed the Longs, he knew that if I leave witnesses andthey can identify me and I go to prison for breaking intotheir house and stealing money, I will not be leavingprison. So that was a factor as well. That was a factoras well. JUSTICE BREYER: If -- if there are some factorsthat favor putting him in shackles and I guess othersmight not, what's the argument that the judge shouldn't atleast have to make a finding? MS. NIELD: Again, the question isreasonableness. We don't have a finding here, and itwould certainly have been helpful. But -- th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you know, I realize youwant to save the conviction and the penalty, but if youlook at the mine run of cases, it's pretty hard for me tosee how the State could show special circumstances andthey not get a finding from the judge that they're right. MS. NIELD: We don't -­ JUSTICE BREYER: It's pretty hard to see an argument against it. MS. NIELD: We don't -­ JUSTICE BREYER: I know that hurts your case,but I -- I still need to think of some argument or reasonwhy the judge shouldn't have to at least make a finding. MS. NIELD: Right. Findings would certainly behelpful, but again, the question is whether or not whatthe trial court did is reasonable, not if what he did wasperfect. If conspicuous on this record, we have factorslike an attempted escape, aiding others in escaping, thefact that he killed to avoid lawful arrest, the fact thatbetween his initial penalty phase and the retrial he hadpursued his remedies. With all these facts, can we reallysay that the trial court was on the side ofunreasonableness versus reasonableness? Do we have towait for Mr. Deck to actually have an outburst? Or itcould be something where it's an -- an issue of thespectators in the courtroom. There could be many things. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page It could be an issue of what the particular confines ofthe Jefferson County courthouse are and whether or notit's set up in such a way as to avoid escape and things ofthat nature. JUSTICE GINSBURG: With a -- with a blank record-- the -- the State is going to restrain someone and itmay be necessary, it may be not, and if the State has theburden, then why shouldn't a reviewing court speculate onwhat might have been when the only thing that was -­appears of record is he's been convicted and will remainin legirons? The only reason the court gave is that nowthings have changed. He's no longer in the guilt phasewhere he enjoys the presumption of innocence. He has beenconvicted and, therefore, we can keep him in chains. There's nothing situation-specific about it. The judgeseems to be saying once a person is convicted, at least ofmurder, it's fair game. It's -- it's permissible to keephim in legirons and shackles. MS. NIELD: I think that's what the court saidhere. However, it's important to remember that thedefendant has a burden to establish a constitutionalviolation. And further, the colloquy of the court andcounsel was such that counsel said, look, these restraintsmake him look dangerous. And the court, by saying he'sbeen convicted, said, well, he is dangerous. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page Now, if there were other objections to therestraints, for example, that he was unable to communicatewith counsel because his hand was not free and he couldn'twrite notes or if the restraints were causing him pain orif the restraints, the way they were set up, were causinghim to have difficulty facing the jury perhaps -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Ms. Nield, is -- is the Statemaking a harmless error argument here? I really couldn'ttell from your brief whether you're doing it or not. Are-- are -- is the State asserting that assuming it -­assuming it was wrong, assuming it was a violation, thisjury would have -- would have come out the same wayanyway? MS. NIELD: That's right. That's true. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is that? MS. NIELD: First of all, again, the defense inmitigation was essentially that Mr. Deck is dangerous, butwe ought to spare him the penalty of death because of hispoor upbringing. And that defense in mitigation does notintersect or have any sort of nexus with any sort ofpresumptions that jurors might draw. JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what specificaggravating circumstances did they jury find? You saythere are statutory aggravating circumstances in Missouri. MS. NIELD: That's correct. th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page JUSTICE SCALIA: And the jury found -- there arefive. MS. NIELD: There were -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And the jury found all five. MS. NIELD: Actually there were six -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Six. MS. NIELD: -- that were pled in this case andthe jury found all six. And they are as follows. Themurders were each committed while he was engaged inanother homicide. He murdered each victim for the purposeof receiving money. Both murders involved depravity ofmind. Each murder was committed for the purpose ofavoiding lawful arrest. Each murder was committed whileMr. Deck was engaged in the perpetration of a burglary,and each murder was committed while Mr. Deck was engagedin the perpetration of robbery. So, again, none of these factors -- there's nonexus between these factors, which are really implicit inthe guilt finding -- no nexus between these aggravatingcircumstances that render Mr. Deck death-eligible and anysort of dangerousness that the jurors might take away fromthe fact that he was restrained. Once you get past the death-eligibility hurdlewith the aggravating circumstances, then comes the EighthAmendment concerns about reliable and accurate sentencing th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page in the selection decision, the decision that's one of a moral nature of whether this person should be put to death. And on that front, again, restraining somebody who's twice been convicted of murder is not inaccurate, it is not unreliable, it's not misleading in any way. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so it's never ground for reversal? I'm -- I'm wondering, in line with Justice Scalia's question, is -- is -- would the calculus be, well, this is not a close case and some other cases are closer? I mean, is that what we do? MS. NIELD: I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your -- your -- I -- I think first position at least would be that it's never prejudicial. But assume we don't agree with that. MS. NIELD: I think -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: How does harmless error work to -- to pursue Justice Scalia's line of questioning? MS. NIELD: I think in terms of harmless error, that would be our second position, but the first position here is that a constitutional violation has not been established. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand that. MS. NIELD: And where that's the case, you look at the totality. JUSTICE SCALIA: But answer his question. Give th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page him an example of where it -- it wouldn't be harmlesserror. MS. NIELD: Where it wouldn't? JUSTICE SCALIA: Assuming that it is aviolation, what's an example of where it wouldn't beharmless error? MS. NIELD: An example of where it might not beharmless error is where the defendant's defense inmitigation is focused specifically on dangerousness orfuture dangerousness. For example, if the defense inmitigation is I committed these murders, but I'm very sicknow, I'm feeble, I'm not going to pose any sort of threatto anybody inside or outside the prison walls, if thedefense in mitigation relates to danger. Or, for example,if the defense in mitigation was that while incarcerated,the person had found religion and realized the error ofhis or her ways and was no longer inclined to do thesethings and felt remorse, that again might relate. JUSTICE SCALIA: Or I suppose if futuredangerousness was a specific aggravating factor underState law, as it is in Texas, for example -­ MS. NIELD: Correct. That would make a difference. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- then -- then you would concede that if this was unlawful, the error clearly would th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page not be harmless. MS. NIELD: That could certainly make adifference there. That's correct. Or another example of where the defense inmitigation might intersect more with the dangerousnessissue. In the Simmons line of cases, in one of the casesthe defense was that the particular defendant had aproclivity for attacking elderly women and that was thenature of his crime. But in prison there were no elderlywomen, and so he would not pose a danger to anyone outsidethe prison walls if incarcerated for life, nor would hepose a danger to other prisoners because they were notelderly women. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the question herewas, was he dangerous in the courtroom? Was he going tolash out at a witness or try to -­ MS. NIELD: I think that's the question when thetrial court looks at the restraints issue, but Mr. Deck issaying that this impaired the reliability of hissentencing under the Eighth Amendment. And there, we dolook at these other kinds of issues. It's not whether hewould be dangerous in the courtroom. That's the trialcourt decision at the front end under the EighthAmendment, and when we look at reliability, is thissomething that is going to impel the jury to impose a th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page death sentence based upon whim or caprice orarbitrariness. And we would submit that it is not. Again, to restrain somebody who's convicted ofkilling not one, but two people, to do that does not sendthe jury irrevocably down the path of giving death. Andthat points up the prosecutor's argument in this case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he -- if he were keptunder these restraints, legirons and the -- what do theycall it -- belly chain, day in and day out in prison, would that constitute cruel or unusual punishment? MS. NIELD: It could. It could. And it woulddepend upon the prison security. The difference being, inprison, he's already confined versus outside the prisonwalls. It -- it could present a problem. In one of theSpain cases, the -- the neck restraint was deemed to becruel and unusual, and particularly if it's ongoing, ifit's -- if it occurs for a lengthy period of time. But, of course, we don't have that here and wehave not a prison context but a context of a local, ruralcourtroom where the trial judge has to make sure that thepeople in that courtroom, the personnel, the spectators,the jurors, that they are safe. And we would submit thatunder the facts of this case, that that trial court'sdecision was not unreasonable. The Missouri Supreme Court was correct in its th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page analysis and it should be affirmed. JUSTICE STEVENS: Thank you, Ms. Nield. Ms. Percival, you have about and a half minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROSEMARY E. PERCIVAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. PERCIVAL: Thank you, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could -- could you comment on whether or not there's harmful error here? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, Your Honor. This constitutional violation was not harmless for a number of reasons. For one, character was the key consideration inthe jury's analysis of whether this person should live ordie. The court is saying that even years after thiscrime occurred, that Carman Deck is so dangerous that heneeds to be in both belly chain and legirons to keep thecourtroom safe, to keep him there. The court is sayingthat he's dangerous in the courtroom, that he remainsdangerous and therefore he -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you asking us to say thatin light of six aggravating factors on which he wasconvicted, the result likely would have been different? MS. PERCIVAL: Yes, I am, Your Honor. And that's because there's -- that is the -- just the first th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page step of the Missouri procedure. The jury then goes tostep two, by which they look at both statutory aggravatorsand nonstatutory aggravators to decide whether death iswarranted. At step three, they then weigh the mitigationagainst the aggravation. The Missouri Supreme Court itself in the firstappeal stated that Deck had presented substantialmitigation about his horribly abusive childhood. And it's not accurate that the defense was onlyrelated to his -- his childhood. In closing arguments,defense counsel repeatedly argued that Deck deserved to bein prison because of what he had done, but that he wouldbe safe in prison. There would be no risk that he wouldhurt anybody else. So that was part of the defensestrategy. These restraints were -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: That was at this trial or at the first trial, that -­ MS. PERCIVAL: This trial. He made that argument at this trial. These restraints were visible throughout thetrial. There were recesses, at which time Deck wouldhave had to stand up when both the jurors leave the courtand come back in. The shackles dehumanized Deck and it degraded th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page the dignity of the courtroom. Prison clothing does notrelate to character, and shackles directly relate tocharacter, which is so key in the death analysis. It was not reasonable to impose these excessiverestraints after Deck had behaved appropriately at -- atnumerous proceedings prior to this. And for these reasons, we would ask the Court tofind that there was a constitutional violation -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask one quick question? MS. PERCIVAL: Sure. JUSTICE STEVENS: Does the record tell us how big he was? MS. PERCIVAL: No, it does not, Your Honor. Sorry. JUSTICE STEVENS: Okay. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above­ entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W., Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Page 