 v. IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Tuesday, April , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x RICHARD IRIZARRY, : :: No. - UNITED STATES. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondent. PETER B. RUTLEDGE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for amicus curiae, support of the judgement below; Appointed by this Court. The above-entitled matter came on for oral ARTHUR J. MADDEN, III, ESQ., Mobile, Ala.; on behalf of the Petitioner. C O N T E N T S PAGE As amicus curiae, support of the judgement below On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR J. MADDEN, III, ESQ. PETER B. RUTLEDGE, ESQ. ARTHUR J. MADDEN, III, ESQ. Mr. Madden. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR J. MADDEN, III ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER This is a sentencing process case. The P R O C E E D I N G S MR. MADDEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, Irizarry versus United States. please the Court: first step of the sentencing process described by the Court in Rita, as noticed, broke down in this case. The Petitioner first learned that the district court contemplated a non-Guideline sentence when it was sentence were not noticed and the issues were, therefore, not litigated. The government here agrees that the lack of notice was error and advocates notices for all sentences outside the Guidelines. This is the correct result. Because it's only through notice can the sentencing court subject a defendant's sentence to the thorough adversarial testing contemplated by Federal sentencing procedure.pronounced. The grounds for that statutory maximum That quote comes from Rita and relies upon The position of the Amicus --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may not have had is, well, if he took his medication, it wouldn't be a problem, I assume you would have prepared for that. rules (f), (h), (i), and a decision of this Court in United States versus Burns. That law controls the decision in this case. notice of the issue of whether or not an alternative procedure and medication audit would help, but you certainly knew that future dangerousness was going to be on the table. And if you had a response to that, which suggested -- the Guidelines departure which is suggested in the last paragraph of the pre-sentence report, is departure. The concerns raised by that are completely different than the grounds on which the court departed. So, no, that wasn't adequate notice. in terms of what issues might suggest themselves to a judge sentencing this particularly defendant, I would have thought future dangerousness. I mean, you have an individual who has leveled particular threats with some degree of certainty that he intends to pursue them, I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, yeah, I -- but MR. MADDEN: The -- the -- the notice that very specific. It is directed toward the A. would have thought that would have been one of the first MR. MADDEN: Well, it was looked at in the of acceptance of responsibility. But both look at things a sentencing judge would look at. context of the sixth level enhancement for intent to carry out the threat, and it did come up in the context different issues than the ground that the sentence was ultimately -- the -- the upward non-Guideline sentence was ultimately imposed on. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you know this -- this provision (h), really doesn't -- does simply not work with post-Booker guidelines. You either have to say it was designed for a different regime, and therefore, has no effect now after Booker, or else you have to expand it beyond what it says, because may depart from the under the mandatory guidelines, they were identified grounds for departure. And you had some -- the court could look at those and say, gee, am I going to pick one of these, if so I'll let him know. But you can depart now simply on the ground that you don't agree with the -- with what the Guidelines say as -- is that what you would call a ground of departure? It's simply a ground of disagreement, I would suppose. Why shouldn't we hold (h) simply. applicable sentencing range on a ground not identified, departures. MR. MADDEN: Yes, sir. I think first it counter-intuitive. But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it is Simply has no -- no application under the new system? Or at least hold that all it applies to are departures within the meaning of the old mandatory guidelines system? Which is a much narrower category of would seem to make -- it would not make sense to demand notice for a finite range of factors, but no notice for a potentially broader one. That seems counter-intuitive to provide -- to -- to require notice when the number of grounds is finite. But if the number of grounds is infinite, I'm much less inclined to read MR. MADDEN: But the -- the decision of -- in Burns, I think, answers the question because unless there's -- if a party is not focused -- and generally the parties' papers and the PSR will focus the issues. sentencing consideration that's important enough to drive the sentence up or down is raised, in order to have adversarial testing of that important issue, there has to be some kind of notice. And it's not -- variance is not what we're calling a variance, a non-Guidelines But in the few cases where -- where an extraneous it as even applicable to the situation. appellant, gave notice that they were going to be system? JUSTICE SCALIA: Post-Booker the guidelines are advisory, and the district judge has discretion as sentence is not a pure exercise in policy even in Kimbrough. That was a policy disagreement but it was driven by facts, and the defendant in that case, the challenging it, and -- and there was a factual presentation. So the record was in the right shape to make the policy determination. to the sentence. Now, in the bad old days, when the statute said to , and the judge decided to give you , he didn't have to give you notice of why he was giving you is closer to that, why should we interpret (h) as imposing a very difficult to comply with requirement that didn't exist under the -- under the pre-pre-Booker it -- it's important -- the requirement is essential for purposes of advocacy on the issues. Burns -- Burns MR. MADDEN: I remember that system. I think the -- the answer is that -- that the highest sentence. And now that we've returned to a system that reflects the Court's understanding again of what from further crimes of the defendant. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the district court Now, this Court had to make some excisions Congress intended in the Sentencing Reform Act. They said Congress intended notice and litigation. on Sixth Amendment grounds in what Congress -- what Congress could do, but their intent hasn't changed. in this case had said I'm considering an above-Guidelines sentence based on facts that are in the record in the pre-sentence report to protect the public backward from what the comment -- the explanation of the sentence at the end backwards to what the grounds were and the notice should have been, her finding was that --that he would continue to be a threat regardless of the Would that be adequate notice? MR. MADDEN: No. Not on the grounds here. It's closer. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would have been? MR. MADDEN: I think -- I think --JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how much time -- this It's close. is two questions; time question and the content question. What would she have had to say to comply with the rule as you read it? MR. MADDEN: Yes, Your Honor. Reading it To say if there is nothing other than question is: Is there any lesser sentence than maximum JUSTICE ALITO: You seem to be requiring a very specific kind of notice, almost as if the district supervision we are under. That was the key. maximum incapacitation which will prevent him from being a danger in the future, if that was the issue, if the extra incapacitation, then everyone could have litigated, that would have been the issue that was on the table. court has to say this is the sentence that I'm considering, and these are the exact reasons that I'm considering; now what do you have to say about that. MR. MADDEN: Yes. And I think that goes JUSTICE ALITO: Is that what you're asking? MR. MADDEN: -- content -- it needs to be specific -- it needs to be specific enough so that the facts that get litigated are the ones that are non-Guidelines sentence. JUSTICE ALITO: But why would the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a complex answer. And I -- this seems to me to be a clear case of what was with the Justice's second question. ultimately recited by the court for the reason for the in the judge's mind. She said I have a record here of I have seen this person, he appeared before That's -- her reasoning process is not at repeated e-mails to this woman, threatening to kill her, threatening to kill her new husband, threatening to kill her mother. He did it again and again and again. me. It is my educated prediction that he will do it again. So I'm going to put him away for as long as I can. all mysterious. What notice is the defendant lacking? MR. MADDEN: I think if -- if she would have said something to the effect that -- and this sometimes happens during the course of a sentencing, that's a different issue -- but here's what's on my mind. I'm concerned that only extra prison time, incapacitation for as long as I can give him, will do the job of protecting society. What do you have to say about that? If that was the -- now isn't the written, formal, this is during the context of the sentencing -- something like, "Judge, there's -- there is psychiatric evidence or psychological evidence that's developed that I'd like to put on bearing on that issue in light of the report from Buttner, the new report that just came into the record right before the sentencing, that goes the way it comes out, then the response would be the judge saying he's going to do it again. I think that's how that -- that's how it should have played out. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why -- why isn't that an MR. MADDEN: The --JUSTICE SOUTER: She quoted and summarized directly to the issue of amenability to treatment; and you're concerned that only maximum incapacitation will address the issue. equally response to what Justice Ginsburg just gave as a recitation of what the what the judge had said. MR. MADDEN: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: Anybody knows that what the judge is getting at is I'm going to put him away as long or just as much a -- a stimulus to the response that you want to give, as your reformulation of the -- of the issue? same paragraph, was -- and, and therefore, it's a -month sentence. notice didn't --as I can put him away. Isn't that just as much notice MR. MADDEN: Yes, and that goes to the timing question. When she said that, the next -- in the That -- that discussion didn't occur -- the JUSTICE SOUTER: So it's not the question of it would have made a difference. JUSTICE SCALIA: What is she supposed to do? JUSTICE SCALIA: And there's --MR. MADDEN: Usually. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a pre-sentence report notice; it's the question of time to respond. MR. MADDEN: At that point it was explanation, it explanation of what she was doing, not notice of what she was going to do at a time when Usually there -- there's just one sentencing hearing, right? which both parties have. And sometimes there are witnesses who come in. Sometimes the injured parties or the relatives of the deceased party come in; and -- and proceeding. be so precise as to what particular matters induce her to -- to raise this sentence here? recess? Or maybe reschedule the sentencing for -- for a week later so that the judge can decide in detail what particular factors motivate her? MR. MADDEN: I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you going to have a MR. MADDEN: I think in -- in the vast usually the sentence is imposed at the end of that Now when is -- when is the judge supposed to JUSTICE SCALIA: Now if it is in the MR. MADDEN: Yes. And that's typically -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as it is in the to rely on this aspect of the pre-sentence report? there. Those are usually identified in the pre-sentence majority of cases, and the government concedes this in the brief or acknowledges it, that while there are infinite number of variables that lurk in every case, practically, there are not that many that are actually report which you have way in advance or in advance. There are -- the parties have a duty to identify the issues that are going to be litigated; and that's done. pre-sentence report, is that enough notice? pre-sentence notice the judge doesn't have to say I plan majority of cases that's what occurs. And then the parties have a duty to interject issues that they think ought to drive the Guidelines or non-guidelines either way. And the bar is actually getting better at that than when this occurred in picking up on (a) factors, and I think the problem is actually going to MR. MADDEN: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. MADDEN: No, because in the vast CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the defendant MR. MADDEN: Usually, the interests, of course, are different. The -- the interests of the defendant in --government and I suppose to the judge, saying at the --at the sentencing hearing, we're going to say this? So the judge can get ready for it? Or the government can get ready for it? become lesser over time. So only in the extraordinary cases -- and Burns was an extraordinary case -- where an issue that is important to the judge isn't flagged in the papers --does the duty arise to let -- let the parties know what considerations they should focus their attention on, so that they can be litigated. have an obligation to give notice, both to the in a lower sentence, I think, is different than defending against a higher -- a higher sentence; but yes, I think it is appropriate. to the judge. But I think the parties in their positions are required by the local rule in the Southern District of Alabama and the Federal rule generally to put their -- their positions in writing in advance of the hearing. I think our rule, I believe, is seven And the rule says -- rule (h) only speaks CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about the point MR. MADDEN: It is -- you know, as a they are. So the only -- it's only the residual issues So that when the judge, before getting ready made by Chief Judge Boudin in his recent opinion, is days. to sentence, looks at the issues, the people with the heightened interest in them have already identified what that are picked up by rule . It occurs very infrequently in practice. that now that we look more carefully at the factors, counsel has to come in prepared to address all of those? practical matter, it is extremely wasteful. It does not promote focused advocacy. The sentences that are going to come out of that kind of system won't be on a developed record. The sentences in the aggregate will be less reliable for purpose of evolution of the notice I think are in -- notice is important not only for the individual defendant but there's institutional interests as well.guidelines. There's -- there are -- the reasons for It's a -- it's a fairly rarely occurring JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not what it meant when MR. MADDEN: Well, the Court in Rita, which departure -- phenomenon where rule (h) comes into play. The rule as written doesn't demand any changes. It is a matter of interpretation. And the Sentencing Commission itself defines a departure as any non-Guidelines sentence. That fits within the literal language of rule (h). This Court doesn't have to decide this case. (h) was promulgated. was after Booker, discussed in fact, the sentencing court, applying the Guidelines in individual cases, may depart either pursuant to the Guidelines or since Booker by imposing a non-Guidelines sentence. The word JUSTICE SCALIA: You could apply departure to post-Booker; but at the time this rule was adopted, departure did not consist of that; it consisted of something much more narrow. MR. MADDEN: It -- it had a narrower meaning but -- but the rule (h) was to implement the structure of rule , that's what Burns said. And -- rule (h), as Justice Scalia suggests, the (a) factors, when we know that the rule makers did make a JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why should we put into dealing just with the guidelines. Why couldn't the change in ? That is they put (a) into (d)()(F); so they made a change there and they said the judge could ask to have these things included in the pre-sentence report; but they left (H) looking like it's Court say well, we didn't put in (h), and so it's not there? MR. MADDEN: Well, I don't think that that answers the question, because under the prior structure of the rule, the pre-sentencing was supposed to set out all of the factors and (h) was just -- just a stopgap. The provision that came in in December of ' that says that the court can request other factors, I think is just that an authorization to the probation officer to look at -- to look at other factors and to think more broadly. But I don't think that should be read as limiting the scope of (h) simply to what would be traditional guideline departures. time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Roberts. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. ROBERTS If I could, I'd reserve the balance of my ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. ROBERTS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Rule requires the district court to defined in the Guidelines. please the Court: provide notice before any departure from the Guidelines range based on a ground not previously identified by the PSR of the parties, including a departure based on the factors in section (a). Non-Guideline sentences under section (a) fall squarely within the term departure, both as defined in the dictionary and as JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why shouldn't this rule be dealt with by further rulemaking? It is very clear that when (h) was adopted, departure had a specific meaning under the Guidelines. And what we're rulemakers at that time. raises different problems, and there are issues regarding the specificity of the notice that's required and the timing of the notice. Why shouldn't this be dealt with by further rulemaking when those -- where those things can be handled in a comprehensive way rather than by the haphazard development of case law by the courts of appeals if we agree with your position.talking about now was not contemplated at all by the MR. ROBERTS: First of all, as enacted rule Now, applying (a) in this situation MR. ROBERTS: No. JUSTICE ALITO: There would be MR. ROBERTS: No. They were focused on the fact is that they required notice of all -- that -- (h) requires notice of all deviations from the Guidelines range, and by its plain terms it continues to do that. But -- JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying --MR. ROBERTS: Either way -- JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying that if they had in mind at the time that Booker might be coming down the road. non-Guidelines variances from the Sentencing Guidelines. Guidelines authorized departures because those were the only ones that were legally authorized at the time. But that -- that they were requiring notice of all deviations that were available. Now they should require notice -- at a minimum, rule (h) is still there and it continues to apply to traditional departures. committee is currently considering whether or not to change this, right? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. It -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nobody in that process has suggested, well, it's too bad you've already CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The rules advisory MR. ROBERTS: Well, yes. One of the -- they One of the things that the advisory So that might have been one of the reasons that some people in the conference were reluctant to decided this in (h)? have, Your Honor. committee stated that it was going to consider was -- was lower court decisions on the question -- on the question of whether notice -- the current text of rule (h) requires notice to be given. adopt an amendment. Another reason was that they knew that the courts were considering the question, and many people expressed concern that an amendment was premature, that the -- that the conference should await CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A lot of judges objected to the idea they would adopt the position you're urging here. other -- some judges expressed support for that interpretation, and there were varying reasons that were motivating different people in the conference to take the position that the conference should wait.further guidance from the courts and from this Court. object to that. But others -- as I said, there were MR. ROBERTS: That's true. Some judges did The fact is -- and so the Court shouldn't MR. ROBERTS: I don't think so, because Court does and what the courts to. And we would be kind of jumping the gun and short circuiting that process. construe from the failure to enact an amendment just like the Court is reluctant to construe from the failure to amend a statute that the current provision doesn't require notice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not inferring from the failure to act. It is just a recognition that these things are looked at very carefully by the rules committees and they look at it in a broad way and take in all the information. We know they're doing that now. they've -- they've referred it back to the subcommittee and said they want to wait and see what -- what this like in that circumstance it makes sense for you to wait for them. rule requires. However you interpret that it doesn't circumvent the rulemaking process -- question about the rule: It says before the court may depart from the applicable sentencing range on a ground So, they're waiting for you. Doesn't seem But however you interpret the current rule -- and the question before you is what the current JUSTICE KENNEDY: May I ask you this don't identify --pre-sentencing report? MR. ROBERTS: No. I think that the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, could the not identified for departure. Can a pre-sentence report say possible grounds for departure are as follows, and then list them? Or does this, in your view, mean that "identified for departure" means as recommended by the pre-sentence report doesn't actually have to recommend it. The pre-sentence report -- and they generally have a section that does this although, although often they pre-sentencing report just list a series of -- a whole series of factors saying these are possible grounds for departure? Would that comply with the rule? MR. ROBERTS: I mean, at a certain point it wouldn't, but if it listed more than one as a possible ones and they were identified with sufficient specificity to enable --dangerousness -- future dangerousness be something that could be put in the report and that would cover these -- MR. ROBERTS: Yes. It -- it -- it certainly could, Your Honor. And the PSR here includes -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the latest thing JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would future we're talking about very much. possibility. JUSTICE SCALIA? What if the ground is I MR. ROBERTS: That's required. No. But what -- what it does show is that this is a possibility that an out of Guidelines sentence is a possibility and this is the ground on which it is a just simply believe that the Guidelines' recommendation for arson when there are people in the building is simply too low? Okay? You give notice of that. What good is giving notice of that going to do? Is too low. Isn't too low. Is too low. Isn't too low. I mean -- determination of the judge's gut feeling of what is MR. ROBERTS: The parties -- the parties would be able to focus on that and try to inform the judge's decision on that. But that's not the only kind of -- that's not the only kind of ground on which a court might vary, and that may not be one for which advance notice would be particularly helpful, but there are many on which it is. recently confronted, for example? We had a case in MR. ROBERTS: The parties can -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's almost, you know, a condign punishment for a particular -- If I can give an example of a case we which a judge imposed probation on a defendant who was We hadn't presented any evidence on JUSTICE GINSBURG: Couldn't you have asked available treatment programs, but we certainly would convicted of soliciting child pornography because the judge was under the belief that prison couldn't provide the necessary treatment. have done that if we had had notice that the court was contemplating varying on that ground. And because we didn't do that, there was no adversary presentation of that. at the hearing, couldn't you ask the judge: Judge, please have a continuance here because you have taken us by surprise and we'd like to offer some evidence that you -- that might influence you? certainly do that. But that's an after the -- you know, that would be an after-the-fact situation. What -- what rule is trying to do is set up a procedure so that in every case, in every case you get the adversarial JUSTICE GINSBURG: When? I asked Mr. Madden and didn't get a precise answer: When does this notice have to be given? We're told that the court itself did not get the full sentencing packet until seven days MR. ROBERTS: You could -- we could presentation on the grounds --before the hearing. Now, in the vast majority, all but the most So when must this notice be given and how MR. ROBERTS: Well, it's -- it's a much does it have to say? context-specific question. The question is, is the notice reasonable, which means it has to give the parties enough time to present the adversarial process on the question. unusual cases notice a day or two in advance would be specific. And in many cases, notice that the hearing itself would be sufficient. that the hearing itself would certainly have been sufficient; but -- but the -- the reasons, Your Honor, that we said that the -- that harmless. First of all, the PSR had already identified a possible departure on a very similar ground. dangerousness was central to the victim impact testimony They're talking about an expert and all that. He's not going to be hanging around the courthouse. of his wife who had notice was going to testify. He it's failure to give notice of a variance here was I think in this case, for example, notice CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can that be? MR. ROBERTS: Well, several reasons; for all Second of all, the Petitioner's future In addition, it was central to dispute --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that all goes MR. ROBERTS: No, Your Honor. But I think knew from the PSR what she was going to say. potential adjustment to the Guidelines' range. So, his future dangerousness was -- -- that all goes to the harmless error question. Is that the only time in which notice at the sentencing hearing is going to be adequate? in this circumstance, for example, there would be -- another example would be often if the victim impact testimony -- there hadn't been identified as a potential ground for departure on it, but the judge heard victim impact testimony, but the defendant knew the victim was going to testify, had the general sense it and the judge when it heard -- when she heard it decided, wow, you know, this really makes me think I should take it out of the sentence, I think that because the -- because the defendant knew that the testimony was going to be there, would probably be sufficient to give notice at that time then. in allocution -- lack of remorse in allocution that's another example where I think, you know, notice at the knew the gist of it and was prepared to respond to it, For instance, if the judge relied on remorse pre-sentence report, and, you know, stuff from the trial MR. ROBERTS: Well, judges -- JUDGE SCALIA: -- decide it a week in hearings. And the notice requirement has not been JUSTICE SCALIA: In a lot of cases, though, I doubt it. MR. ROBERTS: The judges are reviewing the hearing would pretty much -- it will be impossible for judges to make their determination the night before, take home the and focus on the next morning's sentencing hearing. advance. Do judges do that, decide a week in advance? material. I don't think they are doing it a week in advance. They're getting the material a week in advance. They are reviewing it before the sentencing unduly burdensome for traditional departures -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're really asking them to sentence first and hearing afterward. purpose of the hearing is to find out what factors are pertinent and all that. You're asking the judge to come to that determination before the hearing. MR. ROBERTS: No, they don't --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe the whole MR. ROBERTS: That -- it is true that they go into the hearing with an open mind, but it's also JUSTICE ALITO: How specific does the notice Petitioner's counsel explained, in the vast majority of have to be? I take it it's not enough just to recite one of the (a) factors. true that before the hearing, they're going to have some sense based on the written materials that they've reviewed and based on the parties' identifications of what they think the appropriate sentence is. As cases, the PSR, the parties are already going to identify the potential grounds for a variance, and so it's very few cases that there's going to be a ground that's going to come out -- MR. ROBERTS: Well, at a minimum, the court would have to identify the relevant (a) factor. I the particular factor, the record in the case. Again, the test is to ensure that they focus adversarial presentation. If it's a really an open-ended factor, like the nature and circumstances of the offense and the defendant's characteristics, obviously more is going to be required. here? think then what more is required depends a little bit on JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what was required MR. ROBERTS: Here I think it would have been sufficient for the judge to say. I'm contemplating CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you disagree with MR. ROBERTS: Yes. We don't think that the Petitioner on the specificity of notice required? a variance under section (a)()(C), based on the fact that Petitioner's conduct indicates that he is likely to commit future crimes. notice of the specific fact on which the court is going to rely is required. That would start to make the notice requirement unworkable, but I don't think that's how it's been interpreted, to require the very specific facts in the departure context. The same situation, the parallel thing applies here. As I was going to say before on the burdensomeness, it hasn't been burdensome, unduly really isn't any reason to think that it would be different for here. that we're were talking about, the key fact is rule (h) does indisputably require notice for traditional departures. And a notice requirement for variances is essential to prevent evisceration of that notice requirement because a court can always impose the same -- use a variance to impose the same sentence that it could have imposed as a Guidelines departure. burdensome, to require notice for traditional, and there And to get back to something earlier as well And notices of variances is also necessary So that notice requirement, which is still in the rule, is going to basically become meaningless unless the word "departure" is given it full scope and construed to include variances. for the focused adversarial testing that rule requires for the reason the Court said in Burns. If the parties don't know what the potential grounds for a non-Guidelines sentence are, then what they're likely to to have adversarial testing of that issue. understand it. Why couldn't that issue have been adequately discussed at a hearing in which there was no particular notice, but at the end of the hearing the judge said, this is what I'm planning to do because I'm worried that they won't get treatment in prison and so do is either address the possibility of an above-Guidelines sentence in a random and wasteful way by trying to conceive of every possible grounds or they're just not going to address it at all, like in the example that I gave before when we just didn't address the potential variance based on prison not providing --being able to provide the appropriate treatment. And it's still important, even after Booker, JUSTICE STEVENS: Could we go back to the example for just a minute? I want to be sure I fully MR. ROBERTS: Well, what we would have liked to do is bring in people to explain to the judge these forth? Well, wouldn't the government have had an opportunity to then say, Judge, you overlooked this fact? And wouldn't all involved in the hearing? are the programs that are available. This is -- done that? MR. ROBERTS: That's how it works. Well, I think the lawyer probably could have said we have -- we have treatments and they work. But then the judge said -- judge thought was that there were no available you're wrong. MR. ROBERTS: That -- you know, it might have dissuaded the judge there, but it didn't give us JUSTICE STEVENS: But wouldn't -- MR. ROBERTS: -- well, based on this --JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, that solves the problem because the judge apparently was operating under a misunderstanding of facts. treatments that would work. And it -- JUSTICE STEVENS: And the lawyer could say MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think that what the JUSTICE STEVENS: Couldn't the lawyer have the opportunity to bring in somebody who -- you make that point to the judge. MR. ROBERTS: But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you can see what JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I understand. MR. ROBERTS: -- who knows how it -- you know, who knows what the programs are, to explain it. Whatever the judge said, yes, I know you have these programs, but the programs that you can do in prison -- you know, I just don't think that those are effective. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if you think you have a particularly good case that they are, again the last report about these programs was like, you wouldn't think that. And I think a reasonably competent maybe he will based on his own experience in dealing with those types of -- counsel can make the argument. But in certain cases, be an important -- is going to be an important factor. There's, you know, other examples: For instance, if the judge varies on grounds that there's no treatment available for other things or that people have been permanently psychologically scarred, and the other side judge is not going to say, I don't want to see it. Or MR. ROBERTS: The judge is -- you know, the ability to present actual evidence on it is going to MR. ROBERTS: Judges -- do judges bring in JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, not judges -- do wants to bring forward counter-evidence and -testimony. There are numerous ones. That's the -- that's the essence of what the requirement -- JUSTICE STEVENS: In your --MR. ROBERTS: -- and the rules get at. JUSTICE STEVENS: In your experience, do judges often bring in experts on this kind of stuff? experts? judges say, "Oh, this is very interesting; I'm going to have a new hearing"? I mean, how long do these hearings go on? about -- to present evidence on that for sure, if the judge was thinking of imposing probation because there was no treatment program. It wouldn't have to go on for very long, but we could have someone come in for a few JUSTICE STEVENS: But you're saying that, routinely in sentencing matters, you have expert who come in and advise the judge of programs and so forth? MR. ROBERTS: Not routinely, but, you know, generally that's not an issue. That's why we didn't do that we would -- could bring in someone and testify MR. ROBERTS: We would have -- if -- I think minutes and -- and do that. reasons behind that apply with equal force in the variance context. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you think that this come out the same way -- it in this -- in this particular sentencing hearing. The point is that, you know, we're not going to do that. And so a judge that's operating under that and it's going to vary on that ground isn't going to get that information because we're -- as you say -- we're not going to just want to delay all the hearings for that reason. And so that -- it's really the reason that the requirement in the existing rule is there, and the case is a poor example because you're urging us to apply the harmless error rule and say this case would have MR. ROBERTS: Yes -- I mean, it's not the best -- it's not the best example to illustrate to the Court why notice is required because here we do think that the error was harmless for various reasons. review so we can resolve the question, does the judge have to give notice or not? And if she has to give notice, what time? What content? But now you're urging us to say -- to do something that ordinarily this Court doesn't do, that JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we -- if we grant the trial judges do, to deal with harmless error, which would be spending our time on this very particular case setting no law for any other case? should, you know, first obviously address the rule question on which it granted certain certiorari, but after doing that, we think the Court should address the harmless error question because that will provide useful guidance to the lower courts. There are likely to be a lot of harmless error cases because half of the circuits have erroneously concluded that the rule doesn't require notice, and they could benefit from an illustration of how to apply it in this particular context -- MR. ROBERTS: -- involving variance. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose we'll have a lot of appeals about the adequacy of the notice. You and the Petitioner disagree on that, and appellate case for an appellate court to address because -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. This may be -- MR. ROBERTS: -- regarding whether the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose we'll have courts will have to address that as well. MR. ROBERTS: Well, I think this is an easy -- MR. ROBERTS: Well, we think the Court notice would be adequate -- So I don't think that you're opening a -- MR. ROBERTS: Yes, but the questions about adequacy of notice are really no different in kind than CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. This may be an easy case, but you can imagine others that aren't going to be. the same questions that come up for the traditional departure rule. It's still going to be there, however this Court resolves the case for the notice of Guidelines departures. whole new questions about adequacy, just as like you're not opening up a whole set of new questions about timing. Those questions are there, and the courts are going to have to confront them. here, you could shed some light on those questions that can provide some guidance for the lower courts that will be useful to them in the future. And we would urge you to do that. Turning to the harmlessness, in addition to the fact that the PSR gave notice -- do you want me to continue? But in discussing the harmlessness issue CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Continue. Finish. MR. ROBERTS: Sure. In addition to the fact that future dangerousness was central to sentencing, The District Court had already rejected the drugs and adopted the government expert's diagnosis that Petitioner had a personality disorder that was longstanding and unlikely to change. it's also true that the evidence that Petitioner now says he wouldn't have presented wouldn't have made a difference because his counsel essentially made the same argument to the district court, and he could have used the expert testimony to support that argument, but he chose not to. defense of expert diagnosis the Petitioner was delusional and could be treated with anti-psychotic please the Court: alternative grounds to affirm the judgment below. The first is suggested by Justice Ginsburg and Chief Justice Roberts that paragraph of the presentence report put the parties on adequate notice that they could engage in a full adversarial testing outweighing the defendant's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Rutledge. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER B. RUTLEDGE FOR AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF THE JUDGMENT BELOW MR. RUTLEDGE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it The Court has before it today two JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then it would be easy The alternative ground for affirming the future dangerousness against his amenability to alternative methods of treatment. judgment below is that suggested by Justice Scalia and Justice Alito, namely: That Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure (h) was drafted for a different era, an era of mandatory guidelines. And there is no reason, particularly in light of the right rulemaking process, to extend rule to an advisory guideline era. for a district judge to escape any obligation to give (h) notice because he could simply say: Oh, yeah, before I would have ranked this as a Sentencing Guidelines matter, but now I'm treating it as a (a) understand your concern about the possibility that district judges might, I guess in theory, attempt to do an end run around rule (h) by recasting a departure circumstances in which the ground for a departure on rule (h) has some overlap with the ground for a variance under (a), but I would offer several responses. My first response is that I feel the Court factor, so I don't have to bother with (h) anymore. MR. RUTLEDGE: Justice Ginsburg, I decision as a variance decision. And, admittedly, there are certain Appeal all have interpreted that obligation to consult the Guidelines to include consideration of possible grounds for departure. crossed that bridge a little bit in the Booker remedial opinion when it created an advisory guidelines system. The whole premise of the advisory guidelines system was to enhance the discretion of the district judge. judges still have a reason to engage in the departure calculation. As this Court made clear in Rita, district judges must begin by consulting the guidelines. And the Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, and Tenth Courts of Kimbrough made clear that even if those two grounds a departure calculation, that there is yet another reason; and that is because it may affect the scrutiny-of-reasonableness review. As the Court explained in Kimbrough, when a district judge departs from the Guidelines, the district judge's determination may be entitled to greater respect when the judge makes the determination that a case takes -- that a circumstance takes the case outside of the heartland.don't provide the judge adequate incentive to engage in Of course, this Court's decision in My second answer would be that district JUSTICE ALITO: But didn't the decision that Indeed, just this last Friday, the jurisprudence has made the departure determination irrelevant. the Guidelines are not mandatory make what used to be known as Guidelines departures completely irrelevant? A case that would qualify for a Guidelines departure would, by definition, be a case in which the (a) factors justified a sentence other than a Guidelines sentence? So I don't understand why there's any need to go through the departure analysis any longer at all. MR. RUTLEDGE: Justice Alito, I don't believe that this Court's Booker and post-Booker Sentencing Commission posted on its website additional proposed amendments to the Sentencing Guidelines that would inject new grounds for departures including fraud for emergency assistance and violations of Federal food and drug laws that entail a risk of serious bodily injury. Departures remain relevant to the guidelines because they are the basis upon which the Commission can continue to fulfill its mandate to provide for the type of uniform sentencing that still is possible. JUSTICE ALITO: I just don't understand that. You're not -- a court -- a sentencing court, after concluding that there is no ground for a departure So the decision about the departures is finds that the case qualified for a Guidelines MR. RUTLEDGE: Well, it may well be the under Booker and the later cases, then has to consider the (a) question. irrelevant. It is not dispositive; and, if the court departure, as I said before, by definition, that is going to be a case where the (a) factors warranted a non-Guidelines sentence anyway. So it seems like a useless appendage at this point. case, Justice Alito, that as this Court's Booker jurisprudence unfolds, that the concept of a departure declines in importance, in addition with respect to the (h) obligation for notice. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why is the (h) obligation relevant? That is, looking through the history of it, I see that in (i)(C) it says that the government has to allow the parties' attorneys to comment on the determination of the probation officer and other matters relating to an appropriate sentence. Then, in a case called Burns v. United States, this Court says that that right to comment includes a right to notice. was already the law and make specific that it includes a And so all that (h) did was to take what of departures including not applying it. So what? I mean would you decrease that, together with the case of Burns. So I don't know where that leaves me, except But even if you didn't have (h), you would right to notice. I take it that was what they were up to. have precisely the same right once you got (i)(C) thinking it doesn't matter, because the defendant has precisely the same right either way. And I guess it's easier just to say "departure" means generally all kinds That's not a stretch of the language. It is quite right it is not consistent with what they thought they were up to, but not -- it is -- maybe before -- if they had passed this before Hawaii became a State, you could say: Well, they didn't think it would apply in Hawaii. General? effect of rule (i)()(C), then the Court confronts the question whether the basic ideas that animated its decision in Burns should be extended in an advisory-guidelines era. And Burns, at bottom, rested MR. RUTLEDGE: Certainly, Justice Breyer. If we were to put (h) to one side and consider the on two distinct strands of reasoning. parties came to the sentencing hearing with an One was the question of unfair surprise. And we think, with that respect, that the post-Booker era is different from the pre-Booker era. And the reason why, Justice Breyer, is because pre-Booker the expectation of a within-Guidelines sentence. And post-Booker, particularly in light of this Court's decision in Rita, the parties cannot come to the sentencing hearing with that expectation because the district judge may not presume the reasonableness of the within-Guidelines sentence. And so to the extent that Burns rested on concerns of unfair surprise, the rationale has dropped out after Booker. to Burns which Justice Ginsburg alluded to, which is this question of full adversarial testing. And I agree with you, Chief Justice Roberts, that Chief Judge Boudin's decision in the Vega-Santiago case provides the act all the time. Parties come to the hearing with a theory, a theory of how the judge should exercise her sentencing discretion within a known range, and knowing the applicable legal criteria, and have an opportunity Now, there is a second strand of reasoning pathway here. Judges engage in this kind of discretionary , a factor in the presentence report, that the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you accept Chief Judge Boudean's safety valve as well? In other words, to be heard. And we believe that, particularly in light of the recent amendment to section (d)()(F), that's going to include the possibility of the factors -- parties are going to have the opportunity to come to the hearing with the ability to engage in full adversarial testing. if the basis for the variance is going to be a matter of surprise, then notice is required? that premise, Chief Justice Roberts: That they are may notice has to be the straitjacketed remedy for District Judges in all of those instances. parties in the midst of the hearing, a motion for a continuance, as the government indicates on page of its brief, may be a mechanism to control against those cases of truly unfair surprise. And then a court of There may be other mechanisms such as if the -- if the fact is, if you will, sprung on the appeals under this Court's decision in Pickett, MR. RUTLEDGE: I accept the first part of be rare cases of truly unfair surprise. What I don't necessarily accept is that JUSTICE KENNEDY: That is an abuse of discretion standardized? MR. RUTLEDGE: That is an abuse of JUSTICE KENNEDY: Unworkable or is there MR. RUTLEDGE: I -- I don't think that it reviewing the appropriateness of granting or denying the continuance, can base its appellate review on whether or not unfair surprise -- discretion -- just as many impracticalities as the rule. presents a concern of impracticability, Justice Kennedy, for one simple reason; and that is by relying on a mechanism such as the continuance, the parties are given the opportunity to identify for the court whether or not there's a concern of unfair surprise; and if there is, the district judge is in the position to decide whether or not she believes that the continuance is necessary. If the notice claim only arises at the time that the sentence is entered, there's relatively little opportunity at that point for the district judge to go back and reconsider the record on the basis of unfair surprise. And that sort of takes me to the basic point that Justices Souter, Alito and Justice Ginsburg all talk, about which is the fundamental unworkability of the notice rule and advisory guidelines system. As the judges -- the district judges make it quite difficult. doesn't provide a great deal of guidance to the district hearing is not timely. And even if the timeliness concern can be overcome, there are serious problems in workability as to the adequacy of the notice. explained to us in the recent rulemaking proceeding contemplating a amendment to rule (h), they're concerned that extending this rule to variances will We know that district judges often receive these packets of sentencing information only seven days before the sentencing hearing. Several courts of appeals have held that giving notice at the sentencing government the instruct this Court on, in terms of how the adequacy standard is going to work, is that it has to be context-specific; and if we put ourselves in the shoes of a district judge that now has to engage in a discretionary act to decide whether or not the notice that I've given is adequate turns on the context, judge. whatever is the reason that the judge is considering is We know, for example -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't it just The best that the Petitioner and the going outside the advisory Guidelines, whatever that MR. RUTLEDGE: I -- certainly, reason is, just say it. So the judge says -- could say here, "I'm contemplating going outside because I don't think that this man is going to stop these threats." Period. That's all. Justice Ginsburg. And I've wrestled with that own question in -- in my mind. If this judge were to have said I'm thinking of sentencing outside the Guidelines because I'm dealing with an individual who has a We know from this court's decision in Rita that the demonstrated ability to stalk and threaten his ex-wife, would that have been adequate? And interestingly, I think pages and of the Petitioner's reply brief illustrate that either the answer to that question is going to be "not necessarily," or otherwise appellate judges are going to be strung up having to unpack whether or not notice is adequate, because it is Petitioner's petition in this case that even if the defendant had been put on notice as to the future dangerousness, that that did not, quote, "put the defendant on notice" that the district judge supposed the futility of treatment might justify an outside-the-Guidelines sentencing. Here's the essential workability problem. basic vision in the post-Booker world is to encourage sentence. In the event that a district judge engaging judges to provide reasoned sentencing decisions, where a degree of reasoning may depend a little bit upon whether the judge is engaging an inside-the-advisory-Guidelines sentence, or an outside-the-advisory-Guidelines in an outside-the-Guidelines sentence, she is now walking into a trap. Because if she imposes it based on a determination about the defendant's future that we believe that the district judges raised when they expressed their discomfort with the proposed amendments to rule (h); and precisely why we think the more prudent course is to affirm the judgment below, dangerousness, and then in an attempt to provide a full explication of her reasoning makes a statement about the amenability or non-amenability of the defendant to alternative forms of treatment, the aggrieved party will seize on that extra statement and bring it back to the pre-sentencing report and the parties' pleadings and said we may have had notice as to ground one to the variance but we didn't have notice as to ground two. Or we may have had notice as to ground one and two, but we didn't have any as to ground three.either on the narrow ground that I started start with, This is the essentially workability concern In December of , the Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules formed a subcommittee to study this And if I could make one last observation, the Chief Justice's question suggested, or alternatively on the broader grounds suggested by Justice Scalia's questions, that the resume that emerged at the time of mandatory Guidelines should not be extended to the time and then I'll complete my argument unless the Court has further questions. problem. If the Court consults the minutes of that meeting, they didn't form that subcommittee because they were awaiting this Court's decision in Irizarry. They formed that -- cert hadn't been granted in Irizarry. reasons. The first reason was whether in light of this Court's decisions in Gall and Kimbrough a notice requirement was still necessary; and second was the consideration that in light of the breadth of the altogether. The more prudent course either for the narrow grounds suggested by Chief Justice Roberts or the broader grounds suggested by Justice Scalia is to affirm the judgment below.(a) factors a notice requirement should be removed They formed that subcommittee for two of advisory Guidelines. If the Court has no further questions I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Madden, you have two minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ARTHUR J. MADDEN, III ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER MR. MADDEN: Thank you. I think Justice Breyer is correct that rule would be happy to yield back the balance of my time. (e) is -- requires that the parties have an opportunity to comment on matters appropriate to the institutional issue effective appellate review, if there's a developed record and evolution of the Court's decision is that we're going to exempt from notice requirement the cases that are going -- the sentences that are going to be driven towards the margin, high or low, the goal of uniformity that sentencing. That opportunity extends to not only Guidelines departures but also what has been called variances. There are two reasons why it's important that that -- that right comes with a notice requirement. The first is that fairness for the individual defendant, the ability to litigate the issues that are going to make a difference in his sentencing. Guidelines by looking at the aggregate of cases. If the Congress sought in the Sentencing Reform Act would be The other is that it permits as an And I submit that that's an independent which the architecture of the Sentencing Reform Act is come up terribly frequently, at least in my practice in the appellate cases. lost. reason why the Court ought to require notice is because otherwise, it's inviting the sentencing disparities designed to eliminate. As far as workability, it is extremely rare that the issues aren't flagged in the papers. It is not going to come up frequently. Rule (h) issues don't Five circuits below have -- saw no workability problem with extending the notice requirement of rule (h) to variances as well. briefed and argued the case as amicus curiae in support of the judgment below upon appointment by this Court, and we thank you for undertaking and discharging that assignment. above-entitled matter was submitted.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. MR. MADDEN: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Rutledge, you The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the A ability : : : : able : : above-entitled : : above-Guideli... : : abuse :, accept :, : acceptance : acknowledges : act : : : : : : actual : addition : :, : additional : address : : :, : :, :, adequacy : :, : : adequate : : : : : : : :, adequately : adjustment : admittedly : adopt :, adopted : : : advance :, : : : :,, : adversarial : : : : : :, : : : adversary : advise : advisory : : : : :, : : :, advisory-guid... advocacy : : : advocates : affect : affirm : : : affirming : afterward : after-the-fact aggregate : : : aggrieved : agree : : : agrees : Ala : Alabama : Alito : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : : allocution : : allow : alluded : alternative : : :, : alternatively : amenability : : : amend : amendment : :, : : : amendments : : amicus : : : : : analysis : animated : answer : : : : : answers : anti-psychotic : : Anybody : anymore : anyway : apparently : Appeal : appeals : : : : APPEARAN... : appeared : appellant : appellate : : : : : : appendage : applicable : : : : application : applies : : apply : altogether : : :, : : applying : : : Appointed : appointment : appropriate : : : : : appropriateness : April : architecture : argued : argument : :, :, : : :,, : : arises : arson : ARTHUR : :, : : asked :, asking : :, aspect : assignment : assistance : Assistant : assume : attempt : : attention : attorneys : audit : authorization : authorized :, available : : :, : await : Page awaiting : a.m : : B B : : : back : : : : : : backward : backwards : bad : : balance : : bar : base : based : :, :, : : : : : basic : : : basically : basis : : : bearing : behalf :, :,, : : : belief : believe : : : : : believes : benefit : best :, : better : beyond : bit : : : bodily : Booker : :, : : : : :, : bother : bottom : Boudean's : Boudin : Boudin's : breadth : Breyer : : : : bridge : brief : : : briefed : bring :, :,,, : broad : broader : :, broadly : broke : building : burdensome : :, burdensomen... : Burns : : :, : : : : :, : :, Buttner : C C : : calculation : : call : called : : calling : carefully : : carry : case :,, : : : Page : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, : : : : :,, cases : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : category : central : : : cert : certain : : : : certainly : : :, : : : certainty : certiorari : challenging : change :, : : changed : changes : characteristics : Chief :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,, : : : :, child : chose : circuiting : circuits : : circumstance : : : circumstances : : circumvent : claim : clear : : :, close : closer : : come : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, comes : : : : coming : comment : :, : Commission : :, commit : committee : : : committees : competent : complete : completely : : complex : comply : : : comprehensive : concedes : conceive : concept : concern : : :, : : concerned : : : concerns : : concluded : concluding : condign : conduct : conference :,,, confront : confronted : confronts : Congress :, :, : consider : : : consideration : : : considerations : considering : :, : : : consist : consisted : consistent : construe :, construed : consult : consulting : consults : contemplated :, : contemplating : : : : content : : : context :, : : : : : context-specific : : continuance : : :,, continue : :, : continues : : control : controls : convicted : correct : : counsel : : : : :, : : counter-evide... : counter-intuit... :, course : : : : : court :,, :,,, :, : : : :, :,, :, :, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : Department difficult : :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, courthouse : courts : :, : :, : : : : court's : : : : : : : :, : cover : created : crimes : : Criminal : : criteria : crossed : curiae : : : : current : :,, currently : D D : : : : danger : dangerousness :, : : : : : : : : day : days : : : : deal : : dealing : : : dealt :, deceased : December : : decide : : :, : : decided : : : decision :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : decisions : : : declines : decrease : defendant : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : defendant's : : : : defending : defense : defined :, defines : definition : : degree : : delay : delusional : demand : demonstrated : : denying : depart :, : : departed : : departs : departure : : :, :,,, :,,, :,,, : : :, : : :, :,, :,,, :, : departures :, : :, : : : :, : : : : depend : depends : described : designed : : detail : determination : : : : :, : : : developed : : : development deviations : diagnosis : : : : dictionary : difference : : : different : :, : :, : : : : : : : directed : directly : disagree : : disagreement : : discharging : discomfort : discretion : : : :, discretionary : : discussed : : discussing : discussion : disorder : disparities : dispositive : dispute : dissuaded : distinct : district : : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, doing : : : : doubt : drafted : drive : : driven : : dropped : drug : drugs : duty :, : Page D.C :,, E E : :, earlier : easier : easy : : : educated : effect : : effective : : : Eighth : either : : : : : : : : : eliminate : emerged : emergency : enable : enact : enacted : encourage : engage : :, : : : engaging :, enhance : enhancement : ensure : entail : entered : entitled : equal : equally : era :,, : :, erroneously : error : : :, : :, Page evolution : : escape : ESQ :,, :,,, essence : essential : : : essentially : : event : evidence : : :, : : : evisceration : : exact : example : : : :,, :, : : : examples : excisions : exempt : exercise : : exist : existing : expand : expectation : : experience : : expert : : :, experts :, expert's : explain : : explained : : : explanation : :, explication : expressed : : : extend : extended : extending : : : extends : extent : extra : : : extraneous : extraordinary :, extremely : ex-wife : e-mails : F fact : : : :, : : :, : factor :, : : : : factors : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : facts : : : : : factual : failure :,, : fairly : fairness : fall : far : Federal : : : : feel : feeling : Fifth : find : finding : finds : Finish : finite :, first :, : : : : : : : : : : : fits : Five : flagged : : focus : : : : : focused : : : : follows : food : force : form : formal : formed :, : forms : forth : : forward : fraud : frequently : : Friday : fulfill : full : : : : : : fully : fundamental : further : :, : :, futility : future :, : :, : : : :, : : : G G : Gall : gee : general : : : generally : : : : : getting : : : : Ginsburg : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : gist : give :, : : : :, :, : : :, : given : : : : : : giving : : : go : : :, : : goal : goes : : : :, going : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, :,,, :,,,, :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :,,, : good : : government : : :, : : : : : grant : granted : : granting : great : greater : ground :, :,, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : :,, grounds : Page guess : : guidance : : : : guideline : : guidelines : : :, : : : : : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, :, :,, :,,,, : : : : : :, :, gun : gut : H h : :,, half : handled : hanging : haphazard : happens : happy : harmless : : :, :,, harmlessness :, Hawaii :, hear : heard :, : : hearing : :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : : : :,, :, : : hearings : : : heartland : heightened : held : help : helpful : high : higher :, highest : history : hold : : home : Honor : : : : : husband : I idea : ideas : identifications : identified : : : : : :,, : : identify : : :, : III : :, : : illustrate : : illustration : imagine : impact : :, implement : importance : important : : : : : : :, : impose :, imposed : : : : imposes : imposing : : : impossible : impracticability impracticalities : : incapacitation :, : : incentive : inclined : include : : : included : includes : :, including : : : independent indicates : indisputably : : : individual : : : : : induce : inferring : infinite : : influence : inform : information : : : infrequently : inject : injured : injury : inside-the-adv... instance : : : instances : institutional : : instruct : intended :, intends : intent : : interest : interesting interestingly : : interests : : : interject : interpret : :, interpretation : : interpreted : : inviting : involved : involving : Irizarry : : :, irrelevant : : : issue : : :, :, :,, : :, : : : issues : : : : : :, :, : : :, J J : :, : : job : judge : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : : : :,,, :,, : :, :,, :,, : : judgement : : judges :, : :,, : :,, :, : : :, : : :,, : :, judge's : :, : judgment : : : : : : jumping : jurisprudence : : Justice : : : :, : : : :, Page : :,, : :,, :, : :,, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,,, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, :, :, : : :, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, :, Justices : Justice's : : justified : justify : K Kennedy : :,, :,, key : : kill :,, Kimbrough : :, : kind : : : : :, : : : kinds : knew : : :,,, know :, : : : : : : :, : : : :,,,, : : : : : : : knowing : known : : knows : :, L lack : : lacking : language : : latest : law : : : : laws : lawyer :, : learned : leaves : left : legal : legally : lesser : : level : leveled : light : : : : : :, liked : limiting : list :, listed : literal : litigate : litigated : :, : : litigation : little : : : : local : long :, : : :, longer : longstanding : look :,, : :, : looked : : looking : : : looks : lost : lot : : :, low :,, :, : lower : : : : lurk : M Madden : :, :,, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :,, : majority : : : : makers : man : mandate : mandatory : : : : : margin : material : : materials : matter : : : : : : : matters : : : : MATTHEW : : : maximum : :, : mean : : : : : : : meaning : : : meaningless : : means : : meant : mechanism : : mechanisms medication : : : meeting : methods : midst : mind : : : : : minimum : : minute : minutes : : : misunderstan... : Mobile : morning's : mother : motion : motivate : motivating : mysterious : N N :, : narrow : : : narrower : : nature : necessarily : : necessary : : : : need : needs :, new : :, : :, : night : non-amenabil... : non-Guideline : : : non-guidelines : : : :, : : : notice :, :,, :, :, :, :,, : : :, Page :, : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :, :, :,,, : :, : : : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, noticed :, notices : number :, : : O O : : object : objected : obligation : : : :, observation : : obviously : occur : occurred : occurring : occurs : numerous : : : offense : offer : officer : : : Oh : : Okay : : old : : once : ones : : : : open : opening : open-ended : : operating : opinion : : : opportunity :, : : :, :, oral : : : : : order : ordinarily : ought : outside : : : :, outside-the-ad... : outside-the-G... : : outweighing : overcome : overlap : overlooked : P P : packet : packets : page : : pages : papers : : : paragraph : : : parallel : part : particular : :, : : : : :, particularly : : : : : : parties : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : party : : : passed : pathway : people : :,, : : : Period : permanently : permits : person : personality : : :, : : : : :, : : : Petitioner's : : : :, phenomenon : pick : picked : Pickett : picking : plain : plan : planning : play : played : pleadings : please : : : : point : : : : : : :, policy :,, poor : pornography : position : : :, : positions : : possibility : :, : : : possible :, : : : : : pertinent : PETER : : posted : post-Booker : petition : Petitioner : : : : : :, : potential : : : :, potentially : practical : practically : practice : precise : : : : precisely :, prediction : premature premise : : : prepared : : : present : : : presentation : :, : presented : : presentence : : presents : presume : pretty : prevent : : previously : pre-Booker : pre-pre-Booker : : pre-sentence : : : :,,, : :,, : pre-sentencing : :, : prior : prison : Page : :, : probably : : : : : : : psychiatric probation : : : : : problem : : : : : : problems : : procedure : : : : proceeding : : process :, : : :, : : program : programs : : :,, : : promote : promulgated pronounced : : : proposed : protect : protecting : provide : : : : : : : : : :, provides : providing : provision : : : prudent : : PSR : : psychological psychologically : : public : punishment : pure : purpose : : purposes : pursuant : pursue : put :, :, : : :, : : : : :, p.m : Q qualified : qualify : question : :, :, :, : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : questions : :,,, :, : :, quite : : quote : : quoted : R R : raise : raised : : : raises : random : range : : : : : : : ranked : rare : : rarely : rationale : read : : : Reading : ready :, : really : : : : : : : reason : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : reasonable : reasonableness : reasonably : reasoned : reasoning : : : :, reasons : : :, :, : : : : REBUTTAL : : recasting : : : : receive : recess : recitation : recite : recited : recognition : recommend recommendat... recommended reconsider : record : : : : : : : : referred : reflects : Reform : : : reformulation regarding : : : regardless : regime : rejected : relating : relatively : relatives : relevant : : : reliable : relied : relies : reluctant : : rely : : relying : remain : remaining : remedial : remedy : remember : remorse : : removed : repeated : reply : report : : :, : :,, : :,,, :, : : : : : request : require : : : :,, : : required : : : : :, : :, : : requirement :, : :,, : : : :, : : : requires : : : : : : requiring : : reschedule : reserve : residual : resolve : resolves : respect : : : respond : : Respondent : : : response : : :, Page : responses : responsibility : rested : : result : resume : returned : review : : : : reviewed : reviewing : : : RICHARD : right : : : : : :, :,,, : risk : Rita :, : : : : road : Roberts : : : :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, :,,, :, : : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : :, : : :, routinely : : rule : : :,,, : :,, :,,, : : :,, : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : :,,, : :, :, : : :, rulemakers : rulemaking :, : : : rules : : : : : run : Rutledge : : :, : : : : : : :, : : S S : : safety : saw : saying : : :, : : says : : : : : :, : Scalia : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : : Scalia's : scarred : scope : : scrutiny-of-re... : second : : :, : : section :, : : : see : : : : seen : seize : sense : : : : sentence :, : :, : :,, : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : : : :,, sentences : :, : : sentencing : :,, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,,, :,, : :, :, : :, : :, series :, serious : set : : : : setting : seven : : : shape : shed : shoes : short : show : side : : similar : simple : simply :, :, : : :, : sir : situation : : : : sixth : : : society : soliciting : Solicitor : solves : somebody : sorry : sort : sought : Souter :, :, : Southern : speaks : specific : :,, : : : :, : specificity : : : spending : sprung : squarely : stalk : standard : standardized : start : : started : State : stated : statement : : States :,, : : : statute : : statutory : step : STEVENS : :, :, : :,,, stimulus : stop : stopgap : straitjacketed : strand : strands : stretch : structure : : strung : study : stuff : : subcommittee : :, : Page testimony : threats : subject : submit : submitted : : sufficient : :, : : suggest : suggested : : : : : :,,, suggests : summarized : supervision : support : : : :, : suppose : : : :, supposed : : : : Supreme :, sure : : : surprise : :, : :, : :, system :, :,, : :, : T T :, table : : take : : : : : : : taken : takes :, : talk : talking : : : : Tenth : term : terms : : : terribly : test : testify : : : :,, : : testing : : :, : : : text : thank : : :, :,, theory : :, thing : : things : : : : : : think :,, : :, : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, : : : : :, : : thinking : : : Third : thorough : thought :, : : threat : : threaten : threatening :,, : three : time :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : timeliness : timely : timing : : : today : told : traditional : : : :, : trap : treated : treating : treatment : :, : : : : : : : treatments :, trial : : true : : : : truly :, try : trying : : Tuesday : Turning : turns : two : : : : : :, : :, type : types : typically : U ultimately :, : understand : : : :, understanding undertaking : : : unfair :, :, : :, unfolds : uniform : uniformity : United :,, : : : unpack : unusual : unworkability : unworkable : : upward : urge : urging : :, use : useful : : useless : usually :, : : : V v : : valve : variables : variance :, : : :, : : : :, : : variances : : :, : : : varies : various : vary : : varying : vast : : : : Vega-Santiago : versus : : victim : :,, view : violations : vision : W wait : : : waiting : walking : want : : : : : : wants : warranted : Washington : unduly : : Page :,, :, : : : :, : (a)()(C) : : A. : :, : : -month : : :, wasn't : wasteful : : way : : : : : : : : : website : week : : :,, we'll : : : we're : : : : : : :,, : we've : wife : within-Guidel... :, witnesses : woman : word : : words : work : : : : workability : : : :, works : world : worried : wouldn't : : :, : : : :, wow : wrestled : writing : written : : : wrong : X x :, Y yeah : : yield : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : (d)()(F) : : (e) : (f) : (h) :, : : :,,,, : : :, :, : :, :,, :,, :, : : :, (i)(C) : : (i)()(C) : : : :, (a) : : : 