 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xLAKHDAR BOUMEDIENE, ET :AL. : Petitioners : v. : No. -GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT :OF THE UNITED STATES, ET :AL.; : and :KHALED A. F. AL ODAH, NEXT :FRIEND OF FAWZI KHALID :ABDULLAH FAHAD AL ODAH, :ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -UNITED STATES, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m. APPEARANCES:SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGESETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentthis morning in case -, Boumediene v. Bush, andcase -, Al Odah v. United States. Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH W. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Petitioners in these cases have threethings in common. First, all have been confined atGuantanamo for almost six years, yet not one has everhad meaningful notice of the factual grounds ofdetention or a fair opportunity to dispute those groundsbefore a neutral decision-maker. Two, under the decision below, they have noprospect of getting that opportunity. And three, each maintains, as this Courtexplained in Rasul, that he is quote "innocent of allwrongdoing." Now the government contends that these menare detainable, and the facts of these cases differ,and it may well that be that an adjudicatory processthat preserves the core features of common law habeaswould reveal perhaps that some of these Petitioners are lawfully detainable. But limited DTA review of thestructurally flawed CSRT process cannot provide anyreliable examination of the Executive's asserted basisfor detaining these Petitioners, let alone an adequatesubstitute for traditional habeas review. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought that weruled in the Hamdi case that procedures quite similar tothose under the DTA were adequate for American citizens? MR. WAXMAN: Well, with respect, Mr. ChiefJustice, what you ruled -- as I understand what theplurality held in Hamdi was that so long as there was aprocess accompanying detention, that provided formeaningful notice of the factual grounds for detention,a meaningful opportunity to present evidence in responseto that before a neutral tribunal with the assistance ofcounsel, that determination would certainly be entitledto substantial deference by a habeas court; and we don'tdispute that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that -- MR. WAXMAN: That's not what they got. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So our judgment inthis case depends upon whether we agree with you or thegovernment that the procedures available under the DTAare meaningful under Hamdi? MR. WAXMAN: It -- I think your decision in this case, the question -- the principal question wethink is presented by the case is whether or not the DTAreview of the CSRT procedures that occurred in this caseadequately substitute for the writ of habeas corpus. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, how couldthat be, because the D.C. Circuit never got to thatquestion? The D.C. Circuit, as I understand it, ruledthat there was no access to habeas, end of case. So the D.C. Circuit never examined theprocedure under the DTA, did it? MR. WAXMAN: No. The district court -- thetwo district judges sitting in habeas went to the meritsof the case, and Judge Green did evaluate theprocedures. The D.C. Circuit held that theConstitution, neither the Suspension Clause nor the DueProcess Clause, applies to these people. And thereforeit didn't reach the merits. But -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So shouldn't we, if weagree with you, that there is authority in theD.C. Circuit, send it back to them to make thatdetermination whether habeas being required, this is anadequate substitute. MR. WAXMAN: Well, I'm not saying that thisCourt couldn't do that. It certainly could do that.But one of the principal -- the principal guarantee of habeas corpus through the centuries has been a speedy --the remedy of speedy release for somebody who isunlawfully being held in executive detention. These men have been held in isolation for years, and it is manifest on the record in this case.There's no doubt about how the CSRT has proceeded.There is little doubt about the circumscribed nature ofthe D.C. Circuit's review. The D.C. Circuit has alreadyheld that the Constitution doesn't apply. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your argumentwouldn't be any different with respect to theavailability of habeas if these people were held for oneday, would it? We don't look at the length of detentionin deciding whether habeas is available, do we? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I want to give aqualified disagreement with your hypothetical, becauseit's entirely clear that, as I think members of thisCourt have indicated and that habeas traditionallyindicates, there may be military exigencies, there maybe a limited time period in which it is inappropriatefor a habeas court to rule. And moreover -- if there -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let me juststop you there. Do you want this Court to rule onwhether or not there are military exigencies thatrequire the holding and detention of these enemy combatants? MR. WAXMAN: No, what I was referring towere sort of the hypothetical of battlefield -- somebodyis captured -- you know -- and the next day or the nextweek from the battlefield, does he or she have the rightto -- does a habeas court have constitutionaljurisdiction. Putting aside- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Putting aside thebattlefield hypothetical, we're talking aboutGuantanamo. Your argument is that somebody held one dayin Guantanamo has the right to habeas. So the extent ofdetention is irrelevant to your assertion. MR. WAXMAN: I don't think so, with respect.I think -- I don't think -- I think it is appropriatefor a habeas -- if the Executive says we have detainedthis person, we believe this person is an enemycombatant who may be lawfully detained under the AUMF,we have an administrative process that is fair, thatwill -- that will determine the facts. You should stayyour hand to allow that procedure to occur. Of course,that is appropriate, so long as the procedure ismeaningful and speedy. That's what we do in immigrationcases. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your basic positionhas to rest on Guantanamo Bay being just like if we had the detainees in, say, the Everglades. But do youconcede that if these people had never been brought tothe United States, if the facility were in, say,Germany, that these detainees would have no access tohabeas, no access to our courts? MR. WAXMAN: I wouldn't agree with that fortwo reasons. First of all, I think these people are ina place that is even -- that is under even more completecontrol and jurisdiction of our national Executive thanthey would be in the Everglades, because there are noFederalism constraints here. Our national governmentsupplies the only law. And if they were detained in Germany, thequestion would be A, are they being detained by theUnited States or by some multinational coalition forceas was the case, for example, in Hirota. B, are there other laws, or can they invokethe jurisdiction of another court? And the answer tothat question would depend upon the terms of our -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Who says that -- let'sconsider first the basis on which the court of appealsdecided this case. They decided it -- in Rasul, we had heldthat the habeas statute extended to Guantanamo, and thatthose people who had filed their suits before the statute, at least, could bring a suit. Congress acted. And enacted a new habeasstatute which makes it very clear that the habeasstatute, at least, does not apply to these people inGuantanamo. Your assertion here is that there is acommon law constitutional right of habeas corpus thatdoes not depend upon any statute. Do you have a single case in the yearsof our country or, for that matter, in the fivecenturies of the English empire in which habeas wasgranted to an alien in a territory that was not underthe sovereign control of either the United States orEngland. MR. WAXMAN: The answer to that is aresounding yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: What is -- what are they? MR. WAXMAN: They are the cases that werediscussed and cited by the majority opinion in Rasul,and we have -- we have added other ones to them, butit's showing -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What cases -- what case inparticular do you think in Rasul? MR. WAXMAN: I think the opinion of two ofthe three law lords in the Earl of Crewe, which the majority cited as In re Sekgome. It is certain -- thegovernment concedes it was the case in Mwenya. It wastrue in the Indian cases. And, in fact, as we point out-- JUSTICE SCALIA: Mwenya involved an English-- an English subject, not an alien. MR. WAXMAN: Indeed, it did. JUSTICE SCALIA: The question there is analien. MR. WAXMAN: Indeed, it did, and thegovernment -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's totally irrelevant. MR. WAXMAN: Well, no -- let me take a shotat convincing you that it's not totally irrelevant. TheCrown Counsel in that case, in his brief, statedforthrightly that subjecthood or citizenship didn'tmatter and, in fact, in the very minority opinion thatthe government relies on in its brief here in Earl ofCrewe, Lord Justice Kennedy specifically said that thecitizenship is irrelevant. It isn't and wasn't -- JUSTICE SCALIA: In both of those cases, itwas a citizen, nonetheless. In years of ourhistory, or five centuries of the -- do you have asingle case in which it was not a citizen of England ora citizen of the United States in which a common-law writ of habeas corpus issued to a piece of land that wasnot within the sovereign jurisdiction? MR. WAXMAN: Well, the Court majority inRasul cites a case involving the Isle of Jersey, theChannel Islands. None of those were within thesovereign courts' -- JUSTICE SCALIA: They were not regarded aspart of the crown's dominion, but they were part of thecrown's sovereign territory. MR. WAXMAN: I'll take one more chance,Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay, try them. I mean,line them up. (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Here they go. In theIndian cases -- I mean, first of all, let's say thatcitizenship was not a notion at common law. Thequestion was subjecthood, and subjecthood was a veryill-defined term that had no fixed parameters, as ourreply brief points out. Certainly many of the petitioners in theIndian cases that we cited -- and in fact that Sir JohnChambers decided -- were not Englishmen or people whowould have been otherwise considered -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And the cases were decided under a statute that applied in India, not under --under the common law. And the writ did not come from England; thewrit came from English courts in India under a statute.And we decided that in Rasul. I mean, you want to dothat in Rasul, that's fine. But you are appealing to acommon law right that somehow found its way into ourconstitution without, as far as I can discern, a singlecase in which the writ ever to a non-citizen. MR. WAXMAN: Justice Scalia, as LordMansfield explained in the King v. Cowle, and both sidesare citing to it -- even if the writ -- even withrespect to the persons detained outside the Englishrealm, the relevant question was, is this person underthe subjection of the crown? Not what is thesubjecthood or citizenship of this person? And in fact-- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is therelevance to your -- this line of reasoning to therecent enactment by Congress of section (g), whichsays that the base at Guantanamo is not part of theUnited States? There is a judgment by the politicalbranches that we don't exercise sovereignty over theleasehold, and it seems to me that, if we're going toadhere to our habeas corpus cases, we would have to reject that determination. MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, let meanswer that question directly and then if I may finishmy answer to Justice Scalia. We don't contend that the United Statesexercises sovereignty over Guantanamo Bay. Ourcontention is that at common law, sovereignty (a) wasn'tthe test, as Lord Mansfield explained, and (b) wasn't aclear-cut determine -- there weren't clear-cutsovereignty lines in those days. Our case doesn'tdepend on sovereignty. It depends on the fact that,among other things, the United States exercises --quote -- "complete jurisdiction and control over thisbase." No other law applies. If our law doesn't apply, it is a law-freezone. JUSTICE ALITO: So the answer toJustice Ginsburg's question, it wouldn't matter wherethese detainees were held so long as they are under U.S.control. If they were held on a U.S. military basepursuant to a standard treaty with another country, ifthey were in Afghanistan or in Iraq, the result would bethe same? MR. WAXMAN: No, I think, Justice Alito, Iwant to be as clear about this as I can be. This is a particularly easy straightforward case, but in anotherplace, jurisdiction would depend on the facts andcircumstances, including the nature of an agreement withthe resident sovereign over who exercises control. AndI want to come back to that with the Japan and Germanexample, because I have read the status of forcesagreements there. Secondly, even if there technically werejurisdiction, there might very well be justiciabilityissues under the circumstances of the sort thatJustice Kennedy addressed in his concurrence in Rasul;that is, there may be circumstances and temporalconditions in which, under the separation of powers, itwould be a -- a court would deem it inappropriate toexercise that jurisdiction. And finally, even if it were appropriate toexercise the jurisdiction, the review of a habeas courtin the mine run of cases would be anything but plenarybecause members of enemy armed forces and enemy alienswithin the meaning of the Alien Enemy Act aredetainable. Period. Now, with respect to -- JUSTICE ALITO: What if, in a future war,many of the soldiers and the opposing Army don't wearuniforms? What if it's a war like Vietnam and thousandsof prisoners are taken into custody and they are brought to prisoner-of-war camps in the United States asoccurred during World War II? Every one of them underyour theory could file a habeas petition. Is thatright? MR. WAXMAN: Well, if they were in theUnited States, I think it's clear that they could file ahabeas petition. And, you know, the question about howGuantanamo relates to that is for this Court. What'smaterial is that -- I mean we cited to the Court theArmy directives and the Army procedures implementingArticle V of the Geneva Conventions that were used inVietnam, which is the only other war we engaged in thathad combatants who weren't in uniforms. They not onlyhad a hearing that was near the time and near the placeof capture and the right to call witnesses; there's noevidence that classified information was withheld fromthem. And they not only had a right to counsel; thegovernment provided them counsel, somebody who was theiradvocate. Now, once a determination like that is made,they may -- if they're detained in the United States --they may file a habeas petition and the response will bethere is absolutely no reason not to defer to theadjudication of that tribunal. You have, as I startedwith the Chief Justice, you had a fair notice of the facts, a fair opportunity to challenge them with theassistance of counsel before a neutral decisionmaker. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So to determinewhether there's jurisdiction, in every case we have togo through a multi factor analysis to determine if theUnited States exercises not sovereignty, which you'verejected as the touchstone, but sufficient control overa particular military base? Over the Philippines duringWorld War II, in Vietnam, and it is going to decide insome cases whether the control is sufficient and otherswhether it isn't? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I don't -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that is ajudgment we the Court would make, not the politicalbranches who have to deal with the competingsovereignties in those situations? MR. WAXMAN: You know, I think -- both sidestry to derive force from the fact that such claims, suchhabeas petitions, haven't come forward in floods in thepast. I think the reason is that, in the past, wehad combat in which -- you know -- I mean in a war ofthe conventional sort, soldiers wear uniforms, and moreto the point, the interests of the captured soldier andthe command -- and the capturing officer are aligned. The captured soldier wants to be treated as a prisonerof war or released. The commanding general wants to releasecivilians who aren't in the Army or turn them over forcriminal prosecution. That's why, in the Gulf war,there were -- roughly, just a few hundred, Article V field tribunal hearings that were held, ofwhich almost were released as civiliannon-combatants and the remaining were detained -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, we had ,German prisoners in this country during World War II.And not a -- you say it's clear in the Vietnam examplethat the Chief Justice gave you, it's clear that habeaswould lie. , of these people. It never occurredto them. MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, there isColepaugh -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And many of them werecivilians, by the way, and not in uniform. Not a singlehabeas petition filed. MR. WAXMAN: There's -- there are Colepaugh,the Tenth Circuit case and In re: Territo, both of whichwe discussed. But more to the point, as I said,Justice Scalia, there is no doubt that a member of theGerman army or somebody who is assisting the German army -- it would be totally unavailing to file a -- tofile a habeas petition because they are detainable. Itwould be like Mr. Ludekey in the United States v.Ludekey saying -- JUSTICE SCALIA: He claims he wasn'tassisting the German army, just as these people hereclaim that they were not attacking U.S. bases. MR. WAXMAN: They were provided Article Vtribunals that gave them actual notice of thegovernment's facts and actual opportunity to controvertit and a determination by military officers who had notbeen told that both the commanding general of thesouthern command and the Secretary of Defense hadpersonally reviewed the evidence and determined thatthese were enemy combatants; and a habeas court wouldsimply dismiss. And a habeas court could simply say whetherwe do or don't technically have jurisdiction underbattlefield circumstances or circumstances involvingforeign detainees in a zone of occupation where activehostilities occur, it is inappropriate under theseparation of powers for us to intervene. But these menhave been held, taken by the United States, thousands ofmiles away -- in the case of my six individuals, pluckedfrom their homes, from their wives and children in Sarajevo, detained for three months at the United Statesrequest. JUSTICE ALITO: Your primary position isthat we should order that they be released, is thatcorrect? MR. WAXMAN: Well, we've asked that they begranted habeas relief. We think what that means is thatthey should be -- the cases should be returned to thedistrict courts where their cases are proceeding. Thegovernment has filed its factual returns to the writ.Judge Green, in the cases pending before her, hasestablished procedures to protect the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose there had not beena six-year wait, would it be appropriate then for usto -- if you prevail -- remand the case to the habeascourt and instruct the habeas court to defer until theCourt of Appeals for the District of Columbia hasfinished the DTA review proceedings? MR. WAXMAN: I would argue that the answeris no for two reasons. The one because there is noprospect, no prospect that the DTA proceedings will beconducted with alacrity or certainty; and second ofall -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why should I assume thatthe district court in Washington would be any faster than the court of appeals? MR. WAXMAN: Here's -- the -- the -- let'stake the cases in front of Judge Green. Judge Leon inthe cases of my client just granted the government'smotion to dismiss. But in all of the cases thegovernment has filed its factual return under theprocedures, under the long-established habeas proceduresunder . It is -- the burden is now on us. She hasalready ruled that with respect to secret information orclassified information, here are the safeguards thatwill govern, here's how we will work. And it is simplyon us now to adduce and present evidence to try andover -- to try to shoulder the burden we have. In the court of appeals, Justice Kennedy,the government, after two years, has not produced therecord on review in a single case. It has now said --two years. It has now said that it cannot do so, andthe court of appeals has suggested that what thegovernment ought to do is hold entirely new CSRTproceedings. Now, those proceedings are structurallyflawed. Perhaps this Court could say, look, here's howit's going to be. First of all, the Constitution doesapply. Second of all, we have to have a hearing inwhich the following things occur. We either in the Court of Appeals under theAll Writs Act or under USC Section C -- thePetitioners have to have the right to adduce and presentevidence to controvert the government's return whichwas -- almost all of the government's evidence wasintroduced ex parte, in camera, and with a -- to bootwith a presumption that it is accurate and genuine. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why can't that take placein the CSRT review proceedings that are pending? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I don't -- it could ifthe military had different procedures to govern theCSRTs. And our submission is that with respect to thesePetitioners, you've asked to hold aside the six years.I would say with respect to future detainees, that thisCourt could issue a ruling -- well, this Court shouldissue a ruling saying for these people if the writ meansanything, the time for experimentation is over. We havetried and true established procedures. We've gotexperienced district judges including a judge who wasthe chief judge in the FISA court, who's alreadyestablished the rules for maintaining confidentiality ofclassified information. But we are not as a Court saying that therecould not readily be an adequate substitute if theadministrative procedures generated by the Department of Defense allowed for the process minimums that the ChiefJustice asked me about at the beginning and advocated astandard that was authorized -- a substantive standardauthorized by the AUMF. DTA review may very well be anadequate substitute. JUSTICE SOUTER: Is that possible foryour -- let's say your six clients at this point or forany of the Guantanamo detainees, I guess, becausewouldn't they all run into the problem of -- theneutrality problem that you raised? The commandinggeneral, the Secretary of Defense, in effect, havealready said these people belong where they are.Wouldn't that make it impossible, really, at this stageof the game to substitute a military procedure? MR. WAXMAN: I certainly think so. But at aminimum, Justice Souter, you would have to have the kindof tribunal that is called for under the uniform code ofmilitary justice. JUSTICE SOUTER: I understand that. MR. WAXMAN: Where you don't have theconvening authority exercising command control over thetribunal officer. JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm just wondering whetherassuming you win this case, that would be an appropriateform of relief. And I'm not sure -- MR. WAXMAN: I don't think it is. Icertainly don't think it would be unless this Courtclarified under the -- I don't know whether this wouldfall under the guise of clarification; but specify thatunder the circumstances, the deferential review of theD.C. Circuit in which it presumes accurate and presumessufficient -- adequate the evidence which the tribunalitself presumed accurate would have to fall; that is, ahabeas court would never accord that presumption. JUSTICE SOUTER: I have a quick question. Idon't want to interfere with his five minutes ofrebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll give you yourrebuttal time. JUSTICE BREYER: Going back toJustice Scalia's question on the precedent, suppose --and I'm going to be -- I'd like my mind to be clear onthis. I thought that the question asked was for you tofind an instance where there was no sovereignty of thecountry and they issued the writ, and it was turning ona technical thing. Whether that was how the questionwas met or not, what I read here in these differentbriefs is in , Lord Mansfield, the case can issue --a writ of habeas corpus, no doubt the power could issueit where the place is under the subjection of the crown of England. Then Lord Sellers in Mwenya said subjectionis fully appropriate to the powers, that's habeas,irrespective of territorial sovereignty or dominion, inother words, non-technical. In our case in Rasul, both the concurringopinion and the majority opinion say things like thereach of the writ depends not on formal notions ofterritorial sovereignty, but on the practical questions.Then they both list practical questions. Now suppose we take that as the definition.Now, can you find instances where the writ has beenissued by Britain in history to people who were notcitizens and who were not actually held in Britain? MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: They are -- MR. WAXMAN: I will cite two examples. Iknew that there was one other thing I wanted to try onJustice Scalia. One is -- and it's referenced in ourfootnote -- you know, in and , Parliamentsuspended the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus forpeople on the high seas or out of the realm,specifically directed at U.S. seamen, at Americanseamen. And if the writ never extended to Americanseamen on the high seas or out of the realm, there wouldhave been no point in suspending it. Second of all, the common -- the highcourt judges who were administering -- issuing the writfor the benefit of detainees in India before it became asovereign possession were not exercising a statutoryauthority, with all due respect to Justice Scalia. There was a royal charter that grantedthose judges the -- all of the common -- theauthority -- common law authorities of the Queen'sbench. And as the Indian case law explicates,and Sir John Chambers explains, one of those authoritieswas the exercise of the writ of habeas corpus, notmandamus, outside territories that were no part of theRealm of England. Those are the, I think -- I mean theremay be be something in -- JUSTICE BREYER: The Spanish doctor, theSwedish doctor, the Spanish sailors, the British spy,they're all in this case. MR. WAXMAN: Well, in this -- in thiscountry, In Re Felateau, which was decided only a fewyears after the founding, not only was he an enemyalien; he was granted release under the writ of habeascorpus because, not being a citizen, he could not becharged with treason, which was the basis for holding him. JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- where was he held? MR. WAXMAN: I think in Pennsylvania. Maybeit was -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you sure he was beingheld in Pennsylvania? MR. WAXMAN: It was the mid-Atlantic.Excuse me? JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're being heldwithin the jurisdiction of the United States. I amstill waiting for a single case, other than the Indiancase which you mentioned which was under a statute, asingle case in which an alien that -- in a -- in aterritory not within the Crown, was granted habeascorpus. And it's not enough to say there was astatute that applied on the seas. That's fine. Justgive me one case. There's not a single one in all ofthis lengthy history. MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Scalia, you'reasking me to discard the Indian cases, and I've -- I'vementioned to you the cases that the majority of Indiansin Rasul relied on, the Earl of Crewe and Mwenya. I'vegiven you the two statutes. I think at this point Ihave to plead exhaustion from remedies. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Waxman, thisdetermination, whether it's sovereignty or subjugationor control of non-sovereign territory, would, I expect,have diplomatic consequences. It is, I think, typicallyan act of war for one country to assert authority andcontrol over another country's jurisdiction. And here we have Section G whereCongress and the President have agreed that GuantanamoBay is not part of the United States, and, yet, youwould have this Court issue a ruling saying that it issubject to the total, complete domination and control,or whatever the factors are. What is the reaction of the Cuban governmentto be to that? MR. WAXMAN: My -- I don't think it's in therecord here, but what is in the record are the terms ofthe lease. And I don't really take it to be disputedthat Guantanamo is under the complete, utterlyexclusive, jurisdiction and control of the nationalgovernment of the United States. That's in the lease, itself. The courts ofCuba have so held. They have designated Guantanamo,quote, "foreign territory" unless and until the UnitedStates in its sole discretion chooses to vacate the base. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We -- there are --am I wrong that there are Cuban workers who come on tothe base and work? MR. WAXMAN: I'm not sure whether there are,or not, any longer. But unlike -- or if you take --they are not subject -- and it has never been contendedthat they are subject -- to Cuban control with respectto conduct that is subject to any law of the UnitedStates. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you have twoof those workers and they get into a fight oversomething, one can't sue the other in Cuban courts? MR. WAXMAN: Absolutely not, and this is thekey difference, I think, going to Justice Alito'squestion. Under our established -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What authority --what authority do you have for that: That such a suitwould not lie in the Cuban court? MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, the termsof the lease, and, second of all, I -- I don't know thatwe cited -- I mean, somebody has cited decisions of theCuban Government, the judiciary and its executive, thatthey don't exercise any jurisdiction over -- JUSTICE STEVENS: The converse question is: Could we prosecute a crime committed in Guantanamo byCubans? And the answer is yes. MR. WAXMAN: The answer is certainly yes,and if I can just make the point about bases elsewhere,in Germany and Japan, for example, the status of -- thisis the only base, I believe, that -- you know, insomething other than an active war zone, that isn't thesubject of a status-of-forces agreement that veryspecifically explicates both the judicial and executiveauthority over acts that occur on the base. And, for example, under our status-of-forcesagreement with Japan, it is entirely clear that if it isa Japanese citizen or a Japanese national or conductthat is subject to the laws of Japan, the Japanesecourts have jurisdiction. JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're not heartened bythe prospect that the detainees could apply to the Cubancourts, which would then hand process to the CommandingGeneral at Guantanamo? (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: Not particularly. Let's put itthis way: It has not occurred to us yet. (Laughter). MR. WAXMAN: I mean, this is in -- this isin many respects a uniquely straightforward case. I really didn't mean to be facetious when I said ournational control over Guantanamo is greater than it isover a place in Kentucky, because there we have -- underour system of federalism the Federal Government haslimited controls. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought this wasdecided in Rasul. That's why I am so puzzled by theGovernment's position. I think Justice Kennedy said itmost clearly when he said that, well, in every practicalrespect, Guantanamo Bay is U.S. territory; and whateverCongress recently passed, they can't, as you pointedout, change the terms of the lease. MR. WAXMAN: Yes. I think that's right, andI also think that, although it is correct, asJustice Scalia pointed out at the outset, that thedecision in Rasul was a decision about the scope of, which has now been amended, and the majority, atleast, rendered a decision on the basis of the statute,nonetheless, the Court was construing (c)(), whichis in haec verba with Section of the act. There are other provisions of the habeasstatute like the civil war provisions that -- underwhich this Court reviews State court convictions anddetentions. But the statute that this Court wasconstruing in Rasul was identical in language to the one promulgated in the -- the very first judiciary act of, which this Court has said in Bollman was aninstantiation, a positive enactment of the writ, thatwas protected by the Constitution. And so, while technically, the majority wasissuing a statutory ruling -- and we don't contendotherwise -- inferentially, its conclusion must extendto the -- the extent of the writ at common law. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Waxman. We will give you five minutes for rebuttal. General Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL PAUL D. CLEMENT, ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court: Since this Court's decision in Rasul,Petitioners' status has been reviewed by a tribunalmodeled on Army Regulation -, and Congress haspassed two statutes addressing Petitioners' rights. Petitioners now have access to the ArticleIII courts and have a right to judicial review in theD.C. Circuit. That review encompasses preponderanceclaims, claims that the military did not follow their own regulations, and statutory and constitutionalclaims. JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, you saidit was modeled after -. Is it identical to -? GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Stevens, it isvirtually identical. If you look at pages and ofour brief, you'll see kind of a side-by-side comparison;and the deviations are ones that, we would submit,enhance the rights of the detainees in this particularcircumstance. So they are given a right to a personalrepresentative, which is not something that ArmyRegulation - provides. They are specificallyprovided for the ability to submit documentary evidence. JUSTICE STEVENS: How is that personalrepresentative chosen? GENERAL CLEMENT: The personalrepresentative is assigned to the individual by themilitary. JUSTICE SOUTER: I mean is that personalrepresentative also under an obligation to report backto the military anything that might be unfavorable tothe person he is supposedly representing? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't know about"unfavorable," but I think if there's -- certainly, if there is material intelligence information, he is toprovide that information. JUSTICE SOUTER: So he's not -- he is not inthe position of counsel, as we understand the term. GENERAL CLEMENT: No. We are not trying tomake the point that the personal representative is acounsel. We're just saying it is something that isprovided above and beyond - in terms of theprocedure; and there are other particulars as well, likethere is the notice of the charges in the unclassifiedsummaries that are provided. Now, there's the complaint on the other sidethat the unclassified summaries aren't particularenough, but it is worth noting that that's somethingthat is provided here that's not specified by -. JUSTICE STEVENS: Under -, does thedefendant have a right to counsel? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, they do not, not underthe basic regulations of that. Now, Mr. Waxmancorrectly indicated that in a particular instance inVietnam, counsel was provided in - proceedings, butthose are not provided by the basic - procedures.And, I think it is worth -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The DTA, see, isunclear to me, anyway, on this question. You agree that there is the authority under the DTA, and I assume underthe Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in reviewingthose determinations, to order a release? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I -- the way I wouldanswer that, Mr. Chief Justice, is this: In terms, theDTA does not provide for an order of release. And wewould certainly have taken the position that, as a firstorder, if the D.C. Circuit finds a defect in the CSTR,we think the proper remedy would be to order a remandfor a new CSTR. But, certainly, if this Court thinks thatthe constitutional line is -- essentially necessitatesthat the D.C. Circuit have the authority to order arelease, there is no obstacle to that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: doesn't specifythe availability of release, either, but it hascertainly been interpreted to authorize that by habeascourts in this country. GENERAL CLEMENT: No. And the D.C. Circuitwould have available to it the All Writs Act, and theD.C. Circuit, in fact, in its Desmoula decision, whichis the decision where the Government has filed an enbanc petition -- that protective order that was issuedthere was done pursuant to the All Writs Act. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that -- GENERAL CLEMENT: The D.C. Circuit hasn'tbeen shy about asserting that authority. And, again, ifthat's what was required here, they could use thatauthority to order a release. JUSTICE SOUTER: But doesn't the resort tothe All Writs Act beg the question? And that is -- I mean the All Writs Act isthere to protect jurisdiction, and the question iswhether there is jurisdiction to release. And you say there no textual impediment toit; and, yet, we know -- I forget which brief it was in-- from one of the briefs the -- the instance of theprisoner Ali, one of the Chinese -- is it "Uigars"? Isthat how it is pronounced? GENERAL CLEMENT: "Uigars." JUSTICE SOUTER: Who was one of what, or, who was found not to be an enemy combatant, and theGovernment's position there was: Go back and do itagain in front of another tribunal, another panel,which, in fact, conveniently found that he was. So the practice of -- of the Government, itseems to me, has clearly been to deny the right torelease. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I would disagree,Justice Souter. Let me say a couple of things to that. One is that I think with respect to theUigars, in particular, there was a problem with orderingrelease outright. And it is interesting that when JudgeRobertson, the same judge, district court judge, whodecided the Hamdan case, had before him one of theUigars in a habeas petition, he recognized that underhabeas he couldn't order release. And the problem wasn't any kind of inherentlimitation on what he could order in his jurisdiction.There was just a practical problem, which was -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It was a practicalproblem. But the fact is that the effectiveness ofhabeas jurisdiction, for example, in requiring newtrials, and so on, depends upon the ultimate sanction,which is the authority of the court to let somebody goif the Government does not comply with a condition. And the -- the Government practice so farunder the DTA seems quite contrary to that. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again, JusticeSouter, what I would say is simply this: that if whatthe Constitution requires to make the DTA to be anadequate substitute is the power to order release, thereis no obstacle in the text of the DTA to that. And theAll Writs Act is available to allow them to orderrelease to protect their jurisdiction under the DTA. And I think that would be a solution to that problem. Now, I think, more broadly, let me -- let mesay about the DTA and the MCA, it really does representthe best efforts of the political branches, bothpolitical branches, to try to balance the interest inproviding the detainees in this admittedly uniquesituation additional process with the imperative tosuccessfully prosecute the global war on terror. JUSTICE BREYER: They get additionalprocess. The question, I guess, is whether it is anadequate substitute for having withdrawn the writ ofhabeas corpus. On that question, suppose that you are fromBosnia, and you are held for six years in Guantanamo,and the charge is that you helped Al-Qaeda, and you hadyour hearing before the CSRT. And now you go to the D.C. Circuit, and hereis what you say: The CSRT is all wrong. Theirprocedures are terrible. But just for purposes ofargument, I concede those procedures are wonderful, andI also conclude it reached a perfectly good result. Okay? So you concede it for argument'ssake. But what you want to say is: Judge, I don't carehow good those procedures are. I'm from Bosnia. I'vebeen here six years. The Constitution of the United States does not give anyone the right to hold me sixyears in Guantanamo without either charging me orreleasing me, in the absence of some special procedurein Congress for preventive detention. That's the argument I want to make. I don'tsee anything in this CSRT provision that permits me tomake that argument. So I'm asking you: Where can youmake that argument? GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm not sure that he couldmake that argument. JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly. GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm not sure he can make-- JUSTICE BREYER: If he cannot make thatargument, how does this become an equivalent to habeas,since that happens to be the argument that a largenumber of these people would like to make? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, letme take it this way, which is, of course, you're gettingto the gravamen of their claim, which is that the DTAand the review provided in the D.C. Circuit is not anadequate substitute for habeas review. And I'll start with the assumption for asecond, which I hope is right, because it seems thatJudge Friendly reached this conclusion -- and it seems to me the right conclusion -- which is that the baseline is . And if you compare what these detainees haveunder the DTA in terms of judicial review to what wouldhave been available to them at common law in , it isnot even close. This is the remarkable liberalization of thewrit, not some retrenchment or suspension of the writ.These detainees at common law would face not one, butthree obstacles, to getting into court to make theseclaims. The first, of course, is the geographicallimits on the reach of the writ. The second, butequally important, is the line of authority that saysthat the writ was simply unavailable to prisoners ofwar. And the third problem would be thewell-established common law rule that you can'tcontrovert the facts as set forth in the return. So at common law, somebody who took theincredibly, I think, poor strategic call to concede allof their legal arguments away and say only: I have aconstitutional claim here to be brought, I don't thinkthey would have gotten into court with that. JUSTICE SOUTER: But aren't you simplyrearguing Rasul? GENERAL CLEMENT: Not at all -- JUSTICE SOUTER: We have passed that point;haven't we? GENERAL CLEMENT: Not at all,Justice Souter. And, first of all -- I mean, I take ityour -- your principal objection goes to thegeographical writ point, because I think that the issuesabout controverting the facts of the return and theavailability of the writs to prisoners of war issomething that really wasn't -- had any reason to bebefore this Court in Rasul. JUSTICE SOUTER: It -- it -- it wasn't, andI didn't want to get into the prisoner of war point.But if you want to get into it, the problem with yourprisoner of war point is the United States is nottreating them as prisoners of war. They have not beenadjudicated prisoners of war, or otherwise, under theThird Geneva Convention, and that argument on theGovernment's part is entirely circular. GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, JusticeSouter -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Clement, Iremember in a prior hearing about Guantanamo that theGovernment was taking the position firmly that thesedetainees were not prisoners of war and, therefore, werenot entitled to the protection of the Geneva conventions. So if the Government is maintaining thatposition, these people are not prisoners of war, thenthe treatment of a prisoner of war is not relevant. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, with respect,Justice Ginsburg and Justice Souter -- because I thinkit gets to the same point -- we are using "prisoner ofwar" the way that the common law courts use the term"prisoner of war." JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the Geneva Conventionmodeled after the Constitution of the United States? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, it -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What it means by "prisonerof war" is the same thing that the Constitution means? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, and -- and -- withrespect, the Framers in had the benefit of thethree Spanish soldiers and the Schiever case. Theydidn't have the benefit of the Geneva Convention. JUSTICE SOUTER: And the three Spanishsoldiers were -- were ultimately found to be prisonersof war, And, yet, they had process to get into court.There was no question of the jurisdiction of an Englishcourt to entertain their claim. GENERAL CLEMENT: The writ was denied,Justice Souter. JUSTICE SOUTER: The relief was denied. GENERAL CLEMENT: No, the writ was denied. JUSTICE SOUTER: That had a hearing underthe writ. GENERAL CLEMENT: They did not have ahearing. The writ was -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Then how did the court evercome to the conclusion that, in fact, they wereprisoners of war? GENERAL CLEMENT: Because it said that -- itlooked at the pleading in the petition. There was nohearing. It looked at the petition and it said: ontheir own showing, they are prisoners of war. They aredenied the writ. JUSTICE SOUTER: On their -- on their ownshowing, but, in fact, the proceeding did not end untilthe court had come to that conclusion. It was not a conclusion that the courtassumed simply on the basis of a Government claim in thereturn to the writ. GENERAL CLEMENT: It didn't even ask for areturn, Justice Souter. I mean -- you know, theydecided the case -- JUSTICE SOUTER: On the basis of aGovernment claim formally or informally proffered to the Court. They -- they came to that conclusion, as yousaid, based on the -- on the prisoners' own showing.But the court certainly -- there is no authority in theprisoner of war case for saying that if the Governmentmake as claim that one is a prisoner of war -- contraryto the Government's prior position, incidentally -- thatthat forecloses the possibility of consideration underthe writ -- the petition as filed. GENERAL CLEMENT: There is authority forthat proposition, Justice Souter. It comes along laterin the World War II cases in Britain. The reasonthere's not authority contemporaneous with the cases is because these courts are operating with thecommon-law rule you can't controvert the facts as setforth in a return. So the petitioners in these caseswisely didn't make a factual dispute; they made a legaldispute. And the courts rejected it time and timeagain. I thought the Spanish sailors and the Shiver --I'd like to just offer you that the authority --because this question of course, over time, by , theBritish courts have relaxed the rule againstcontroverting the facts of the return, and theyaddressed this question about what kind of factualinquiry is necessary when the government comes back andsays that somebody is an enemy combatant, a prisoner of war, or, under the Emergency Detention Act of , athreat to the realm. And in two cases, Liverridge againstAnderson and Green against Anderson, the law lords, in, say that they are not going to look beyond whatthe government has provided in the return. They're noteven, in the Green case, going to ask for an affidavit.So if you're looking -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, was that because theywere reflecting practice, or because they werereflecting the Defense of the Realm Act? I don't knowthe answer to that. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it is a prettygood snapshot of where things were as of . JUSTICE SOUTER: Unless you can answer myquestion, we don't know what the snapshot proves. GENERAL CLEMENT: They were exercisinghabeas jurisdiction. JUSTICE SOUTER: They were exercising habeasjurisdiction in a court -- in a polity in whichParliament is supreme and Parliament had already passedthe Defense of the Realm Act, and I don't -- I mean it.I don't know the answer to the question I asked you.But I think unless we have an answer to that, we don'thave a reliable clue as to the understanding of the English courts at a time that's relevant to our inquiry. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think we do have ananswer, Justice Souter. It is in the Liverridge case,because there there's a question of interpreting theEmergency Detention Act. And they basically have achoice. They can interpret it to allow the detention toturn exclusively on the subjective belief of the homesecretary, or they can interpret it to reflect anobjective standard. And they choose, over the dissentof Lord Atkins, they choose purely subject if standard.So in interpreting a act of Parliament that could havegone either way they interpreted under the common lawwrit to involve no factual inquiry whatsoever. And thecase at common law in is a fortiori from thatbecause they would not go beyond the facts as set forthin the return. And the only response the Petitionershave to that common law rule is they can point to acouple of cases where the courts were tempted and didaccede to the temptation to peek beyond the return inthe context of a child custody case or private custodycases. But this is a situation -- JUSTICE BREYER: I thought we were heretalking about -- I see that you have a strong argumentand they'll have a strong argument in reply. I think both are pretty good, how you interpret these cases. Ithought we were talking about what the availability of aforum in which you can make your argument and they canmake their argument, and that's why I'm back to thequestion of this is remedy that's given in the statutesufficient to allow you to make your argument and theirto make their argument? And what you said was, when Ithought I produced an example of an instance they wantedto argue quite strongly, and you said no, they couldn't. Then you said well, neither could they inEngland. Well, that I wonder. That's where I'm backto. After all, England doesn't have a writtenconstitution. So it is hardly surprising if theyconcede everything away in England, they're not going tobe able to make any argument. There's nothing left.But let's image in England you had a statute and thatstatute said the government cannot hold an alien inBeckawannaland for six years without either chargingthem or releasing them. Or except for -- and we havesome very detailed preventive detention. Suppose therewas a statute like that. And then our friends inEngland in whatever year conceded every argument butthat one. Now, are you going to tell me now that thehabeas courts would have said we won't even listen to your argument? GENERAL CLEMENT: As Justice Souter pointedout -- I mean, if you assume that the statute also saidany review for that claim should be in the court ofappeals, not in the traditional -- JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. And you told mein this statute the court of appeals will not listen tothat argument. And as I read the statute, I agree withyou. Because I can find no place where they could makethat argument since it does not concern how well thistribunal did, nor does it concern the constitutionalityof the procedures of the tribunal. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Breyer, as Isay, I think that if you accept that there would be somedeference to the ability to bring statutory claims, Idon't know why that deference would be limited to thesubstance and not to the forum. And Congress here has spoken. It hasspoken. The political branch has spoken. They havestruck a balance. They've given these detainees betterrights and access to administrative and judicial review.Anyone -- JUSTICE ALITO: If the Court holds that theDTA is not an adequate substitute for habeas, what willhappen? Will these Petitioners then have access to all of the procedures that normally apply in a habeasproceeding under ? The same right to discovery,subpoena witnesses, access to classified information,presence in court? GENERAL CLEMENT: The government willcertainly take the position that they are not entitledto those things. Presumably the Petitioners will bearguing they are entitled to those things. The answers to those questions will beunclear because the review provided by the DTA and thehabeas statute, if it is applied in this context, eitherway, whatever the vehicle for that judicial review, itwill be unprecedented. And there will be difficultquestions that will need to be worked out, and I don'tunderstand why -- JUSTICE SCALIA: General Clement, if we hadto either charge or release these people, what wouldthey be charged with? Waging war against the UnitedStates? Is there a statute that prevents non-citizensfrom waging war against the United States and providescriminal penalties? GENERAL CLEMENT: Not as such,Justice Scalia. Now, of course, we might have anargument as to some of these individuals, that theyengaged in unlawful -- JUSTICE STEVENS: As I understand thegovernment's position, these people are not in uniform,so they're not an under the law of war. They have allcommitted murder, not just fighting a war. That's yourtheory, I think. They are all committed war crimes.Those that were caught on the battlefield, I mean. I'mtalking about those. GENERAL CLEMENT: Right, and the ones thatactually killed somebody would have committed murder. JUSTICE STEVENS: That's right. And theyare not prisoners of war under the law of war, becausethey were not in uniform. GENERAL CLEMENT: They don't qualify forprisoner of war status, but just to be clear I thinkcertainly when the British cases are talking about -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I'm talking about commonlaw. I mean under the law of war, the common law ofwar. They were not prisoners of war. GENERAL CLEMENT: They would not qualify forprisoner of war status. They're enemy combatants -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Their engaging in war-likeacts would be the crime of murder or the crime ofassault and so forth and so on. That's how I understandyour theory in one of these prosecutions is that not -- GENERAL CLEMENT: That would be our theory in those cases -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I mean it is your theory? GENERAL CLEMENT: That would be our theoryin those cases -- and it is our theory in those caseswe've chosen to prosecute -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. GENERAL CLEMENT: -- in the militarycommissions, but there are other individuals withrespect to whom we don't have the right kind of evidencein order to go with the full-blown military commissiontrial, but we still have the option that this Courtrecognized in Kirin and Hamdi and most particularly inKirin, not just to try people who are unlawfulcombatants for their unlawful combatancy, but also tohold them as we would hold anybody else who was capturedas preventative detention. JUSTICE STEVENS: For the duration ofhostilities, if you can show that they are enemies. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think if we canshow that they were enemy combatants, that's exactlyright. JUSTICE SOUTER: And you are operating todayunder a broader concept, as I understand it, of "enemycombatant"? GENERAL CLEMENT: Than? I'm sorry? Broader than what? JUSTICE SOUTER: Than was indeed the casefor example in our early litigation, let alone at thetime of Kirin. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well two things,Justice Souter. One thing is that with respect to thedefinition that the military commissions -- I'm sorry --that the C-Cert apply, that is a broader definition, Iwould quickly add though that with respect to themajority of individuals -- I mean you have thePetitioners from Bosnia that Mr. Waxman represents, butmost of these people were seized in Pakistan andAfghanistan, and so the situation is not that different.And obviously we would take the position to the extentyou have some concerns about the breadth of thedefinition, what this Court -- what the plurality saidin Hamdi in footnote gets it exactly right. The wayto deal with those concerns is in the adjudication ofparticular cases which can take place under the DTA orcan take place in habeas. And again I think the burden -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But how can -- and thisagain, maybe I should know the answer to this, but Idon't. How could that be litigated under the DTA?Doesn't any proceeding under the DTA simply have to accept the statutory definition? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, it does not. I meanit's a regulatory -- JUSTICE SOUTER: You mean -- you're sayingif it gets to the court of appeals, they can raise theconstitutional claim that the definition is broader thanconstitutionally could be enforced. Is that what you'resaying? GENERAL CLEMENT: That was in my points,Justice Souter. So I think that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't understand thatpoint when you were having your colloquy withJustice Breyer, either. I thought you were going toanswer to Justice Breyer, that the court of appeals doeshave the right to determine whether to the extent theConstitution and the laws of the United States areapplicable, whether such standards and procedures, suchas CSRT, are -- - to make the determination -- areconsistent with the Constitution -- GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes, Justice -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that's provided in theMCA. GENERAL CLEMENT: It absolutely is. I thinkJustice Breyer's hypothetical was cleverly crafted,though, to take that off the table. JUSTICE BREYER: It wasn't cleverlyredrafted. I wanted to say that the people I'm thinkingof are not challenging those procedures. What they sayis you could have the best procedure in the world, andthey're totally constitutional -- we'll assume that --they're assuming it. They're not going to concede it.They're assuming it. On that assumption, we still think thatCongress, the President, the Supreme Court under thelaw, cannot hold us for six years without either tryingus, releasing us, or maybe confining us under somespecial statute involving preventive detention anddanger which has not yet been enacted. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the statute -- JUSTICE BREYER: They are arguing it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the statute talksabout standards. Why can't that question thatJustice Breyer raised be reached by the Court of Appealsunder the CSRT review hearings when it determines theconstitutional adequacy of the standards, or am Imissing something? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think, again, thatJustice Breyer's hypothetical, as I understood it, sortof assumed away the adequacy of all of the standards andjust said: Putting all of that to one side, I have some other constitutional claim. And I'm just not so sure that habeas everallowed you to sort of bring every claim that youpossibly wanted to; and I think the -- what I -- the wayI read this Court's Hamdi decision is what wasenvisioned on a habeas case in a case where ArmyRegulation -, which, of course, the plurality cited,was complied with. It was in that case: The habeaspetition in court would take that as a starting point,and that you wouldn't necessarily be able to say: Look,it was nice that we had that proceeding, but put that toone side. I have another claim. I don't think the court, even in habeas,would have envisioned that that would go forward. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just one more question onthat point: Would the Court of Appeals in -- under theMCA have the authority to question the constitutionalityof the definition of noncombatant -- of unlawfulcombatant? GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely,Justice Kennedy. That would be available to them in theD.C. Circuit. JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, I thoughtyour answer to Justice Breyer -- and maybe I'm missingsomething -- would be that there is a third alternative which he didn't consider, namely: That these arecombatants picked up on the battlefield, and they may bedetained indefinitely without proving they committed acrime. And that is your position, I think. GENERAL CLEMENT: That is our position. Imean I want to give Justice Breyer's hypothetical itsdue. I mean there might be claims that you could havebrought, hypothetical claims that you could have broughtat some level, and that the DTA does -- JUSTICE STEVENS: You have a hypotheticalclaim that a particular prisoner says: I was kidnappedby people who were not in the United States Army andsold for a bounty. And I am -- I just happened to bethere when I got kidnapped. And then there is a genuine question of factas to whether the fact that they may have been sold inthat manner justifies detention, which is a differentquestion entirely from whether they committed aviolation under the law of war. GENERAL CLEMENT: Absolutely,Justice Stevens. But that question, of course, can beconsidered by the D.C. Circuit on review, becausethey're specifically entitled to a preponderance reviewin the D.C. Circuit. So that's a claim that they clearly could bring. They can also bring the statutory andconstitutional claims to the standards and procedures,and they can make claims that the procedures that areset forth in the CSRTs are not provided. And I think,again, if you compare that to what they would have hadat the common law, and you ask the question -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me interrupt again,and I know your argument. But with respect to thoseclaims, do you make the argument in your brief that someevidence is enough to refute that claim, or do you sayit is a preponderance standard? GENERAL CLEMENT: It's a preponderancestandard, and that's what is set forth in the statute.And, again, that's something where Congress specificallygot involved in the CSRTs in a way that I think isdifferent from the Hamdan case and Congress'sinvolvement with the Military Commissions. In theMilitary Commissions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose anychallenges to the adequacy of the standards, orwhatever, are the sort of things that would be raised inthe D.C. Circuit. And we don't know what that's goingto look like yet, because the D.C. Circuit hasn't had anopportunity to rule on those. GENERAL CLEMENT: That's exactly right,Mr. Chief Justice. And that's why, as we say in thebrief -- I mean there's a sense in which this is reallya facial challenge. I mean, in order for them to prevail withthe argument that DTA review is an inadequatesubstitute, they really have to say that it isinherently an inadequate substitute. That no matterkind of how many times the D.C. Circuit cuts thePetitioner a break -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't the main issue thefact that it has taken six years to have the issueresolved -- "relevant" -- GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean -- JUSTICE STEVENS: They say they havebeen unlawfully detained for six years from thebeginning. And isn't that delay relevant to thequestion of whether they have been provided such awonderful set of procedures? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Stevens, Ithink the delay is going to be relevant to whether ornot courts should expedite hearings, and the like. ButI don't think it should cloud the basic constitutionalquestion before this Court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The procedures that are before us under the DTA and the MCA, of course,weren't available for the whole six-year period, werethey? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, of course not. And Ithink it is worth recognizing that Congress legislatedin this area not in year one, and then six years havegone by. Congress legislated with these particularprocedures and this level of review in years four andfive. And the fact that they didn't immediatelytake effect, I think, is not an accident. It is aproduct of the fact that Congress in this area wasproviding unprecedented review. JUSTICE GINSBURG: General -- GENERAL CLEMENT: And, of course, when youdo something unprecedented, new questions will arise. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think, to go back tothe beginning, my notion of your position was you neverget to that question: Is the review of these proceduresadequate in the D.C. Circuit, because there is noauthority, period, for the D.C. Circuit to engage -- togrant what is before us is if the -- our applicationsfor a writ of habeas corpus. You say that's out the door. They mightbring some other proceedings. I thought that was your position. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that is ourposition, Justice Ginsburg. But our position is theywant -- they styled something -- they filed somethingcalled a habeas petition. Congress subsequently hascome in and said: The way we are going to deal withthis is we are going to remove jurisdiction for thathabeas petition, and we're going to allow you to file aDTA review provision -- a DTA review petition. Now, their argument is that Congress can'tforce that choice on them because this is an inadequatesubstitute for habeas. The Suspension Clause applies inGuantanamo; and therefore, the DTA is effectivelyunconstitutional to the extent it prevents us withproceeding with our habeas petition. Now, there are a variety of ways this Courtcould reject that claim. It seems to me that the moststraightforward way, though, is to simply ask thequestion: If the level of review provided by the DTA inthe DTA petition were provided by statute in oreven , for that matter, would it have been seen as aliberalization of the writ, or a contraction andsuspension of the writ? And I think it is very, very clear that ifthis statute had passed, if this kind of review was provided in or in , it would have been greetedas a remarkable -- remarkable liberalization of the writas it had then been understood. And I think we are in the situation wherethese individuals, for the first time, are reallyallowed this kind of access to the court system. And when that happens, there are going to bedifficult questions. We have difficult questions aboutwhat the record on review is. We have difficultquestions about the extent to which classifiedinformation should come in. But all of those difficult questions aregoing to be waiting for us if we go back to the habeascourts, because the same kind of issues -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, on that -- and youjust mentioned remedy. Suppose, contrary to what youhope for, that the Court were to say that this is -- wehave a minute or two. Suppose they were to say that this is anunconstitutional suspension of the writ, and that theremedy here written in the statute is not adequate inrespect to many claims that might be made. On that assumption, the habeas would lie.Now, it has been six years, and habeas is supposed to bespeedy. And, yet, people have serious arguments,anyway, that they are being held for six years withouteven having those arguments heard. Is there anything in your opinion that thisCourt could say by way of remedy that could get theD.C. Circuit or the others to decide this and the CSRTclaims, there are people to do this quickly within aperiod of months rather than six more years? And if so,what? GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean, obviously lowercourts take anything this Court says very, veryseriously. So, if this Court makes it clear -- JUSTICE BREYER: Are we faced with thisproblem, and I don't want to put you right on the spot,what approximately would you say in respect to this?Because it is a serious problem. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean -- let me --if I could, I would answer it as to what this Courtshould say about what the D.C. Circuit should do on DTAreview. I prefer to discuss the opinion where we winrather than the opinion where we lose. As to that opinion, the courts -- the lowercourts should be instructed to with due cognizance forthe fact these individuals have been detained six yearsand this is the process that has been provided in order to decide whether or not that continuing custody islawful, they should expedite this to the greatest extentpossible. JUSTICE KENNEDY: How can we fit yourposition when we have no jurisdiction here? JUSTICE SOUTER: If you win, we never get tothese issues. GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect if you win --if we win, you still write an opinion saying that wewin, and that opinion can still say everything -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Our opinion says have anice day, everybody. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SOUTER: You can't win withoutreversing the Court of Appeals. GENERAL CLEMENT: You can certainly affirmon alternative grounds. JUSTICE SOUTER: If we affirmed onalternative grounds, leaving the court of appeals'reasoning as it stands, these interesting questions thatyou referred to will never arise. GENERAL CLEMENT: I don't think that'sright, Justice Souter. There is active litigation goingon in the D.C. Circuit over basically these questionsand how this litigation is going to take place. And if this Court in affirming on -- begrudgingly affirming anddirecting the D.C. Circuit to move with all appropriatedispatch, that's going to be read just as carefully andtaken just as seriously if it's an affirmance than ifit's a vacate or a reversal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that because thewithdrawal of jurisdiction does not apply to review ofthe proceedings in the D.C. Circuit that's providedunder the statute? In other words, your argument thatthe habeas jurisdiction doesn't extend doesn't reach thereview of the adequacy of the DTA proceedings? GENERAL CLEMENT: That's exactly right.That's exactly right. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why would they litigatethat adequacy if they have determined in advance thatsubstantively the individuals who are petitioning haveabsolutely no rights? GENERAL CLEMENT: They hadn't decided that,Justice Souter. That might have been a problem back inRasul. But now whatever the answer to the question ofwhether the Constitution provides rights in Guantanamo,they have rights. They have the statutory right topreponderance review. They have a statutory right tohave the military follow its own procedures. And theyhave lots of arguments in the lower courts trying to take advantage of those rights that they have. So there will be a meaningful procedure inthe D.C. Circuit -- JUSTICE SOUTER: At the end of the day, theonly thing, as I understand it, that could possibly beadjudicated would be the question of formal adherence toprocedure or not. There would never be an adjudicationthat ever went to the merits because the merits issue,as I understand it, is already -- I mean merits ofrelief -- have already been prior admitted by theexisting determination of the circuit in this case. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Souter, I'mnot sure that this Court -- I understand your question,I believe, which is that the D.C. Circuit, I think,almost unavoidably reading this Court's Rasul decisionand reading it as a statutory rather than aconstitutional holding, has stuck with its circuitprecedent and said that there aren't constitutionalrights here. That is going to be true unless this Courtreverses it in habeas or in the DTA review. It would seem particularly strange that ifthat's the real problem that this Court would somehowdecide, well, you know, we really think the DTA is anadequate substitute, but the only way we can correctthis other mistake, in our view, that the D.C. Circuit is laboring under is to rule against the government. JUSTICE SOUTER: You were arguing that thequestion of the adequacy of the substitution should, infact, be litigated in a plenary fashion in the Court ofAppeals or the district court for that matter? GENERAL CLEMENT: No. I think that's theissue before this Court now. And this Court, forexample -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you said a momentago that there were all of these interesting questionsthat could be explored if there was a remand? GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm sorry, Justice Souter,I may have misspoke. JUSTICE SOUTER: Maybe I misunderstood you. GENERAL CLEMENT: The interesting questionsthat I think are left on the remand, no matter what, areissues about whether or not based on the Abrahamdeclaration that the military followed their ownprocedures for assembling the record below, or whetherthe military followed its own procedures for providingexculpatory evidence. Those are all questions thataren't questions that require the answer to the questionof whether Eisentrager is still good law -- JUSTICE SOUTER: You are talking about ineffect about evidentiary procedural questions? GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're talking abouttaking the statute, Congress's statute that set up thissystem with limited review in the D.C. Circuit andsaying that's it. The D.C. Circuit never got to thatquestion because it said the acts that these people aretrying to bring habeas doesn't exist. The only thingthat they have, the only remedy they have is the onethat Congress provided. And it seems to me the onlyquestion before us is whether there is jurisdiction inthe court of appeals to decide that threshold issue.They tossed it out and didn't reach -- didn't say oneword about the adequacy of the procedures or of thethings that you're talking about. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's right,Justice Ginsburg. I want to be clear that my positionis that an alternative ground for affirmance, whichwould allow this Court to address some of thosequestions, is that the D.C. Circuit was right to saythat the DTA review, that the habeas petition should bedismissed. The reason they were right is because theDTA is an adequate substitute for habeas. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be -- we wouldbe deciding that as a court of first view because theydidn't decide that? You don't need an adequate substitute for habeas because you have no right tohabeas. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's a fairobservation, but obviously this Court -- JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement -- GENERAL CLEMENT: In the context -- I meanthis has been fully briefed in, and in the context ofwhere the Court uses an alternative ground foraffirmance, it would not be a novel situation, I don'tthink. JUSTICE STEVENS: General Clement, yoursuggested reason why they're right is quite differentfrom the reason they actually gave. They did not reachthe question of the adequacy of these procedures. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's a fairpoint, Justice Stevens, though I would say that reallytheir reasoning encapsulates one of the three reasonswhy at common law they were right. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but they did notreach this very important part of the whole case. And,Of course, the substitute procedures here are not nearlythe same as those in our prior cases of where wesustained the and district here. GENERAL CLEMENT: Oh, that's right,Justice Stevens, but in fairness, in those situations you were dealing with sort of substitutes for corehabeas under situations where they're was no disputethat there was a robust right to habeas at common law,and so here you first deal with the situation of -- allright, the baseline is, as Judge Friendly suggests,, is this an adequate substitute? And that even ifsomehow -- and I don't know how you get past that --then you I think still might ask the question that thisCourt asked in the Felker case, which is, you know,giving some deference to Congress's ability to shape thescope of the writ, is there a problem here? I think wewould point the Court to Felker. JUSTICE STEVENS: And you say those latercases are not relevant because habeas corpus in themodern world is much broader than it was in .That's part of your point? GENERAL CLEMENT: That is part of our point. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes. GENERAL CLEMENT: And we would say, though-- JUSTICE STEVENS: And the comparison you askus to make is between what the habeas writ was in ,not what the comparison to a habeas writ would be today? GENERAL CLEMENT: We would start with thatproposition, but I think this isn't a case where it's just versus today because as I read this -- - JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't think you wouldseriously contend that the procedures set forth in thestatute are equivalent to those afforded under thehabeas writ under today's jurisdiction? GENERAL CLEMENT: It's a hard question forme to answer -- - JUSTICE STEVENS: At least you haven'targued that. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, no, but I mean thequestion is, you know, in a different case, sure, therewould be a different habeas. But we don't know sort ofthe answer as to what habeas looks like in the contextof enemy combatants detained in a place like Guantanamo,and we suggest, based on our best reading of Hamdi that,if there was habeas jurisdiction now, that theproceeding that would unfold would not be the plenaryhabeas that is envisioned by Petitioners but would be amuch more narrowly circumscribed habeas. I would alsopoint out that, again, it's not just -- JUSTICE STEVENS: On the point I made, Ithink that's critical to your argument that thesubstitute is adequate. GENERAL CLEMENT: I think that's right. Iwould say, though, that our only baseline is not because, as we read this Court's decision in Rasul,Rasul is based on the predicate that until andBraden's overruling of Ahrens, that the habeas statutewould not have gone to Guantanamo. And unless thisCourt is willing to say that there was an inchoateSuspension Clause violation until when Braden comesalong, it seems like the tradition in this country too,based on the immediate custodian rule and theterritorial jurisdiction of the courts, was that habeasin Guantanamo is a novelty. It's -- at best. If I could finish with just bringing theCourt's attention to one thing. This is in an amicusbrief that is in support of us, the Criminal JusticeLegal Foundation brief. But there's sufficiently littleprecedence for the Court to rely on, and I want theCourt to have this: The Schiever case, which is one ofthe prisoner-of-war cases. There's not -- in the Rasulcase, Justice Stevens, and the parties, we both cited tovolume of English Reporter and the report of the caseby Burrow -- there is in the English Reports analternative report of that case, from Kenyon. And thereport of that case which is English Reports isactually longer on the law, shorter on the facts, butlonger on the law than the report by Lord Burrow. So Iwanted the court to have that available to them. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,General Clement. Mr. Waxman, we'll give you five minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH W. WAXMAN. ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Your Honor. I want to speak mostly about the adequacy ofthe substitute and particularly the question that youand Justice Kennedy asked about adjudication of thestandard on remand, but just to take first things first,I don't -- I don't believe I've ever seen thegovernment's -- the case Liverridge or Green cases citedby the government before. And I don't know what theysay. But it is absolutely incorrect that DTA review ofthe CSRTs is a liberalization of the traditional writ.As this Court made -- or the King's Bench made clear inthe Bushell's case and all of the commentators includingSharpe, who both sides are citing as authoritative, hereagree in cases of executive detention, where therewasn't a trial occurring, the court absolutely could --the prisoner could controvert the facts of the return inSchiever and Spanish Citizens -- Spanish Prisoners,there wasn't an original hearing because the courtissued -- sat as nisi prius court and consideredaffidavits of the prisoners and third parties and determined on the basis of the affidavits that they wereprisoners of war. But it is absolutely clear that the writ didextend to the question of "I am not a combatant. I amnot a warrior, number one. And number two, it did go innon-criminal detentions to the underlying facts of thedetention, and that goes to the point about the standardthat Justice Kennedy asked and the Chief Justice asked. We agree that, if and when the D.C. Circuitever addresses the merits of these cases, and not onlyis there no CSR -- complete record on return in anycase, but the government has suggested they proceed fiveat a time, and we're now two years running without asingle one -- but there's no doubt that the argumentwe're making in Roman numeral of our brief, that theCSR, the Wolfowitz definition is not authorizeddetention under the AUMF, which as this Court in Hamdisaid, incorporates long-established law-of-warprinciples and American traditions. We can raise that claim because they have toestablish that the procedures and standards wereconsistent not only with the Constitution but also withthe laws of the United States. And the problem this isthis -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is an argument that, I gather, both sides agree is available to youunder the DTA before the D.C. Circuit. MR. WAXMAN: That is absolutely correct.But what -- what habeas at its core was -- and we'retalking -- I'm happy to live in the world of now --is executive detention and not the more moderninnovations where, well, certain procedures weren'tconstitutional or whatever, but you have no right tohold me. The facts won't allow you to hold me. TheD.C. Circuit cannot -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: What does that tell youabout the adequacy of the substitute? MR. WAXMAN: Because the D.C. Circuit --because the D.C. Circuit is reviewing a record that wasadduced ex parte, in camera, with a presumption to bootthat it is -- that the evidence is both accurate andcomplete, and the D.C. Circuit is -- has already said itwill not hear any new evidence and it must apply thatsame presumption that that evidence that was heard exparte in camera with its own presumption is correct.And here's -- let me just give you an example of whatdifference this makes. You have the unredacted versionof Judge Green's district court opinion. I don't. Shediscusses -- she does address the adequacy of thesubstitute. And she addresses the case of two individuals. One is Mr. Ait-Idir, who is my client, andyou have both in her opinion and our brief this trulyKafka-esque colloquy at his hearing in which he isaccused of associating with a known Al-Qaeda operative,which he denies, but he can't be told the name. Mr. Kurnaz is the other Petitioner who isdiscussed in her brief. He was a Petitioner in thisCourt, but he has since been released by the governmentbecause of the fact that he had what the CSRTs won'tgive him, which is a lawyer. He was told, two yearsafter he was detained -- he's a German permanentresident -- he was told at his CSRT, as many of theseindividuals were not, that he was being held because heassociated with a known terrorist. And he was told thename. He was told that he associated with somebodycalled Selcook Bilgen who, the government contended, was(a) a terrorist, who was -- had blown himself up whileMr. Kurnaz was in detention -- may I simply finish thisaccount -- while he was in detention and in a suicidebombing; and all that Mr. Kurnaz could say at his CSRTwhere he had no lawyer and had no access to informationwas I never had any reason to suspect he was aterrorist. Well, when the government, in the habeas proceedings, filed its factual return in Judge Green'scourt, it filed as its factual return the CSRT record.His counsel saw that accusation. Within hours, hiscounsel had affidavits not only from the Germanprosecutor but from the supposedly deceased Mr. Bilgen,who is a resident of Dresden never involved in terrorismand fully getting on with his life. That's what -- and that evidence would nothave been allowed in under DTA review. It wouldn't havebeen in the CSRT, and it won't come in under DTA review.And that's why it is inadequate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Waxman. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Page :, :amicus :analysis :Anderson :,answer ::argued :arguing :: :argument :: :,: ::, ::,,,: :: :: :: :,answers :anybody :anyway ::appealing :appeals :: :,: :: :,:, :: :,: :APPEARAN...:applicable :applications:applied :: :applies :: :apply : :: :: :: ::appropriate:, :: :: :approximately:area :,argue ::, :,: :: ::,,,,: ::, ::,,,,:,,: :,: :: :: :,arguments: :,:argument's:armed :army ::, :: :,: :: :Article :: ::aside :,:asked :: :: :: : ::asking ::assault :assembling:assert :asserted :asserting :assertion :AABDULLAH:ability :: :able : :above-entitled: :Abraham :absence :absolutely :: :: :: :,: :accede :accept ::access : :,: :,: ::accident :accompanying:accord :account :accurate ::, :accusation :accused :act : :: :: :,:, ::,,:,acted :active :: :acts : ::actual :,add :added :additional ::address :addressed :::addresses ::addressing:adduce ::adduced :adequacy :: ::, :: :: :,adequate :,: :: :: :: :: :: :,: :adequately :adhere :adherence :adjudicated: :adjudication: :: :adjudicatoryadministering::administrative: ::admitted :admittedly :advance :advantage :advocate :advocated :affidavit :affidavits :: :affirm :affirmance :: :affirmed :affirming :,afforded :Afghanistan: :ago :agree : :: : :: ::agreed :agreement ::,agreements :Ahrens :Ait-Idir :Al :,,,:, :alacrity :Ali :alien : :: :: ::aliens :aligned :Alito :,: ::Alito's :allow : :: : :: :allowed :: : :alternative: :,: ::Al-Qaeda ::amended :American : Page assigned :assistance :assisting ::::associated ::associating :assume :: : :assumed ::assuming ::,assumption: ::Atkins :attacking :attention :AUMF :: :authoritativeauthorities :::authority :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, ::authorize :authorized :: :availability :: ::available :: :: :: :: :a.m : ::Bb : :back : :: :: ::, :: :balance ::banc :base : :: ::, :,:based :: ::,baseline ::bases : :basic : :: :basically ::basis : :: ::, :battlefield :,: : ::Bay : :: :Beckawannal...:beg :beginning :: :begrudgingly:behalf :, ::, : ::belief :believe :: ::belong :bench ::benefit ::,best : :: :better :beyond :: :,Bilgen ::blown :Bollman :bombing :boot : :Bosnia :,Boumediene :::bounty :Braden :Braden's :branch :branches :: :,breadth :break :Breyer :: :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :Breyer's :: :brief :,: :: :: :,: :,briefed :briefs ::bring : :: :,: :bringing :Britain :,:British :: :broader :: :: :broadly :brought :: ::,burden :,Burrow :::Bush : :Bushell's :CC : :call : :called :: :camera ::,camps :capture :captured :: ::capturing :care :carefully :case :, :,:,,,,: :,:, ::, :: :: :: :: :: :cases :,: :,:,,,: :: :: : ::, ::,, :: ::, ::,,,: :,: ::,: :,:, ::, :: ::,, ::, :: :,: ::, :: :,,: :: ::, :caught :centuries :: :certain ::certainly :: :: :: ::,,: :: :certainty :challenge ::challenges :challenging :Chambers: :chance : Page change :Channel :charge :charged :::charges :charging ::charter :chief :, :,:, :: : :: ::, :: :: ::,,:, ::,,: :,: : :: :child :children :Chinese :choice ::choose :,chooses :chosen ::circuit :,,:, :: :: :,:,,: :: ::, :: ::, :: ::, :,:,,:,, ::,,,:Circuit's :circular :circumscribed: :circumstance:circumstances:,,:, :cite :cited : :: ::, :: :cites :citing ::citizen :,: ::citizens :: :citizenship:, ::civil :civilian :civilians :,claim : :: ::, :: : ::, :: :: :claims :: :,: :: :,:,,: :clarification:clarified :classified :: :: :Clause :,: :clear : :: ::, :: :: :: ::clearly :: :clear-cut :,Clement : ::,,:,,,:, :: :,: ::,,: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,,: ::, :: ::,,:, ::, ::, :: ::,,:, :,:,,,:,,:,,:cleverly ::client : :colloquy ::clients :close :cloud :clue :coalition :code :cognizance:Colepaugh:,:Columbia :combat :combatancy:combatant :: :: ::combatants :: :: :,: :come : :: ::, :: :comes :,:command :: :commanding: :: :commentatorscommission::commissions: ::,committed ::,, ::common :,: ::, ::,, ::,,,: :,: :,: ::common-law: :compare :comparison: :,competing:complaint :complete :: :,: :complied :comply :concede ::, :: :conceded :concedes :concept :concern :concerns :::conclude :conclusion :: ::,,:concurrence:concurring :condition :conditions :conduct ::conducted :confidentiality:confined : Page confining :Congress :: :: :: :: ::,, :: :Congress's: ::consequencesconsider :consideration:::considered: ::consistent ::constitution: : :: :: ::, ::, ::constitutional: : :: :: :,: :: :,:constitutionali...: :constitutionally:constraints :construing:,contemporane...:contend :: :contended ::contends :contention :context :: :,:continuing :contraction:contrary :: :control :: :,: :,: :,:, ::controls :controvert: :: ::controverting: :conveniently:convening :Convention: :,conventional:conventions: :converse :convictions:convincing:core : ::corpus : :: :: :: :,: :: :correct :: :: :,correctly :counsel :: :,: ::,,,:,country :: :: :: ::country's :couple ::course :: :: :: ::,,:court :,:, ::, ::, ::, ::, :: ::, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :: :,:, :: :,:, :: ::, ::, :: ::,, :: ::, :: :,: :: :,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,:, :,:,,,:,,,: :: :courts : :: :: ::, :: ::,,:, :: ::,,: :Court's :: ::,Cowle :crafted :Crewe :: :crime ::, :crimes :criminal :: :critical :crown :: ::crown's :,CSR :,CSRT : :: : ::, :: :: :,:,CSRTs ::, ::CSTR :,Cuba :Cuban ::,,,: :Cubans :custodian :custody ::, :cuts :C-Cert :DD : : ::danger :day : :,: :days :deal : :: :dealing :deceased :December :decide : :: ::,decided :,:, :: :: ::deciding ::decision :: :,: ::, :: :decisionmakerdecisions :decision-maker:: declaration:deem :defect :defendant :Defense ::, ::defer ::deference ::, :deferential :definition ::,, :: ::delay :,denied ::,,denies :deny :Department ::depend :: ::depends :: ::derive :designated:Desmoula :detailed :detainable :: : :detained :,:, :: :: :: :: :detainees :,: :: :: :Page : : :: ::detaining :detention ::, :,: : :: :,: :: :: :,: :,detentions ::determination: : :: :: ::determinations:determine :: :,:determined: ::determines:deviations :differ :difference ::different :: :: :: ::,difficult ::,,,diplomatic :directed :directing :directives :directly :disagree :disagreement:discard :discern :discovery :discretion :discuss :discussed :: :discusses :dismiss ::dismissed :dispatch :dispute :: :,:disputed :dissent :district :,:,,: :: ::doctor :,documentarydominationdominion ::::door :doubt :,: ::Dresden :DTA :,,:, :: :: :,:,,,: :: :: :,: :: : ::,,,: ::, :: :: :,due : :: :duration :D.C : :,:,,,,:, :: :,:,,: :: ::, :: ::, :: ::, :,: :,: ::,,,:EE : :,Earl : ::early :easy :effect :: :effectively :effectiveness:efforts :Eisentrager:either :: :: :: :,: :Emergency ::empire :en :enacted ::enactment: :encapsulatesencompasses::enemies :enemy : ::,,: :: :: :,:enforced :engage :engaged ::engaging :England :: :: ::,,,:English ::, :,: ::,,Englishmen:enhance :entertain :entirely :: :: :entitled :: :,:envisioned :: :equally :equivalent: :ESQ :, :,:essentially :establish : Page established: :,:ET :,,,evaluate :Everglades ::everybody:evidence :: :: :,: :: :: :,: :evidentiary:ex : :,exactly :: :: :,examination :examined :example :: ::, :: : ::examples :exclusive :exclusively :exculpatory:Excuse :executive :: : :: ::Executive's :exercise ::, ::exercises :: ::exercising :: :,exhaustionexigencies :::exist :existing :expect :expedite :experienced:::experimentati...explained :: :explains :explicates ::explored :extend :: :extended ::extent : :: :: ::FF :face :faced :facetious :facial :facility :fact :,: :: :: :: :,:, ::, :: :factor :factors :facts : :: :: :: :,: :: ::factual :: :: :,: :,FAHAD :fair : :: ::,fairness :fall :,far : :fashion :faster :FAWZI :features :Federal :federalism ::Felateau :Felker :,field :fight :fighting :file :,,:, :filed : :: :: :: :,finally :find : ::finds :fine : :finish : ::finished :firmly :first : :,: :: :: :: :: :: :,FISA :fit :five : :: :: ::fixed :flawed : :floods :follow :followed :following :footnote :::::force : :forces :,forecloses :foreign ::forget :form :formal : :formally :forth :: :: :,:forthrightly:fortiori :forum ::forward ::found ::, :Foundation:founding :four :Framers :FRIEND :Friendly ::friends :front : :fully : ::full-blown :future ::GG :game :gather :GEN : :general : :: :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,: :,: ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,,: ::, :: ::,,:,,: :,:,,:, ::,,:, :,:,,,:,, :,,:generated :Geneva ::, ::genuine ::geographical: :GEORGE :German ::,,: ::Germany :,:getting :: ::Ginsburg :,: :: ::, ::,,Ginsburg's:give : :: :: : :: :given :: ::giving :global :go : :: :: :: :: ::goes : :going : :: :,: :,:, :Page : :: :,,:, :: ::good :,: ::gotten :govern ::government: : ::,,: ::,,:, :: :: :,: ::, :: :: :: :: :,:government's: ::, :: :: ::grant :granted :: : :: :gravamen :greater :greatest :Green :: ::, :Green's :greeted :ground :::grounds :,: :,Guantanamo: :,: : :: :: : ::, :: :,: :: :: ::,guarantee :guess : :guise :Gulf :Hhabeas : :: :,,: :,,:, :,: :,:,,,: :: :,: ::, ::, ::, ::, :: :,: :: :,: ::, :: :: :,: :,,: ::,,,:,,: ::,,:, :,:,,:,,,:, :: ::haec :Hamdan ::Hamdi :,: :: :: :hand : :happen :happened :happens ::happy :hard :hear : :heard ::hearing :: :: :,: ::hearings :: :heartened :held : ::,,, :: :,: :: :,,: :: :helped :high :,:Hirota :history :: :hold : :: ::, ::,holding :: :holds :home :homes :Honor :hope :hostilities :::hours :hundred :hypothetical: :,: ::,,Iidentical ::,II : :: :III :ill-defined :image :immediate :immediatelyimmigration::impediment:imperative :implementing:important ::impossible:inadequate :: ::inappropriate: ::inchoate :incidentally: Page including :: :incorporates:incorrect :incredibly :indefinitely :India :,:Indian ::, ::,Indians :indicated ::indicates :individual :individuals: :: :: :: :,inferentially:informally:information: :,: :,: ::inherent :inherently :innocent :innovations:inquiry ::,instance :: ::instances :instantiation:instruct :instructed :intelligence :interest :interesting :: :,interests :interfere :interpret :,:interpreted: :interpreting:,interrupt :intervene :introduced :invoke :involve :involved :: :involvement:involving :: :Iraq :irrelevant ::,,irrespective:Islands :Isle :isolation :issue :,:, ::, :: :issued :: :: :issues :: :: :issuing ::JJapan : ::,Japanese ::,Jersey :John ::judge : ::, :: :,,: :: ::judges :: :,judgment :: :judicial :: :: :judiciary ::jurisdiction :justice : :,:, :: :,:, :: ::, :: :,:,,: :,: : :: ::, ::,,,:, :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,,:, ::, ::,,: :,: :: :,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,,: ::,,,: ::,,:, ::,,:,,:,,:,,:, ::,,: :,:,,:,,,:, ::,,,: ::,,:, :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,, ::,,,:,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,,:, :: ::,,,:, ::, :: :,:,,:,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,:, :,: ::justiciability:justifies :KKafka-esque:Kennedy :: :,: :: ::, :: :,:, :: :Kentucky :Kenyon :key :KHALED :KHALID :kidnapped:,killed :kind : :: :: :: :,King :King's :Kirin :,:knew :know : ::, :: :: :: ::,,: ::, ::, :: :known :,Kurnaz :, Page : :,multinationalmember :members :men : :::mentioned:, :merits :,:,, :met :mid-Atlantic:miles :military :,: :: ::, ::, :: ::, ::,mind :mine :minimum :minimums :minority :minute :minutes :: :missing ::misspoke :mistake :misunderstood:modeled :: :modern ::moment :months ::morning :motion :move :multi :murder :,::Mwenya :,: :NN :, :name :,narrowly :national :,: ::nature : :near :,nearly :necessarily:necessary :necessitates:need ::neither ::neutral :: :neutrality :never :, :: :: :: :,: :: :new : :: :: :nice : :nisi :noncombatant:non-citizen :non-citizensnon-combatants:::Llaboring :LAKHDAR :land :language :large :Laughter :: :,:law : ::, ::, :,: :,: : ::,,: ::,,:,,,: :: :: :: :,lawful :lawfully ::laws : :: :lawyer :,law-free :law-of-war:lease :,: :leasehold :leaving :left : :legal :: :legislated :,length :lengthy :Leon :let's : :: :: :level : ::liberalization: :: :lie : ::life :limitation :limited : :: ::limits :line : :: :,lines :list :listen : :litigate :litigated ::litigation ::,little : :live :Liverridge :: :long : ::longer ::,long-established: :look : :: :: :looked :,looking :looks :Lord :: :: :: :lords : :lose :lots :lower :,:Ludekey :,Mmain :maintaining: :maintains :majority :: : :: :: :making :mandamus:manifest :manner :Mansfield :: :material ::matter :: :: :: :,:MCA : :: :mean :,: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::, :: :,:, :,: :,: : ::meaning :meaningful ::,,: :means : Page operating ::non-criminalnon-sovereignnon-technical:::normally :notice : :: ::noting :notion ::notions :novel :novelty :number ::,numeral :OO : :objection :objective :obligation :observationobstacle :::obstacles :obviously :: :occupation:occur : :: :occurred :: ::occurring :Odah :,:offer :officer ::officers :Oh :Okay :,: :once :ones : :::operative :opinion :: ::, :,:, ::, ::opportunity:, :: ::opposing :option :oral : : ::order : ::,,,,: :,,: :: :ordering :original :ought :outright :outset :outside ::overruling :PP : :, :PAGE :pages :Pakistan :panel :parameters:Parliament: :,:part :,: :: :: :,parte : :particular :: ::, :: ::particularly: :: ::particulars :parties ::passed :: :: :PAUL : ::peek :penalties :pending ::Pennsylvania:,people : ::,, :: :: :: :,: :: :: :: ::, :perfectly :period :: :,:permanent:permits :person :,:, :personal ::,,:personally:persons :petition :,: :: :: :,: : ::,,,:Petitioner ::,petitioners :: : :,:,, :: :,:,,: :: :: ::petitioning:petitions :Philippines :picked :piece :place : :: :: :: :,: :plead :pleading :please ::plenary :: :plucked :plurality :: :point : :: :: :: : ::,,: :: :,: :,: :,:pointed :: :points ::political :: :,:polity :poor :position :: : :: :: :: : :: :,: :,,: :positive :possession :possibility :possible :possibly :::power ::powers :: :practical :,: :,practice :: :precedenceprecedent :::predicate :prefer :preponderance Page : ::, :presence :present :: :presented :preserves :President :: :Presumably:presumed :presumes :,presumption: ::,,pretty :prevail :::preventative:preventive :: :prevents ::primary :principal :,: :principles :prior : :: :prisoner :: :,:,,,:,,:, ::prisoners :: ::,,,:, :: ::, :: :prisoner-of-war: :prius :private :privilege :problem :,:,,,: :: :,: :: :procedural:procedure ::, :: : ::,procedures :: :,: ::, ::, ::,,: :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,: ::proceed :proceeded :proceeding :: :: :: :proceedings:, :: :: ::, :process : :: : :: ::, ::produced ::product :proffered :promulgated:pronounced:proper :proposition: :prosecute :: :prosecutionprosecutions::prosecutor :prospect ::, :protect :: :protected :protection :protective :proves :provide : ::provided :: :: :,:,,: :: :: ::, :: ::provides :: :providing :: :proving :provision :provisions :::purely :purposes :pursuant :put : ::::Putting :,puzzled :Qqualified :qualify :,Queen's :question :,,:, :: ::, ::,,,:, ::, :: ::, :: :: ::, ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,: ::, ::questions :,:, ::,,,:, ::,,,:quick :quickly ::quite : :: :quote : ::RR :raise : :raised :: :Rasul : ::, ::, :: ::,,: :: :: :,:reach : :: :: :,reached :: :reaction :read : :: : :: :readily :reading :: :real :really :: :: : :: :: :realm ::, ::,,rearguing :reason :: :: ::, :reasoning :: :reasons :: :rebuttal ::, ::recognized :: recognizing:record : ::, :: :: :redrafted :referenced:referred :referring :reflect :reflecting ::refute :regarded :Regulation: ::regulations ::regulatory :reject :rejected :::relates :relaxed :release : :: :,:, ::, :,:, :released :,: :releasing :: :relevance :relevant :: ::,,:reliable ::relies :rely :remaining :remand :: :,:remarkable: :,remedies :remedy : :: :,: :remember:remove :rendered :reply ::report ::,,,Reporter :Reports ::represent :representative:,,,:representing:represents:request :require :required :::requires :requiring :resident :: :resolved :resort :resounding:relied :relief : :: :respect : :: :: ::, :: :: ::, ::, :: ::respects :RESPONDENT:Respondents: :response :: :rest :result :retrenchment::return : :: ::, :: ::, :: :,returned :returns :reveal :reversal :reverses :reversing :review :, :: :: :: : ::, :: ::, :: ::, ::,,:,,,: ::,,: :,: :,reviewed :reviewing :::reviews :right :, :: :,: :: :: :: :,: : :: :,: :: :: ::,,,:,,:,,,:, ::rights :: ::,,:,ROBERTS ::,, :: : ::, :: :,: :: :,: :: :: :Robertson :robust :Roman :roughly :royal :rule :,: :,: :: :ruled :, ::rules :ruling :,Page : :run : :running :SS : :safeguardssailors :::sake :sanction :Sarajevo :sat :saw :saying : ::, :: : :: : :says : :: :: :: :Scalia ::, ::,,:,,,: ::,,: :: :,,: ::, ::Scalia's :Schiever :: :scope :seamen :,:::seas :,second :: :: :: Page Secondly :secret :secretary :: :section :: ::see : :: :seen : :seized :Sekgome :Selcook :Sellers :send :sense :separation: :serious :,seriously :: :set : :: :,: ::SETH : :,: :shape :Sharpe :Shiver :shorter :shot :shoulder :show :,showing ::, :shy :side : ::sides :: ::side-by-side:similar :simply :,: ::, :: ::single :: :: ::,,:Sir : :sitting :situation :: :: : :situations :: :six : :: ::, :: ::, :: :,:six-year :snapshot :::sold :,soldier ::soldiers :: :,sole :Solicitor :solution :somebody ::, :: :: :: ::sorry : ::sort : :: :: :: :Souter :,:, :: ::,,:, ::,,,:,,:,,,,: ::,,: :: :,: :,:,,,:, :: :,:,,southern :sovereign ::,, ::sovereignties:sovereignty: :,:, :: :,:Spanish :: :,: :,speak :special ::specifically: :: :: :specified :specify ::speedy :,: ::spot :spy :stage :standard ::, :,:, ::standards ::,,:, :stands :start ::started :starting :State :stated :States :,,: : :,: :: :,:,, ::, :: :,: :: :: :,: ::status : :: :,status-of-forces:,statute : ::,, :,:, ::, ::,,:,, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :statutes :statutory :: :: :: :,:stay :Stevens ::,,: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: :stop :straightforward: ::strange :strategic :strong :,strongly :struck :structurally ::stuck :styled :subject :: :,,:, :subjecthood: :,:subjection :: :subjective :subjugation:submission:submit :,submitted ::subpoena :subsequently:substance :substantial :spoken :,: Page substantive :substantively:substitute ::, ::, :: :: :,: :: :,: :: :,substitutes :substitutionsuccessfully::sue :sufficient :: ::sufficiently:suggest :suggested :: :suggests :suicide :suit : :suits :summaries:,supplies :support :suppose :: :: :: :,supposed :supposedly: :supreme :,: :sure : :: :,: ::surprising :suspect :suspendedsuspending::suspension :: :,: :sustained :Swedish :system : ::TT :,table :take : :: :: :: :: ::,,: :: :: ::taken :: :: :talking :: ::,,: :,:talks :technical :technically :: :tell : :temporal :temptation:tempted :Tenth :term : ::terms :: :: :: :terrible :Territo :territorial :: :territories :territory :: ::, :terror :terrorism :terrorist ::,test :text :textual :Thank :,:, :theory : ::, ::,thing :: :: : ::things :: :: :: :,: :: :think : :: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::, ::, :: ::,,: :: : :: :,: ::, :: ::, :: :,:, :: ::, :: :,: :,: ::, :: ::,,:,,:,,thinking :thinks :third :: ::thought :: :: ::, :: ::thousands ::threat :three :,: :: :,:threshold :time : :: ::,,: : ::times :today :: :today's :told : ::,,,:tossed :total :totally :,: :touchstone :tradition :traditional :: :traditionally:traditions :treason :treated :treating :treatment :treaty :trial : :trials :tribunal :: ::, :: ::,tribunals :tried :true : ::truly :try : ::, :: :trying :: ::turn : :turning :two : :: :: :,: :: :: :: :,: :typically :U Page Uigars :,:,ultimate :ultimately :unavailable:unavailing :unavoidably:unclassified:,unclear ::unconstitutio...: :underlying :understand :: : :: :,: ::,,understanding:understood: :unfavorable:,unfold :uniform :: :,uniforms :: :unique :uniquely :United :,,: : :,: :: :,:,, ::, :: :,: :: :: :,: ::unlawful ::, :unlawfully ::unprecedented: :,unredacted:USC :use : :uses :utterly :U.S :,: ::Vv :, :,: :: :,vacate ::variety :vehicle :verba :version :versus :Vietnam :: :: :view ::violation ::virtually :volume :WW : : :waging :,wait :waiting ::want :,: :: :: ::, :: :: ::wanted :: : ::wants :,war :,:, :: :,: :: :: ::,,,:, ::,,,,:, :,: ::, ::,,,:,,,: ::warrior :war-like :Washington: :,:wasn't ::, :: :,: :,Waxman : :: :,, ::, :,: : :: : ::, ::, ::, ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,:,,: :: ::,, :: :way : :: :: :: :: :: :,: :ways :wear ::Wednesday:week :well-established:went : :weren't :: ::we'll : :: :we're : :: ::, :we've : ::whatsoever:willing :win : ::,,,,wisely :withdrawal :withdrawn:withheld :witnesses ::wives :Wolfowitz :wonder :wonderful ::wondering:word :words : :work : :worked :workers :,world : :: :: ::worth :,:wouldn't :: : :: ::writ : ::,,,: ::, ::,,:,,:, ::,,,: ::,,,,: :: :,:, ::, :: :write :writs : :: :,: :written :wrong :::wrongdoing:Xx :, Yyear : :years : :: ::, :: :,: :: :,:, ::,,: :Zzone :: :- : :- : : :: : :G :(g) :: : : :, : : : :: : : : ::, :: :: ::,,:, :- : ::, ::,,,: : :,:, :Page : :,, : : : : : :(c)() : : : :C : : : : : : : : :, :: : : : : : : : : : 