 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCLIFFORD B. MEACHAM, :ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -KNOLLS ATOMIC POWER :LABORATORY, AKA KAPL, :INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEKEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners DARYL JOSEFFER, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFKEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Meacham versus Knolls Atomic PowerLaboratory. Mr. Russell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: This case presents a single important butnarrow question. Everyone agrees that under thereasonable factor other than age provision of the AgeDiscrimination in Employment Act, a business practicethat is reasonable is not unlawful even if it has adisparate impact on older workers. The question here issimply what happens in cases in which the proof onreasonableness is in equipoise, which party bears therisk of nonpersuasion. And on that question the statuteis not silent such as to leave to the courts to decidefor themselves what answer makes the most sense. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there a hypotheticaluniverse where a scheme that discriminates on the basisof age is reasonable, but there is another alternativethat doesn't discriminate on the basis of age? Is the first alternative still reasonable, or does theexistence of a nondiscriminating alternative make itunreasonable? MR. RUSSELL: This Court made quite clear inCity of Jackson that the existence of alternatives,while sufficient perhaps to satisfy Wards Cove and toshow a violation under Section (a)(), is notsufficient to show that the action is unreasonable. Andthat's what the Court found to be the case in Smith. Sothe standards are, in fact, quite different. The reasonable factor other than ageprovision looks at the reasonableness of the actual,existing practice, and that's where the "because of age"refers to the business practice there. It doesn't -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: If that's true, then is itnecessary either on the burden of production or burdenof persuasion aspect of the case to consider otheralternatives? MR. RUSSELL: It is in our view necessary inorder to decide whether there is a -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is it necessary inlight of the answer you gave me at the outset? MR. RUSSELL: It is necessary in order toestablish whether you even get to the RFOA provision.By its terms -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether you even get to -- MR. RUSSELL: Even get to it, because by itsterms the RFOA provision only applies to conduct that isotherwise prohibited by Section (a)(), and the testfor whether something is otherwise prohibited underSection (a)() is Wards Cove. This Court in Smith said that language,which was identical to the language Congress used todescribe the unlawful- employment practice in Title VII,has the same meaning in both statutes. And in order toestablish a violation of Wards Cove, you do have tooften look at questions of alternatives. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, this is theproblem that I have with your double inquiry. First,you decide business necessity. Then you decidereasonable factor other than age. Once you determinethat there is no business necessity, there is a readilyavailable alternative, so what you're left with is apretext for age discrimination, what -- what function isthere for anything else to perform? I mean, I understand the business necessity,whether you have it pre- or post, but I don'tunderstand putting this other test on top of it. Itsounds like you're making it harder for the -- for theplaintiff. MR. RUSSELL: Well, we think that thelayering of the tests arises out of the structure of thestatute as Congress wrote it. If this Court disagreeswith us, however, and thinks that there is room in thestatutory language to treat the language of (a)()differently in some sense or to apply a different WardsCove test, then you're still left with the question ofwho bears the burden of reasonableness. And on that grounds we agree entirely withthe EEOC that that question is still determined by thelanguage of the statute, which makes quite clear thatCongress thought that this was an exception to liabilityupon which the employer bears the burden of proof. Andit made that -- made that clear both by setting the RFOAup as an exception to liability, which this Court haslong told Congress will be construed as establishing anaffirmative defense absent strong indications ofcontrary legislative intent, and by sandwiching thatdefense in the same sentence as two other affirmativedefenses, which would be a very strange thing to do ifCongress in fact intended the courts to figure out, youknow, one of the three is not like the others, That it'sintended, instead, as a modification of the definition. And, third, Congress I think it -- it does,and it is telling that, in defining the unlawful employment practice, that is in defining the plaintiff'scase in chief, Congress used the same language that itdid in Title VII, and this Court has never construedthat language to require proof of unreasonableness. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, your friend,of course, makes the point that the age discriminationprohibition is narrower in scope than Title VII, thatthere are more likely to be instances in which areasonable factor other than age came into play thanthere would be a basis for discrimination on the basisof race. MR. RUSSELL: We acknowledge that. ThisCourt pointed out in Smith that Congress itselfrecognized that there was a difference between age andother kinds of discrimination; but it took thatdifference into account not by defining the unlawfulemployment practice differently, but by providing agediscrimination defendants a capacious defense that's notavailable to any other defendant in a Federal employmentdiscrimination statute, and by in not extending themodifications to Wards Cove to ADEA plaintiffs. Congress already specifically addressed thisquestion of whether Wards Cove should be adjusted inorder to make age discrimination claims harder to provethan Title VII claims, and it agreed that it should; but it didn't do it in the way that Respondents suggest.Instead they lowered the bar for Title VII plaintiffsand left in place the Wards Cove test for agediscrimination. JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it a strain to saythat an employment practice was because of anindividual's age, but at the same time was based onreasonable factors other than age? MR. RUSSELL: Well -- JUSTICE ALITO: Doesn't the latter negatethe former or come very close to negating the former?And if that's the case doesn't that suggest that it'snot really an affirmative defense but what's necessaryto show liability? MR. RUSSELL: I don't think it does. We usethe example in our brief of a weight-liftingrequirement. It's quite possible for that requirement,and quite likely, that it will have a disparate impacton older workers because of their age. The effect willbe felt by workers because of their age. At the sametime, it is quite possible that that practice itselfwill be entirely reasonable. And the difference isbetween what the "because of age" refers to in the twodifferent provisions. So if you look on page of the blue brief, you have the language of the RFOA provision, and thereasonable -- the "factors other than age" refers to inthat case the differentiation, that is the businesspractice itself. But if you turn to the prior page onpage A and look at the language of (a)(), the businesspractice, that is, the limiting, segregating, orclassifying, doesn't have to be because of age. Therewouldn't be a disparate treatment claim. Instead what"because of age" refers to there is the effect of thatfacially neutral practice. That is, the employee has toshow that the neutral practice deprives or tends todeprive people of opportunities because of their age. And the way that you do that is through thefirst step of the Wards Cove analysis, by showing thatthe practice falls more heavily on older workers as agroup, so that you can reach the conclusion that theplaintiff is feeling the effect because of her age asopposed to because of her sex or some other reasonspecific to her. So it's not the fact that a showing ofRFOA negates the showing that a disparate impact is feltbecause of age by the plaintiff. As we were -- as I was mentioning before,the language of the statute we think strongly points infavor of an ordinary reading of this as an affirmativedefense. The Respondent's principal objection is that this doesn't give adequate weight to the differencesbetween age and other forms of discrimination. But as Imentioned, we -- we do think that Congress took thatinto account in a different way, and there is, we think,quite an important value here in providing Congressclear rules of interpretation so that it knows when itenacts statutes using a particular formulation thecourts will construe it in an ordinary way, absent somecompelling indication to the contrary. We recognize, of course, in Betts that thisCourt found such a compelling counter-indication in thelegislative history of that statute, and in the -- thelaw's traditional treatment of benefits -- retirementbenefits and seniority rights. But Respondents can'tpoint to any kind of similar showing in this case thatCongress would have intended this catch-all provision tomean something other than what it seems to say. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The expression comes fromthe Equal Pay Act, with a substitution. In the EqualPay Act it's "any other factor other than sex" and hereit's "a reasonable factor other than age." And myimpression is that that formulation in this Equal PayAct has been rather problematic. First, you have tofind there is a differential between the pay of men andthe pay of women, so -- and then you go to any other factor other than sex. Are you suggesting any different analysisfor the age category than for the sex category. MR. RUSSELL: Well, certainly what you haveto show before you get to the defense is different inthe two statutes. They are similar in the sense thatneither requires proof of intentional discrimination.For example, in Corning Glass Works all the plaintiffsshowed there was that a facially neutral practice, thatis paying the night shift folks more than the day shiftfolks, resulted in women getting paid less than men forthe same work, and that was sufficient to shift theburden over to the employer to show that it was based onany other factor other than age. And in here we think that it's similar, thatthe plaintiff has to show that a neutral employmentpractice has a disparate impact on the basis of age. Wethink in our view, in addition, the plaintiff has tomake the full Wards Cove showing that would besufficient in Title VII to establish liabilityconclusively. And at that point, then the burden doesshift to the employer but it's a modest burden. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The burden of production,of course. MR. RUSSELL: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what about the burdenof persuasion? MR. RUSSELL: The burden of persuasion aswell. We think that this is -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is it that if theemployer has the burden of production, and I assume thatis satisfied by his saying, here's the plan that weused, here are the factors we used, here is the reasonwe used them. What is so difficult for the -- what isthe difficulty in saying that the employee then has toshow that that is unreasonable? MR. RUSSELL: Well, we think there are somedifficulties, but it's ultimately I think beside thepoint. The question is not what rule would make sense,but what does the statute -- what rule does the statutecontemplate? And we think by phrasing the RFOAprovision as a traditional affirmative defense -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think the statutedoesn't make sense, so we don't -- MR. RUSSELL: I think the statute makesperfect sense the way it's written, but if youdisagree -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your point that it'ssandwiched between two things that are clearlyaffirmative defenses, BFOQ, the employer has the buried of production and persuasion. And I forgot what thethird one -- MR. RUSSELL: The foreign law exception. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is also an affirmativedefense. So I take it your point is why should thismiddle one be any different? MR. RUSSELL: Yes, we think it would beentirely odd for Congress -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm well aware ofthe statutory format here. But what I want to ask iswhy is it beyond the employee's means and capacity toshow that this is unreasonable? It seems to me thatthat's the gravamen of this case. MR. RUSSELL: I don't think it's beyond theemployee's means. I don't think it's an impossibleburden. Certainly Congress could have written thestatute in a way that imposed that burden on theemployees. We do think that it makes sense because --that the factors that weigh in on the reasonablenesstend to be in the employer's possession and they havebetter access to it; it makes sense for them to bear theburden. But ultimately our argument isn't groundedon the claim that it would be impossible for Congress tohave imposed that burden. It's grounded on the claim that the text of the statute indicates that Congressmade a different decision, that is it accommodated theemployers' interests in dealing with the special factsof age discrimination differently. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if I find the textof the statute neutral or at least not clear, then it isproper for me to ask as a matter of efficiency where theburden should be placed, is it not? MR. RUSSELL: It is. It is. And my answeris that we do think that most of the facts going toreasonableness are in the employer's possession. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the facts-- I mean, given discovery, that doesn't seem a verycompelling case. Once you require the employer to comeup -- in other words, the burden of production -- andsay, well, the reason we did it was this, then it's justa matter of discovery. The plaintiff can say, oh, well,then let me depose that person who is the head of, youknow, whatever the department. If it's for safetyreasons, for some reason, or training issues, well, thenwe depose the person who is in charge of training orsafety and ask them those questions. And it doesn'tseem to me that the fact that the employer possesses theinformation, given very liberal discovery we have, ismuch of a factor. MR. RUSSELL: Well, that's true in everycase in which informational disadvantages are cited as areason for putting the burden of proof on one party orthe other. Discovery can always mitigate thatdisadvantage. But we ultimately think, you know, if youfind the statute so ambiguous as to think that it's areally critical consideration of what makes the mostsense, then you ought to defer to the judgment of theEEOC on this question. I would like to address if I could onespecific -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the argument was thatEEOC never spoke to disparate impact? MR. RUSSELL: Well, it's certainly clearthat the EEOC -- what their position is, and that theyread their regulation as addressing disparate impact;and we think that, although it's an inartfully draftedregulation, by using the terms "individual claim ofdiscriminatory treatment" rather than the term of art"disparate treatment," the language is broad enough tobear their reading, particularly when you see that itwas enacted in the aftermath of a Department of Laborregulation that nobody disputes addressesdisparate-impact cases, and it has no indication that they were disavowing that position. But if I could address the one otherobjective -- JUSTICE ALITO: In this area of the law,"treatment" and "impact" are words that havetremendously different meaning. Isn't it strange toargue that they used the term "treatment" when theyreally meant "impact"? MR. RUSSELL: Well, I -- I think that theterms of art are "adverse impact" and "disparatetreatment." And so that their failure to use either oneof those, I think, supports the idea that they weren'ttalking about either one specifically. I agree, it's --it's a hard to read regulation. But if I could turn, for a moment, to theAdams Fruit objection, which is Respondent's insistencethat this is not the kind of question that the Courtshould defer to an agency on. My point is simply thatthis is a substantive question of law. It's a questionof whether reasonableness is an element of the unlawfulemployment practice in section (a)(), the same kind ofquestion this Court asked in Smith when it decidedwhether discriminatory intent was an element of the(a)() cause of action. And the -- Congress has delegated authority to the EEOC to address those kinds of questions. Infact, it went so far as to delegate to the authority --delegate to the EEOC the authority not only to construethe exceptions that are in the Act, but to createadditional exceptions. So I think Congress would bevery surprised, indeed, to find out that this is not thesort of question to which it had delegated authority tothe EEOC to answer. If I could reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Joseffer. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARYL JOSEFFER ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS MR. JOSEFFER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Congress enacted the ADEA against a settledbackground rule that defendants bear the burden ofpersuasion on affirmative defenses and other exceptionsto liability. And Congress made very clear in thestatute that the "reasonable factors other than age"provision is precisely such an affirmative defense. Itdid so first by saying that the provision applies toactivities that are "otherwise prohibited by subsection A." That has to mean that liability fordisparate impacts exists under subsection A withoutregard to whether the employment practice is based onreasonable factors other than age. The latter inquiryis then a defense to the liability that would "otherwiseexist" under subsection A. The second is a point that Justice Ginsburgmade, which is that this subsection (f)() lists threedifferent defenses right in a row. It appears to becommon ground that the other two are clearly affirmativedefenses as to which the employer bears the burden ofpersuasion. And considering that all three areintroduced by the same "otherwise prohibited" languageand they are set forth in a single sentence separatedonly by commas, there is no basis for distinguishingamong them. Now, the defendant's main argument seems -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure that if thestatute contains three different conditions, threedifferent commands, that it follows that the proceduralimplementations for all of these has to be the same. Do you have any authority for thatproposition? MR. JOSEFFER: No. I mean, it's just a matter of how to interpret the particular statute. Andsince our point here is that this is a subsection on itsface -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you want to say thatCongress was well aware of burden of persuasion, burdenof production problems with affirmative action, thenthey wouldn't have drafted it this way, that's onething. I'm not sure that that's true. JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose you could appealto the maxim noscitur ex sociis, couldn't you -- MR. JOSEFFER: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and say if it's in withtwo other chickens, it's probably a chicken? MR. JOSEFFER: Exactly. I mean, words aregenerally known by the company they keep. And withthese three in a row, it would presumptively assume thatthey are all -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: These are not words.They are operative provisions of law. MR. JOSEFFER: Right. They are threeseparate clauses that are set forth, introduced by thesame, in our view, dispositive language, which is the"otherwise prohibited" phrase. It's also the only way to make sense of thestatute as a whole, because the defendant's view seems to be that "because of age" under subsection (a)() and"reasonable factors other than age" under subsection(f)(), should essentially be conflated such that thesecond, more specific provision is essentiallysurplusage. JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that "based onreasonable factors other than age" in the ADEA meanssomething different from because of such -- I'm sorry,that the -- because of an individual's age in the ADEAmeans something different from because of suchindividual's race, color, religion, sex or nationalorigin? MR. JOSEFFER: It modifies -- it modifiessomething different. "Based on reasonable factors otherthan age" modifies the underlying employment practice,the differentiation. Over an (a)() -- and this was thebasis of the Court's decision in Smith in part --"because of" does not modify the underlying employmentpractice. It modifies the adverse effect of theunemployment practice. In other words, the statuterefers to -- and this is on page a of the blue briefappendix -- it refers to an employment practice such asa classification that adversely affects an individualbecause of that individual's age. So "because of" logically modifies what comes before it, which is "adverse effect." And that'sconfirmed by the fact that the first sentence that talksabout the employment practices is written in the plural,whereas "adverse effect" and "because of" are written inthe singular with respect to individual, which isanother point the Court made in footnote in Smith. And that also has to be the case becausedisparate impact liability is not based on intent. Itdoesn't matter why the employer draft -- has theemployment practice. What matters is the effect. So inany disparate impact case there are two basic inquiries:the first is, is there an adverse effect on theprotected class; and the second is, has the businesspractice nonetheless justifiable. And here Congress broke those two out.Subsection (a)() addresses is there an adverse effecton the -- on the protected class. And then in (f)(),Congress specifically addressed the justificationstandard. That's one reason that we disagree withPetitioners about their four-part test. Here Congressclearly -- here the first part of Wards Cove tells uswhether there is an adverse effect under subsection(a)(). But then when it comes to the justificationstep, Congress clearly said that the justification is areasonable factor other than age. So there is no need to read in a different justification standard from thesecond and third prongs of Wards Cove. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The problem is that youwould be making this provision more generous to theplaintiff than -- for example, in Title VII the defenseis business necessity; the employer has the burden ofproduction; the employee has the burden of persuasion.Here you'd read -- you're saying you come into thecovered category, you were shown because of age throughimpact, and then the burden -- the total burden is onthe employer. Am -- am I making myself clear here? MR. JOSEFFER: I think -- I think Iunderstand the question. This statute is far moreemployer-friendly in the standard than Title VII becauseit relies on the reasonable factors -- thereasonableness defense, which is a much lower standardthan the business necessity test under Title VII. Thatreflects the fact that there are more innocentexplanations for age disparity. The separate question here, though, onburden of persuasion, I think the key point there isthat in Wards Cove this Court only had the equivalent of(a)() to work with. So it had not much textual basisto go on with respect to the second and third factors of Wards Cove and burden-shifting. The Court had to do alot of gap-filling once it recognized the disparateimpact claim. Since then, however, in every one of theserelated civil rights statutes that Congress has enacted,it has spoken more clearly on the justification stage;and has always in every one of these statutes put thatburden on the defendant. It did it in Equal Pay Act,according to this Court's decision in Corning Glass. Itdid it in the revised Title VII. It did it here. Andeven in the Americans with Disabilities Act, Congressspecified that business necessity is a "defense." CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I wassurprised not to see Chevron cited in your brief. What-- what sort of deference do you think we should givethe EEOC regulations here? MR. JOSEFFER: Auer -- in our view theregulation itself as far as it goes is entitled toChevron deference, because it's a notice and commentrulemaking pursuant to delegated legislative authority.We recognize, however, that the regulation on its faceis at best inartfully written; and therefore, thequestion is how to interpret the regulation. We think EEOC's interpretation of itsregulation in context is reasonable for a combination of a few factors. First, the Department of Laborcontemporaneously enacted a regulation putting theburden on the employer in all cases. Second, when the EEOC took over rulemakingauthority, it didn't insert this unusual discriminatorytreatment language in there, but the EEOC's position atthat time and ever since has been that it did not intenda substantive change. And third, discriminatory treatment, whileit undoubtedly throws a real wrench in -- or wrinkleinto things -- excuse me -- and takes us out of Chevronand into Auer, is not a term of art. Disparatetreatment is a term of art. The regulations otherwiseuse the phrase "different treatment," but discriminatorytreatment is at best confusing, especiallyconsidering -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Ithought Auer deference tells you how to interpret theregulation. And having once interpreted the regulation,you need to know what to do with it. MR. JOSEFFER: My understanding of Auerdeference is that the agency gets deference as thereasonable interpretation of its regulation. And theagency has consistent -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We know what the regulation -- we give it deference; we know what theregulation means. Now, does that regulation, asunderstood in light of Auer deference, get Chevrondeference or something else? MR. JOSEFFER: It would get Chevrondeference. I mean, I think the two-step process is theregulation here, in our view, is clearly entitled toChevron deference as far as it goes. And if you deferunder Auer to the agency's view of its regulation, thenthat makes the Chevron case. But it's through the lensof Auer. And finally, as a policy matter, JusticeKennedy, one can reasonably place this burden ofpersuasion either way. I mean this Court put it oneplace in Wards Cove. Congress immediately abrogatedWards Cove and put it in the other place. The sky isnot going to fall either way. But even if the textwasn't so clear, one would logically put it on theemployer for a few reasons: First, all else beingequal, the employer is at least in a better decision toexplain the reasonableness of its very own businesspractice. And, second, the parties are not ordinarilyexpected to prove a negative, which is what theplaintiff would have to do here. And that's why in every statute enacted after , which is the first -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is it proving anegative? They would just have to prove that it was orwas not a reasonable factor other than age. MR. JOSEFFER: Right, and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, and just adding on tothe Chief Justice, it seems the employer is the one thatwould prove the negative. He has to say there were no-- here is a whole universe of other frameworks, andnone of these work. MR. JOSEFFER: No, it's a very simpletwo-part test. Once the plaintiff has established anadverse effect, an adverse impact -- I mean, even thedefendant agrees that presumptively establishesliability, because the defendant agrees to bear at leastthe burden of production at that point. And the question for the employer is just toshow that its business practices -- own businesspractice is reasonable, is supported by some reasonablefactor other than age. And it ought not be hard for anemployer, especially considering that the reasonablenessstandard is not very daunting, to explain why its ownbusiness practice is reasonable. And if an employercan't even persuade someone that its own businesspractice is reasonable, then the odds are that there is a problem. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I want to make an argument both fromelegance and from function and from structure. Underthe employment discrimination -- a wide range ofemployment discrimination, beginning with this Court'sdecision in McDonnell Douglas, this Court has applied athree-step balance-shifting paradigm in order to helpjuries resolve the question of whether discriminationoccurred. In the disparate treatment cases there is aburden -- the first step, the plaintiff has to establisha prima facie case that he was the subject of disparatetreatment because of his race or sex. The burden of production then shifts to thedefendant in order to explain, under disparate treatmentcases, a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason, whicheliminates the presumption consistent with Evidence Rule, and the burden of proof then resumes on theplaintiff to prove discrimination because of the prohibited characteristic. Now, in Wards Cove, this Court looked bothto Rule and to the paradigm in other discriminationcases to apply a three-part test, in which there is aburden of proof to establish a presumption, a burden ofproduction to neutralize it, and then a burden of proofto show because of race. The Second Circuit has done exactly that inthis case, and we think they are right not just becausethat harmonizes this Court's prior discrimination cases,and not just because three seems to be more elegant thanthe four steps that the Petitioners want or the twosteps that the Government wants, but because it makessense. And this goes directly to the question, Ithink it was, that Justice Alito asked: Whether or notthe "reasonable factors other than age" inquiry issimply what's necessary to show liability, that is, thatit was because of. The ADEA doesn't prohibit disparatetreatment. It doesn't prohibit disparate impact. Itprohibits -- doesn't prohibit employment practicessimply because they correlate negatively with age. Aplaintiff has to prove that he has suffered adverseemployment action because of his age. And the question whether an employer based its action on reasonablefactors other than age is part and parcel of thatinquiry. It's not a free-standing -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, the firstpart -- MR. WAXMAN: -- confession and avoidancedefense. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The way you phrased thefirst part, it sounded to me like you were going back tothe interpretation that this Court rejected, that is,under the Age Discrimination Act there is onlydifferential treatment, not neutral factor with adifferential impact. MR. WAXMAN: No, not at all. Not at all.If I said that, I certainly don't want to be mistaken.We are not up here arguing that there is no disparateimpact theory of liability under the ADEA as there isunder Title VII. This Court resolved that question inSmith, and it resolved it in large part by reference tothe "reasonable factors other than age" provision, whichJustice Stevens' opinion for a plurality of the Courtexplained that, when you have a disparate treatmentcase, if the plaintiff proves that his -- his or hertreatment -- if the defendant proves that it was becauseof something other than age, it isn't disparate treatment. The fact that there is an RFOA provision, wethink, does reflect the fact that there is the potentialfor liability under disparate impact, but as this Courtexplained, it's narrower. And it's narrower because --not only because the amendments didn't apply to agecases; it's narrower, because as this Court hasrecognized in almost every age case it has decided, age-- unlike race and sex and religion and national origin-- often does -- sad to say by somebody who is in hissecond decade of protection under the ADEA -- often doescorrelate with reasonable employment factors. And the fact that all -- what it means isthat at step one of the burden-shifting analysis, theWards Cove analysis, which in a race or sex caseestablishes a strong presumption that the employmentaction was because of race or sex because there are sofew employment characteristics that do correlatenegatively with one's race or one's gender, it's astrong presumption which nonetheless need be met only bya burden of production. This Court has recognized that in the agecontext, the presumption actually is quite weak. And itwould be more than perverse to adopt the Government'sproposal, which is that notwithstanding the much weaker inference, the burden of persuasion is now on theemployer, not the employee. And, in fact, the principalproblem, I would say, with the Government the EEOCproposal -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Waxman, what do you doabout the language "otherwise prohibited"? MR. WAXMAN: Excuse me? JUSTICE STEVENS: What do you do about thatlanguage in the statute? MR. WAXMAN: May I just finish my sentence-- JUSTICE STEVENS: Sure. MR. WAXMAN: -- Justice Stevens, and goright to "otherwise prohibited"? The government's proposal under which, oncethe employer establishes the statistical disparity, theburden of proof shifts to the employer, equates whatthis Court has said over and over again is a prima faciecase or a presumption into liability. It would dictateprecisely the opposite result that this Court found inSt. Mary's Honor Center. It would allow the jury, uponsilence by the defendant, not to say, well, you mayconsider this presumption to be enough if you don't hearany other evidence. It would tell the jury the proof ofstatistical disparity is proof of discrimination. And that's just wrong. Now, "otherwise prohibited" -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Even that, there's aquestion about not merely statistical disparity, but acausal connection between an identified practice -- MR. WAXMAN: Right. JUSTICE STEVENS: -- in the disparity. MR. WAXMAN: That's exactly right. Now, with respect to the structure of thestatute and "otherwise prohibited," the -- my friends onthe other side of this case turn almost everything onthe fact that the "reasonable factors other than age"provision applies in -- in subsection (f) and is -- asJustice Ginsburg said -- is sandwiched in between twoother provisions that, for argument's sake, let's justacknowledge are affirmative defenses on which theemployer would bear the burden of proof. And whydoesn't that prove anything? I'll go first to "otherwise prohibited" andthen explain why the sandwich effect is no morepersuasive here than it was to the Court in Betts. "Otherwise prohibited" means that it isprohibited subject to the following conditions. Itdoesn't say who bears the burden of those conditions. What it reflects, Justice Stevens, is this fact. You could have taken everything that is in F andjust put it into A, but you would then have had to putit into B and C and E. And so what Congress said was --it didn't say not -- things that are prohibited inSection A won't be unlawful if X, Y and Z. It says"otherwise prohibited" in those sections. In other words, it doesn't -- it meansnothing other than it's prohibited subject to thefollowing conditions. Now, I will acknowledge forargument's purposes -- and it actually suits my argument-- to show that the BFOQ defense and theforeign-employer defense are affirmative defenses.Because as we -- as we know from Black's Law Dictionaryand this Court's decisions, Dixon, for example, anaffirmative defense is a defense that says: I admit theallegations of the complaint, but I have a justificationfor it that the law recognizes. Now, that's -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Isn't it -- isn't the --isn't the weak point in your argument the following:Your argument assumes that when the employer implicitlysays I admit the allegations the complainant made, thatthe employer is admitting, in effect, to disparatetreatment. That he is saying: I did it because it wasmy purpose to discriminate against the old. But if we read the "because" language asalso admitting the meaning, "I did it or it had animpact by reason of the age, regardless of my intent,"then this incongruity that you are arguing aboutdisappears. MR. WAXMAN: No. It is quite to thecontrary, unless -- and it may be the case that I'mcompletely misunderstanding you. The point is that at step one the plaintiffhas to prove a statistical disparity, a substantial,negative, statistical correlation. And that raises apresumption that what was otherwise a neutral -- appearsto be a neutral factor was, in fact, because of age.That these -- JUSTICE SOUTER: In other words, for thepurpose of discriminating against the old. MR. WAXMAN: Whether it's -- JUSTICE SOUTER: And that's -- that'sdisparate treatment. MR. WAXMAN: Well, no. What this -- whatthis Court said in Griggs is there are proof problems.There are plenty of instances in which there isundiscovered, unreconciled, unacknowledged inferencesabout people. And old people is the perfect examplewhere there is no history of invidious discrimination. There is no prior hurdle that, unlike black people andwomen had to overcome -- which was another factor inGriggs. It's that we all get old, and people havepreconceptions sometimes about the enormity oflimitations of age which may not be justified. So the way that these defenses, thesandwich, if you will, works is the plaintiff underWards Cove shows his statistical case. It's a primafacie -- it shows that there is a disparate impact,period. But the statute -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Waxman, you have tokeep in mind they are not just showing a disparateimpact. Because of a particular practice there is adisparate impact. That's what you leave out. So thequality of the practice is what is at issue, and thedefendant doesn't come in and say I admit that it wasunlawful. He first tries to prove it was necessary, andhe fails on that. And if he fails on that, he has thelesser burden of proving reasonableness. MR. WAXMAN: No, well let -- let me see if Ican't address Justice Souter's point first. I do thinkI understand your point, which is what's wrong with thePetitioner's case. But, Justice Souter, the point isthat once a prima facie case is established in an agecase -- let's just take the three provisions that are at issue in (f)(). Under BFOQ, the employer gets up and says:Well, ladies and gentlemen, the judge is going to tellyou that they have established a prima facie case thatthe way that these otherwise neutral -- that this wasbecause of the plaintiff's age. And you know what? Iadmit it. I, in fact, admit that it was by accidentbecause of age. JUSTICE SOUTER: In an impact -- no. In animpact case, he is saying: I admit that the impactfalls more heavily on the old. MR. WAXMAN: Correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: And -- and it seems to methat's all he has to admit in an impact case. And hedoes so, and then he -- MR. WAXMAN: What he basically says is: Iagree that age was the factor, but I have an excuse forit. And, similarly, in the third exception, theforeign-employers exception, he comes in and says: Youhave heard all of the statistics. And you know what? Idid do this to disadvantage old people, because my plantis in a country that discriminates -- that makes itillegal for people over to work. But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then he isnot -- he didn't do it to discriminate against old people. He did it because the foreign country requireshim -- MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. And that's whyI admit -- I admit that I did this in a way that had adisparate impact on old people. I did it, if you will,in order to -- I have a justification for it. Whereas,in the reasonable factors other than age, the assertionis everybody understands that the plaintiff has theultimate burden to prove that he or she suffered anadverse employment action because of age, not because ofsome factor that for entirely good reasons correlateswith age. And the showing that there is a statistical-- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, then you're -- thenyou're just saying that there -- that there is no suchthing as a disparate-impact case. MR. WAXMAN: No. JUSTICE SOUTER: You're saying -- you'resaying that there's got to be a disparate-treatmentcase. MR. WAXMAN: No, no; not at all. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, then I'm notfollowing you. MR. WAXMAN: Let's take their -- let's taketheir -pound hypothetical. The employer says: Okay, from now on all of our employees have to be able to lift pounds over their head, you know, times in seconds. And older people or women -- let's say olderpeople, you know, say: Well, statistically, that haswiped us out. That has had a substantial -- asubstantial adverse effect on us because we are old, andwe have less upper body strength. The employer then gives -- comes forwardwith a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason or areasonable factor other than age, and says, for example,well, you know, this is -- we need our employees to beable to lift strong things. If the plaintiff comes backand says, I am an accountant, that's not reasonable,it's a very different case than if this is a requirementimposed on stocking clerks in an auto parts -- autoparts shop where you do have to lift very heavy thingsover your head. In other words, the paradigm that this Courtset out in Wards Cove applies exactly the same way. Itapplies a three-part test except that at step three thestandard of justification is different. And this, I think -- I hope, JusticeStephens, goes to your question. In Wards Cove thisCourt said you show a prima facie case of a disparateimpact. The burden then -- the burden of production then shifts to the employer to explain that it was --there is a business -- to articulate a businessjustification for the facially neutral requirement. And what the plaintiff then has to do isbear the burden of proving that that wasn't a businessnecessity; that there is one other way, one other way inwhich it could have been done; and, therefore -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you there agree thatthere is a distinction between "business necessity" and"business reasonableness"? MR. WAXMAN: Yes. And, in fact, I thinkit's sort of embedded in the very opening of the bluebrief in this case, where the Petitioner says: Well,the Court has sometimes used the word "businessjustification," and the Court has sometimes used theword "business necessity," and we don't really thinkthat means anything, so we use the wordsinterchangeably. But this case shows that it means everythingbecause at step three of Wards Cove the petitioner --the plaintiff's burden is proving that it is -- thatthere is one other way -- that all you have to show isthat it wasn't a necessity to do it that way in order toachieve your objective and the employee wins. But because of the differential in correlation between age and employment factors, in thiscase it is a business justification; that is, theemployee has to come in and say it just wasn'treasonable to use that. And this case is a perfect example. Here wehave a research lab that has one client. It's thenuclear reactor division of the United States submarineunit. And they come, and they say -- and there is nodispute about the facts here -- they say the Cold War isover. We aren't going to have as much work for you.And since you're cost-plus, you're going to have toreduce your work force; and because we are in adifferent kind of war, we have new missions. You aregoing to have to design and engineer and implementthings that you hadn't done it before. And so you needto figure out a way to go ahead and do this. And what the company did was to go throughall of its units and then subunits and sections, andsay: Given the new mission that the Navy has told us weare going to have to occupy, do you have people -- doyou have more people than you're going to get paid forto do what you have to do? If the answer is yes -- if the answer is no,you're fine. If the answer is yes, please consider thefollowing: What are the skills within the people within your section, subsection, or unit that are excess, thatin light of the reduced and changed mission we don'tneed? Identify those skills. Then go through each oneof your employees; and if it is an employee with thatskill, rank them on a scale of to according to fourdifferent characteristics: Seniority, which gives abenefit to older workers; recent job-performanceratings; the criticality of the other skills they have,do they have some other skill that is going to berequired; and their flexibility -- how willing have theybeen, or are they, to learn new skills? And the company has a training manual. Itgoes through and trains the managers to do this. It isapproved by the Department of Energy and the Departmentof the Navy. But after the managers engage in thisanalysis and prepare this matrix, they then have tojustify it before a central review board, which theplaintiff's own expert acknowledged was set up in orderto make the managers defend each decision and make surethat those judgments corresponded with overallmanagement's responsibilities. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Still, the numbers, theway it came out, are rather startling. That there were people who were RIF'd; and of those, turn out tobe over . MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. And as thedistrict court found and the court of appeals found,those were strikingly stark numbers. They were so starkthat they came to the immediate attention of thecompany's management and general counsel, Mr. Correa,who was -- who looked at this and said: We are going toget sued for age discrimination. What should we doabout this? And what he did about this, what the proofshowed, is he went back and said: Is each one of thesedecisions justifiable? Did they really apply thesefactors? He testified that he considered just saying:We'll go back and redo it so that the age distributioncomes out right. But he was concerned that the New Yorkhuman rights law, which defines -- this is sort ofastounding -- defines "older worker" as somebody over, does have a reverse-discrimination provision. But the point here is -- and, therefore, hedecided: We did this right; we used a matrix thatunrebutted testimony said was the paradigm in industry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the terms"flexibility," "criticality" -- I mean the way youdescribed it, it sounds very mechanical, mathematical.But those terms are -- they call for some humanjudgment. MR. WAXMAN: They definitely do. And thesecond question that was presented in this case, whichthe Court didn't accept, was an assertion by thePetitioner that the Second Circuit had assertedly heldthat where a reasonable factor other than age derivesfrom a subjective judgment, the Second Circuit had heldthat it was immune from review under disparate-impacttheory, which, as the Government pointed out in itsinvitation brief, is not at all what the Second Circuitheld. The point is that this Court in Smith andearlier in Hazen Paper and earlier age cases was highlycognizant of the fact that unless there is a test thatimplies that -- that applies certainty for employers,there is going to be -- age -- if this standard isn'treasonable and if it isn't up to the other side to provethat it's unreasonable, employers are essentially goingto take age into account. They are going to do whatMr. Correa testified he wouldn't do, which is rejiggerthe results to come up with a -- a percentage that moreapproximated the balance in the work force. And that,this Court has said repeatedly -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, maybe because hethought that, given the subjectivity of some of thesefactors, that there was at least unconscious age bias in the decisions that were made. MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, that iswhy -- and it was testimony both from the employees inthe case and from our uncross-examined expert and eventheir expert -- the review board -- the company set up acentral review board which was trained and whichexamined every single manager about every singledecision, whether you call it subjective or objective. Now, the district court -- the trial courtwho heard the testimony said that he -- he deemedflexibility and criticality objective. He said theywere objective factors because of all the instructionsthat were given, which we have reprinted in the jointappendix in this case. But even assuming -- and Icertainly take your point, Justice Ginsburg, that if youask a manager to evaluate an employee on the degree ofcriticality of that employee's skills or the flexibilityof that employee, you can give her all the training inthe world. You can give her a -point checklist.Ultimately, you're relying on a judgment by a humanbeing of another human being. But why would we not want employers to dothat? Why would we want them to -- to retreat to thesafe harbor of some safe quota. You know, gee, we havea / split in our work force; and, wow, these numbers, we did it according to Hoyle. We've done --this is the paradigm RIF process, but go back and do itin a way that comes out with a specific set of numbers. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, is yourrecent discussion about what happened here go simply to,I guess, your alternative argument, that we shouldaffirm because you're right, regardless of who bears theburden; or does it really go to the legal questionbefore us? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think it goes to both.I mean it goes to -- it simply -- it certainly goes tothe question over whether, whoever has the burden onreasonableness, you ought to do what you did in Smithand what the Eleventh Circuit did in Montalvo, which isthe case you cited in Smith. And in -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Here we have a juryverdict that was affirmed by the court of appeals. MR. WAXMAN: Well, we have a jury verdict.We have a jury verdict under Wards Cove. The court ofappeals, as we pointed out in -- to the court of appealsthe first time and in our petition for certiorari herethe last time and to the court of appeals the secondtime and to this Court on pages , , and of our briefin opposition this time -- the court of appeals wassimply wrong in both step one and step three of Wards Cove. This is even assuming Wards Cove were the test.There is -- under step three of Wards Cove, which is howthis case was tried, it was concededly the plaintiff'sburden to prove that there was some other way, one otherway, to do what the company wanted that established thatthis wasn't a business necessity. And I will representto the Court that in five and a half weeks of testimonythere is not one sentence of evidence to that effect. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was taken out ofit by Judge Jacobs when he redid it. He said, we wereon the wrong track with business necessity. Businessnecessity is out. It's only reasonable factor of age. MR. WAXMAN: What Judge Jacobs said is thecase was tried under business necessity, under which theplaintiffs at least had to prove that there was someother way that the company could equally have achievedits objectives. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, wasn't the issue ofreasonable factor under age tried in the trial courtwhen the case was tried? MR. WAXMAN: No, because the EEOC regulationat the time, regulation (d), which deals withdisparate-impact cases, said that reasonable -- thereasonable factors other than age provision is provenby, and only by, the business-necessity defense, a defense as to which the plaintiffs bear the burden. And, in fact, in Wards Cove, the Governmentin Wards Cove was on the employer's side. TheGovernment urged the court to do exactly what it did.And under the Government's own regulation .(d), theburden of proving reasonable factors other than age wascorrectly on the plaintiff, but incorrectly equated withthe substantive showing of business. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Am I correct to understandthat your trial counsel then took the position you mustprove business necessity? I mean an absence of businessnecessity, rather than reasonableness. They didn'tadvance their strongest defense. MR. WAXMAN: Well, no, we took the positionthat reasonable factors other than age was a separatetest and was a separate defense. JUSTICE STEVENS: Right. MR. WAXMAN: The judge instructed the juryto the contrary and said under Wards Cove -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was Judge Pooler wrong,then? She said, in effect: You forfeited reasonablefactor other than sex, because you didn't bring it up.You were going on business necessity. MR. WAXMAN: Well, what happened was -- I mean, Judge Pooler is wrong in certain respects, but notthat respect. We -- our answer pleaded reasonablefactors other than age, but we didn't -- neither we norour opponents asked for a separate instruction onreasonable factors other than age. The jury wasinstructed on the Wards Cove analysis because -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The jury didn't hear aword about reasonable factors other than age. Theyheard about business necessity. MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. I mean that --and that's because -- you could say that it was a mutualmistake by everyone involved. But the EEOC had directedunder subsection (d) of its regulations that reasonablefactor other than age could be established only byproving business necessity. And both parties -- JUSTICE STEVENS: As everybody now knows,that was wrong. MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. And the -- mypoint is we are -- we are entitled to judgment in ourfavor. We are entitled to an affirmance because, numberone, the Second Circuit was correct that the burden ofproving reasonableness was on them, and the -- thePetitioners have acknowledged expressly on page oftheir blue brief that if in fact it is true that theSecond -- if the Second Circuit is in fact correct, then the judgment is affirmed, that is, they say when a --"While a defendant has no obligation to press an issueupon which the plaintiff bears the burden of proof --and therefore the Second Circuit may have been justifiedin reviewing the evidence of reasonableness in light ofits holding that Petitioners bore the burden of proof"-- JUSTICE STEVENS: But did you plead this asan affirmative defense? Did you plead it as anaffirmative defense? MR. WAXMAN: We pleaded it as a -- I can'tbring the complaint to mind, but we pleaded it as aseparately specified defense, yes. We said, in ouranswer to the complaint, we said this is a reasonablefactor other than age. And so we are -- everyone acknowledges thatif the Second Circuit is correct as to where the burdenapplies, the judgment should be affirmed. Oursubmission is that the judgment has to be affirmedwhether or not the burden applies as the Second Circuitheld. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Russell, you have four minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. RUSSELL: I'd like to begin byaddressing the general legal question that the Courtgranted cert on, and particularly going back to thisidea, this assertion that the proof of the RFOA issomehow a negation of the obligation that the plaintiffhas to prove that they have suffered a disparate impactbecause of age. It is simply incorrect. It's based --as, Justice Souter, I think you were suggesting in someof your questions -- on a confusion about what the"because of age" requirement is in a disparate-impactcase under Section (a)(). The requirement underSection (a)() is simply to show that the effect of thepractice is felt because of age, while the defense inthe RFOA provision is to show that the practice itselfis reasonable even though it has this effect. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the practice -- if apractice correlates with a number of -- statisticallycorrelates with a number of different factors, is itbecause of all of those factors? MR. RUSSELL: I think, under Wards Cove,this Court has said that it does, and so under WardsCove you establish that the discrimination is felt byolder workers because of age by showing that all the workers as a group suffer disproportionately from it. JUSTICE SOUTER: Wards Cove, in other words,says "because" may mean "correlation" and it mean"purpose," either one. MR. RUSSELL: Yes. I mean -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes. MR. RUSSELL: But I think all you have toshow under (a)() is that the practice tends todisadvantage older workers because of their age. And soagain in our weight -- weight example, the employeradmits in our weight example that the effect of theneutral practice is to fall more heavily, is to restrictthe employment opportunities of older workers because ofage, but says, even if that's true -- even if there is adisparate impact because of age-- we are still entitledto the defense because the practice itself isreasonable. It's also -- I would like to address thesuggestion that Griggs is directed -- or disparateimpact is directed at ferreting out intentionaldiscrimination. Certainly it serves that function inmany cases, but that's not the sole purpose of it. Andit's simply not the purpose of the prima facie case inWards Cove to give rise to an inference of intentionaldiscrimination, and the fact that it doesn't as strongly in the age case I think isn't a reason to think thatCongress intended the courts to develop a different testfor showing what's otherwise prohibited under (a)(). And, finally, if I could address some of thequestions regarding what happened in this case. Thiscase, Justice Stevens, was not tried with reasonablenessin mind, both because Respondents abandoned their"reasonable factor other than age" defense, which theyhad raised as an affirmative defense in their answer. Ibelieve Mr. Waxman is incorrect when he suggests thatthey in fact asked for instructions. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, if he put in all theevidence he's described, that would not have provenbusiness necessity. It seems to me that evidence had togo to the issue of reasonableness. MR. RUSSELL: It may have been relevant toreasonableness, but that's not why it was put in.Before the trial began -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Was he arguing that it wasnecessary to follow this one downsizing practice? MR. RUSSELL: They certainly, I think --they used that argument to show that they had a businessjustification and to try to rebut our showing ofalternative, equally effective practices. But it wasclear by the time of trial that -- you know, they had proposed jury instructions that didn't ask forreasonableness to be part of the case. We proceededwith the case on the assumption that we would beentitled to prevail under these instructions so longthat we showed that the current practice, reasonable ornot, had a disparate impact and was subject to anequally effective alternative. JUSTICE STEVENS: And just one other detail,Did -- the district judge not instruct the jury on thisdefense? MR. RUSSELL: It did not. JUSTICE STEVENS: It did not? MR. RUSSELL: The only instruction was thatwe'd be entitled to prevail if we showed Wards Cove, andits -- JUSTICE STEVENS: You have an unusual casewhere the decisive issue, at least when you get to thisCourt, is something the jury never passed on. MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think that's right.And ordinarily I think you would say that thedefendants, by not raising the issue to the jury, ifit's an affirmative defense, have waived it. They askfor an excuse, given the change in law. We don't thinkthat the change in law excuses their failure to waiveit. The regulation that they point to they themselves have argued here isn't entitled to much of anydeference. And, in fact, at the same time they weresimultaneously arguing that there wasn't even anydisparate-impact liability in the first place under theADEA. So I don't think they can actually claim thatthey were relying on that. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m. the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aabandoned :able :,above-entitled: :abrogated :absence :absent : :accept :access :accident :accommodated:account :: :accountant:achieve :achieved :acknowledge: ::acknowledged: :acknowledges:Act : ::, ::, :action : :: :: ::activities :actual :Adams :adding :addition :additional :address :: :: ::addressed :addresses :::addressing: :ADEA :: :,: :: :adequate :adjusted :admit :,: :,:, ::admits :admitting ::adopt :advance :adverse :: :,:,,:, :: :adversely :affirm :affirmance:affirmative :: : ::, ::, :: ::, :: ::affirmed ::,,aftermath :age :,,: :,:, :,:,, ::,,,,:,,,,: :,:,,: :: :,,,:, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,:, :,: :,: :: :,:,,,: :,: :,:,,,: :,:, ::, ::agency ::,agency's :agree : :: :agreed :agrees ::,ahead :AKA :AL :,Alito :, :: ::allegations:,allow :alternative ::, : :: :alternatives :: :ambiguous :amendments:Americans:amicus : ::analysis :: :,: :answer :: : ::,,: ::appeal :appeals ::,,,:APPEARAN...appears :::::,articulate :asked :: ::aspect :assertedly :assertion :: :Assistant :assume ::assumes :assuming ::assumption :astoundingAtomic : :attention :Auer ::,,:,,authority ::,, :: :auto :,available ::avoidance :aware : :a.m : :BB : :back : ::, ::background:balance :balance-shifting:bar :based : :: :,: : :appendix ::applied :applies :: ::, ::,apply : :: :approved :approximated:April :area :argue :argued :arguing :: ::argument ::, :,: :: ::, ::, :: :argument's: :arises :art : : basic :basically :basis :,:, :: ::bear :: :: :: :bears : :: :: ::began :beginning :behalf :,: :,,,: : ::believe :benefit :benefits ::best : :better ::Betts ::beyond :,BFOQ :: :bias :black :Black's :blue : :: :board ::,body :bore :brief :,: :: :: :bring ::broad :broke :burden :,:, ::,,:,, ::,,:, :: ::, :,:,,: :: ::,,:,, ::, :: :: :,:, :: ::, ::,,,burden-shifting: :buried :business :: :,: :,: :,: ::,,,:,,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::business-nece...:CC : : :call : :capacious :capacity :case :, :: : :: :: :: :,: :: ::, :: ::,,,:,,:, :: :,:, ::, ::,,: ::,, :,: :,cases : :: :,:, :: ::catch-all :category :,:causal :cause :Center :central ::cert :certain :certainly :: :: :: ::certainty :certiorari :change ::,changed :characteristic:characteristics: :charge :checklist :Chevron :: ::,,,chicken :chickens :chief :, :,: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :Circuit ::,, ::, ::,cited : ::City :civil :claim : :: :: :claims :,class :,classification:classifying :clauses :clear : :,: :: :: ::clearly :: :,: :clerks :client :CLIFFORD :close :cognizant :Cold :color :combination:come : :: ::, :comes ::, ::, ::commands:commas :comment :common :company :: :: :,company's :compelling :: :complainant:complaint ::,completely :concededly :concerned :conclusion :conclusively:conditions ::, :conduct :confession :confirmed :conflated :confusing :confusion :Congress ::,,,: :,,:,, ::, :: :,: ::,,,:, :: :connection : consider :: :consideration:considered:considering: :::::consistent ::construe :::construed :contains :contemplatecontemporane...context :contrary :: ::Corning ::Correa ::correct :: :: :,:, :correctly :correlate ::,correlates ::,correlation: ::corresponded:cost-plus :counsel :: :: :: ::counter-indic...criticality :: :,curiae : :country :current ::::course : ::court :,: :, ::, :,: :,: :: :: :,: :,: :,: :,: ::, :: :,:,,:, ::,,,: :,: :,:courts : :: :Court's :: :: :Cove : :,: :, :: :: :,: :,: :: :,: ::,, :,: ::, :: :covered :create :critical :Dd : ::DARYL :: :daunting :day :dealing :deals :decade :decide : ::,decided :: :decision :: :: :: :decisions :: :decisive :deemed :defend :defendant :: :,: :: ::defendants :: :defendant's: :defense :,: : :: :: :: :,: ::,,,: :,: :,: :: :,:,defenses :: ::, :: :defer : ::deference :: :,: :,,:, :defines :,defining ::,definitely :definition :degree :delegate :,delegated :: :department: :: ::,depose :,deprive :deprives :derives :describe :described ::design :detail :determine :determined :develop :dictate :Dictionary:difference :: :differences :different :: : ::, :: ::,,:,,: ::, :: ::differential: :,:differentiation: :differently :: :difficult :difficulties:difficulty :directed ::,directly :Disabilities:disadvantage: ::disadvantagesdisagree :::disagrees :disappears :disavowing :discovery ::, :discriminate: ::discriminates: :discriminating:discrimination: : ::,,,: : :: : :,,,:, :: :: ::,discriminatory: ::,,discussion :disparate :: :,: :,: :: :,: ::,,:, ::, :: ::,,: :: :,:disparate-imp...: :: :: :disparate-trea...:disparity ::, :: :dispositivedisproportion...::dispute :disputes :distinction :distinguishingdistribution::district :: :division :Dixon :double :Douglas :downsizing:draft :drafted :D.C :,,::EE : :, :earlier :,EEOC ::,,:,, :: :: :EEOC's ::effect : :: ::,,,:, :: :: :: :,:effective ::efficiency :either ::, :: :elegance :elegant :element ::Eleventh :eliminates :embedded :employee :: :: :: ::,employees ::, ::employee's:, :employer ::, :: :,: ::, ::, ::,,: :,: ::, :: :: :employers ::, :employer's: ::employer-frie...:employment: : :,: : :: ::,,:, :: :,:,,: ::enacted :: :: :enacts :Energy :engage :engineer :enormity :entirely : :: :entitled :: :,: :,:equal :,: ::equally :: :equated :equates :equipoise :equivalent::especially :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially :: :establish :: :: ::established: :: ::establishes: ::establishing:ET :,evaluate :everybody ::evidence :: :: :,ex :exactly :: :: :examined :example :: :: :: ::,exception :: ::,exceptions ::,excess :excuse :: ::excuses :exist :existence :,existing :exists :expected :expert ::,explain :: :: :explained ::explanations:expression:expressly :extending :Ff : : :: ::face : :facially :: :facie :: :,: ::fact : :: :: :: :,: :: :: :: : : :,: ::factor : :: : :: :,: ::, :: :: :: ::, :: ::factors : :: :: ::,,:, :: :,: :: :: :: ::, :,: :,facts :,,:fails :,failure ::fall : :falls : :far : :: :favor : :Federal :feeling :felt : ::,ferreting :figure ::finally ::find : :: :fine :finish :first : :: :: :,: :: :: :,: :,: :five :flexibility :: :,folks :,follow :following ::, ::follows :footnote :force :: :foreign :foreign-emplo...foreign-emplo...:::forfeited :forgot :format :former :,forms :formulation:,forth ::forward :found : :: :,four : ::four-part :frameworksfree-standing::friend :friends :Fruit :full :function :: :GG :gap-filling :gee :gender :general :: :generally :generous :gentlemen :getting :Ginsburg :: :: :: : :: :: :: :,: :,:give : :: :,:given :,: :: :gives : :Glass : :go : :: ::, :: :,,:goes : :: :: :,:going :: :: :,:,,: ::,,: :good :Government: :: :,government's: ::granted :gravamen :Griggs :: :ground :grounded ::grounds :group : :guess :Hhalf :happened :: :happens :harbor :hard ::harder ::harmonizes:Hazen :head : :hear : :::heard :: :heavily :: :heavy :held :,,:help :highly :history ::holding :Honor :hope :Hoyle :human :,:,hurdle :hypothetical: :Iidea : :identical :identified :Identify :illegal :immediate :immediately:immune :impact :: :: :,:,, :: :: :: :,: : ::, ::,,: :: :,:impacts :implement::implementati...implicitly :implies :important ::imposed :: : inartfully :intentional :impossible:,impression::::incongruityincorrect :incorrectly :indicates :indication ::indications :individual :: :individual's ::,,industry :inference ::inferences :informationinformational::innocent :inquiries :inquiry :: ::insert :insistence :instances ::instruct :instructed :instruction :::instructions: ::,intend :intended :: ::intent :: :::,interchangeably:interests :interpret :: :interpretation: :: :interpreted:introduced: :invidious :invitation :involved :issue : :: :: :,issues :JJackson :Jacobs :,job-performa...:joint :Joseffer : ::,,: :,: :: :: ::,judge : :: :,: :judgment :: :: ::,,judgments:juries :jury :,:,,: :,:,,,Justice : ::, :,:, : :: :: :,:, :: :,: ::, :: :,:, :: ::, ::,, :,: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,:,,:,,:,,: :: :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :,:, :: :,: :,: :justifiable ::justification:,,: :: :: :,: :justified ::justify :KK : :,: :KAPL :keep ::Kennedy ::, :: :,: :: :: :: :KEVIN : :: : :key :kind ::, :kinds : :Knolls : :know : :: :,: ::, :,: ::known :knows ::Llab :Labor :::Laboratory :ladies :language :,:,, :,:,, :: :: :,:large :law : :,: :,: :,law's :layering :learn :leave : :left : : :legal : :legislative :: :legitimate ::lens :lesser :let's : ::, :liability :,: :: :,: :: :: ::liberal :lift :,,light : :: :limitations :limiting :lists :logically ::long : :look : ::looked : :looks :lot :lower :lowered :Mmain :making ::, managementmanagement'smanager ::::managers ::,manual :Mary's :mathematicalmatrix :::matter : :: :: ::matters :maxim :McDonnell:Meacham ::mean : :: :,: :,: :: ::, :,:meaning :: :means :,:, :: :: :,meant :mechanical:men : :mentioned :mentioning :merely :met :middle :mind :: :minutes :mission ::missions :mistake :mistaken :misunderstan...:mitigate :modest :modificationmodifications::modifies ::,,,modify :moment :Montalvo :mutual :NN :, :narrow :narrower ::,,national ::Navy ::necessary ::,,: :: :necessity ::, :: ::,,,:,,,:,,:, :need :: :: ::negate :negates :negating :negation :negative ::, :negatively ::neither ::neutral :,:, :: :,: ::neutralize :never : ::new :,: :night :nondiscrimin...:nondiscrimin...: :nonpersuasion:noscitur :notice :notwithstandi...:nuclear :number ::,numbers :: :,OO : :objection ::objective :: :,:objectives :obligation ::occupy :occurred :odd :odds :oh :Okay :old : :: ::,,: :older : :: :,: :: :,once : :: :: ::one's :,opening :operative :opinion :opponents :opportunities: :opposed :opposite :opposition:oral : : :: :order :,: ::, :: :ordinarily ::ordinary :origin :::ought :: :outset :overall :overcome :PP : : ::page : ::, ::pages :paid : :Paper :paradigm :: :: :parcel :part : ::,,,:particular :: :particularly: :parties ::parts :,party : :passed :pay :,,:, :paying :people ::, :: :,:, :,:,,:percentage:perfect :: :perform :period :person :,persuade :persuasion ::, :: :: :,: :persuasive :perverse :petition :petitioner :: :Petitioners ::, :,: : :: :: ::Petitioner'sphrase :::phrased :phrasing :place : ::, :placed :plaintiff ::, :: :: :: :,: :: : :: :: : :plaintiffs :: : ::plaintiff's :: :: :plan :plant :play :plead :,pleaded ::,please :: ::plenty :plural :plurality ::,, :prohibition :prohibits :prongs :proof : :: : :: :,:,,: :: :,:proper :proposal ::,proposed :propositionprotected :::protection :prove :: :,: :: :: :: :,: :proven ::proves :,providing ::proving :: :,: :,provision ::, : :: ::, :: :: :: ::provisions :: ::purpose :: :,:purposes :pursuant :put : ::, :: :,putting :: :p.m :Qquality :question :,: :,: :: :,:, ::, :: ::, :: :: :,:questions :: :: :quite :,: :,: :: :quota :RR :race : :: ::,,,raised :raises :raising :range :rank :ratings :reach :reactor :read :point : :: :,: :: : :: :: ::,,: :: ::pointed :: :points :policy :Pooler ::position :: ::,possesses :possession ::possible :,post :potential :pounds :Power : :practice ::, : :: :, ::,,,:, :: :,:, :: ::,,: :,:,,,:,,: :prepare :presented :presents :press :presumption: ::,,:, :presumptively: :pretext :prevail :,pre- :prima :: :,: ::principal :::prior : :probably :problem :: : :problematicproblems :procedural:::proceeded :process ::production :: :: :: :: :: ::practices :: ::precisely :preconceptions::prohibit ::,prohibited :,: :: ::, ::,,, : :,:readily :reading ::real :really : :: :: :reason : ::, :: :: : :reasonable ::, :,: : :,: :: ::,,: :: ::,,,: ::, :: ::, ::, ::,,:,,:,,,: :: ::reasonableness: : :: :: :: :: :: :: ::,,:reasonably:reasons :: :rebut :REBUTTAL: :recognize ::recognized :: :,recognizes:redid :redo :reduce :reduced :reference :refers : ::, :,reflect :reflects ::regard :regarding :regardless ::regulation ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,,:, ::regulations: ::rejected :rejigger :related :relevant :relies :religion :relying :::remainder :remaining :repeatedly:represent :reprinted :require ::required :requirement:, :: :,requires ::research :reserve :resolve :resolved ::respect :: ::respects :Respondents: : :: ::Respondent's: :responsibilities:restrict :result :resulted :results :resumes :retirement:retreat :reverse-discri...:review :: :,reviewing :revised :RFOA : :: :,: ::,RIF :RIF'd :right ::, :: ::, :: :: :rights :: :rise :risk :ROBERTS :: :: :: :,: :: :: :room :row : :rule :,: ::rulemaking: :rules :Russell : :: :,,:,, :: : ::, :,:,,:,, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,SS : :sad :safe :,safety :,sake :sandwich ::sandwiched: :sandwiching:satisfied :satisfy :saying :,: :: ::,,:says :,,:,,: :,: :,scale :SCALIA ::scheme :scope :second : :: :,: :: ::,,,: :,: :,:seconds :section : :,: :: :,sections :see : :::segregating :seniority ::sense : :: :,: :,: ::sentence :: :: :separate :: :, :separated :separately :serves :set : :: :: :SETH : ::setting :settled :sex : ::, :: :,: :shift :,,:shifts :: :shop :show :, :: :,: :: ::, :: ::, ::showed :: :,showing :,: :: :: :: :,shown :shows :,side : :::silence :silent :similar ::,similarly :simple :simply :: :,:,,:, :simultaneously:single :: :,singular :skill :,skills : ::, :sky :Smith : :: :: :: ::,sociis :sole :Solicitor :somebody ::sorry : :sort : :: :sounded :sounds ::Souter ::, ::, ::, ::,Souter's :special :specific :: ::specifically :: :specified ::split :spoke :spoken :St :stage :standard ::,,: ::standards :stark :,startling :States :,,: : :statistical :: ::, ::statistically ::statistics :statute : :: : :: :,:, ::, :: ::, :: :: ::statutes :: : ::statutory ::step : :: :: :: :,:Stephens :steps :,Stevens ::,,,:,,: :: :,: ::,,:,,stocking :strain :strange ::strength :strikingly :strong ::, :strongest :strongly ::structure :: :subject :: ::subjective ::subjectivity:submarine :submissionsubmitted :::subsection: :,,: :,:, :: :substantial: :,substantive: ::substitution:subunits :sued :suffer :suffered :: :sufficient :,:,suggest :,suggesting ::suggestion:suggests :suits :supported :supporting :: :supports :suppose :Supreme :,sure : :: :surplusage :surprised ::TT :,take : ::, ::taken : :takes :talking :talks :tell : :telling :tells : :tend :tends : :term : ::,terms : :: ::,test :, :: :: :: :: :: :testified ::testimony ::, :tests :text :, :textual : Thank ::, :: :,theory :thing : :::things :: ::, :think :,: : :: :,:,,,:, ::,,: :,: :,: ::,,:, ::, :: ::, ::, ::,,:,,:thinks :third : ::, ::thought :: :three : ::,,:, :: :: ::three-part ::three-step :throws :time :, :: :,:, :: :times :Title : :,: : ::,,: :told : :top :total :track :traditional: :trained :training :: ::trains :treat :treatment :: :,:,, ::,,,:,,: :,: :: :tremendously:trial : :: :,tried :,,: :tries :true : :: ::try :turn : :: :two : :: :: ::, ::two-part :two-step :Uultimate :ultimately :: ::unacknowled...unconscious::::::uncross-exam...underlying:,understand :: :: :understandingunderstands::understood :undiscoveredundoubtedlyunemploymentunit : :United :,,: : :units :universe ::unlawful :: : :: ::unreasonable:, :: :unreasonable...unrebutted:::unreconciledunusual ::upper :urged :use : :: ::Vv :value :verdict :,:versus :view : ::, ::,VII : :,,: : ::, ::violation ::Wwaive :waived :want : :: :: :,wanted :wants :war :,Wards : :: : :: : :: ::, ::, :: ::, ::, :: :,,: :,:, :Washington:,,,wasn't ::, ::, :Waxman :: :,,:,, ::,,:, :,: :,:, ::,,: :: ::, :: :,: :,: :way : ::, :: :,:, :: : :: :,:, :: :: :,,weak ::weaker :Wednesday:weeks :weigh :weight ::,,weight-lifting:went : :weren't :We'll : :We've :wide :willing :wins :wiped :women :: :: word :,:words :: :,: :: :: :work :: :: :,: :worker :workers ::, :: ::,,works : :world :wouldn't :: :wow :wrench :wrinkle :written :: :,:wrong :: :: ::,wrote :Xx :, :YY :York :ZZ :- : : : :: ::a : : : :: : :: :-point :.(d) : : : : : : : :,:, : : : : : : : : : : : :(a)() : :,: :,:, :: : : : :-pound : : :/ : : : 