 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xNEW JERSEY, : Petitioner : v. : No. . Orig.DELAWARE. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Plaintiff.DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Defendant. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEH. BARTOW FARR, ESQ. On behalf of the Plaintiff DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ. On behalf of the Defendant REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFH. BARTOW FARR, ESQ. On behalf of the Plaintiff P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in case on our original docket, New Jersey v.Delaware. Mr. Farr. ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF MR. FARR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Although the Compact between Delawareand New Jersey did not settle the boundary disputebetween them, New Jersey nevertheless agreed to dismissthe suit that it had filed before this Court todetermine the boundary. And the reason for those twoseemingly contradictory facts, I think, is because theCompact did resolve permanently certain issues ofjurisdiction, implementing rules that could beadministered without regard to where the boundary was. Thus in particular Article VII, theprovision of the Compact that's particularly at issue inthis case, provided that each State could continue toexercise its traditional riparian authority over theriparian owners on its side of the river according toits laws. Now, the Special Master I think fundamentally changed the nature of the Compact by superimposing theboundary line into the terms of an agreement that wasmeant to operate without it. And I think he did sobecause he mistakenly applied the presumption that allpromises with respect to jurisdiction and territory mustbe unmistakable; and this Court, however, had saidseveral years before, in Virginia versus Maryland, thatthat presumption simply is not applicable to compactsthat are entered into when the boundaries between theStates are disputed. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Farr, one of thestriking things about this Compact is that to the extentthat it is definite, there is a lot in here in detailabout service arrests on the river and about fishing,but then you get to these two articles at the end andthey certainly don't have that same definite detailedquality. As I read the Article VII that you'restressing, it says -- let's see -- "may continue toexercise." So it seems to me that "may continue to" wasjust whatever was the status quo, that will continue;not to do anything dispositive, just whatever was willcontinue. MR. FARR: Well, several things about that,Justice Ginsburg. First of all I think that thelanguage "continue to" necessarily brings in the historical antecedents of regulation of riparian mattersby both States. It's undisputed in this case that onNew Jersey's side of the river, that is with respect toriparian owners on the New Jersey side, New Jersey hadexercised full and exclusive authority over, forexample, wharfing out to navigable water, the buildingof piers and wharfs to do that, the granting of lands,without any involvement whatsoever by Delaware. JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it clear that NewJersey believed when it had authorized somebody to wharfout, that the person who wharfed out was not subject toNew Jersey's environmental laws? MR. FARR: No. I think what -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The history doesn't showanything about that? MR. FARR: The history doesn't showanything -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So if -- MR. FARR: -- specific about that kind oflaw. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if it -- if it wouldhave been subject to New Jersey's environmental laws,had New Jersey owned the bed of the river into which thewharf was extended, by parity of reasoning it seems tome the wharf would be subject to Delaware's environmental laws if Delaware owns the bed of theriver. MR. FARR: I think without the Compact thatwould be true, but I think what the Compact is saying isthat you get to retain the degree of power on your ownside of the river that you had before, without regardultimately to where the boundary is determined to be. JUSTICE SOUTER: So your -- your argument --it seems to me it's not that easy, because your argumentis assuming that by virtue of the "may continue"language, the State of New Jersey acquires a new power,and the new power in effect is to -- is to make grantsof subaqueous land that belonged not to New Jersey butto Delaware, and that's the stretch. It -- it seems to me that that is such anextraordinary position or proposition, that you've gotto have something more specific than "may continue" inorder to construe that as meaning an agreement which wasintended to give New Jersey the power to grant awayDelaware land. MR. FARR: Well, Justice Souter, I thinkthat the difficulty with that question is it assumesknowledge of where the boundary is. In other words,when one talks about New Jersey getting a new power togrant lands that are within Delaware, that is a -- that is a question that necessarily assumes that the boundaryhas to be part of that understanding. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- JUSTICE SOUTER: No, I'm simply saying thatyour position -- and I accept your position -- that theCompact is intended to continue to operate whether ornot the boundary is -- is ultimately determined, and ifso, after it is ultimately determined -- and once we getto that point of continuing to operate after, thennecessarily the only way it can operate on your theoryis to give New Jersey the power to grant Delaware land.And if New Jersey has that power, it must have been apower that was intended in the Compact, and thatintent strikes me as a very extraordinary intent; and --and my -- the point of my question was the applicationof the Compact in the new circumstances, as you claim itto be, would be so extraordinary that you ought to havelanguage more specific than "may continue" in order toestablish that extraordinary result. MR. FARR: Well, of course. It is -- it issaying "may continue to grant riparian rights and landsunder its laws." So it is not simply the language "maycontinue." JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, if you emphasize"under its laws," then don't you lose? Because New Jersey does not -- I presume New Jersey does not havelaw, for example, in its constitution, providing that itcan grant Delaware land. MR. FARR: Well, I don't think that the lawshave to refer specifically, obviously, to grantingDelaware land. It did have provision for granting lawsbeyond the low-water mark in New Jersey. Many of thegrants before specifically -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But I'm going on theassumption that it, in fact, had jurisdiction; that ithad land below -- beyond the low-water mark. MR. FARR: But what I think you'resuggesting, Justice Souter, I think, is what -- whatfundamentally alters the nature of the Compact is toassume that New Jersey had certain powers up until thetime the boundary line was determined, and then it lostthose powers after the boundary line was -- JUSTICE SOUTER: It didn't so much lose -- Imean it had a generalized recognition of power. Inorder to exercise that power, it had to possess certainattributes, i.e., land. Once it lost that land, it had nothing toexercise the power over. In fact, it had a little bitleft. It had the distance between the high- and thelow-water marks, so it still had the power. But the -- the recognition of the power in was, in effect, aformula; and the formula depends on facts to be applied;and the facts changed once the boundary was determined. MR. FARR: You see, I think there are twoproblems with that, Justice Souter. First of all, the very notion that therewould be something left if the boundary line wasdetermined to be at the low-water mark on the New Jerseyside -- in other words, that Article would continue tooperate; it would just operate subject to the boundary-- at least in the context of the riparian right that weare talking about, the right to wharf out to navigablewater, that right is essentially meaningless if you stopat the low-water mark. In other words, what you're saying and whatthe Special Master's recommendation essentially does, itsays New Jersey has no right to authorize wharfing outto navigable water without Delaware's consent. JUSTICE ALITO: What right do you think -- MR. FARR: I -- JUSTICE ALITO: What right do you think NewJersey has now with respect to the subaqueous land? Isit simply to authorize it to be disturbed to the extentnecessary to construct a wharf, or does it go anyfurther than that? MR. FARR: Basically, I think what you havesaid, Justice Alito, is exactly right. It is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I have a more basicquestion. Assume -- assuming that the subaqueous landbelongs to New Jersey and that New Jersey gives aprivate individual a right to wharf out into theDelaware, does that individual acquire ownership of theland under the water, assuming New Jersey owns thesubaqueous land? MR. FARR: It depends on the form of thegrant, but, typically, if New Jersey -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But, normally, authority towharf out doesn't convey the land with it; does it? MR. FARR: It conveys an interest in theland that allows the doing of the activity -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of the wharf. MR. FARR: -- for which the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of the wharf. MR. FARR: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if -- if merelyauthority to wharf out would not even convey NewJersey's own land, how can you argue that, by reason ofthis Compact, it implicitly conveyed what is nowDelaware's land? MR. FARR: Well, because Delaware has essentially said in Article VII, we believe, JusticeScalia, that New Jersey may continue to do this. It wasdoing -- I mean this land -- JUSTICE SCALIA: May continue to wharf out,but not continue to grant subaqueous land, which you saydoesn't go with wharfing out. MR. FARR: Well, what we are -- what we'retalking about, I think, is we're talking about grantingthe interest in land that is necessary for the riparianowner to be able to wharf out. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that if you haveone of these wharves that goes beyond the low-water markand there are two people at the end of it and one ofthem shoots the other, would they be prosecuted formurder in Delaware or New Jersey? MR. FARR: Well, in -- in -- there was agambling offense at the end of a pier in -- in -- thatproceeded from the New Jersey shoreline, in -- in thelate 's in a case called the Federenco case, which Idon't have the cite for immediately. The New JerseySupreme Court held that that was within the jurisdictionof New Jersey, and Delaware filed a -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suspect the NewJersey Supreme Court would. MR. FARR: Delaware filed a brief, Mr. Chief Justice, supporting that position. So -- but if I could return just for asecond to Justice Souter's point and Justice Scalia'spoint, if one thinks for a moment -- we're -- we'retrying to, I think, interpret the -- the Compact asit must have been understood by the commissioners whodrafted it. And so I think that, unlike the SpecialMaster, who at the time he's interpreting it, knowswhere the boundary line is, we have to think about,first of all, would the commissioners essentially havebeen saying to New Jersey, as your hypothesis wouldsuggest, that each State on its own side of the riverhas the right to grant riparian rights and lands andexercise riparian jurisdiction subject to the boundaryline, which for New Jersey would mean that, in fact, ifit lost the boundary case, it would effectively have noriparian jurisdiction at all? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Farr, what about thearticle that follows Article VII? Article VIII says:"Nothing herein contained shall affect the territoriallimits, rights, or jurisdiction of either State in orover the Delaware River." So that's a qualification atleast on every other article. MR. FARR: Well, Justice Ginsburg, if I may say, the quote is longer than that and in a criticallyimportant way. It says it may not do that "except asherein expressly set forth." JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, and I don't seeanything expressly set forth in VII, which just says"may continue to," which says the status quo ismaintained. MR. FARR: Well, I mean, obviously, we're --we're debating the meaning of Article VII, but it seemsto me that Article VII is an express provision herein,meaning in the Compact. So that what Article VII isaiming at, it seems to me, if we are correct that it isessentially meant to operate without respect to theboundary, would expressly set forth a cession. And I might point out that when this casewas before this Court or the two States were before thisCourt back in , Delaware's counsel before this Courtsaid pretty much exactly what I'm saying this morning:that -- and this is on page of our blue brief, butsaid that the Compact of in his view ceded to theState of New Jersey all the right to control theerection of those wharves, meaning wharves that wereconstructed by New Jersey riparian owners past thelow-water mark, and to say who shall erect them. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, are you asking us to reject the concept of concurrent jurisdiction in allcircumstances? MR. FARR: As far as State jurisdictiongoes, it seems to me there is not concurrentjurisdiction over riparian structures such as piers andwharves and other kinds of acknowledged riparian rights.With respect to matters that are nonriparian, forexample, if a riparian owner in New Jersey wanted toconstruct a hotel that was beyond the low-water mark,that would not be a riparian use. And Delaware -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we split thatdifference? I mean let's -- MR. FARR: Pardon me? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, how do wedecide the difference between those two cases? Andapplicable here, for example, let's say it's perfectlyfine for New Jersey to build a wharf out there, but theycan't use it for liquified natural gas, which Delawaremay conclude poses particular problems that other usesdon't. MR. FARR: But I think what you've done, Mr.Chief Justice, if I may, is I think you've detached thepurpose of a wharf from the wharf itself. The purposeof a wharf is the loading and unloading of goods.That's what -- what they are used for. Vessels draw up, tie up and unload or load goods and/or passengers. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could New Jersey -- couldNew Jersey prevent its use for liquified gas? MR. FARR: Under State law, yes, it could,Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- but New Jersey hadgiven this riparian owner the right to wharf out. MR. FARR: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, obviously, the right towharf out does not include the right to use the wharffor whatever you like, and the only thing we're arguingabout is whether it is New Jersey or Delaware that canimpose limitations. But that it is subject tolimitation is, it seems to me, absolutely clear. MR. FARR: I agree with that. There's noquestion that it is subject to limitation. The questionis, whose laws apply? Who -- and it seems to me that isthe question that Article VII expressly answered.Article VII again says "each State on its own side ofthe river" -- which is not a designation that is limitedby the boundary, because Delaware made that argument tothe Special Master, the Special Master rejected it, andDelaware did not file exceptions in this Court. So "onits own side of the river" I think is properly taken tomean with respect to the riparian owners on its bank of the river. Those riparian owners -- I mean, excuse me-- "each State may continue on its own side of the riverto exercise riparian jurisdiction of every kind andnature, make grants of riparian rights and land underthe respective laws of the States." JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in your view to whatextent does this involve subaqueous lands toward -- andI'll just put "toward" -- the New Jersey side? MR. FARR: Unfortunately, I'm not sure Iunderstand the phrase "toward the New Jersey side." Imean, between the low-water mark -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure I understandyour position on where New Jersey's jurisdiction beginsand ends with reference to subaqueous lands. MR. FARR: Well, it's -- literal ownershipof the land begins at the high-water mark on the NewJersey side and ends at the low-water mark on the NewJersey side, its actual ownership. Under the Compact,we believe Delaware has ceded to it the right to grantcertain interests in subaqueous land to the extent butonly to the extent that they are necessary to allowowners in New Jersey, riparian owners, to exerciseriparian rights, provided that the New Jersey State lawgrants them that right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That suggests -- MR. FARR: If they were -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- it's still anextraordinary power for one State to give up. IfDelaware -- if that land -- they didn't settle theboundary, but it might be on the Delaware side. IfDelaware was giving up so much, what did it get inexchange? MR. FARR: Well, again, the question thatyou're asking assumes that the negotiators were cominginto the negotiation with their boundary positions fixedand that they were essentially horse-trading within thebounds of the different positions taken by the twoStates. JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, I'm not assumingthat. I'm assuming it's unknown, but there is thepossibility that it's going to end up -- MR. FARR: There's the possibility that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- end up -- MR. FARR: I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's a possibilitythat it will end up on the Delaware side. And you'resuggesting that Delaware relinquished all of itsregulatory authority and gave it to New Jersey, nomatter where the boundary turned out to be. MR. FARR: That is what I'm suggesting with respect to this narrow category of riparian rights.Just as that's true, for example, in Article I. NewJersey has the right to serve criminal process withrespect, for example, to crimes that occur on theeastern half of the river, which is something that NewJersey clearly would not have had if it ultimately lostthe boundary dispute; whereas Delaware got, in ArticleII, the authority to serve process for crimes occurringon the western half of the river, which it would havehad anyway, whether it won or lost the boundary dispute,assuming that the half of the river refers to thechannel. So I mean -- let me -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's -- Article I --that's an exception. And you don't have the benefit ofthat exception when you're talking about Article VII. MR. FARR: The exception -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: The exception is not thatspecific as to the -- as to the extent of thejurisdiction. MR. FARR: Well, Justice Kennedy, I thinkyou've asked a very good question, but -- but I guess Ithink it is -- it's quite specific, because the questionis, what do the terms "on its own side of the river"mean? Those obviously have some geographical impacthere, and indeed in -- before the Special Master, Delaware's position was yes, that is a geographicaldesignation, but what it means is "up to the boundaryline." In other words, up to the low-water mark. AS Isay, the Special Master rejected that position.Delaware did not file exceptions from that position. SoI think we can accept at this point in the case that'snot what "on its own side of the river" means. Sothe question then is: What does it mean? And it seemsto me what it means is, with respect to the riparianproperty owned by New Jersey citizens on the New Jerseyside of the river, Delaware citizens on the Delawareside of the river. And what it is therefore doing issaying each State may control and determine the rightsof its citizens who own riparian property -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Farr, is there -- MR. FARR: -- regardless of where -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Is there a limit on NewJersey's rights? As long as it's building a wharf, canit do anything it wants to on that or is there -- forexample, could it dam up the navigable part of the riverin order to build a superstructure on the wharf? MR. FARR: Well, there are two questionsthere, Justice Stevens, if I can separate them for amoment. As far as State law goes, purely State law, Ithink the answer to that question is that New Jersey determines what can and cannot be done -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, then I should -- MR. FARR: -- on a wharf. JUSTICE STEVENS: I should rephrase it. Towhat extent, if any, does Delaware place a limit on theway in which New Jersey may exercise its riparianrights? MR. FARR: Under State -- by applyingDelaware State law, I think it cannot impose any limits. JUSTICE STEVENS: Any limit whatsoever? MR. FARR: With respect to the exercise ofriparian rights. Because once it -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Even if -- even if thebuilding of the wharf interfered with the navigation onthe river? MR. FARR: Well, this is, I think, why I wastrying to separate it into two parts. What I've leftout, the part I've left out so far, is Federal law.Federal law has a significant amount to say about whathappens with respect to piers and wharves -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, I'm just asking, isit -- MR. FARR: -- in any State. JUSTICE STEVENS: -- does Delaware law placeany limit on what New Jersey may do in exercising its riparian rights? MR. FARR: I mean, it does impose a limit,but we don't think those limits are valid under ArticleVII of the Compact. I think the -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I mean, can they validlyimpose a limit? MR. FARR: No, no, they cannot. They --what this does is it says, for New Jersey riparianowners, when they are building wharves and piers, theyare subject to the laws of New Jersey. "The respectiveStates" means that the laws of one State or the laws ofthe other State, depending on which side of the riveryou're on. So they are subject to New Jersey law. Now,obviously, any pier or wharf that interfered withnavigation interferes with the Federal navigationalservitude. So that would be subject to review underFederal law. JUSTICE STEVENS: And what about the exampleof using a -- setting a gambling casino or something atthe end of the wharf, well into Delaware territory?You'd say Delaware has no right to object to that. MR. FARR: No, I would say it does have aright there because that is not a -- JUSTICE STEVENS: That's not a riparian use. MR. FARR: That's not a riparian use. We're talking about -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Anything involving loadingand unloading of ships and so forth would bepermissible? MR. FARR: Exactly. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then how come yourposition in my murder hypothetical was what it was?Because I assume murder is not a riparian use either.And yet, why would Delaware have jurisdiction over acasino but not over a crime? MR. FARR: Because I think we're talkingabout now what happens with respect -- I mean, if we'retalking -- this was a gambling -- it wasn't a casino.This was a gambling offense that took place on afacility that actually was used for the loading andunloading of ships. The gambling was an outsideactivity not relating to the use of the wharf. So Ithink the understanding was that riparian jurisdictionof every kind and nature would be sufficient to say,once you have built the wharf and it is a legitimateriparian purpose not subject to Delaware laws, then NewJersey would apply its criminal laws as well. And as Isay, Delaware filed an amicus brief -- unfortunately, wedon't have a copy of it in the record -- but the NewJersey Supreme Court noted that Delaware supported New Jersey's jurisdiction over that gambling offense. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Farr, could you tell me-- one thing in Article VII perplexes me. Why does itsay that each State may "make grants, leases, andconveyances of riparian lands and rights"? "Rights" Ican understand. But why would they say "conveyances ofriparian lands"? MR. FARR: I assume -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, obviously eachState can -- riparian lands are within each State.Nobody questioned that at the time. MR. FARR: Well, I think the fact is thatthis is why one needs to give some sort of practical --take a practical view of what Article VII is talkingabout. Article VII -- the two riparian rights that areof particular interest and were established clearly in, obviously subject to the State limitations, were,first of all, the right to draw water, the riparianright that was at issue in Virginia v. Maryland, wherethe Court said Maryland can't apply its police power, Imight point out. The second was piers and wharves.Obviously, a pier and a wharf that stops at thelow-water mark is of no use at all. It's got to get outto the navigable water. That's where the ships are.It's the Willie Sutton principle. So once have you that, if you're going to have riparian rights, you'vegot to have the ability to grant some interest in landsso that they can exercise their right out to the pointwhere it becomes meaningful. And that's, it seems tome, why -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say "riparian lands"means the land under the wharf? That's a strange use of"riparian lands." MR. FARR: No, that's what -- I mean,"riparian lands" could mean the lands on the bank, but Ithink that's not what they're talking about in thiscontext. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any otherinstance where people talk of riparian lands and theymean land extending under the water? MR. FARR: I think, because of the contexthere, when it's linked with the rights, that thenecessary -- the limitation that Justice Alito mentionedgives -- colors it essentially to say this is what we'retalking about. And after all, this is similar -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your position, that"lands" means the lands under the water? MR. FARR: That's correct, because this issettling -- the point of it is to settle and avoidfuture controversy with respect to the river, and those are the lands that are under the river. If I could reserve -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And there was in fact inthis project, was there not, there was required dredgingof . million cubic yards of submerged soil that wouldbe -- MR. FARR: That's true. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- on the Delaware sideof the boundary? MR. FARR: That's true. Although I mightpoint out that, as the Weggle Declaration says in therecord -- and I can get a citation to that in a moment,it's in our brief -- that actually is a relatively smallamount compared to much dredging that went on prior to. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought this extendedout more than any prior exercise of riparian rights. MR. FARR: In the Delaware River, I believethat is correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. This was going tobe , feet, and the greatest extension up until thenwas between and . MR. FARR: I'm not -- I think the secondfigure may be short. But nonetheless, I don't arguewith the premise. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Farr. MR. FARR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Frederick. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: Our position can be summarized in two words:Boundaries matter. Boundaries determine where Statescan make grants of land, and they determine where aState can exercise its police powers. And with respectto both principle, the Special Master got it exactlyright. Nothing in Article VII or elsewhere in theCompact of precludes the State of New Jersey fromexercising its police powers within the boundarydetermined by this Court in its boundary decision.And, in fact, at -- JUSTICE STEVENS: May I just interrupt rightthere, Mr. Frederick? Do you contend that they may nolonger build wharves that go beyond the State line? MR. FREDERICK: No. Our position is that -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, then boundries don'tmatter completely. MR. FREDERICK: No, they can -- underDelaware law, a riparian owner in New Jersey can extend past the low-water mark as has been permitted by NewJersey, by Delaware in every single instance since when Delaware enacted subaqueous land laws, except thetwo times where New Jersey riparian owners sought toviolate Delaware's laws by building LNG facilities: In when the El Paso Company sought to build an LNGfacility and was denied by Delaware and New Jerseyacquiesced in that denial, and then in whenDelaware made the status determination that the CrownLanding facility was a prohibited bulk transfer facilityprecluded by Delaware law. JUSTICE SOUTER: What if Delaware took theposition that there simply is the maximum amount ofallowable building in the river, and from now on it willnot, in fact, agree to grant, authorize, whatever thetitle is, any further wharves and piers on New Jersey'sside? Does Delaware have the authority to do that? MR. FREDERICK: Delaware can exercise itspolice authority as -- JUSTICE SOUTER: It's passed a statute. MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE SOUTER: Is the statute effective? MR. FREDERICK: The statute is not effectedin the hypothetical that you give. Nothing in Delawaresubaqueous land laws goes to clutter, visual or otherwise, on the bank. JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm talking about a newstatute. Delaware says enough is enough; no more wharfsand piers from the New Jersey side. Is that statuteeffective and enforceable? MR. FREDERICK: That statute would besubject to Delaware takings law, and Delaware has foundthat -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But, Mr. Frederick, ifthe -- if the legislature of Delaware passes thatstatute, I assume they intend it to mean what it says.And as against a claim by New Jersey or on behalf of aNew Jersey grantee, is that Delaware statute effective? MR. FREDERICK: It depends. Justice Souter,it depends. JUSTICE SOUTER: It depends on what? MR. FREDERICK: The Constitution of theUnited States and the constitution of Delaware. Aprivate -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Forget the Federal rightnow. We're talking about construing a compact. So faras this Compact is concerned, so far as the domesticlaws of the two states, New Jersey and Delaware, areconcerned, would the Delaware statute be effective? MR. FREDERICK: The Delaware statute would not be affected by the Compact, Justice Souter,because Delaware would assert presumably, if defendingthat law, that it was subject to regular police powerrestrictions. But those police power restrictions -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not asking you whatDelaware would say. I think I can imagine what Delawarewould say. I want to know whether Delaware wouldprevail when it got here -- MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- in your view? MR. FREDERICK: I don't think that Delawarewould prevail on a blanket prohibition of the exerciseof riparian rights by New Jersey landowners. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why? MR. FREDERICK: Because Delaware has alwayspermitted the exercise of riparian rights because -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that is before therewas all these wharves were out here, and Delaware is nowsaying the facts have changed. MR. FREDERICK: Delaware certainly has thepower, under our theory of the case as recommended bythe Special Master, to implement its police powers.Those police powers are always subject to constitutionalconstraints. And under the hypothetical you posed, asextreme as it is, Justice Souter, the Constitution, both under Delaware law and under the United StatesConstitution, might well say the State has gone too farin exercising its police -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me you'rerunning away from the hypothetical. I have the questionthat Justice Souter has, basically to what extent doesconcurrent jurisdiction apply, what are the limits thatwe will apply in later cases to implement this conceptof concurrent jurisdiction? In the laws of some Statesyou can't overburden an easement. If you give a powercompany an easement, it can't put huge -footstructures on the easement without taking -- is that thekind of analysis that we have to apply in order to makeyour concurrent jurisdiction and the Master's concurrentjurisdiction theory work? MR. FREDERICK: I'm not sure that you wouldneed to go that far, certainly in light of the practicalrealities of the years of shared use of the DelawareRiver, Justice Kennedy. Importantly, under New Jersey's theory, togo to your hypothetical, Justice Souter, where theentire bed of the river within the Twelve-Mile Circlewould be built out, that would be a functionalabrogation of this Court's boundary decision, becausethis Court held that the land under the piers was not belonging to New Jersey and that an attempt to extendthe entire boundary outward, water-ward, would beoverriding what this Court determined was the --easement. JUSTICE SOUTER: But again, you're changingthe hypothetical. Your answer, I -- the answer that youjust gave, I presume would be the same whether Delawarehad passed any particular statute regarding wharfagefrom the New Jersey side or whether it had -- you weregiving an answer which took into consideration theCompact but which basically depended upon we'll call itthe general riparian law. The question, however, is the effectivenessof a Delaware statute directed specifically to thisissue that says "no more." MR. FREDERICK: That becomes a dormantCommerce Clause problem, Justice Souter. JUSTICE SCALIA: He is asking about underthis thing. Forget about the Commerce Clause. And it'sobvious what the purpose of the hypothetical is. You'resaying that to give you the right to wharf out does notmean that you can use the wharf for any purpose that'scontrary to the police power prescriptions of Delaware.That is reasonable enough. Well, what if one of the police power prescriptions is you can't have a wharf? Now, you know,can you flatly contradict what Article VII says? And Ireally think you ought to give that one away. (Laughter.) MR. FREDERICK: Justice Scalia, under abroad theory of where the boundary is in matters, itwould require New Jersey to have access to grantDelaware lands. And under our theory as accepted by theSpecial Master, that would not be permitted. If it issimply a question of use, we would acknowledge that theNew Jersey riparian owner can -- JUSTICE ALITO: I think you're eliminatingthe right to wharf out. Before , New Jersey wasallowing the construction of wharves, isn't thatcorrect? MR. FREDERICK: There were only two provenin the record, Justice Alito, and neither of which wasproved in this record to go beyond the low-water mark.But, yes, you're right. JUSTICE SCALIA: It was a wharf that didn'tgo beyond a low-water mark? MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Parts of the TwelveMile Circle -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What did they do, jump ontothe land? (Laughter.) MR. FREDERICK: No. In parts of the TwelveMile Circle, Justice Scalia, particularly in GloucesterCounty, there's marshy area where the low-water areaextends hundreds of feet into the river. And that iswhere the boundary is -- is determined. And it was notnecessary in some places within the Twelve Mile Circleto go beyond the low-water mark in order to build apier -- JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it true -- we can lookand see what was authorized or not before . Butisn't it true that the ability to wharf out is a classicAmerican -- a classic riparian right -- MR. FREDERICK: Certainly. JUSTICE ALITO: -- under U.S. law? MR. FREDERICK: Certainly. JUSTICE ALITO: And in deciding whether toallow someone to wharf out, the State with jurisdictionwould decide whether the wharf was consistent with Stateobjectives, safety objectives, interference withnavigation and so forth? MR. FREDERICK: Yes, Justice Alito. JUSTICE ALITO: And Article VII says thateach State on its own side of the river may continue tomake conveyances of riparian rights. So why doesn't that mean that each State is continued -- continues tohave the ability to authorize the wharfing out and todecide whether particular wharves are consistent withthe State's police powers? MR. FREDERICK: The last part of yourquestion, Justice Alito, is where the rub lies, becauseriparian law was subject to the individual determinationof what a riparian right was, and how the State'sregulation of that right as a private property rightwould be determined. What this Court's cases uniformlyhold is that the police power trumps that privateriparian right, and this was recognized by the attorneygeneral for New Jersey. JUSTICE ALITO: If you separate these two,then the riparian right is worthless, is it not? MR. FREDERICK: I beg your pardon? JUSTICE ALITO: It's worthless if youseparate those two. MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE ALITO: If you say, New Jersey canauthorize wharfing out, except Delaware can say youcan't wharf out, because it's inconsistent with ourpolice power, then -- then the authorization to allowwharfing out is meaningless. MR. FREDERICK: No, because wharfing out is always dependent on whether or not it is so far into theriver to impede the navigable channel, to become anuisance, and none of the cases by this Court talkingabout wharfing rights concern the police powers issuedby the State. Cummings v The City of Chicago held thatthe Federal riparian right given to the wharf owner inChicago was not -- could not override a State'sdetermination of how the wharf could be built, thatpolice power. Hudson v McCarter -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that assumes thatthere is going to be a wharf. You want us to say thatthe police power means that there cannot be a wharf ifNew Jersey says no. MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that seems to meinconsistent. If Delaware says no. MR. FREDERICK: Justice -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: That seems to meinconsistent with saying that New Jersey has a right towharf out. MR. FREDERICK: We are not going that far,Justice Kennedy. What we are saying -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know where -- what-- where do you draw the line, what is your distinction? MR. FREDERICK: A wharf that impedes navigation is a nuisance that is subject to classicpolice power restrictions. A wharf that does not haveany of those consequences is permitted and Delaware haspermitted those wharves. In fact even recently when theState of New Jersey petitioned to Delaware to obtain apermit for the Fort Mott State Recreational Park,Delaware granted that to them. JUSTICE SCALIA: So a wharf that is justugly is okay. Your answer to Justice Souter is,Delaware can't say no more wharfs. MR. FREDERICK: Delaware cannot say no morewharfs, but that doesn't answer the question that'sreally at the rub of this case, which is what you do onthe wharf. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So we here decide --under your view the case comes down to whether or notuse of the wharf for a liquified natural gas terminal isa traditional riparian right. MR. FREDERICK: And all of the law andevidence suggests that it is not. In fact, the ripariangrants that New Jersey issued after its Wharf Act of never contained a specification of use. They admittedin the record -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So let's sayDelaware, it's not liquified natural, gas but it's, you know, bulk shipments. Is that a traditional riparianright that Delaware could not prohibit or is itsomething that it could prohibit? MR. FREDERICK: Delaware has permitted that.The Keystone facility allows for bulk shipments of coalto be delivered and offloaded within the Twelve MileCircle. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your view a riparianright exists only to say whether there should be awharf. The -- the State with jurisdiction over theriparian right has no interest in what's going to happenon that wharf, or what the wharf is going to look like? MR. FREDERICK: They are distinctive rights.It's like -- it's like zoning laws, Justice Kennedy.You can own a piece of land but that does not mean thatyou can override the police powers of the State by whatyou do on land. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what's the point youjust made that Delaware can't permit a coal wharf but itcannot prohibit a liquified natural gas wharf? MR. FREDERICK: Delaware's Subaqueous LandsAct makes that distinction. JUSTICE ALITO: No, but -- MR. FREDERICK: As a matter of police power-- JUSTICE ALITO: -- not what Delaware will door did do. Can it, could it do that? MR. FREDERICK: Delaware has to -- JUSTICE ALITO: Could Delaware prohibit acoal wharf? MR. FREDERICK: It -- yes. It could. Thatif -- if it were deemed to be a proper exercise of itspolice authority, yes, it could. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, that's the question. MR. FREDERICK: And the answer, JusticeSouter, is not decided by the facts on the case here butrather on the individual circumstances. I appreciatethat there are hypotheticals that -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Then your answer to JusticeAlito is, tell me more about the circumstances and Iwill then give you an answer. MR. FREDERICK: Indeed. Because there areconstitutional constraints. There are dormant CommerceClause considerations. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. So what we wantto know it whether or not there are constraints in theCompact. MR. FREDERICK: The Compact does not containthe constraints, the Attorney General of New Jerseyrecognized it, and this is at the appendix starting at of the Delaware appendix. In in New Jersey,Attorney General Robeson issued a very lengthy andscholarly opinion on the difference between the powersthat a State could exercise over riparian rights, and hedistinguished in that opinion between what he called thegreat public uses, which would be for defense, for theenvironment, for protection of the people's safety, andwhat were deemed to be public uses. Those who would beusing those riparian lands for a railway bridge or aterminal that would be for commercial purposes. And he said that in the instance of thegreat public uses, there would not be a need to paycompensation because that great public right overridedthe riparian proprietor's exercise of riparian right.With respect to the public use, however, and this is atpage to Delaware's appendix, he said that withrespect to those public uses, there might be arequirement for a taking or a payment of compensation. And so Justice Souter, I appreciate that ourposition has a frustration, in the sense that it doesrequire individual facts. But I would submit to youthat in the years in which the -- New Jerseycitizens have been wharfing into the Delaware River,Delaware has permitted that in every single instance,except two. And there are both liquified natural gas facilities. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's rather recent thatDelaware has gotten into the business of regulating atall. I thought that for most of this period until the's, Delaware just wasn't doing anything unlesssomething was a nuisance, and that didn't come up. MR. FREDERICK: It is correct that Delawareregulated by the common law, Justice Ginsburg, but asthe Special Master correctly found just because thelimitation under the FX judicial precedents is fornuisances does not mean there is no regulation. WhenDelaware chose to override its common law riparianjurisdiction by implementing statutes, New Jerseyacceded to them to the point that in its considerationof coastal zone management laws in the s, theattorney general of New Jersey was specificallyconsulted whether compliance with the Federal statuteand Delaware statutes was necessary. And in issued a coastal zone managementplan, New Jersey did -- that recognized that if therewas an LNG facility, the agreement of both states wasnecessary. The deponents in this case, every single oneof them from the New Jersey side, including persons whohad worked for the State for nearly years, said thatthe entire time they had worked for the State, if the project crossed the boundary there had to be a permitobtained from the State of Delaware. We would submitthat the constant -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A permit -- a permitfor the project or a permit for the wharf? MR. FREDERICK: If the wharf extended beyondthe boundary line, Mr. Chief Justice, a permit for thewharf, and that permit -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then what doesthe Compact give New Jersey? MR. FREDERICK: It gives New Jersey theright to say who shall be the riparian owners toexercise their rights, what they can do, and up to thepoint where there would be an encroachment of the policepower of the State, the permission to do that. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What case -- and I couldask Mr. Farr the same question -- do I consult in orderto give content to the term riparian rights? Where canI see what the substance of riparian rights is, in the-- in the decisions of this Court or in other leadingdecisions. MR. FREDERICK: The leading decision of thisCourt, Justice Kennedy, is a case called Shively vBowlby, which was decided a few years before the Compact; and in that case this Court went through an exhaustive determination to show what the riparianrights were, State by State by State. The purpose therewas to determine whether or not an Oregon riparian landowner had rights that were consistent under Oregoncommon law with those granted in a deed by Congress, andin order to do that the Court went through a very longexamination and analysis of riparian rights as theyexisted in all -- JUSTICE SCALIA: If I understand youcorrectly, Mr. Frederick, you say that the -- that thepolice power of Delaware, despite Article VII, includesthe power to require you to get a license before you canwharf out from the New Jersey Shore? MR. FREDERICK: I'm saying yes, that underDelaware's -- no, it's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: In other words, Delawarecan say no you can't wharf out unless, you get a licensefrom us, despite Article VII. MR. FREDERICK: If it goes beyond theboundary, that is the position New Jersey -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course it goes beyondthe boundary. If it -- MR. FREDERICK: They have -- JUSTICE SCALIA: If the other side of theboundary you don't need Article VII. New Jersey can allow anything to be done up to -- up to the low watermark, but you're saying that despite Article VIIDelaware can say no, you cannot wharf out until you geta license from us? MR. FREDERICK: Yes. There are prohibiteduses, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh -- MR. FREDERICK: You have to get a licenseunder New Jersey law, too, and that's the whole point ofState officials by New Jersey saying compliance had tobe with both laws. JUSTICE SCALIA: You've just read Article --Article VII out of the Compact. MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: It gives nothing to NewJersey. MR. FREDERICK: It protects the New Jerseylandowners who in the interregnum between the Compact and this Court's boundary determination wouldhave faced the uncertainty that their grants would bedeemed puerperous by Delaware. What this Court said in its boundarydecision was that the mere use of those was recognizedby Delaware under the common law, was not deemed to be anuisance, but in this Court's decision in Coffee versus Groover, a grant made by a state that does not havelawful title to the land would be deemed invalid. Thatcase, which was decided in the late s, invalidatedgrants that had been made by the State of Florida at atime when the boundary was uncertain. And this Courtsaid that those grants were invalid in light of theuncertain title that the State had when it made thosegrants. JUSTICE ALITO: Why wouldn't Delaware'spolice power allow it to require the demolition of allexisting wharfs? MR. FREDERICK: Those would be deemedtakings, Justice Alito. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. They can doit. MR. FREDERICK: But it can be acquired bycompensation, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as it pays. MR. FREDERICK: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's left underyour reading of Virginia v. Maryland? I understood thatcase to say -- I mean it's the same thing, the Marylandboundary goes to the low-water mark on the Virginiashore. Yet this Court held that that did not includepolice power to prevent the particular riparian use at issue there. MR. FREDERICK: The decision in Virginia v.Maryland is distinguishable in a number of ways, and ifI could take a moment to go through those ways. The first is that it involved a differentCompact with different language. The Compactbetween Virginia and Maryland specifically provided thateach -- the citizens of each State shall have "fullproperty in the shores of the Potomac River." The courtconstrued the phrase "full property" to include riparianrights. JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. New Jersey doesnot have full property in the shore of the Delaware? MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then that's no basisfor distinguishing. What else is there? MR. FREDERICK: The Black-Jenkins awardissued to resolve the boundary line was decided in .And in that arbitration decision, Maryland specificallyrepresented that the boundary should be drawn around thewharves that were on the Virginia side of the boundaryso that the boundary, instead of being at the low-watermark, would carve out every pier that had beenconstructed. The arbitrators rejected that, but in the process provided that the riparian owners on theVirginia side could go beyond the low-water mark -- thatis a direct quote -- "beyond the low-water mark toexercise their riparian rights." Congress -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's the case hereas well. There's no doubt that New Jersey under theCompact has the right to grant riparian rights,including wharfing out, that go beyond the low-watermark. MR. FREDERICK: The doubt here, Mr. ChiefJustice, is what the phrase "own side" means. And wethink the better reading of own side is captured by thegrants part of the Special Master's recommendation isthat own side means the boundary. But to the extentthat a right can be exercised, a riparian rightauthorized by New Jersey beyond the low-water mark, itis still subject to the police powers. And at page of the Special Master'sreport in Virginia v. Maryland, the Special Masterspecifically said this case does not concern theexercise of the police powers, but rather the merewithdrawal of the water. There is no issue here as tothe types of general police powers that would apply tothe riparian right. And finally, I would note that the Special Master was the same. He was uniquely positioned in thiscase to assess the applicability of Virginia v. Marylandbecause he had been the special master in that case,too. JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't understand thedifference between withdrawing water as not beingsubject to the police powers. That could mean theycould drain the river, in effect. MR. FREDERICK: Well, what the court heldand what was decided in that case was that the taking ofthe water by Virginia was not to the level where itwould give rise to the kind of police concern thatMaryland might express. The court left that issue open. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.It's up to Maryland what's a concern. If Marylanddoesn't want any water taken, why isn't that a validexercise of Maryland's police power? MR. FREDERICK: It would be a validexercise, but I was answering Mr. Chief Justice'squestion about what is left of it. And the question,what is left of it is that Virginia can continue towithdraw water from the Potomac River. Whether thereshould be a problem in the future about overwithdrawingor an exercise -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As I understand our decision in Virginia v. Maryland it's that withdrawingof the water is a carve out of Maryland's police powerthat would otherwise apply. MR. FREDERICK: It would -- it would be alimited carve out, that is correct. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Now whyisn't there a limited carve out on the New Jersey sideof similar riparian rights? In other words, New Jerseyhas the authority to authorize wharfing out and to thatextent, it's a carve out of Delaware's police power. MR. FREDERICK: It is a limited carve out tothe extent of permitting the wharfing out, Mr. ChiefJustice. But that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't even acknowledgethat. You deny even that. You have said that Delawarecan prevent the wharfing out and say you can't wharf outunless you get a license from us. MR. FREDERICK: If it is a nuisance youcannot get a license. That is classic riparian law,Mr. -- Justice -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I understood yourearlier answer to be exactly what Justice Scalia said.Are you now saying that Delaware can prevent it only onthe grounds of preventing a nuisance? MR. FREDERICK: I'm saying yes. That would be a classic exercise of riparian -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not saying whether thatwould be a classic exercise. Is that the onlycircumstance in which it can be exercised, orconversely, does Delaware have the authority to say nosimply because it says no? I thought your answer the first time aroundfinally was the latter. It can say no. And I thinkthat's what my brother Scalia thought. Now are you saying it can say no only ifthere is a nuisance or some other specified reason? MR. FREDERICK: Let me try it this way. Asa limitation of a riparian right, the State of Delawarecan limit the length of the wharf, whether the wharfgoes in ordinary circumstances, but as to a prohibition,it cannot do so unless it is a nuisance as a matter ofriparian jurisdiction. As a matter of police power -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't. JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. He is not done. Asa matter of police power, however, they can do anything? MR. FREDERICK: No. The State can limit theactivities that can occur on the wharf. And that is thecrucial distinction here. JUSTICE SOUTER: And it can limit it, Ipresume, subject to some reasonable rule of health and safety? MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. It simply cannot sayas a matter of legislative view case no more wharfs? MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. JUSTICE ALITO: Who decides whether it's anuisance? If Delaware says that docking a sailboat is anuisance, who decides that? Does all of this have to bedecided by us in original cases? (Laughter.) MR. FREDERICK: Typically the Corps ofEngineers determines that issue as a matter ofapplication of the Rivers and HarborsAppropriations Act. Section of that act, JusticeAlito, the Corps of Engineers has the authority todetermine whether or not a docking or wharfing in anavigable waterway of the United States would constitutea nuisance to -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're not talkingabout nuisance. You're talking about Delaware'senvironmental laws. That's what this project concerns. MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you were sayingDelaware's environmental laws trump whatever riparianright New Jersey can grant? MR. FREDERICK: The environmental laws wouldapply to the project. The position of Delaware is notthat BP can't build its wharf. It's that it can'tengage in a prohibited use on that wharf. The wharfitself is not a nuisance. It does not violate anynormal standard of riparian use. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the State of NewJersey allow the wharf to be built for some unspecifiedpurpose, just let it stick out there until it decideswhat it wants to do with it? MR. FREDERICK: As I matter of both States'laws, Justice Kennedy, that's not how either state doesit. Both States now require as part of theenvironmental -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm asking a hypothetical,could it do that? It would seem to me that would be avery stupid riparian use, but could it do that? MR. FREDERICK: I think that, yes, it coulddo that if its intent was to achieve access to thenavigable waterway. But both states, both New Jersey,outside the Twelve-Mile Circle, and Delaware applypolice powers now so that permits have to be requiredwhen -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does that work?What if New Jersey says to the wharf owners you must dredge around your wharf because we think it's -- youknow, silt is depositing, and Delaware says you may notdredge around your wharf because we think it's going todisturb the oysters? Who -- how do you concurjurisdiction work in that case? MR. FREDERICK: That is an easy one, Mr.Chief Justice, because New Jersey has conceded that itdoes not have the authority to regulate dredging withinthe Twelve Mile Circle. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's somethingthey do have the authority to regulate. MR. FREDERICK: That's the point. Riparianjurisdiction is quite limited. It concerns only certainaspects of the riparian owner's access to the waterways,and that limitation of that property right has beenrecognized for centuries by this Court and otherscourts. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You used the word"riparian jurisdiction." We have riparian rights.That's a familiar term. Riparian jurisdiction which isused in Article VII is a novelty. MR. FREDERICK: That's correct, JusticeGinsburg. I'm using it in the term that the SpecialMaster did it, which is the State's jurisdiction togovern the exercise of riparian rights. It is not a term of art. Farnham's treatise, which is another sourceof where riparian rights traditionally have beenrecognized, did not use that phrase, and the partiescould not find any -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Frederick, does theriparian right include the right to dump refuse orsewage into a river? MR. FREDERICK: It is a -- yes, it is a partof the classic riparian right, intakes and discharges,Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: And even though that wouldcreate a nuisance across the river, you could -- theystill would have -- who would trump? Who would prevail? MR. FREDERICK: The police power wouldprevail on that, because what you dump is what -- iswhere everything matters. If the dumping is simplywater that doesn't have any ecological effects, that -- JUSTICE STEVENS: No, I'm assuming somethingthat pollutes the river. MR. FREDERICK: That would be subject to theenvironmental laws. That's classic police powerrecognized by this Court in Hudson v. McCarter. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Frederick. Mr. Farr, you have three minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF MR. FARR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.May I just say two things, and, first of all, somethingthat we haven't really talked about this morning. With respect to matters of nuisance and all,Federal law provides a substantial array of laws: TheClean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Coastal ZoneManagement Act, the Rivers and Harbors Act, all of thosethings. Anything built out from New Jersey has toundergo Federal review; and, subject to the Compact,Delaware has rights to participate at that Federallevel. So what we are talking about here, and what thebill of complaint deals with, is the question of whetherDelaware can do what it did here, which is apply itsState law enacted under its police power to say that aproposed project, riparian project, for the New Jerseyside is impermissible and cannot be built. So we aredealing just with the law of State versus State. Now -- so I'd like to suggest if -- if weput ourselves in the shoes of the Commissioners who werenegotiating this Compact in , what is the likelyreaction if Article VII -- if, now, Delaware had proposed at the time that, instead of the language as itis now, at the end of Article VII the words were added"subject to the police power of the other State"? New Jersey obviously would have had thereaction to that that that is something that depends onthe boundary. There is no chance that New Jersey isgoing to be able to exercise any police power on theDelaware side, because there is no boundary dispute thatwould involve that. So this would essentially be a one-way vetothat Delaware would be trying to add to the contract tosay: Could we -- we'll be able to override any riparianstructure under our police power. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a one-way pass. Whyshouldn't it be a one-way veto? MR. FARR: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't give Delawareanything. MR. FARR: Well, except for the fact that,again, if we put ourselves in their shoes, it seems tome what New Jersey would say is: If you are proposingthat you can veto all of our riparian projects usingyour police power because of your view of the boundary,why are we dismissing the case that we just filed, orfiled in -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are saying that the -- MR. FARR: --to determine the boundaries? JUSTICE KENNEDY: You are saying that theconcept of "riparian rights" displaces the police power,to a large extent. MR. FARR: To the extent that the exerciseof the police power is inconsistent with the power ofthe State, the authority of the State, to authorize apier or wharf for the purposes for which piers andwharves are used, which is the loading and unloading ofgoods. If that is what the State -- if that is whatNew Jersey has done, that is not subject to an overrideor a veto by Delaware exercising its police power. Imean this was an important value at the time that theCompact was enacted, and New Jersey would not havelightly let Delaware veto it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Farr, can I askyou a question as purely a -- MR. FARR: Of course. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- matter ofcuriosity? The parties talk about the Duke of York'sgrant to William Penn in this case, but nobody everexplains where Delaware came from. How did that --where did Delaware -- I mean a grant to William Penn is Pennsylvania. Where -- when did Delaware -- MR. FARR: Oh, there were -- I think therewere further grants along the process and furtherdivision of -- of territory. I think some of that isactually explained in New Jersey v. Delaware, too. Imay be leading you in the wrong direction, but I don'tthink so. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you. The caseis submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Page Aability :: :able : ::above-entitled: :abrogation:absolutely :acceded :accept : :accepted :access :: :achieve :acknowledge: :acknowledged:acquiesced :acquire :acquired :acquires :act : ::, ::,,activities :activity ::actual :add :added :administered:admitted :affect :agree ::agreed :agreement :: :aiming :Air :Alito :,: ::, ::,,,:,,,:, ::, :: :,allow :: :: ::allowable :allowing :allows ::alters :American :amicus :amount :: :analysis ::and/or :answer ::,, :: :,: ::answered :answering :antecedents :anyway :APPEARAN...:appendix ::,applicabilityapplicable :application ::::applied : :apply :: ::,,: ::, :applying :appreciate: :Appropriationsarbitrationarbitrators:::area :,argue ::arguing :argument ::, :, :: : ::array :arrests :art :article : :: : ::,,:,,:, ::,,: :,: :: ::,,:,,: ::articles :asked :asking :: :: ::aspects :assert :assess :assume :: : ::assumes :: : :assuming ::, :: ::assumption :attempt :attorney :: ::attributes :authority :: :,: ::, :: :: :,:authorization:authorize :: ::, ::authorized :: :avoid :award :a.m : :Bback :bank :: :BARTOW ::, : :basic :basically :: :basis :bed : ::beg :begins :,behalf :,:,, :: ::believe :: :believed :belonged :belonging :belongs :benefit :better :beyond :,: :: :,: ::, ::,,bill :bit :Black-Jenkins:blanket :blue :boundaries ::, :boundary ::, : :: :, :: :,,:,,: ::,,:, :: :,: :: : :: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,:boundries :bounds :Bowlby :BP :bridge :brief :: ::brings : Page broad :brother :build :: :: : :building :: :: :,built :: :: :,bulk : ::business :CC : :, ::call :called :: :captured :carve : ::,,,case :, ::, :: :: :,: ::,,:, :: :,: :: :: :,cases : :: ::casino ::,category :ceded ::centuries :certain ::, ::certainly :: ::,cession :chance :changed : ::changing :channel ::Chicago :,Chief :,:,,:,,: :,,,:, ::,, ::, :: :,: :,: ::, :chose :Circle :: :,: ::circumstance:circumstances: ::, :citation :cite :citizens :,: ::City :claim : :classic :,: ::, ::Clause :,:Clean :,clear : :clearly ::clutter :coal :,::coastal :,Coffee :colors :come : :comes :coming :Commerce:, :commercial:commissioners:, :common :,: :compact :,: :, :: :,,: :: :,: :: :,: ::, :: :,:, ::, :compacts :company ::compared :compensation:, :complaint :completely:compliance: :conceded :concept :: :concern :: :,concerned :concerns :::conclude :concur :concurrent :: :,,:Congress :consent :consequences::consideration: :considerations:consistent :: :constant :constitute :constitution ::, ::constitutional: :constraints: :,:construct ::constructed: :construction:construe :construed :construing:consult :consulted :contain :contained ::contend :content :context ::,continue ::,,,: :,:,,,: :,,: :: :continued :continues :continuing :contract :contradict :contradictory:contrary :control :controversy::conversely :convey :,conveyances:, :conveyed :conveys :copy :Corps :,correct :: :: :: : ::, :correctly ::counsel :County :course :: :court :,:, ::, ::, :: ::, : : ::,,: ::, ::, ::courts :Court's :: :,create :crime :crimes :,criminal ::critically :crossed :Crown :crucial :cubic :Cummings :curiosity :DD :dam :DAVID : ::dealing :deals :debating :decide :: ::decided :: :: ::decides :,:deciding :decision :: ::, :: :decisions ::Declaration:deed :deemed :: :,:,Defendant :: :defending :defense :definite :,degree :Delaware ::, : ::,,: :, :: :,: ::, ::, ::,,,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,,:,,,:,,,,:,,,:,,,,:,,:, ::, :: ::,,,,: :,: :,,:,,:,,,,: :,:,,: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,:,,,:,Delaware's :: :: :: :: :: ::,delivered :demolition:denial :denied :deny :depended :dependent :depending:depends :: :,: :deponents :depositing :designation: :despite :,:detached :detail :detailed :determination: : :: :determine :: :,: ::determined ::, : :: : :: :determines ::difference :: ::different ::,difficulty :direct :directed :direction :discharges:dismiss :dismissing:displaces :dispositive :dispute ::, :disputed :distance :distinction: ::distinctive :distinguishabledistinguished::distinguishing:disturb :disturbed :division :docket :docking :,doing : :: :domestic :dormant ::doubt :,drafted :drain :draw :: :drawn :dredge :,dredging :: :Duke :dump :,Page dumping :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier :easement ::, :eastern :easy : :ecological :effect : ::effected :effective ::,,effectively :effectiveness:effects :either :: :El :eliminating:emphasize :enacted :: :encroachment:ends :,enforceable:engage :Engineers ::entered :entire :: :environment:environmental:, ::, :: :erect :erection : Page ESQ :, ::,essentially :: :: :: ::establish :established:evidence :exactly :: :: :examination:example : ::, :,: :exception ::,,exceptions: :exchange :exclusive :excuse ::exercise :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,: :,: :,:,,:, :: :exercised :: :exercising :: ::exhaustive :existed :existing :exists :explained :explains :express ::expressly :,: :extend ::extended :: :extending :extends :extension :extent : ::,,: :: ::, ::extraordinary: :,: :extreme :Ffaced :facilities ::facility ::,,: :fact :,: :: :: :,:facts : :,: ::familiar :far : :: :,:, ::Farnham's :Farr : :,:,, :,:,, :: : :: :,:,,,:, ::, :: ::,,:,, :: :,:,,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,:, :,: :,: :,:, :: ::,, :: :,:, :Federal :: :,: :: :,:Federenco:feet : :figure :file : :filed : :: ::,finally ::find :fine : :first : :: :: : :fishing :fixed :flatly :Florida :follows :Forget ::form :formula :,Fort :forth :,,: :found : :Frederick :: :,,,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,: ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,: ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,:,,:,,:,,,:frustrationfull : :,::functional :fundamentally: :further :: :,future ::FX :GG :gambling :: :,: :gas : ::, ::general :: :: ::generalized :geographical: :getting :Ginsburg :: :,: ::,,,:,,,:, ::, ::give : :: :: :: :: :,: :given : :gives : :: :giving ::Gloucester :go : :: :,:, :: :,goes : :: ::, :: Page going : :: ::, :: ::good :goods :: :gotten :govern :grant :,:, :: :: :: :: : :: :,granted ::grantee :granting : :: :grants : ::, :: :: :,,: :great :,,greatest :Groover :grounds :guess :HH : :, ::half :,,happen :happens :high :high-water:historical :history :,hold :Honor :horse-trading:hotel :Hudson ::huge :hundreds :hypothesis:hypothetical: :: :,:, :hypotheticals:III :imagine :immediately:impact :impede :impedes :impermissible:implement: :implementing: :implicitly :important :::::Harbors :Importantlyhealth :hear :held : :: ::impose :: :,include :: ::includes :including ::inconsistent: :,:individual :: :: :instance :: :,intakes :intend :intended :intent :,:,:interest :: :: :interests :interfered :interference::interferes :interpret :interpretinginterregnum::interrupt :invalid :,invalidated :involve ::involved :involvement :involving :issue : :: :: ::issued :: :: :issues :i.e :JJersey : ::, :,:, ::,,:, :,,: :,,:,,,:,,,:, :: :,:, :,:, ::,,,: ::, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::, :,:, ::, :,: :,:, :: ::, ::,,:, ::, ::,,: :,:, ::,,: :,:,,:, :Jersey's :,: :: :: ::judicial :jump :jurisdictionJustice :,: : :: :,: :,,:, ::, ::,,,: :: ::,,,::, :,:, :,:,, :,: :,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,,:, ::, ::, :,: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,,: :,: :,:, :,:, ::,,:,,,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,:, ::,, Page :,,,:,,,,:, ::, :,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: ::, ::,,:Justice's :KKennedy ::, ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :,: :,Keystone :kind : :: ::kinds :know : :: :: ::knowledge :knows :Lland :,: :,,:, ::,,,,:, ::, :,: ::, ::, :: :,: :Landing :landowners: :lands : :: ::, :,: :,,:,,,: :: ::language :: :,: :large :late : :Laughter :: :law : :: ::, ::,,:, :: :: :: :: ::, ::, ::,,lawful :laws : :: : :: :,: ::,,:, ::, :: :: ::, :: ::leading :,:leases :left : ::, ::,,legislative :legislature:legitimate :length :lengthy :let's : :: :level ::license :,:, ::lies :light : :lightly :limit : ::, :: :,:limitation :: :: ::limitations: :limited ::,,:limits : :: :line : :,: :,: :: ::linked :liquified :: :,: :literal :little :LNG :,:load :loading ::, :long : :longer :::look : :lose : :lost :,: :,lot :low :low-water ::, :,: :: :,: :: :,:, :: :,,:Mmaintained :management:, :mark :, :: :: ::,,: :: :,: :: ::,,,marks :marshy :Maryland ::, :: :,: ::,,,:Maryland's: :master :: :,: :: :: :: :,:Master's :: :,matter :: :,: :,: :,: ::matters : :: ::maximum :McCarter ::mean : :: ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :: :: :: ::,meaning ::,,meaningful :meaningless: :means :,,: :, Page : :,meant : :mentioned:mere ::merely :Mile : :: : :million :minutes :mistakenly :moment :: ::morning ::Mott :murder ::,NN :, :narrow :natural ::, ::nature : :: :navigable ::, :: :: :navigation: :: :navigational:nearly :necessarily ::,necessary :: :: ::,need :: :needs :negotiatingnegotiation::negotiators :neither :never :nevertheless:new : :,: :,,,:,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,, :,: :,,:, ::,,,: :,:, :: :,,: :,:,,,: ::, ::,,:, ::, ::, :: :,,: :,:,,: ::, :,: :,:, :: ::, ::,,:, ::, ::,,: :,:, ::,,: :,:,,:, :nonriparian:normal :normally :note :noted :notion :novelty :November :nuisance :: :: :,:, ::,,: ::OO : :object :objectives ::obtain :obtained :obvious :obviously :: :: ::,,:occur : :occurring :offense :: :officials :offloaded :Oh : :okay : :once : :: :: :one-way :nuisances :number :outward :overburden:,open :operate : ::, :,:opinion :,oral : : ::order : :: :: :: :ordinary :Oregon :,Orig :original : :ought : :outside :::override :: :: :overrided :overriding :overwithdraw...owned :::owner :: :: :: :owners : :: ::,,: :: ::ownership ::,owner's :owns : :oysters :PP :page : :: :pardon ::parity :Park :part : :: :: ::participate:particular :: :: ::particularly: :parties ::parts :: :Paso :pass :passed ::passengers :passes :pay :payment :pays :Penn :,Pennsylvaniapeople :::people's :perfectly :period :permanently:permissible :permission:permit : Page : :,,:,,permits :permitted :: ::, ::permitting:perplexes :person :persons :petitioned :Petitioner :phrase :: ::piece :pier : :: :: :piers : :: :: :: ::place :,:places :Plaintiff ::, : :plan :please : :point :,:, :: ::, :: :: ::police ::, ::,,,: :,:,,:,, ::, :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,pollutes :posed :poses :position : :: : ::,, :: :,: :: :positioned :positions ::possess :possibility ::,Potomac ::power :,,:, ::, ::,, :: ::,,: :,:, :: :: ::, :: ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,powers :,:, :: :: :: :,: ::practical :: :precedents:precluded :precludes :premise :prescriptions: :presumably:presume :: :presumption:,pretty :prevail :,:,prevent :: :,preventingprinciple :::prior :,private :: :,problem :problems :::proceeded :process :,: :prohibit :,: :prohibited: ::prohibition: :project ::, :: :,projects :promises :proper :properly :property :: ::,,:proposed ::proposing :proposition :proprietor'sprosecuted::protection :protects :proved :proven :provided :: ::provides :providing :provision :: :public :,,:,,puerperouspurely :::purpose :: ::, ::purposes ::put : :: :p.m :Qqualification:quality :question ::, ::,,: :,:, :: :: :: ::, ::questioned:questions :quite ::quo : :quote : :RR :railway :reaction ::read : :reading ::realities :really :: :reason :: :reasonable: :reasoning :REBUTTAL: :recognition ::recognized: :: :: :,recommendat...: :recommended:record : Page : :,:Recreational:refer :reference :refers :refuse :regard : :regarding :regardless :regular :regulate :,regulated :regulating :regulation :: :regulatory:reject :rejected :: :relating :relatively :relinquished:remaining :rephrase :report :represented:require :: :: :required :requirement::reserve :resolve ::respect : :: :: ::, ::, :: ::, :respective ::restrictions :: :result :retain :return :review ::right :,,:,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::, :: :,: :,,:, :: ::,,:, ::,,,: :: ::,,rights ::, ::, ::, :: ::,, :: ::, :: :: :,: :,,: :,: :,: ::riparian :,:, : :: :,: ::,,,:, :,:,,: :,:, :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,,: :: :,: ::, ::,,: :,:,, ::,,: :,: :,,: ::,,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,: :,: ::, :rise :river : ::, :,:, :: :,:,,,:,,,: :: :,: :,:, :: ::, ::,Rivers ::ROBERTS ::, :: ::, :: ::, :: :: :: ::, :Robeson :rub : :rule :rules :running :SS : :safety :: :sailboat :saying : :: :: :: :: :,: :,:, :: ::,says : :: :,,: :: :,: :: :,: :: :Scalia :,,: : ::,,,:, :,,:, :,: ::,,: : ::,,:,,,:, :: ::, :: :,Scalia's :scholarly :second :: :Section :see : : :: :seemingly :sense :separate :: :,serve :,service :servitude :set :,,setting :settle : ::settling :sewage :shared :shipments :ships :,::Shively :shoes ::shoots :shore :: :shoreline :shores :short :show :,:side : :,: : ::, ::,,,:, ::,,: :: :: : Page : :: :,:, :: :significant:silt :similar ::simply : :: :: :: ::single :: :small :soil :somebody :sorry :sort :sought :,source :Souter :,:, :,: : ::, ::,,,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :: :,:Souter's :special : :: :,: :: :: ::,,,: :specific :: ::,specifically :: :: :,:specification:specified :split :standard :starting :state : ::, :: :,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,:,,: :,: :: :,:, ::, :: :,,: :,,: :,:, ::, ::,,states :,: : :: :: ::, :: :: :,:State's :,: :status : ::statute :,: :,,:,,,:, :statutes ::Stevens ::, ::,,,: :,: ::, ::,,,stick :stop :stops :strange :stressing :stretch :strikes :striking :structure :structures ::stupid :subaqueous: : :: : ::, :: :subject :,: :: :,:,,: :: :,: :: :: :: ::submerged :submit :submitted :::substance :substantial :sufficient :suggest ::suggesting ::,suggests ::suit :summarizedsuperimposingsuperstructure:::supported :supporting :Supreme :,:, :sure :,:suspect :Sutton :TT :,take : :taken :: :takings ::talk : :talked :talking ::, ::,,: :,:, ::, :talks :tell : :term ::, :terminal ::terms : :territorial :territory :: :Thank :,,: ::theory :: :,:,thing : :: :things :,:,think :,:, : ::, :,: :,,: : ::, :: ::, :: :,:, :: ::, ::, :: :: ::, :,,thinks :thought :: :,three :tie :time : :: :: : ::times :title : ::traditional :: :traditionally:transfer :treatise :true : ::, ::trump ::trumps :try : trying :: :Tuesday :turned :Twelve ::, ::Twelve-Mile: :two : :: :: :: :: :: :: ::, ::types :typically ::Uugly :ultimately ::, :uncertain :,uncertainty:undergo :understand:, :: :,:understanding: :understood :: :undisputed :unfortunately: :uniformly :uniquely :United :,: ::unknown :Page unload :unloading ::, :unmistakable:unspecified :use :,:, :: :,: :: :: :,: :: :,: :uses : ::,,:U.S :Vv : : ::, :: :: :: ::valid : ::validly :value :versus : ::Vessels :veto :,,:,view : :: :: :: :VII : :: ::,,,:, :: :,: :: ::,,:, :: :VIII :violate : :Virginia :: :,:,, :: :,: :virtue :visual :WWait :want : :: :wanted :wants ::Washington ::,wasn't ::water : :: ::, :: :: :,:, :: :waterway ::waterways:water-ward:way : :: :ways :,Weggle :went :: :western :we'll : ::we're :,:, :,: ::, ::wharf :,: :,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,:, :: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,: :,,:, :: :,: :,,:, :,:wharfage :wharfed :wharfing :: : ::,,: :: :,: :wharfs : ::, ::wharves ::, :: :: :: :: :: ::whatsoever :William :::Willie :withdraw :withdrawal:withdrawing: :won :word :words : :: : :: ::work :: :worked :worthless :::wouldn't :wrong :Xx :,Yyards :years : :: ::York's :Zzone :,:zoning : :. : : :: : :: : : : : : Page : : : : : : : ::s : : : : :: : :: :: :: :: :,: : ::'s : :s : : :, : : : : : : : :-foot : : : :s : : 