 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xSPRINT COMMUNICATIONS :COMPANY, L.P., ET AL., : Petitioners : v. : No. -APCC SERVICES, INC., ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGECARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFCARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst today in Case -, Sprint CommunicationsCompany v. APCC Services, Inc.Mr. Phillips. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Chief Judge Sentelle observed in his dissentbelow that there are assignments and there areassignments, and that's essentially going to be thetheme of my presentation this morning. It is I thinkcommon ground between the parties in this litigationthat if you have an assignment which represents thegrant of the entirety of both the right and the remedy,that is the complete assignment of the chosen action,then under those circumstances there's no question thatthe assignee has standing under Article III. By parity of receiving, if all that theassignee receives is a power of attorney, a merecollection agency role, under those circumstances Ithink it's common ground between the parties thatArticle III is not satisfied. Two of the data points come from -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again? What is thecommon ground? MR. PHILLIPS: I think the second part ofthe common ground is that if all that the assigneereceives is the power of attorney, that is to serve asthe lawyer for the assignor, under those circumstancesthe assignee doesn't -- cannot -- has no common stakethan I or my clients do in these particular cases, anymore than I do in my client's interest in theseparticular cases, and there I don't think anybodydisputes that Article III is not satisfied. Now, the Court in Vermont Agency sort ofidentified two additional data points. First of all, itmade clear that a percent bounty by itself unattachedto anything else is not sufficient, largely I think forthe same reasons why the lawyer's claim is insufficient,because that's not tied to the particular right at stakeand therefore is inadequate to allow Article III to thesatisfied. The second half of it is, though, that ifthat bounty is coupled with an assignment of the rightsand even if that's a partial assignment of the rights,then there is Article III jurisdiction under thosecircumstances. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that if thesecontracts provided that the aggregators will turn overall of the proceeds of the litigation except for onepenny, then you'd be satisfied? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm not sure I'd besatisfied. I think there's a different -- I think theanswer is that might satisfy Article III. The onlyreason I'm reluctant to say that that's the line thatought to be drawn is because this Court's taxpayerstanding cases seems to recognize that there aresituations where there is a sufficiently de minimisamount of at stake that under those circumstancesArticle III won't be satisfied. But clearly thecleanest line to draw is in circumstances where have youno stake in the outcome that clearly is beyond whatArticle III would ultimately do. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well then, this is notreally a very significant case, is it? Because Ipresume that these enterprises that agglomerate claimsand bring suit as a collection agency, they could simplyget their compensation, instead of by way of, of a flatfee, by, you know, claiming entitlement to percent ofthe rewards. So it's no big deal, I mean, really. MR. PHILLIPS: But it is a big deal, notnecessarily because of the importance of the article. I think the Article III part of it is still a big deal. Ithink requiring as a separation of powers matter thatthere has to be a concrete stake in the party bringingthe litigation, that's an important principle and theCourt shouldn't abandon it, and that's posed directly inthis case. But more fundamentally in terms of theimportance of the underlying process, remember herewe're talking about an assignee who takes on different assignor claims involving , pay phones.And that's the problem, is that when you break this downand you allow just simple assignments to satisfy ArticleIII in its prudential standing concerns, then what youend up with is this mass tort litigation. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it would be just thesame, Mr. Phillips, would it not, if the arrangement wasthat the aggregator gets a piece of the action? Let'stake out the de minimis one cent. A significant stake,like the qui tam plaintiff has. So you would have thesame problems that you're complaining about with regardto discovery from the individual PSPs, the same problemwith respect to counterclaim. That's -- so it seems to me that, as JusticeScalia suggested, this isn't about a whole lot if justby the device of giving the aggregator part of the, a piece of the action, this suit would be okay because theprudential objections that you are making here wouldapply just as well. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, and I would -- I wouldstill assert those same prudential objections in thehypothetical you pose. What I'm saying is when you --when you have an assignment and there is a bounty builtinto it, however you want to define the bounty, whetherit's a penny or percent or percent or whatever,that may satisfy Article III. I understand that. Thatdoes not answer the question of whether there'sprudential standing under those circumstances. In that-- JUSTICE SCALIA: Go ahead, I'm sorry. MR. PHILLIPS: In that context, JusticeGinsburg, you do have the problems. You don't get thediscovery. You don't get to use the efficiency of thecounterclaim process, and there are serious questionsabout whether or not there are res judicata andcollateral estoppel effects, and I would argue in thatcontext that there's a very significant claim that thoseproceedings ought not to be entertained by a Federalcourt as a prudential matter, not as a matter of ArticleIII. JUSTICE SCALIA: What if all of the claimants assign their claims to something called anagglomeration trust and the -- the person who's bringingsuit here brings it as a trustee? He has no interest init personally and he is compensated the same way, thesame way this agglomerator is compensated. He has nopersonal interest. He could sue, couldn't he? MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, there is a longtradition of allowing trustees to bring litigation onbehalf of the trust because that's the only way that atrust can in fact enforce its rights. JUSTICE SCALIA: So once again, it's no bigdeal. I mean -- MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it is a big deal,because trust relationships carry all kinds ofadditional legal consequences. What is particularlyoffensive about this arrangement, Your Honors, is thatthe assignor gets all of the benefits of being able tobring mass tort litigation with none of theresponsibilities. JUSTICE SOUTER: He would do the same thingin Justice Scalia's if it were an irrevocable trust.The trust could do exactly what the aggregator is doinghere. MR. PHILLIPS: That's true, but there areadditional trust responsibilities that would attach to that process. There's an entire legal regime to dealwith that. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- that might protect thosewho assigned their interest to the trust, but I don'toffhand see what difference it would make, whatdifference those responsibilities would make vis a visyou and your client. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, again, Justice Souter,I think the answer probably is going to depend on howthe Court interprets the prudential standing doctrine.Again, I don't have any quarrel as an Article IIImatter, because I think it's one of those long-heldtraditions that trustees are allowed to bring litigationon behalf of the trust and that's understood. JUSTICE SOUTER: But the real issue is notwhether the trustee can sue. The real issue is whetherthe trust can sue. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. I mean, that's wherethe claims are, sure. JUSTICE SOUTER: It seems to me in hisexample if the trust can sue, why can't the aggregatorsue? And your answer was, well, trustees have certainresponsibilities. But I don't see that thoseresponsibilities inure to the benefit of your client orto an opposing party in litigation that a trust brings. So I don't see how it would differentiate it. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there are twodifferentiations. One is that there is this entirelegal regime that regulates trusts and that has allowedthe courts for years, probably longer than that, tobe comfortable to allow litigation to proceed in aparticular way. But second of all and the second answer toyour first question is the prudential concerns remainjust, potentially just as serious. I think the questionis do you want to create litigation devices that allowthe courts to avoid -- to allow lower courts or, more tothe point, allow plaintiffs to avoid the requirementseither of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure or theassociational standing doctrine. Those are doctrinesthat are designed to limit mass tort litigation inparticularized circumstances -- JUSTICE STEVENS: You mentioned discovery.I don't see why you can't get discovery against thiswhole bunch of people. MR. PHILLIPS: Because they're not a partyto the litigation. I mean, you can get discovery -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Subpoenas out there anddepositions. MR. PHILLIPS: But, Justice Stevens, if you sue me, you hail me into court, you put me to theburdens of being a defendant in litigation, the least Iought to get out of that is that I can turn to you andask you to admit certain facts, I can turn to you andask you to answer certain interrogatories, and I don'thave to go chasing you down, because you've alreadysubmitted yourself to the personal jurisdiction of thatcourt. JUSTICE STEVENS: Of course, in thisparticular situation you can do the same thing. You canfile requests for admissions or serve interrogatories.I don't understand why you can't do that. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I can serve them on theaggregator, but I cannot serve them on the party who infact has the relevant information that I need. I haveto use third party subpoena power. JUSTICE STEVENS: I would assume theaggregators have the relevant information. MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry, Justice Stevens? JUSTICE STEVENS: I would assume theaggregator would have the relevant information. MR. PHILLIPS: In some instances it might orit might not. The problem is the aggregator has got toget the information. JUSTICE STEVENS: But they have to -- they have the burden of proof in the case and I assume theyhave to investigate the facts and be prepared fortrial. MR. PHILLIPS: And that would help on theaffirmative case that they have to put together, but itdoesn't help with respect to the counterclaims. TheQwest amicus brief does a very nice job of explainingthat there are a lot of situations where the -- wherethe payphone operators are overpaid and it's verydifficult -- first of all, and the aggregator has noidea or any incentive to find out any of that, any ofthat information. And when Qwest made the requests ofthe aggregator saying, provide me with the information,the brief quotes in a variety of places comments suchas, you know, "whatever the -- our aggregator says isfine with us," or "I don't care about those claims," oranswers like that, which, if I sue you -- I mean, if yousue me and I ask for those, you cannot give me backthose answers. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you can make that sameanswer if it's just a standard assignee for collectionof -- of a debt for single person. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but if it's a simpleassignee for a debt and nothing more than that, just apower of attorney -- or are you talking about a full assignment? JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. It's a fullassignment, where everybody agrees that there'sstanding. MR. PHILLIPS: But in no circumstance -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You can make the sameargument: Oh, he might not have all the information. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but at least there heis also responsible for both -- he has the entirety ofthe right. He has the right and the remedy. So thatwhatever counterclaims you have operate directly againstthat particular individual. But even in that context, Justice Kennedy,it seems to me there's a fundamental difference, as amatter of prudence, between dealing with a singleassignee back and forth and the disputes that arisethere and the difficulty of discovery that would existthere, and the situation we have here where you have payphone operators -- JUSTICE BREYER: You have a discovery beproblem. I don't see that it's a standing problem. Andtwo things it reminds me of are, one very common, afinancer takes an interest in receivables and he's goingto have to collect them as receivables and there may be,. That could have the same kind of practical problems. Or we had cases in the First Circuit you mayor may not be aware of where somebody went around andhad assignments for , cabbages that were delivereda day late in , box cars and each one was worthabout $. Nobody figured a way out of that. They hadto pass a special statute. There was -- and so it seems to me you'rebetter off than the cabbage people because have you twopossible remedies: One on discovery; you could ask thejudge, Judge, see what the Communications Commissionthinks. It's called primary jurisdiction of the kind. MR. PHILLIPS: But, Justice -- JUSTICE BREYER: Or you could go to the FCCand you say, FCC, you got us into this. Now, you have some rules here that make somesense in terms of collection. You have both thoseagency avenues open to you, not open to the cabbagepeople, and this doesn't seem a standing problem. Now,what's your response to that? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there are two elementsof the standing problem: The first one is we're all --let's be clear -- we're talking about a hypotheticalthat's different from this case because we're talkingabout a hypothetical where in fact the assignee has aconcrete interest in the outcome of this dispute. Here the assignee has no interest in the outcome of thisdispute. So the Article III problem arises there. The question is if you have a minor amountat interest, even if it's, you know, concrete butnevertheless approaches de minimis, should younevertheless entertain that case. And I think theanswer to your question, Justice Breyer, is that insteadof making this into a Federal court case, where you have claims like this, what the Court should say is thatthe better course to follow is in fact for theplaintiffs to take their claims, if they want to, in anaggregate form to the FCC because that's the rightinstitution to deal with it because it doesn't have thelimitations of Article III and it doesn't have thelimitations of prudential standing to interfere with itsability to provide complete relief. And, indeed, if you read the Respondents'brief, they identify, as the prototype litigation, inwhich this entire system worked effectively, a claimthat was in fact litigated in front of the FederalCommunications Commission, not a case that was litigatedin front of the Federal court. So, to my mind, theright answer to this case is to take these cases all tothe FCC, not as a matter of what we do as primaryjurisdiction, but simply as what the plaintiffs do because they don't have the vehicle to bring this to theFederal courts. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you do about --about aggregated plaintiffs who are not in the field ofFederal regulation? They're just sort of out of luck?Can they petition for the creation of an FCC that theycan take their claims to? I mean, this is a fluke thatthere happens to be this Federal agency they could havegone to. Certainly our principles of standing shouldnot depend upon that fluke, should it? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think when the Courtis considering the questions of prudence, you know, itcan certainly take it into account, and maybe that wouldargue in the alternative in another case if thereweren't such an available vehicle that the Court mightbe more inclined to entertain it under thosecircumstances. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would there be review?The FCC, you pointed out, doesn't have Article IIIbarriers. So the FCC decides one way or another. Oneparty ends up losing. Is there review in Federal court? MR. PHILLIPS: I mean, Justice Ginsburg,that is Spiller. That's what the Court said in Spiller,and I think it's a logical outgrowth of what the Court held in ASARCO, which is that, even though a claimdoesn't start with Article III jurisdiction because it'snot an Article III entity, that when a finaldetermination comes out of that entity that is in factenforceable as a right that that right is enforceableconsistent with Article III notions. And that's true.That is what the Court essentially, without dealing withArticle III at all, said in Spiller, and that's clearlywhat the Court held in ASARCO. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the advantage?You have proposed the FCC route. That obviously wasn'ttaken here. What is the advantage of going to Federalcourt on claims like this? MR. PHILLIPS: From my perspective or fromthe plaintiffs' perspective. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would the plaintiffmake such a choice if the agency -- MR. PHILLIPS: Because the -- the plaintiffshere, the payphone operators, get a free pass in thisproceeding. They get all of the benefits of being ableto go to Federal court and bring litigation with none ofthe burdens of having to deal with discovery orcross-claims or counterclaims or even necessarily beingbound by doctrines of res judicata and collateralestoppel. So you get all the benefits and none of the disadvantages. That's why it's an advantage for them togo to Federal court. JUSTICE BREYER: How is that different? MR. PHILLIPS: When -- JUSTICE BREYER: Just on that very point --I need clarification on this. How is that differentthan the case of the financer who takes accountsreceivable, which is very common? You finance theaccounts. You take a secured interest in accountsreceivable. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And there you mightforeclose on the secured interests. Then you as thefinancer have to collect from everybody. How is yourcase different from that? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't know -- JUSTICE BREYER: In the respect you werejust talking about. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, I mean, thereal question is I don't know why that case isnecessarily in Federal court either. I mean, a lot ofthat -- JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but I mean, theremay be many reasons for that. I'm just saying it's anormal, practical problem, I believe, in the banking community. I don't know. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but most of that'slitigated in State courts, in which case there's noserious problem -- JUSTICE BREYER: Go back to my question, I'dlike to get an answer to it. MR. PHILLIPS: Certainly. JUSTICE BREYER: In respect to the problemyou were just mentioning, the discovery problem ofcounterclaims or those problems, is this case anydifferent than the financing case I just mentioned? MR. PHILLIPS: No, I don't think so. JUSTICE BREYER: No. MR. PHILLIPS: I think those exact problemswould arise in that context as well. On the other hand,that's a situation that seems to me is largely driven bythe exigencies and by accident in Federal court. Thisis situation that is driven into Federal court by theplaintiffs' choice and by the ability and the preferenceto be in a position to get the benefits of litigation inFederal court without any of the detriments that mightotherwise arise in that context. JUSTICE SOUTER: Could you explain that?That really goes back to your answer in JusticeGinsburg's question and I'm not getting it. She said why would you go to the Federal court if you can you goto the FCC, and you said, well, you get the benefits ofbeing in Federal court. What -- I should be askingother counsel this question, but as you understand itwhat is the benefit of being in the Federal court ratherthan the FCC that makes this so attractive? MR. PHILLIPS: I guess I would encourage youto ask counsel on the other side, because personally Iwould think that they would have a full and fair remedy-- JUSTICE SOUTER: So you don't know of anybenefits? MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry? JUSTICE SOUTER: You don't know of anybenefits? MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know -- well, otherthan the ones I've already articulated, where I thinkthey get some advantages of being in a Federal court andhave -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, you eliminate stepone. I mean, you go to the FCC, you win there, thenyou've got to face an appeal before the Federal courts.Why not go right to the Federal courts immediately? Youeliminate one level of litigation. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, and that may well be his answer. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'd like you to goback to the question that Justice Stevens, JusticeBreyer, and I asked you. You said, oh, there's aproblem, there's no counterclaim, we can't get theinformation. And we say, well, that happens in everyaccounts receivable assignment; there's no problemthere. And then you say, well, that should be in Statecourt. That's not right. I thought it was agreed, stipulated by youat the outset, that if there's a standard assignment forcollection you can be in the Federal court; there isstanding. MR. PHILLIPS: Right, there is Article III. JUSTICE SOUTER: And Article III. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And let's not losesight of that core question -- JUSTICE SOUTER: If you're saying, if you'resaying that it's the aggregation that makes it difficultto reach everybody, well, that's a question ofdiscovery, and it's still the aggregator'sresponsibility. If the aggregator can't answernecessary questions for discovery of the suit, thesuit's dismissed. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, that may or may not have happen. But let's be clear, okay. The corequestion here is whether or not an aggregator who has noclaim, who has no stake at all, not a penny's worth, canpursue this litigation. On that it seems to me theanswer got -- should be no. There's no benefit to it.The concrete stake is a core requirement of Article IIIand the Court ought to enforce it as a separation ofpowers question. The issue that we've been discussing here iswhat do you do when you get past that, and when you havea kind of a bounty that's been attached to it, and howdo you resolve that? In that situation, which is notthis case, I still think that there would be grounds forprudential standing to serve as a basis to eliminatethis kind of litigation. On the other hand, it may well-- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you said -- MR. PHILLIPS: I am sorry, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said the aggregatorhad -- that the aggregator could sue on behalf of these plaintiffs naming every one of them as a namedplaintiff in this complaint and still the aggregatorwould run the show because they each authorized theaggregator to conduct the litigation. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, it seems to me thatit's not very prudential to require that there be named plaintiffs instead of one. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, the price youpay -- bless you -- is that when you bring Federal courtlitigation -- is that you have to have -- you have toexpose yourself to exactly the burdens that come withit. JUSTICE SOUTER: You also pay a price. Ithought that's what you were going to get at. Talkingabout prudential standing, filing fees is prettyprudential. MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Federal courtsclearly have an interest in that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought yourposition was they could all join in one complaint justas long as they're all named separately. MR. PHILLIPS: They can join in a singlecomplaint. You know, the court can consider whether ornot it thinks joinder is appropriate under thosecircumstances, but they could unquestionably do that.But then, again, they are then at that point a plaintiffin the litigation having brought this action and,therefore, subject to all of the burdens of being aplaintiff in the litigation, including submitting themselves to the personal jurisdiction of the court. I mean, let's be clear about this. Thereare names out of people all over the country thatunder the -- under the plaintiffs aggregators' theory wehave to go chase down in order to obtain discovery, toobtain any of our counterclaims or anything like that.Whereas if they come into this Court and they submitthemselves to the jurisdiction, at least the processworks as the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't like to bethe broken record. I'm just not getting -- I don't seewhy that isn't the responsibility of the plaintiff. Thedistrict court said, now, you've brought these claims.The defendants need this information. You go get that.That's your responsibility. MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I don't doubt that thetrial court can do that, but the question is: Why do wehave to go to the burden of having to chase all of thatin the first instance? I mean, the Respondent's brief at page criticizes us for not having brought third-partycomplaints, not having sought additional discovery. Allof those are burdens that simply arise in this contextthat otherwise do not exist in an ordinary case whereyou simply ask the party who has the actual claim to be the plaintiff in front of the court. And that's -- and, again, just to be clear,we are still here dealing with the hypothetical. We'renot dealing with the core question of what do you dowith a plaintiff who has not one penny at stake inlitigation that, as the lawyers describe, is all hardcash. JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm sorry. The only way,it seems to me, that you can eliminate what you regardas a problem is by having separate actions, so thatin any given case if you want discovery, your plaintiff,the person who has got to provide that discovery, isstanding right there. And I don't see how you can get the benefitsthat you are claiming entitled to without having separate actions. If you don't have separateactions, whether you have an aggregation like this,whether you have a joint action, whether you have aclass action, this problem of chasing down, as youdescribe it, is going to be there. So it seems to me the prudential questionfor this Court is: Do we really want to require separate actions so that you can have your perfectparadigm of private litigation? And to say, yes, wewant actions, it seems to me is a stretch. What do you say? MR. PHILLIPS: I think the answer to that isthat when you -- when you deal with mass tortlitigation, the Rules of Civil Procedure ought to applyin that context as it applies in every other place. Andwhen the courts deviate from the standard paradigm forlitigation, they do it expressly, either through therules or through doctrines that already exist. And so we have Rule , which sets out veryclear protections for both the courts -- or not only forthe courts, but for the plaintiffs and for the absentdefendants -- absent, absent plaintiffs and for thedefendants, and is a clear mechanism for conducting claims all once in a particular situation. JUSTICE SOUTER: What does that have to dowith -- I guess that goes to prudential standing. MR. PHILLIPS: It goes directly -- JUSTICE SOUTER: It has nothing to do withArticle III standing. MR. PHILLIPS: No, to be sure. Again, Idon't think that -- I mean, the Article III debate hereseems to me to turn solely on the question of there isno stake in the outcome of this case. That's a bedrockrequirement of Article III and ought to be a basis forsimply reversing. But, you know, to the extent that the Court then goes beyond that and worries about what's thenext case going to look like and what are the prudentiallimitations, which I don't think the Court has toresolve any of this, what I would suggest is the Courtshould be informed by Rule and associational standingand those doctrines -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Are you saying, in effect,that if we get to the prudential-standing point, theanswer is that in the absence of a rule comparable toRule we should not recognize prudential standing, butthat if we adopted a rule that sort of regulated howthis would work, prudential standing would beappropriate? Is that basically it? MR. PHILLIPS: I think that's the rightanswer, is that the Court shouldn't just make it up asit goes along. And if there is a need for this -- look,and the truth is we've been here years. We haven'thad to have aggregator standing all of this time. Itstrikes me that there's no compelling need for a changeand that for that reason the Court ought to go back tothe paradigm example, plaintiffs sue defendants and youhave normal discovery and counterclaims. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any significanceto this being the -- this assignment transfers legaltitle. True, there's an obligation to pay, to pay the separate PSPs. But does anything turn on legal title?For example, suppose the -- I gather the check would bepayable to the aggregator if the aggregator prevails.Could a creditor of the aggregator come in and say,stop, you owe me lots of money and I want to reach thoseproceeds? MR. PHILLIPS: That -- I mean the proceeds-- I assume -- do those claims arise out of therelationship between the payphone operators and theaggregator? JUSTICE GINSBURG: No. MR. PHILLIPS: It's completely unrelated tothat? It's just a garnishment on it? JUSTICE GINSBURG: These are just thecreditors. Or the aggregator goes bankrupt. MR. PHILLIPS: I assume those moneys couldbe taken out of the aggregator and then the PSP wouldhave a claim over against the aggregator for breach ofcontract. If I could reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Phillips. Mr. Englert. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR. ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: One of the last things Mr. Phillips said wasthere's no need to change the law in this case and Istrongly agree with that. Assignees for collection havebeen litigating in Federal courts since at least theth century and there is not one decision cited in anyof the briefs in this case in which an assignee'slawsuit was dismissed solely because of what theassignee intended to do with the proceeds. JUSTICE SCALIA: But also not one in whichthe issue of standing was raised and decided. And ourjurisprudence says that where we do not address theissue of standing the case has no precedential value onthe subject. MR. ENGLERT: Justice Scalia, a singledecision, a small body of decisions that don't addressthe issue of standing, can be looked at in that way.But a unanimous body of case law, two decisions fromthis Court, arguably a third decision from this Court,many decisions from lower courts -- JUSTICESCALIA: I don't consider two decisions an enormousbody. MR. ENGLERT: But there is an enormous bodyin the lower courts under Rule . JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we don't count thelower courts. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SOUTER: Mr. Englert, with respectto what weight we should give to those decisions, I justwant to put a simple hypo and I'll ask a question on it.Assume that in this case the assignment -- well, assumeanother case, rather, in which the assignment isidentical is identical to this one, except that theterms of the second agreement, i.e., if I the aggregatorcollect anything I give it to you. Assume that is partof the first agreement, so that there is an assignmentand as part of the assigning document there is a statedobligation on the part of the assignee to pay allproceeds to the assignor. I am assuming that your position would bethe same; is that correct? MR. ENGLERT: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOUTER: Now, my question is, you'retaking that position, I think, just as you did inresponse to Justice Scalia, on the grounds that there isa huge body of law that assignment for collectionconveys adequate standing. But are any of theassignment for collection cases in that body of lawclearly cases like the one in my hypothetical in which the assignment itself by its terms requires the totalpayment of any benefit back to the assignor? MR. ENGLERT: Justice Souter, the casesdon't always discuss the way in which the assignmentarose. But typically, in those cases they simply say,there are these two promises, and they say the fact thatthere is a second promise makes no difference. That'smy position. The fact that there's a second promise,whether in the same document or in a different document,makes no difference. JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the earliest ofthose cases in our Court? MR. ENGLERT: The earliest case -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The earliest case in ourCourt that upholds this that, without specificallyaddressing the standing issue, gives judgment? MR. ENGLERT: The earliest case that givesjudgment is Spiller in . JUSTICE SCALIA: ? MR. ENGLERT: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: In Vermont Agency, in theVermont Agency case, which dealt with qui tam, that manypeople, including the Justice Department, thought didnot confer Article III standing, we held to the contrarythat it did confer Article III standing, mainly because it had been around forever. It was -- it was theunderstood part of the judicial power when theConstitution was adopted. Do you have any case prior to in whichEnglish courts or even early American courts thoughtthat this, that this would be sufficient to bring alawsuit? MR. ENGLERT: Well, assignee standing, notassignee for collection standing but assignee standing,is referred to in Blackstone's Commentariescontemporaneously with the Constitution. JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure, but -- MR. ENGLERT: This wrinkle of arguing -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's more than a wrinkle.The assignee keeps the money. MR. ENGLERT: But the wrinkle of arguingthat that makes a difference as far as I know firstarose in the th century. And every single case andevery single Federal court that has considered thequestion under any body of law has rejected theargument. JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the earliest Federalcourt case you have? MR. ENGLERT: Late th -- late thcentury. JUSTICE SCALIA: Late th century? MR. ENGLERT: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We're not under anybody of law. I didn't see any cases cited after we hadmore carefully explicated our understanding of ArticleIII. What's the latest case from this Court that you'vegot? MR. ENGLERT: Well, as you know, I arguethat the Vermont Agency case strongly supports us. Butif you want a case specifically about assigningcollection, then the latest case I have is Titus in. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, aren't Titus andSpiller different in that there the assignee is suing ona judgment that was obtained in a forum where ArticleIII didn't apply? MR. ENGLERT: No, absolutely not, JusticeAlito. JUSTICE ALITO: Why isn't that irrelevant? MR. ENGLERT: Because for the exact reasonMr. Phillips gave you. The ASARCO case and Coleman v.Miller, Justice Frankfurter's concurring opinion, and anumber of other cases stand for the proposition that aparty who invokes the jurisdiction of this Court or ofany other Federal court must satisfy Article III. So when Spiller, the secretary of the Cattleman'sAssociation, went to the Federal district court seekingenforcement of the reparations award he had gottenbefore the ICC, he had to satisfy Article III. When Titus came to this Court arguing thatthe lower courts had not properly given full faith andcredit, he had to satisfy Article III. Each of thoseparties invoking the jurisdiction of the Federal courtwas someone who had to turn over percent of theproceeds to the assignors. And in each case this Courtrejected the argument that he was not a properplaintiff. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you say inyour brief that there is no reason for concern about theabsence of concrete adverseness. But I would havethought there was a great deal of reason for concern andthat your client doesn't care if he wins or loses. MR. ENGLERT: My client -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's all the same tohim. If he wins, he doesn't get to keep the money; ifhe loses, he loses. MR. ENGLERT: Well, that's -- that's falsein every possible respect, Your Honor. He does keep --get to keep some of the money. Now, we haven't provedthat in the lower court. It's an allegation at this point, but it happens to be true. But aside fromthat -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought thequestion came to us on the assumption that he doesn'tretain any of the money. MR. ENGLERT: On the assumption, but not thefact. Second, my client's whole reason forexistence is to collect payphone compensation. This iswhat my client does day in and day out. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought ourcases made clear that that kind of -- -- I forget whatwe call it -- it's a separate interest from the injurythat you're alleging in the lawsuit. You don't allegein the lawsuit that the basis for Article III injury isthat you're in this line of work and if the work driesup you're in big trouble. That wouldn't be enough tosupport Article III standing. MR. ENGLERT: No. What's enough to supportArticle III standing is the interest of the assignors,as the Court held in Vermont Agency. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but then whyis the assignee bringing the lawsuit? MR. ENGLERT: The assignee -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He had no independent injury. MR. ENGLERT: The assignee is bringing thelawsuit for the most pragmatic of all possible reasons.Mr. Phillips wanted to talk a lot about discovery, andJustice Kennedy and I believe Justice Souter asked whyis this lawsuit in Federal court instead of before theFCC. There are good answers to those questions. The discovery in Federal court, thediscovery available in Federal court, is moreappropriate to -- is more necessary in a large case, a$ million case like this one, than in a relativelysmall case -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, we gotoff the track here. MR. ENGLERT: We did. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm trying to findout what the assignee's injury is. MR. ENGLERT: The -- the assignee'sinjury -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And how it'sredressed by the receipt of the money. MR. ENGLERT: It is, as this Court said inVermont Agency, the assignor's injury and it isredressed by -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. But you know, Vermont Agency, obviously, the assignee recoverssomething himself, that he gets to keep the bounty.Here that's not the case. MR. ENGLERT: Here that's not the case, butthe reasoning of Vermont Agency specifically rejectedthe proposition that the bounty was helpful to theassignee's standing. And there is not a word in VermontAgency that says when you combine the bounty with theassignor's interest that's enough. It just says theassignor's interest is enough, full stop, because of theancient doctrine. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought it said -- Ithought it said, Mr. Englert, that, that the UnitedStates has -- is treated as having assigned part of itsclaim for damages to the qui tam relator, and that gavethe qui tam plaintiff a stake in the action, a stake inthe proceeds. I thought that Vermont Agency -- andJustice Scalia will correct me if I'm wrong -- wasenvisioning the kind of assignment that Judge Sentellewas talking about when he said there are assignments andthen there are assignments. JUSTICE SCALIA: I was under the samemisimpression, I have to say, and I wrote it. (Laughter.) MR. ENGLERT: The -- the assignment in this case conveys all right, title and interest. It conveysit for purposes of collection to be sure, but it conveysall right, title and interest. Now, the proposition that the "for purposesof collection" purpose of an assignment negates theability of the plaintiffs to sue is one that has beenlitigated many times in Federal courts, and thatargument has been rejected in every case in which it'scome up until now, including two from this Court. Sobetween the fact that the reasoning of Vermont Agency,whatever the facts were, relied on the interest of theassignor, relied on the ancient doctrine that theassignee for Article III purposes stands in theassignor's shoes, and the fact that this argument hasbeen rejected in every case in which it's come up, Ithink the case for Article III standing is quite stronghere. JUSTICE SCALIA: I must say we seem to havecome full circle from Flash v. Cohen, which said thatthe doctrine of standing had nothing whatever to do withArticle III. That it all -- the only thing it's therefor is to assure that concrete adverseness on which ouradversary system depends. You've come full circle fromthat to now your argument that concrete adversenessdoesn't matter at all. MR. ENGLERT: Oh, Justice Scalia -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there a combination ofthe two that's possible, that maybe one of the elementsof Article III standing is that both parties have astake in winning and losing? MR. ENGLERT: There is tremendous concreteadverseness in this case. And both parties have a greatstake in winning and losing. The -- the aggregatordoesn't get to keep the money, although actually itdoes, but this case can be decided on the assumption,subject to remand that it doesn't get to keep the money.But it exists for the purpose of bringing -- ofobtaining redress from carriers obtaining payphonecompensation from carriers, usually outside thelitigation process. But this is -- but this is what myclient does -- what my clients do. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Sierra Clubprotect -- undertakes activities to protect theenvironment, but that doesn't give it standing in everyenvironmental case to sue. It needs to show memberswhat the concrete interest and so on. The fact thatyour client is in the business of suing on behalf ofpayphone operators -- MR. ENGLERT: My client is not in thebusiness of suing on the business of payphone operators. My client is in the business of collecting, usuallyoutside the litigation process. This is merely anextension of the day-to-day operation. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me is this, causes of action or is it one? MR. ENGLERT: One. JUSTICE KENNEDY: How does that come about?Suppose a lot of people owe the bank -- a lot of farmersowe the bank money, can there be assignment in this onecause of action? MR. ENGLERT: Sure. And let me give youone -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And how does the lawexpress the metaphysical process in which , causesof action become one cause of action? MR. ENGLERT: Well, they are all assigned toone entity that brings the cause of action just as atrustee brings causes of action -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, there is not arepresentative cause of action. What is the magic pointat which it becomes one cause of action? MR. ENGLERT: The point at which they areall assigned to one entity that then brings the cause ofaction, and importantly, has authority to settle thecause of action without any further permission from the clients. The -- a very, very important protection herefor Mr. Phillips -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm still missingsomething here. Can you give me an example of wherethis has happened in other cases that this Court hasheard that are commonly heard? MR. ENGLERT: Every Rule class action,every associational standing case, every trustee action. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I interrupted you and Italked over you. Every Rule cause of action and whatelse? MR. ENGLERT: Every associational standingcase, every action brought by a trustee. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, associationalstanding, Sierra Club v. Morton, they are interested inan ongoing injury in which there is a common -- in whichthere is a common injury. These are liquidated amounts. MR. ENGLERT: But that's not uncommon, YourHonor. Justice Souter's opinion for the Court in UnitedFood and Commercial Workers v. Brown reported a SeventhCircuit case that said representative damages litigationis common from class actions under Rule to suits bytrustees representing hundreds of creditors inbankruptcy, to parent patriot actions by Stategovernments to litigation by and against executors at decedent's estates. This is something that happensevery day in Federal court. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Those are usually ongoinginjuries as to which there's a common interest instopping the injury. Here you're aggregating liquidatedamounts. MR. ENGLERT: It's actually not entirelyliquidated amounts. There are ongoing disputes aboutongoing payphone compensation. But I don't think itwould make any difference even if that weren't true. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I might understand it ifwas some sort of injunction actions -- in the futureplease pay what you're supposed to pay. MR. ENGLERT: No. But, Justice Kennedy,consider the typical Rule damages action, which isabout amounts due in the ordinary case. You have onecause of action on behalf of the class instead of manycauses of action on behalf of many people. It happensall the time. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's allowed becausethe requisites for class actions have been met andthat's authorized by the rule. That's not true here. MR. ENGLERT: Because we have something muchbetter here. What we have here, Justice Kennedy, isassignments of the cause of actions by every plaintiff to my clients completely -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: There are a lot of betterprocedures that are in the rules but it is not in therule. MR. ENGLERT: Actually there is. Rule was put in the rules. And if you read the works ofJudge Charles Park, you will see that Rule was put inthe rules to authorize justice kind of action to bebrought in the name of assignees, including asignees forcollection. And one year after he joined the Federal -- JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask a fact question?I'm just a little puzzled here. I probably should haveasked Mr. Phillips. But what issues in fact are theregoing to be in this case? It seems to me everythingought to be on computer somewhere, and it's just amatter of pushing the right button and you know how muchmoney you owe. Am I missing something? MR. ENGLERT: You're not missing something,Justice Stevens. That's what this case is about, iscomputer records, massive computer records in possessionof the carriers and some tools the aggregators have toanalyze computer records. JUSTICE SCALIA: Except for counterclaims.He says I have some counterclaims. MR. ENGLERT: He says he has some counterclaims, but in nine years of litigation hisclients have never used Rule ; they have never usedRule ; they have never made any effort -- he says wehave asserted they have to go out and bring ,separate lawsuits. What we said on page of our briefwas they have never tried in nine years of of litigationto use -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what did they do?I mean, you mention necessary parties but these other --on your own theory the PSPs are not necessary parties,and this -- this is a defendant seeking to joinadditional plaintiffs, and that's rather odd. And youalso talk about interpleader. I don't know who is thestakeholder in this picture. MR. ENGLERT: Well, Your Honor, my point isthat there are many procedural devices available to dealwith many situations like this, Rule and Rule andseparate lawsuits. If there were serious counterclaimsin this case, first of all as a factual matter, AT&T andSprint would know it from their own records and second,they would have done something in nine years to try tobring a claim against PSP, and they have done nothing innine years. So this is a very, very odd case in whichto be worrying about whether they have lost somecounterclaim rights because the PSPs -- lost some counterclaim rights because the PSPs aren't individualparties. It's also a very odd case in which to beworrying about discovery rights because the PSPs aren'tindividual parties because that issue was resolved intheir favor in by the special master's discoveryorder saying, just as Justice Stevens postulated, theaggregator to go out and get the information from thePSPs. Now they complained that some of the PSPs,some of these mom and pop operations, said we don't haveany information. That's because for the most part thePSP don't have any information. The information resideswith the carriers and with the aggregators. So as apurely practical, pragmatic matter this is not the casein which to be worrying that some discovery rights havebeen lost; this is not the case in which to be worryingin which some counterclaim rights have been lost; thisis not the case in which to be worrying that my clientsaren't' bound. Every single -- I'm sorry, that the PSPsaren't bound, the assignors aren't bound, because everysingle one of them has signed an agreement, or twoagreements, really, saying they will be bound. Whatthis comes down to is a series of abstractions put upagainst the tradition of allowing lawsuits by assignee for collection. JUSTICE BREYER: Well I guess it could bethat you're asking them to go back into records that aresomewhat old. What you're asking to find out is -- isevery call made out of a payphone that was long distancecall, and we don't even know who actually turned out tobe the carrier. It's like asking them, tell us exactlyon the payphone at that corner over there who was calledat : a.m. to some number in , and maybe theyshould have records of that but they don't. They haveestimates -- MR. ENGLERT: No, they do. There is no -- JUSTICE BREYER: They say maybe the timenecessary to go through those records, to figure outwhether you should give cents to the person who ranthat payphone, is really not worth it. MR. ENGLERT: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: And therefore, if they areright in some claim like that, is there a way to getthis worked out at the FCC? I mean, it -- it -- I don'tthink it was the purpose of this statute to have centclaims, even aggravated, brought back years later undersome set of procedural rule that will be so expensive toget the discovery that this just won't be worth it. Now that might be right. And if it is right or whether it's right, can the FCC work this out? MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, several points ifI may. U.S.C. in section says that payphoneservice providers are to be compensated for each andevery payphone call. So it was Congress's purpose tomake any cent call compensable, and the FCC set up avery elaborate system to make them keep records. JUSTICE BREYER: I'm aware of that system.I'm aware of that. MR. ENGLERT: Well, as -- and there is about$ million at stake in this case so this is not abouteach -cent payphone call individually. This is aproperly advocated case. JUSTICE BREYER: Right. But my question isto get to that figure there may be billions of calls,for all I know. MR. ENGLERT: There are. JUSTICE BREYER: And it could be quiteexpensive to track down each of those callsindividually. I don't know if it is or not; but if itis, is there a way to get this problem worked out at theFCC or do we have the cabbage case grown large? MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, my client hasbrought scores of these actions -- my clients havebrought scores of these actions, some before the FCC, the largest ones -- and this is the largest one ofall -- in Federal court to get the advantage of thediscovery processes in Federal court. Most of thesecases settle. These cases as Justice Stevens pointedout are about analyzing computer records, and you canfight to the death or you can say let's figure out whoowes whom what and let's settle; and most of the casessettle. There is no reason why there should be any moreor less incentive to settle when the case is before theFCC than when it's before a Federal court. JUSTICE BREYER: In settlement they may workout. But if it is -- for example costs a dollar tofight a claim that's worth cents, individually,before you get to billions, they don't want to be inthat situation where they are really paying money fornothing; because in their opinion they already paid. I mean we understand this kind of problem.So I go back to my question. They have one view of it;you have another of what's going on here. And theirview is very unfavorable to your clients and yourclients' view is very unfavorable to their clients. SoI would like to know is there a way to get this workedout at the FCC? Maybe that will turn out not to berelevant in this case but I'd still like to know youropinion. MR. ENGLERT: Well, this case was brought inFederal court under a statute that permits theplaintiffs to choose whether to go to Federal SupremeCourt or the FCC. The reason it's nine years old is notbecause we didn't sue immediately; it's because we'vebeen litigating for nine years about our right tolitigate. Does the FCC have a useful role to play inthis process at this point? Never say never, but Idon't see one. The case was brought in Federal courtunder a doctrine that has always allowed assignees forcollection to sue in Federal court, and there is noreason I can think of why it shouldn't proceed inFederal court. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Englert, is this onelawsuit or , lawsuits, or however many clients youhave? MR. ENGLERT: It's one lawsuit. JUSTICE SCALIA: How can it be -- how is itone lawsuit when there are, I mean, just a lot ofdifferent individual claims? You think you could havebrought this as a class action? MR. ENGLERT: We, after Judge Sentelledismissed this case, we moved to the alternative toamend our complaint to add either , individual plaintiffs or a class action. The plaintiffs opposedthat, and then she reversed herself on -- JUSTICE SCALIA: They opposed it on whatseems to be a reasonable ground, that each of theseclaims is quite different. There are different calls,different -- different amounts owing. Each case is notgoing to be judged on the same -- on the same facts. MR. ENGLERT: That's really not true,Justice Scalia. Just it's a pure practical matter,leaving aside theory, this is about analyzing computerdatabases. This is about analyzing call records.Because of the system the FCC set up, none of theinformation resides with the PSPs; it resides with theaggregators and with the carriers. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you agree that thiscould not have been brought as a class action? MR. ENGLERT: No, I disagree, JusticeKennedy. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why didn't you bring it asa class action? MR. ENGLERT: I'm sorry? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then why didn't you bringit as a class action? We can all go home. MR. ENGLERT: Because it's so much better tobring it on behalf of individuals who have expressly consented to be bound, than on behalf of people who maynot even know about it and who may not have consented tobe bound and may not want to be bound as in the typicalclass action. There are all sorts of problems with classactions. Class actions are typically brought byenterprising law firms who may not ever have met theirclients. This is a different litigation altogether.This is litigation by a trade association that exists tocollect payphone compensation, doing the same thing italways does, only doing it in court on behalf of ,companies that each signed an agreement saying I wantyou to go do this for me and I agree to be bound by theresult. So I can get entitlement interest. JUSTICE BREYER: Do you -- this is giving mea thought here. Just a total imaginary case, nothing todo with your clients. Put yourself in the oppositeposition. Suppose you were representing a defendant andthat defendant were asked by this imaginary plaintiff todig up records on the computer. To dig up eachindividual record costs $, there were billions of suchrecords, and the value to you, to the other side, theplaintiff, imaginary in this case, was cents a call.Okay? So you say look, those people are asking us todig up billions of records, it's going to cost us a dollar each to do it, and all they are going to get outof it is cents a call. But of course we are the oneswho have to pay the dollar, and they get the cents.Now, is there a way for the legal system to solve thatproblem? MR. ENGLERT: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Other than standing. MR. ENGLERT: Push the parties to settle.That's what rational economics -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the defendant says --now your client, I am not going to settle; there are nosuch claims. This is ridiculous but it's going to costme a dollar to prove it. MR. ENGLERT: Yeah, the client says millionsfor defense, but not one cent -- one cent for tributeand every lawyer gets happy, because the client wants tolitigate to the death instead of just surrendering toextortion, in that kind of case they have to decidewhether the economically rational thing is to set a badprecedent or is to settle. That happens all the day for defense counseland I'm quite often defense counsel -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Speaking -- speaking-- MR. ENGLERT -- but this case is not of that nature. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Speaking of one centfor tribute, it's easy to get rid of this problem, isn'tit? MR. ENGLERT: Prospectively. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't youragreements just say you get to keep $ out of every sumthat your recover? Then we wouldn't have this problem. MR. ENGLERT: I agree, and we made thatpoint in our brief in opposition to cert. This case isof no practical significance going forward for the bodyof the law. There's nothing this Court is going todecide in this case that's going to make a difference.People will just draft their assignment and -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So why -- MR. ENGLERT: So my clients -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why doesn't the tiego to Article III? I mean if it makes no differenceeither way I'd like to preserve significance of ArticleIII as a limit on court jurisdiction. MR. ENGLERT: Article III is a proper andimportant limit on court jurisdiction when it restrictscourt jurisdiction. When we have a traditional cause ofaction, the abstractions that have come to be thought ofas Article III jurisprudence don't trump tradition. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but -- MR. ENGLERT: What Article III -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, Article IIIdoes trump tradition. I mean, if it doesn't meetArticle III, no amount of tradition can save it. Andyou several times refer, when asked one of thesequestions, to the tradition and the old cases, but Ihaven't heard an answer yet to the concrete injury thatis suffered by the aggregators. MR. ENGLERT: The -- on the assumption onwhich this case comes to the Court, the aggregators'injury is the assigned injury of the assignors. We aretaking the principle of Vermont Agency and saying thatapplies just as much to assignees for collection as itdoes to any other assignees. Contrary to Mr. Phillips'position and Judge Sentelle's position, that there areassignments and then there are assignments, the law haslooked many times at the question whether there areassignments and then there are assignments. Theargument that assignees for collection should be treateddifferently has been made many times. It has neverprevailed in Federal court, unless and until it prevailsin this case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The significance -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Englert, could you -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- to the legal title,would it make a difference if the assignee did not havelegal title, was just -- MR. ENGLERT: Oh, it would make a hugedifference, Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- but is that just aformality? For example, the question I askedMr. Phillips. Could a creditor of the aggregator get atthis money when the check is paid by AT&T and Sprint andtherefore reduce the amount available to distribute tothe PSPCs? MR. ENGLERT: Well, if we assume insolvencyand we assume a secured creditor, then, yes, I think thePSPs are general unsecured creditors, and the securedcreditor is in line ahead of them. Different facts,different results. But, yes, it does make a differenceif the assignee enters insolvency, which is not going tohappen in this case, but if the assignee entersinsolvency and if there is a creditor that arguablyunder insolvency principles has a higher claim than thePSPs, yes, it does make a difference to the assignee. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about for taxpurposes? Must the aggregator report the proceeds asincome? MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, I'm sorry. I just don't know the answer to that question. I'm guessingthey either don't report them as income or they reportthem as income, but then have a deduction in the exactsame amount. But I really don't know the exact answerto that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Englert, can youexplain to me again how it is that when you acquire separate choses in action, separate claims, againstthe same defendant, just by your acquiring them theysort of melt into one cause of action. How does that --how does that happen? MR. ENGLERT: That happens the same way ithappens under Rule . It happens the same way ithappens with the trustee who is representing people whowould otherwise have many different causes of action.It's a very common thing in Federal court. If the -- ifa bankruptcy trustee or if a class representative bringsa lawsuit on behalf of many people, then there is onecause of action instead of the many causes of actionthere would be if those many people sued directly. It'snot an issue. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In all of thosecases, the class action, the trustee, you know, thenamed plaintiff, the named trustee has concrete injuryand redressability to themselves? MR. ENGLERT: No more than my clients. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Very much more thanyour clients. The trustee has legal obligations that hehas to discharge. If it's a suit that he has to bringon behalf of the beneficiaries and doesn't do it, he issued for breach of trust. In a class action case, therepresentative has to have standing, has to showconcrete injury and redressability. Here we don't haveany of that. MR. ENGLERT: I respectfully disagree, YourHonor. My clients have legal obligations that they haveto discharge. They are embodied in the very agreementsreproduced in the back of the red brief, that require usto pursue this action and require us to turn over -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why do we have Rule that requires certification of a class action? If youcan say, well, I don't need Rule , I'm going to take claims and make them one any way. MR. ENGLERT: For very good reasons. Rule exists to protect absent plaintiffs, something wedon't have here, and to protect defendants so that theywill know there will be a res judicata effect of thejudgment, whether for them or against them, so that theycan't be sued by other class members. They have those protections. In fact, if you read the blue and yellow briefs in this case, theykeep referring in the abstract to the protections ofRule , but they don't identify a single concreteprotection that they do not have under this system.Rule is inferior to an action by assignees forcollection in every imaginable way. It's not a superioralternative. And to say that the existence of Rule means we should throw out a traditional form of actionthat's been recognized for well over a century would bea very surprising result. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Englert. Three minutes, Mr. Phillips. You mightstart by the point your friend just made. What is theprotection that Rule provides that you don't have? REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. The specific protection is that the courtsdetermine how the settlements will play out. They makesure that all of the requirements of Rule aresatisfied before the litigation goes forward. Thatmeans that there is a demonstration of commonality, thatthere -- the predominance issue is resolved, that this is a matter that should be litigated in this forumbecause it is a more efficient mechanism for litigatingit, not because the assignor -- assignee decided thatthis is more efficient way from the assignee'sperspective -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And are problems -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- to litigate the issue. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are the requirements oftypicality and -- the same type of injury designed inpart to preserve the rights of the defendant? MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, of course, because youdon't want to have all this litigation being heaped on aparticular defendant under these circumstances. Thereis an efficiency to this process that the rulesanticipate. And I think you're absolutely right,Justice Kennedy. There is simply no reason in the worldto say we're going to allow this to be as a substitutefor existing doctrines under either Rule -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wouldn't you -- MR. PHILLIPS: -- or associational standing. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose this had beenmounted as a class action. I take it you would opposecertification. MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, and my answer is-- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And one of the reasonswould be that these are all different situations,different amounts involved in each case? Some -- youwould have a counterclaim, not others. I assume youwould say they're not a lot alike. Not at all alike. MR. PHILLIPS: Absolutely, Justice Ginsburg.We would oppose it. I don't think that this is a propercase for class certification. But it seems to me thatthat doesn't mean okay, and, therefore, the answer tothis is: Come up with some other contrivance in orderto litigate this in a way that obviously maximizes theconvenience to one side without regard to theprotections that are designed both for the defendant andfor the court that's embodied in Rule . JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Phillips, do youattach any significance to the fact that every member ofthe so-called class here has individually agreed to bebound by the judgment? MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it's interestingbecause they -- in one -- in the assignment part of itthey say they are bound, but on the -- on the separateset of the agreement it talks about the reasonablediscretion of the assignor -- assignee. So theagreement is, to my mind, inherently contradictory as towhat are the obligations. JUSTICE STEVENS: Which -- the assignees,but the assignors have agreed to be bound -- MR. PHILLIPS: Well, if it's reasonable --it says reasonable discretion. And so the question is,you know, is this -- was that an exercise of reasonablediscretion? And I don't know the answer to that in anygiven case. And I think part of the -- Justice Kennedyand Justice Breyer, you asked the question about aboveand beyond discovery, what are the other problems thatarise when you go down this -- and the more -- the otherone is that being bound by the judgment. If you have a complete assignment of thechosen action, the assignee, then, is completely bound.There is nothing left. The assignor has no rights left.There is nothing left for the assignor to do in thatsituation; whereas, in these kinds of situations wherethe assignee receives the right to go forward but theremedy is in another party's hands, the potential forbeing bound is completely lost. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Phillips. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the hearing in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) advantage :aggregator's:additional ::, ::address ::addressing:adequate :admissions:admit :adopted ::: ::advantages:adversary :adverseness: :,:advocated :affirmative :agency :: :: :: :,: :: :,,: ::agglomerateagglomerationagglomerator:::aggravated:aggregate :aggregated :aggregating:aggregation: :aggregator :: : ::,,:,,: :,:,,: :,,:,,,: :: :,aggregators :: :: :: :,:agree : :: :agreed :: :agreement:, :: :,agreements: ::agrees :ahead ::AL :,alike :,Alito :,:allegation :allege :alleging :allow : ::,,,:allowed :: ::allowing ::alternative: ::altogether :amend :American :amicus :amount :: :: :amounts ::,, ::analyze :analyzing ::,ancient :answer : ::, :: ::, :: :,: : :: ::, :: :answers :: :anticipate :anybody :APCC : :appeal :APPEARAN...applies :apply : ::::approaches :appropriate: ::April :arguably ::argue :: :arguing :: :argument ::, :,: :: ::,,: :arises :arose : :arrangement: :article :,:,, ::,, :: :,: :,: :,,: :,: :,: :,:,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,articulated:ASARCO :: :aside : :asignees :asked : :: :: : :asking : ::, :assert :asserted :assign :assigned :: :,:assignee :,:, : :: :: :: ::,,,Aabandon :ability :: :able : :above-entitled: :absence ::absent :,: :absolutely :: ::abstract :abstractions: :accident :account :accounts :,: :acquire :acquiring :action : :: ::, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,: ::,,,: ::,,,:, ::, :: ::actions :,:,,:, ::, :: :,activities :actual :add : : :,: :: ::,,,: ::,assignees :: ::,,: :assignee's ::, ::assigning ::assignment :: :,: :, :: ::,,,: :,:, :: :: :assignments:, :: :,: :,:,assignor :: :: :: :: :,assignors :: :: :assignor's ::, :association ::associational: ::,,:assume :,: :,:,,:, :assuming :assumption :: ::assure :attach ::attached :attorney :: :attractive :AT&T ::authority :authorize :authorized: :available :: ::avenues :avoid :,award :aware : ::a.m : :: :Bback :: :,: :: :,: :bad :balance :bank :,banking :bankrupt :bankruptcy: :barriers :basically :basis :: :bedrock :behalf :,:,, : :: :: ::, ::, :: :believe :beneficiaries::benefit :: : :benefits ::, ::,,:better :: :: :beyond :: :big :, ::, :billions :: :,Blackstone's:bless :blue :body :,:, :: :: :bound ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,bounty :,:, ::,,box :breach ::break :Breyer :: ::,,,: :,: ::,,:,,: ::, :brief :,: :: :: :briefs : :bring : :: : :: :: :,:,,:bringing : :: ::brings : ::,,:broken :brought ::, :: ::, ::, ::Brown :built :bunch :burden ::burdens :: :,:business ::, :button :CC : :cabbage :,:cabbages :call : :,:,,: ::called : :calls :,::care : :carefully :carrier :carriers :: :: :carry :cars :CARTER ::, : :case : : ::, ::,,,: :,: :,: :: :: ::,,,:, ::,,:,,:,,,: ::,,:, :,:, ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::, : : :,:, :: : :: :,cases :,: :: :,:,, :: :: :,,: :cash :Cattleman's:cause :,:,,,: ::, ::,causes :,: ::,cent : :: :,:cents :: ::,century ::, ::cert :certain ::,certainly :: :certification: ::change ::Charles :chase :,chasing ::check : :Chief :,,: : :: :,:,,,:,,,: ::,,,:, :: :,:choice ::choose :chosen ::choses :circle :,Circuit :circumstance::circumstances:, :,:, :: :: :cited : :Civil : ::claim : :: :: :: :: :: :claimants :claiming ::claims : :: : ::, :: :: :: :: :: :clarification:class : :: :,: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::,cleanest :clear : :: : ::, :clearly :,: ::client :,:, ::,,: ::,,clients : :: : :: ::,,: :,: :,:client's ::Club ::Cohen :Coleman :collateral ::collect :: :: :collecting :collection :: :: :: :,: ::, :: ::, :combination:combine :come : :: : ::,,: ::comes :: :comfortableCommentaries::comments :Commercial:Commission: ::,, :: :,: ::commonality:commonly :Communicati...: : ::community :companies:Company :comparable::compelling:compensable:compensated:, :compensation: :: ::common :,concerns :complained:complaining:complaint ::, :complaints:complete :: :completely: ::,computer ::,,: ::concern :::concrete :: :: ::, :: :: ::concurring:conduct :conducting:confer :,Congress's :consented :::consequencesconsider :: :consideredconsidering::consistent :Constitution :,contemporane...:context :,: :,: :contract :contracts :contradictorycontrary :::::contrivanceconvenienceconveys ::,,core : :: :corner :correct ::cost : :costs ::counsel :,: :,count :counterclaim: : :: :,:counterclaims: :: :: ::, ::country :coupled :course :: ::court :,: : :: : :: :,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,: :,,: :,: :,:,,,:, :,:,,:,,:, :: :,: :,,:, ::,,,: :,: :,,:,,,: ::,,,:, ::courts :,: :: :,: :,: :,: ::, :: :Court's :create :creation :credit :creditor ::,,,creditors :: :criticizes :cross-claims:DD :damages :deal :, ::: :data : :databases :day : :: ::day-to-day :de : :::, :: :: ::dealing :: :,dealt :death : :debate :debt :,decedent's :decide ::decided :: :decides :decision :,:decisions ::,,:deduction :defendant :: :,: ::, :defendants: :,: :defense :,:define :delivered :demonstrationDepartment::depend ::depends :depositions:describe :,designed :: :determinationdetermine :detriments:deviate :device :devices ::difference :,: :,: ::, ::,,different :: ::,,: :: ::,,, ::, ::,differentiatedifferentiations::differently:difficult ::difficulty :dig :,,directly :: ::disadvantagesdisagree :::discharge ::discovery :: :,: :,: :: :,:, :: ::,, :,: :: :discretion ::,discuss :discussing :dismissed :: :dispute ::disputes :: :dissent :distance :distribute :district ::doctrine :: ::, :doctrines :: :: :document :doing : ::,:dollar ::,,doubt :draft :draw :drawn :dries :driven :,due :D.C :,, EE : :,earliest :,:, :early :easy :economically:economics :effect : :effectively :effects :efficiency ::efficient :,effort :either :: :: :: :elaborate :elements ::eliminate :: ::embodied ::encourage :ends :enforce ::enforceable:,enforcement:Englert : ::, ::, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,:, ::, ::,,:,,:,, ::,,:,,:,,:,,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,:, ::, :English :enormous ::enterprises :enterprising:enters :,entertain ::entertained :entire : ::entirely :entirety ::entitled :entitlement ::entity :,:,environmentenvironmental::::,:envisioningESQ :, :essentially :estates :estimates :estoppel ::ET :,everybody :: :exact :: :,exactly :: :example :: :: ::executors :exercise :exigencies :exist :: :existence ::existing :exists : :expensive ::::explain :explaining :explicated :expose :express :expressly ::extension :extent :extortion :Fface :fact : :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :facts : :: ::factual :fair :faith :false :far :farmers :favor :FCC :,:, ::, ::,, :: :,:, :: :,:Federal :: :,: :,,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: ::, :: :,: :,:,, :: ::,, ::,,,: :fee :fees :field :fight :,figure :: :figured :file :filing :final :finance :financer ::,financing :find : ::fine :firms :first : :: ::, :: ::Flash :flat :fluke :,follow :Food :foreclose :forever :forget :form : :formality :forth :forum ::forward :: :Frankfurter's:free :friend :front :,:full : :: :: :,fundamentalfundamentally::further :future :GG : :, :: :garnishment:gather :general :getting : :Ginsburg :: :,: :,:, :: ::, :: ::,,,:, ::Ginsburg's:give : :: :: ::given : ::gives :,giving ::go : :: :: : ::,,: :,: :: : :: :: :: ::,goes : :: :,: :going : :: :: :: :: :: :,: :,: :: :good : :gotten :governments:grant :great : :ground :,:, :grounds ::grown :guess : ::guessing :Hhail :half :hand ::hands :happen :: :happened :happens :: : :: ::,,,happy :hard :heaped :hear :heard :,:hearing :held :,: :help :,helpful :higher :home :Honor :: :: :,: :Honors :huge : :hundreds :hypo :hypothetical ::, ::IICC :idea :identical :,identified :identify ::III :, ::, :,: :,:, ::, ::,,,:, ::,,:, ::, :: :,: :,: ::,,,:,,imaginable :imaginary ::,immediately: :importance ::important :: :importantly:inadequate :incentive ::inclined :including :: ::income ::,independent:individual :: :,:, :individually:, ::individuals:inferior :information:,,,:, :: ::,,,:informed :inherently :injunction :injuries :injury :,:,,,:, ::,,: ::insolvency:,,,instance :instances :institution :insufficient :intended :interest : :: : :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :interested :interesting:interests :interfere :interpleader:interprets :interrogatories:,interrupted:inure :investigate :invokes :invoking :involved :involving :irrelevant :irrevocable :issue :,: :,: :: :: :issues :i.e :Jjob :join :,:joinder :joined :joint :JR : ::judge : :: :: ::judged :judgment :: :: ::judicata :: :judicial :jurisdiction: :: :: :, : ::,,jurisprudence: :justice :, ::, :,:,,:,, ::,,:,,:,,,: ::,,,:, ::,,,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,: :,,:, :: :,: :: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,,:,,,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:, ::, ::,, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,: : ::, ::, :: :,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:, :: :,:,,,: :,: :,,:Kkeep :,: ::, :: :keeps :Kennedy ::,,: ::,,,:,, ::,,,: :,:, ::,, :kind :: :,: :: ::kinds : :know : :: ::,,: :,: :: :: :: :,: :,:, ::,,: :,Llarge :largely :::largest :,late : :: :latest :,Laughter ::law :,:, :: :: ::lawsuit :: :,: :,:,,:lawsuits :,: :lawyer : :lawyers :lawyer's :leaving :left :,,legal : :: :: : :: :,let's : :: :: :,level :limit ::,limitations:, :line :, ::liquidated ::,litigate :: ::litigated :: :: :litigating :: :litigation :: :, :: :,:,,,: :: :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, :,: :little :logical :long : ::longer :long-held :look :,looked :::lose :loses :,:losing ::,lost :,:, :lot : :: ::, :: :lots :lower ::, ::,luck :L.P :Mmagic :making : :mass : :: :massive :master's :matter : ::, :: :: :: :: ::maximizes:mean : :: :: ::, ::, :: :,: :: :: :: ::means :,mechanism: :meet :melt :member :members ::mention :mentioned: :mentioning :mere :merely :met : :metaphysical:Miller :million ::millions : oral : : ::mind ::minimis :: :minor :minutes :misimpression:missing ::,mom :Monday :money :: :,: ::, :: ::moneys :morning :Morton :mounted :moved :NN :, :name :named ::, ::names :naming :nature :necessarily :: :necessary :: :,:need : :: :,: :needs :negates :never :,,,:, :nevertheless:,nice :nine :,,: :,normal ::notions :number ::OO : :objections :,obligation ::obligations :: :observed :obtain :,obtained :obtaining ::obviously :: :odd :,:offensive :offhand :oh : :: :okay : :: :old : :::ongoing ::,,open :,operate :operation :operations:operators :: :: :,opinion :: :,oppose ::opposed :,opposing :opposite :opposition::::order : :ordinary :ought : :: : :: ::outcome :: ::outgrowth:outset :outside ::overpaid :owe : :,:owes :owing ::paid : :paradigm :: :parent :parity :Park :part : :,:,,: :: :: :partial :particular ::, :: :: :particularized:particularlyparties :,: :,:, :,:party : :: :,: ::party's :pass : :patriot :pay : :,:, ::, :payable :paying :payment :payphone :: :: ::,,: :,,:,,:penny : ::penny's :people ::, :: :: :,: :,:percent :: :, :perfect :permission:permits :person : :: :personal :: :personally ::perspective:, :petition :Petitioners :: :, ::Phillips : :: :,, ::, : :: :,,:, :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,:, ::, ::,,: :,:, :: :: :: ::,,:,,,:,,:,phones :picture :piece : :place :places :plaintiff :: ::, :Ponce : :ones : :P :page : : :,,: :: :,:plaintiffs ::, ::, :: :: :,: :: ::, :play : :please : ::point : :: :: :,: :: :pointed :points : :::pop :pose :posed :position :: :,: ::,possession :possible :: ::postulated :potential :potentially:power : :: ::powers : :practical :: :: ::,,,: :: ::,,: ::,,prudential-sta...::PSP : :PSPCs :PSPs : ::, ::,,,: :,pure :purely :purpose :: ::purposes :,: :pursue ::Push :pushing :put : :: :,: :puzzled :Qquarrel :question :: :,:, ::, ::,,:, ::, ::, :: :: :: :: :,questions :: :: :qui : ::,quite :: ::quotes :Qwest :,RR :raised :ran :rational :,reach : :read : ::real :,:really :,: :: :: ::reason : :: :,: : :: :reasonable :: :,,reasoning ::reasons :: :: :REBUTTAL: :receipt :receivable :: :receivables:,receives : ::receiving :recognize :::precedent :precedential:proceed :proceeding::predominanceproceedings:preference:prepared :presentationpreserve :::presume :pretty :prevailed :prevails ::price :,primary :principle ::::principles :prior :private :probably :: :problem :,: :,:, :: :,,:, :: :: ::,problems :: ::, :: :procedural: :Procedure: :::proceeds ::, :: :: :process : :: : ::, ::processes :promise :,promises :proof :proper :: :properly ::proposed :proposition: ::Prospectively:protect ::, ::protection ::,,protections: :: :prototype :prove :proved :provide :: :provided :providers :provides :prudence ::pragmatic :procedures :prudential : recognized :record ::records ::, ::,,: :: :,:recover :recovers :red :redress :redressability: :redressed ::reduce :refer :referred :referring :regard : ::regime : :regulated :regulates :regulation :rejected :: ::,relationshiprelationships::relatively :relator :relevant ::, :relied :,relief :reluctant :remain :remand :remedies :remedy :: ::remember :reminds :reparations:report ::,reported :representative: :: :representing: ::represents :reproducedrequests :::require :: :,requirement: :requirements: ::requires ::requiring :requisites :res : ::reserve :resides ::,resolve ::resolved ::respect :: :: ::respectfully:Respondents: : ::Respondent'sresponse :::responsibilities:, :,:responsibility: :,responsible :restricts :result ::results :retain :reversed :reversing :review :,rewards :rid :ridiculous :right : :: ::,,:, :: :,: ::,,: :: ::, ::,,:, :: :rights :,: ::,,,: :ROBERTS :: : ::, ::,,:,,,: ::,,,:, :: ::role : :route :ROY : ::rule : ::,,,: :,: :,:,, :,:, :: :,: :,,:, ::rules : ::, :,,:run :SS : :satisfied ::, :,: :satisfy : :: ::,save :saying : :: :,: :,: :says : ::, :: :: :,:Scalia : :: :,: ::,,:, ::,,:,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::Scalia's :scores :,second :,:, ::, ::secretary :section :secured :,:,see :, :: :: :: :: :seeking ::sense :Sentelle :: :Sentelle's :separate ::,,: ::, :,:separately :separation ::series :serious :: ::serve : ::, :service :Services : :set : :: ::sets :settle : ::,, ::, settlement :settlements:Seventh :shoes :show :: :side : :Sierra :::sight :signed ::significance: :,: :significant :: :simple :: :simply :: :,: ::single :: :: :,:, :situation :: :,: :: :situations :: :: :small ::solely : :solve :somebody :somewhat :sorry : :: :: :: ::sort : :: ::sorts :sought :Souter : ::,,: :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :Souter's :so-called :speaking :: :special : :specific :specifically: ::Spiller :,: :: :Sprint : :: :stake :,:, :,:, :: :,:, :stakeholder:stand :standard :: :standing :: : :: ::, :: :: :: :: :,:,,,:,,: :,: :,,:, ::, :: :,: :: :stands :start : :State : ::stated :States :,:statute :: :step :Stevens ::, ::,,,: :,: :: :stipulated :stop : :stopping :stretch :strikes :strong :strongly ::subject :: :submit :submitted ::,submitting:subpoena :Subpoenas:substitute :sue : :,:, ::, :: :: :,sued : :::suffered :sufficient ::sufficiently :suggest :suggested :suing ::,suit : : :: :suits :suit's :sum :superior :support ::supports :suppose :: ::supposed :Supreme :,:sure : :: :: :: :surprising :surrendering:system :: :,: ::TT : :,,:take : :: :,: ::taken ::takes : :talk : :talked :talking :: :,: ::talks :tam : ::,tax :taxpayer :tell : :terms : :: :Thank : :: :,: :theme :theory :: :thing : :: :: :things ::think :,:,, :,:, :,: ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,: :: :thinks ::third :third-party::thought ::, :: : :, ::, ::Three :throw :tie :tied :time : :: :times : ::,title : ::, :,Titus :,:today :tools :tort : :: :total : :track ::trade :tradition :: ::,,traditional: :traditions :transfers :treated ::tremendoustrial : :tribute :::tried :trouble :true : :: ::, :trump ::trust :,,,:,, ::,,,:trustee : :: :,:,,,:trustees : :: :trusts :truth :try :trying :turn : :,: :: ::turned :two : :: ::, :: :: ::type :typical :typicality :typically :::Uultimately :unanimous:unattached :uncommon:underlying :understand :: :: :understandingunderstood :::undertakes:unfavorable:,United :,: :unquestionably:unrelated :unsecured :upholds :use : ::useful :usually :: :U.S.C :Vv : : :: :,value ::variety :vehicle :,Vermont ::, :: ::,,,: :view :,:vis :,Wwant : :: :,: :: :: :,:wanted :wants :Washington ::,wasn't :way : :,,: :: :: :: :: :: :,: :: :weight :went : :weren't ::We'll :we're : ::, :: :we've : ::win :winning :,wins :,word :work ::, ::worked :: ::Workers :works : :world :worries :worrying ::,,,worth : ::, :wouldn't :: :wrinkle ::,wrong :wrote :Xx :,YYeah :year :years : ::,,,: :,yellow :$$ :$ : :$ ::- : :, :,: :,: : :: :: : : :: : :,: ::, :, : :: ::, :: :,:,,: : : :,th : :,th : :: : :,: : : : : : : : : : :, : ::, ::, :: :,: :,,:, :: :-cent : : : :, : :, ::, :: : 