 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xWALTER A. ROTHGERY, : Petitioner : v. : No. -GILLESPIE COUNTY, TEXAS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:DANIELLE SPINELLI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ., Austin, Tex.; on behalf of the Respondent. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEDANIELLE SPINELLI, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner GREGORY S. COLEMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDANIELLE SPINELLI, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will now hearargument in Case -, Rothgery v. Gillespie County,Texas. Ms. Spinelli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIELLE SPINELLI ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. SPINELLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: In Brewer and Jackson, this Court held thatan initial appearance before a magistrate like the onehere marks the commencement of a criminal prosecutionunder the Sixth Amendment. This case demonstrates whythat holding makes eminent sense. Rothgery was arrested on the erroneousbelief that he was a felon in possession of a firearm.As required by the Texas Code, he was brought before amagistrate, who informed him of the felony accusationagainst him and required him to post bail or remain injail to ensure that he answered that accusation. At that point, Rothgery acquired specificrights under Texas law as the accused in a felony case,including the right to have the prosecution against himdismissed if an indictment or information were not filed within a set period and the right to contest theaccusation against him prior to indictment in anexamining trial before the magistrate. At that point,Rothgery was no longer merely a suspect, but an accusedwithin the meaning of the Sixth Amendment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, how canthis -- how can this be part of an adversary proceedingwhen there's no other adversary on the field? Theprosecution's not present. They don't even knowanything about this. MS. SPINELLI: Mr. Chief Justice, this Courtheld in Jackson that the question whether a particular-- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in Jackson ofcourse the charges had already been filed by theprosecutor, so there was an adversary on the field. MS. SPINELLI: What I was going to say wasthat there is a clear distinction which is set forth inthis Court's opinion in Jackson between the questionwhether a particular proceeding initiates a criminalprosecution and whether that proceeding itself isadversarial in the sense that it requires the presenceof defense counsel. And, as to the first question, whether aparticular proceeding initiates a criminal prosecution, this Court's cases have not held that prosecutorialinvolvement is a relevant factor, and that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose -- Isuppose you could you have an adversarial proceedingwithout the prosecutor present, but it would depend onthe nature of the proceeding. And here the magistratesimply advises the individual of the charges againsthim, repeats the Miranda warnings, advises him that hecan have counsel if bail is denied or if he can't makebail. What about that is adversarial? MS. SPINELLI: That's correct, Mr. ChiefJustice, and we don't contend that it is adversarial. In Jackson, this Court made clear that aproceeding need not itself be adversarial in the sensethat would require defense counsel to be present tocounter the adversary presentation of the prosecutor inorder for that proceeding to initiate a criminalprosecution. Rather, it held that the initialappearance itself, regardless of those other factors,marked the commencement of a prosecution. And it's worth noting that in Jacksonsubstantially the same arguments that Respondent raiseshere were made by the State there. The State therecontended this initial appearance is merely anadministrative ministerial proceeding. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I guess I'llget back to the point I raised earlier, that in Jacksoncharges had already been filed by a prosecutor. Theprosecutor was aware of this proceeding. I think that'sa fairly significant distinction. MS. SPINELLI: Well, the Court in Jacksonplaced no weight on that distinction. That wasn'tsomething that was mentioned in Jackson. And whathappened in Jackson was that warrants were obtained, thedefendants were arrested, and they were brought before amagistrate for this initial proceeding. There is noindication that the prosecutor was present at thatinitial proceeding. The Jackson court -- the Jacksoncourt put no weight on that factor. And none of thisCourt's cases have ever stated that there is arequirement that a prosecutor be involved. And thatmakes sense, because the consequences of the initialappearance for the defendant are precisely the samewhether or not a prosecutor is involved. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what we're looking forhere, at least one of the things we might look for inthis case, is a specific rule to give to the States sothe State knows when counsel has to be appointed. In this case suppose the magistrate, the manbehind the little window, said: We're going to give you a ticket; keep in touch with us; don't change youraddress until you notify us; you're free on your ownrecognizance. Would counsel have been required there? MS. SPINELLI: Had there been no way inwhich the defendant was bound to reappear and answer thecharges, then we would not have the situation that wehave, and it would seem less likely that that wouldinitiate a criminal proceeding. The factors that wehave here that make it clear that a prosecution wasinitiated, just as it was in Jackson on identical facts-- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Spinelli, there'ssomething confusing about your presentation of this,because you say that at this initial appearance that'scalled a magistration, you are not contending that therewas a right to counsel at that very proceeding. MS. SPINELLI: That's correct, JusticeGinsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So when, at what point intime, did this right to counsel attach? If it didn'tattach during that magistration proceeding, when did itattach? MS. SPINELLI: Well, first I should say Ibelieve that that question goes to Respondent'salternative argument for affirmance. The only question that was addressed by the Fifth Circuit and the onlyquestion presented in the petition was the questionwhether a criminal prosecution commenced at Rothgery'smagistration. And we are certainly not asking thisCourt to direct the entry of judgment in our favor, butmerely -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you are taking theposition that there was a right to counsel that attachedin this case. And I'm asking you at what point in timethat right attached. MS. SPINELLI: We believe that -- well, thisCourt's cases have made clear that the right to counselattaches at the time a criminal prosecution commences.Now, the question whether counsel must then be appointedimmediately upon attachment is a separate question. JUSTICE ALITO: What does "attachment" mean? MS. SPINELLI: What "attachment" means underthis Court's cases is that since a criminal prosecutionhas now begun, the explicit guarantees of the SixthAmendment are applicable, the State no longer -- theState cannot interfere after that point with theattorney-client relationship. At that point thedefendant has the right to counsel to serve as anintermediary -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well if Mr. Roth -- if your client had shown up at the magistration with anattorney, could the State of Texas have said, no, yourattorney may not be present during the magistration? MS. SPINELLI: No, I don't believe so,because -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, does that mean thatthe right attached prior to the magistration? MS. SPINELLI: We believe that the rightattached at the magistration. JUSTICE ALITO: At the beginning, at theend? MS. SPINELLI: Upon the magistration. JUSTICE ALITO: What does that mean? MS. SPINELLI: So perhaps -- so at theend -- I suppose I would say at the end, once -- JUSTICE ALITO: Then why could Texas havesaid your attorney -- why could Texas have not said,although you came here with an attorney, your attorneymay not be present because you don't have a SixthAmendment right to counsel at the magistration? Yourright hasn't attached yet. It won't attach until theend. MS. SPINELLI: Well, I believe that it wouldattach at the time that the magistrate informed thedefendant of the accusation against him, at which point he became a defendant in a criminal case and his rightto counsel attached. Now, to get back to Justice Ginsburg'squestion, whether -- whether counsel is required to beappointed immediately upon attachment is a separateissue, which is the subject of Respondent's alternativeground for affirmance. We are merely asking this Courtto resolve the threshold question, which is thethreshold question in every right to counsel case, did acriminal prosecution commence at Rothgery'smagistration? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The two are kind ofrelated. If in fact there's not a right to counsel uponthe magistration, but, as you said earlier to JusticeAlito, it attaches at the end of the magistration, itseems to me like you're asking for counsel to be aninvestigator rather than to participate in the trialproceedings. MS. SPINELLI: No, I don't believe so, YourHonor. This Court has said that a defendant does nothave a right for a lawyer to act as a pre-charge privateinvestigator. But our contention is that Rothgery wascharged at his magistration. At that point he became anaccused, which is demonstrated by the structure of theTexas Code itself. JUSTICE KENNEDY: How is that different froma traffic ticket? MS. SPINELLI: It's very different from atraffic ticket, Justice Kennedy, because in thatsituation -- I think that situation would be analogousto a warrantless arrest, which, as we know, does notcommence adversary judicial proceedings. Here, we havean arrest. We have a person who has been held for aperiod of time -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it's the warrant thatmakes the difference? MS. SPINELLI: No, I don't believe so. Ibelieve it's the magistration. JUSTICE SCALIA: Or the incarceration.Would your case be different if after the magistrationthe -- your client was free to go? The court said, youknow, this is what you've been arrested for and chargedwith by the policeman who brought you in; we'll -- youknow, good-bye. Whereas in this case, he was requiredto make bail. Suppose he hadn't been required to makebail, supposing he was free to go? MS. SPINELLI: If he had not been requiredto make bail or make any other binding promise toappear, which is the function of bail, to ensure thatthe defendant will answer the accusation -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MS. SPINELLI: -- then we would be lackingthat piece of evidence that he had been accused. Therestill would remain other evidence under Texas law thathe was, in fact, an accused at that time. JUSTICE SCALIA: So Texas -- assuming weagree with that, Texas made one of two possibleconstitutional violations. Either it wasunconstitutional for Texas to require him to make bail,or it was unconstitutional for Texas not to provide himwith an attorney. Why should -- why should we find thatthe latter was the problem rather than the former? MS. SPINELLI: Well, there is certainlynothing unconstitutional about requiring bail, as weknow. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there certainly is ifyou're not charged. I think it's a very strong point inyour favor that he was required to make bail, because Idon't think you can hold somebody without charging him,just say, you know -- MS. SPINELLI: Well, we -- I mean, we -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The fact -- the fact thathe was held suggests that he was charged with something. MS. SPINELLI: We agree, Justice Scalia. Infact, the Texas Code expressly recognizes that the function of bail is to ensure that the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure. MS. SPINELLI: -- accused will answer theaccusation against him. JUSTICE SCALIA: So maybe, maybe Texas waswrong about that, that it shouldn't have required bail.Maybe that was what was unconstitutional, rather thanits failure to provide counsel. MS. SPINELLI: Well, what occurred here,however, was that Texas did require Mr. Rothgery to postbail. And in addition, the magistration gave rise tocertain specific rights, which only accrued todefendants in criminal prosecutions. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that a magistrate isrequired whenever bail is set -- pardon me, that anattorney is required whenever bail is set? MS. SPINELLI: We're not contending that anattorney was required. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The rule is -- I want toknow, what do we tell Texas it has to do in all thesecases? What do we tell jurisdictions that have to dealwith traffic tickets? Does it make a difference thatyou're held in custody or not held in custody? I don'tunderstand the rule you want us to adopt. MS. SPINELLI: I think the rule -- we're actually not asking the Court to adopt any new ruletoday, but simply to reaffirm the rule it has alreadyannounced in Brewer and Jackson, which is that aninitial appearance before a magistrate, which is aproceeding that is common across jurisdictions and has acommon significance across jurisdictions, a proceedingat which a magistrate informs the defendant officiallyof the accusation against him and of his rights as acriminal defendant -- JUSTICE ALITO: But when do you say counselhas to be appointed? Is it before the magistration? Isit at the end, immediately upon the end of it? MS. SPINELLI: No, we believe -- JUSTICE ALITO: What if -- what if anattorney had been appointed here ten days after themagistration? MS. SPINELLI: Our contention is that anattorney was required to be appointed promptly afterRothgery renewed his request for an attorney followingthe magistration. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay, so the -- MS. SPINELLI: And this Court -- JUSTICE SOUTER: What is the -- so the pointof the magistration is that is the point at which areasonable time starts running within which Texas must afford -- appoint counsel, isn't that your basic point? MS. SPINELLI: Correct, Justice Souter. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MS. SPINELLI: That's our contention. JUSTICE SOUTER: So there's no claim thatthere was anything invalid about the magistrationproceeding -- MS. SPINELLI: Not at all. JUSTICE SOUTER: -- itself because there wasno counsel there. MS. SPINELLI: No, not at all. JUSTICE SOUTER: There's no claim -- forexample, had there been a probable cause hearing, thatthe attorney would have been required to participate inthe probable cause hearing under -- MS. SPINELLI: No. JUSTICE SOUTER: There has simply got to beone appointed within a reasonable time after themagistration. That's -- that's your argument? MS. SPINELLI: That's correct. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any law on that?Is there -- suppose there's an indictment and thedefendant finds out about it; he's never arrested;nothing further happens; weeks pass. Now, is there anylaw that tells me -- it's an indictment, that's clear -- and is there any law that tells me, when he requests acounsel be appointed, when they have to do it? MS. SPINELLI: Justice Breyer, this Courthas not been faced with the question -- JUSTICE BREYER: So the answer is no. MS. SPINELLI: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- whathappens if -- the part that's worrying and I don't knowhow people handle it -- a riot. A big sit-in. A bigdemonstration, people arrested, they are broughtdown to the station, bail is posted the next day, theU.S. attorney or the D.A. thinks: I'm going to indictthe ringleaders, and the rest -- you know, the rest weare just going to let go; they will forfeit their bond.How is that handled? How is it handled under your rule?How is that handled generally? How should it behandled? MS. SPINELLI: How is it handled withrespect to the persons who were indicted? JUSTICE BREYER: No. No. That's easy. MS. SPINELLI: Or how is it -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean -- I'm talking aboutthe people who nobody ever intends to prosecute. What'sgoing to happen, as I think happens quite often, theyare brought to the station, they are arrested, they are released on bond, and then everybody forgets about it. MS. SPINELLI: If there are -- JUSTICE BREYER: Or they're -- or the D.A.says, you know, forfeit -- like a traffic ticket orsomething -- forfeit your bond. And I want to know howthat's handled under your rule, how is it handled now,how is it handled in the -- discuss it, please. MS. SPINELLI: If a person is arrested,brought to the station house, and then released prior tothe initial appearance, which is actually a -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you see what I'mdoing. I'm trying to make it comparable. What happensthere is that these people brought down to thestation, they are required to put up bail; they aregiven a warning because people might question them; theyare given a warning; they are then released. Andnothing further is heard. Maybe three months later,they come in and they agree that they'll forfeit theirbond. Now, that's what I'm wondering. That musthappen, because I think there are lots ofdemonstrations; they occur sometimes. I suspect ithappens. How is it handled, if you know? MS. SPINELLI: It happens quite frequently,Justice Breyer, that persons are arrested, brought to the station house, and then released by the policewithout undergoing an initial appearance. And in thatcircumstance, we don't contend that a prosecution wouldhave begun. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not, if theyinitiate charges against them? You're saying, inJustice Breyer's hypothetical, you're charged with, forexample, trespassing or conducting a demonstration onthe court grounds, and that's a crime. You're chargedwith that, but we are not going to hold you, so, youknow, come back in a month. MS. SPINELLI: Well, it -- it might dependon the manner in which the charges are conveyed orfiled. If all that happens is that the police tell you,you know, we believe you've committed a crime, certainlythat doesn't commence a prosecution. If there is aformal -- you know, as happens in misdemeanorprosecutions, if there is a formal complaint filed whichcan be the basis for a conviction in a misdemeanor case,then it may be that, by analogy to an indictment in afelony case, a prosecution would commence at that point. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what about mytraffic ticket? MS. SPINELLI: I don't believe -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I've never had one so I don't know what they say. (Laughter.) JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other members of the Courtcan advise me about that. MS. SPINELLI: I believe -- I believe aticket or a citation of that nature would not commenceadversary judicial proceedings because it's analogous toa warrantless arrest. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it solve your-- the problem that you're obviously wrestling with, if-- if we simply said there is a right to counsel, but itdoesn't attach until there's a significant stage of theprosecution which then follows? I mean, if you havesome proceeding afterwards, yes, then you do need alawyer, but the mere fact that you've been brought tothe courthouse and made bail and let go does not require counsel to be provided. Only -- only when there issome later proceeding, which is an essential part of theprosecution, must you have counsel. MS. SPINELLI: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't that solve theproblem? MS. SPINELLI: First of all, we agree that aprosecution commences upon a first appearance before ajudge -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine, but -- MS. SPINELLI: Not merely -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But you only need counselat significant phases. MS. SPINELLI: Oh, right. And we are notcontending that counsel must be present at that initialappearance itself. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MS. SPINELLI: So just to be clear aboutthat. But to address your question, which, again, Ibelieve goes to Respondent's alternative ground foraffirmance -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but it's so wrapped upwith how we decide this case. I mean, if I think thatcounsel has to be appointed right away for -- forJustice Breyer's demonstrators, I'm going to give adifferent answer to the first question. But if I knowthat counsel doesn't have to be appointed until theprosecution proceeds to some significant phase where anattorney would be -- would be really helpful, then --then I can -- I can be quite more sympathetic to your --to your argument. MS. SPINELLI: Well, were the Court to reachthat alternative argument, which is that -- despite thefact that a criminal prosecution had commenced, and Rothgery was an accused, by hypothesis he neverthelesswas not entitled to the assistance of counsel for hisdefense because no critical stage had been reached -- wewould say, first of all, assuming that Respondent iscorrect, that the right to counsel lies dormantfollowing its attachment on the commencement of acriminal prosecution until some subsequent criticalstage is reached, if we assume that that is correct,there was such a stage here because Mr. Rothgery wasfaced with the decision whether or not to invoke hisright to an examining trial. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was at themagistration, and you -- you have said that there was noright to counsel at the magistration. MS. SPINELLI: That's correct, JusticeGinsburg, but his decision regarding the examining trialwas not one that needed to be made at the magistration.Rather, this was a right that he possessed to contestthe accusation against him under Texas law, which couldonly be exercised prior to indictment. And, indeed, itwas a -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Any time prior -- anytime prior to indictment? MS. SPINELLI: Correct. And, indeed -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you're saying that that is the critical stage that he needed to havecounsel's advice about. MS. SPINELLI: To the extent that it'snecessary to have a critical stage, then we believe thatis a critical stage. JUSTICE SCALIA: And that stage would ariseimmediately as soon as the magistration was completed,right? MS. SPINELLI: His right -- JUSTICE SCALIA: He'd have to have counselappointed immediately -- MS. SPINELLI: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to advise him whether toask for this hearing or not. MS. SPINELLI: Not necessarily immediately,but within some reasonable time after his request, andafter he had demonstrated -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before he said no, Idon't want an examining trial. As soon as he says that,then he can have one, and you're saying he should havehad a lawyer before he said that? MS. SPINELLI: Well, I mean, had he said --had he waived his right to an examining trial, which hedidn't do, then, you know, under -- then we would nothave -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he could do it;anyone else could do it. And you would say, once hedoes that, he's made it into a critical proceeding, andso you have to have counsel before he gives up thatright? MS. SPINELLI: Yes. We're contending thatin felony cases -- this is only an issue in felony cases-- because Texas has provided this right, which isprecisely for defendants in Rothgery's situation, whoare innocent but -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then -- butthen you are saying that he has a right to counsel atthe magistration, because that's when the magistratesays: Look, you have an examining trial coming up, andyou can waive your right to that. MS. SPINELLI: No. That's actually notcorrect, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does he sayabout the examining -- MS. SPINELLI: At a magistration -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does he sayabout an examining -- MS. SPINELLI: Precisely what he said andwhat appears on the warning form is: In a felony case,you have a right to an examining trial. There is no provision at the magistration for the defendant toeither invoke or waive that right. And there's noindication that any further explanation of that right isgiven. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know any other casein which we've held that it's a critical stage of theproceeding where nothing has happened, but somethingcould have happened if the defendant had asked for it? MS. SPINELLI: Well, we're not contendingthat. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I find it hardto describe that as a critical stage of the proceeding. MS. SPINELLI: We're not contending that,Justice Scalia. Our contention is that the examiningtrial, this Court has already held in Coleman, is acritical stage. JUSTICE SCALIA: When the trial occurs, itis a critical stage. MS. SPINELLI: Correct. Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: I have no doubt. MS. SPINELLI: And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're claiming thathis decision of whether to ask for that or not is acritical stage. And I just don't know any precedent forsaying that something that hasn't happened is a critical stage. MS. SPINELLI: I think the strongestprecedent for that is Estelle versus Smith, in whichthis Court held that counsel -- counsel's assistance isneeded not only to conduct and prepare for criticalstages, but also to assist a defendant in decidingwhether to undergo them. And more broadly, this Court has repeatedlystated that one of the core purposes of the right tocounsel is to ensure that the defendant understands andis able to invoke all of his rights. And in this case,this was the right that he possessed that could haveenabled him to demonstrate his innocence prior to beingindicted, rearrested, and incarcerated. And he lostthat right because he didn't have counsel's help. With the Court's permission, I'll reservethe balance of my time. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I know -- when we weretalking about traffic tickets, you said, well, that wasa warrantless arrest. This was a warrantless arrest. MS. SPINELLI: This was a warrantlessarrest, but following that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then -- MS. SPINELLI: But there was more, becausefollowing that, there was -- the magistration occurred, at which time the police officer filed an affidavitsetting forth the basis of the charges. The magistratefound probable cause, and the magistrate officiallyinformed Rothgery of the accusation against him. Andthat's why -- that's why -- in Kirby, this Court heldthis a warrantless arrest does not commence adversaryjudicial proceedings; in Jackson, on exactly thesefacts, the Court held that it does. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, not exactlythese facts, because in Jackson the prosecutor hadalready filed charges. MS. SPINELLI: Charges were filed in Jacksonin exactly the same sense that charges were filed here.A document which contained basically simply a factualstatement of what had occurred -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the prosecutorwasn't involved here. The prosecutor was involved inJackson. MS. SPINELLI: That's correct, but we don'tbelieve that should make any difference because theeffect on the Defendant of this proceeding is preciselythe same, whether or not a prosecutor is involved. Andthat's true in general and it's true under Texas law.Either way he's faced with a need to negotiate criminallaw in order to contest the charges against him. He has a right to do so under Texas law, and he has a right tohave the prosecution against him dismissed if anindictment isn't filed within a set period. All ofwhich we believe demonstrate that he was accused andthat a prosecution had commenced. May I reserve the balance of my time? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Thank you,counsel. Mr. Coleman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY S. COLEMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. COLEMAN: Good morning, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: The magistration that follows every Texasarrest does not begin a criminal prosecution under theSixth Amendment. When Rothgery was magistrated, noformal charges had been filed against him; no oneattempted to elicit incriminating information from him;no witnesses were presented -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then how could they holdthem in jail? MR. COLEMAN: It is not uncommon -- in fact,it's universal practice that when one is arrested on a-- without a warrant, it is normally because a policeofficer sees an individual in the commission of a crime. It's not uncommon to go and to arrest that person, tocease the crime that is taking place and perhaps toprevent other crimes from taking place, and to presentthem. Gerstein makes clear that this happens all of thetime. JUSTICE BREYER: What happens in Texas? JUSTICE KENNEDY: He was held after he sawthe magistrate. Suppose he had been held for threemonths and you couldn't make bail, we don't needcounsel? MR. COLEMAN: Texas statute allows forcounsel under that situation. But this is an issue thatis addressed primarily by the Fourth Amendment. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I am asking what theconstitutional rule is. MR. COLEMAN: The Fourth -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: We have here a proceedingbefore a magistrate; this results in custody. And myquestion is, suppose this were weeks, would counsel berequired to be appointed? MR. COLEMAN: No, Your Honor. The Fourth -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What authority do you haveto hold somebody who's not been charged? I mean I don'tunderstand that. You say he hasn't been charged, butwe're going to hold you in jail. That's very strange. MR. COLEMAN: We believe that this is anissue that was addressed by the Court in Gerstein andMcLaughlin, that the Fourth Amendment preventsunreasonable seizures and the Sixth Amendment speedytrial rights kick in. And so there is a limit on whattype of a seizure that can you have. And the Fourth Amendment does prevent that,as do other rights, and as the Court recognized inGouveia. But the liberty interest that is at stakethere, as the Court said in Gouveia, is not one thatimplicates the Sixth Amendment right to counsel. Ifthere are other -- JUSTICE SOUTER: What you're saying, inanswer to Justice Kennedy's question, that an individualcan be brought into court, held in jail for three weekswithout charge, and no right to counsel applies? Ithink that's your answer, but I want to make sure. I'llbe candid to say I'm surprised. But if that's yourposition, I want to make sure I understand it. MR. COLEMAN: Gerstein says that there mustbe -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I want to know what youranswer is here. Get to authority later, but I want toknow whether your position is that an individual may bebrought by a police officer before a magistrate, charged with no crime, required to post bail, and if he doesn'tpost bail, be held for three weeks without charge. MR. COLEMAN: That could not happen inTexas. JUSTICE SOUTER: I'm not asking whether itcould happen; I'm asking whether it would beconstitutional without appointing counsel. MR. COLEMAN: It would be -- not be aviolation of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it would be aviolation of some liberty interest beside the SixthAmendment. MR. COLEMAN: It might well be a violationof the Fourth Amendment or other Sixth Amendment -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No counsel right wouldattach? No counsel right would attach? MR. COLEMAN: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it's a problem evenif you appoint counsel. You say you can keep peoplewithout charging them so long as you give them counsel? MR. COLEMAN: It happens all the time,Justice Scalia, where people are appointed counsel but,for whatever reason, do not make bail and -- JUSTICE BREYER: But they didn't -- they don't -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Without charges filed? Inother words, if the lawyer comes in and says, you know,my client is sitting in jail, you've had him there forthree days now, and no complaint has been filed againsthim, we don't know why he is being held -- your answer-- the -- it's a constitutional answer to say, well, youknow, that's for us to know and you to find out? (Laughter.) MR. COLEMAN: I think Gerstein would preventthat, Justice Souter. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, the answer-- your answer is that the Sixth Amendment is concernedwith the fair trial, not the detention of individuals,and he has other constitutional rights that would beimplicated, but his right to a fair trial is not one ofthem. MR. COLEMAN: That's absolutely true here. JUSTICE BREYER: What is the law here inTexas in respect to this particular magistrationproceeding? I noticed what happened is that themagistrate tells the person arrested, he says precisely:"I find probable cause to believe" that you -- "thatthere was probable cause to arrest you." That's whatthey say, right? It said: "I have determined that probable cause existed for the arrest of the individualaccused therein." All right. Now, what happens -- and I thinkit would be helpful to know the answer to this -- inwhat might be a rare instance, but the truth of thematter is there was probable cause to arrest thatindividual when he was arrested, but there isn't now.So because he came in -- you know, he said here's cousins, I was somewhere else at the time, they allagree. I mean, everybody agrees on a certain fact thatmeans there isn't now. And what I'm driving at is doesthe magistrate here -- is he required, does he have thepower to commit someone, even though he honestlybelieves there is no longer probable cause, in whichcase he is making the decision, the magistrate, not thepoliceman? MR. COLEMAN: I don't know the answer to theconstitutional significance of the different -- JUSTICE BREYER: I could -- I can thinkthere would be tremendous constitutional significanceand it would make a difference if all that's reallyhappening is a policeman is arresting someone, in whichcase we might have liberty interests and others atissue. But what's happening in this proceeding is thatthe magistrate is deciding that there is probable cause to hold him, in which case it's more like, notcompletely like, but more like what happens in anindictment or an arraignment, et cetera. MR. COLEMAN: What is stated on the form --certainly I can't say what was going through themagistrate's mind. JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. But I want to knowwhat's Texas law, if you know it, in respect to thatquestion? MR. COLEMAN: The answer I believe is thatyou -- that you find that there is probable cause tomake the arrest. JUSTICE BREYER: So we have a magistrate whohas to find that there is -- no, to make the arrest orto hold him now? Do you see what I'm doing? MR. COLEMAN: I do see what you're doing. JUSTICE BREYER: Do you see why I'm doingit? So, what's the answer, if you know? MR. COLEMAN: I don't think that there is adifference in this case. I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, I know there may notbe, but what about in general. MR. COLEMAN: Magistrates have a greatamount of discretion, and I think if a magistrate wasconvinced that probable cause existed at the time of arrest and not now, it's quite likely the magistratewould find -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. That's what I wouldthink. In which case we have before us bringing thisperson before a State official who himself has the powerto decide if there is probable cause to hold him, and heis saying, yes, there is probable cause to hold him.That's -- that's what's happening; is that right? MR. COLEMAN: I believe so. That's exactlywhat the Court required in Gerstein, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Coleman, may I justask this kind of simple question. If the prosecutor hadparticipated in the magistration, then under Texas lawwould the right to counsel have arisen? MR. COLEMAN: No, Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: Whether the prosecutorparticipates is not relevant? MR. COLEMAN: There is no role for aprosecutor at a magistration under Article of theTexas Code of Criminal Procedure. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, couldn't hepoint out -- I mean, if this is a probable causedetermination and he knows a particular fact, couldn'the say, well, Magistrate, you should know this, and the magistrate would say, well, I didn't know that, sothere's no probable cause? MR. COLEMAN: That's possible. And I would like to amend my answer to you,Justice Stevens. It's not at all uncommon -- once anarrest takes place and an officer can go and present acase to the county or district attorney, it's notuncommon at all for charges then to be filed in the --depending on what the crime, is in the district court orcounty court, and for the magistration then to be movedover and to take place in an official court. And so atthat time, it could very well be. And we would say -- we would say likely atthat point that, yes, that formal criminal judicialproceedings had initiated, and it's not uncommon. Butin this circumstance -- JUSTICE STEVENS: What about the veryproceeding in this case? Supposing instead of adetective bringing in the affidavit, that the prosecutordid it, had the detective's affidavit, and theprosecutor said: This is a case we intend to pursuemore seriously. That's all he says to the judge. Wouldhave that been sufficient? MR. COLEMAN: No, Justice Stevens. JUSTICE STEVENS: It would not? MR. COLEMAN: An expression of subjective -- JUSTICE STEVENS: I got the impression fromthe briefs that the absence or presence of theprosecutor made a difference. But you're telling me I'mwrong under that? MR. COLEMAN: Under the circumstances whereno formal charges have been brought, a statement by aprosecutor that they are looking at it or that theyintend to bring some is not itself the initiation offormal adversary judicial proceedings. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Coleman, what happensin other jurisdictions? I probably ought to know this,but I don't. Maybe you do. When you don't have aprocedure called magistration, but someone is takenbefore a magistrate and with the prosecutor present, isthe indictment at that point drawn up, or doesn't the --doesn't the prosecutor have some time to decide what theindictment ought to contain? What -- what happens atthat point? MR. COLEMAN: An indictment does usuallytake a little bit more time because it has to be takenand presented to a grand jury. JUSTICE SCALIA: So what happens in theinterim? Is he -- is he charged in the interim, or ishe just held because he is going to be charged, which is what's going on here. MR. COLEMAN: He is not charged during thatinterim. But you can have -- JUSTICE SOUTER: You mean no complaint needsto be filed by the police? If the magistrate says,what's this guy doing here, don't the police normallyhave a complaint, in this case a -- what was it, apossession of a gun by a felon, say, you know, we'refiling this complaint that charges him with possessing agun with a felony record? And wasn't there such acomplaint displayed here? MR. COLEMAN: No, Justice Souter. Texasstatutes do allow for the filing of a complaint in somecircumstances. It's not frequently used. But that's acomplaint that has to be filed in the district court orin the justice of the peace court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was filed by thepolice? What was filed by the police -- MR. COLEMAN: Nothing was filed. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- to justify holdingthis person? You can't just say the police broughtsomeone in and they get locked up in jail. The policehad to present something -- MR. COLEMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- to show probable cause and it was the burden of the State in the presence ofthe police officer to prove probable cause. So that hadto be based on something. What was it based on? MR. COLEMAN: It was based on the officer'saffidavit of probable cause, which was presented at thelittle glass window to the magistrate and -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then -- and then thedefendant was told or was given Miranda warnings. Whatwas said to him precisely about right to counsel in thewarnings that the magistrate gave him? MR. COLEMAN: Well, the warnings go through.They are very similar to Miranda warnings. He is toldthat he has a right to counsel under Texas statute forthis. He is -- he is warned, as Ms. Spinelli said,about examining trial. There is a list of things -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. But if he istold -- the defendant is listening to this. And,magistrate, you just told me I have a right to counsel.Okay, I would like counsel. And then the magistratesays, no you're not entitled to counsel? MR. COLEMAN: I don't think that's whatwould happen. I think if he had insisted on counselbeing present for the bail portion of the magistration, I believe that they would have gottensomebody to come and -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Would they have beenobligated to get somebody to come? MR. COLEMAN: Under Texas statute theywould. JUSTICE SOUTER: Under the Sixth Amendment? MR. COLEMAN: No. JUSTICE SOUTER: No. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose Texas law providedthat there had to be an examining trial within a certainperiod of time after the magistration unless there wasan intervening indictment. Then would you not agreethat under those circumstances the defendant would havebeen entitled to the appointment of counsel shortlyafter the magistration, at least in order to prepare forthe examining trial? MR. COLEMAN: We completely agree that ifthat were the case, Coleman -- this Court's decisionsmake absolutely clear he would have been entitled tocounsel for an examining trial and would have been -- wewould have been obligated and would have appointedcounsel at a reasonable time before that examining trialso that the preparations could take place. JUSTICE ALITO: Why would the situation bedifferent simply because Texas law doesn't require theexamining trial, but gives the defendant the option of demanding one? MR. COLEMAN: Because there is no prejudiceto your fair trial rights from not choosing to have anexamining trial. We are unaware of any case that hassaid that there is a Sixth Amendment right to consultwith counsel before deciding whether to ask for anexamining trial. And in fact, in Texas they are veryrare because in the very unusual circumstances wheresomebody asks for one, more often than not theprosecutor will simply hurry up and do an indictment.And so there will be no examining trial that takesplace. And that's a put up or shut up procedure, butit's not something that prejudices your fair trialrights if no examining trial actually takes place. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we said that when adefendant is ordered held in custody, that there is thena right of counsel, would we be contradicting any of ourprecedents as opposed, say, to extending them? MR. COLEMAN: I certainly do believe thatthe court would. I believe that a decision that theright attaches, that there is an initiation of formaljudicial proceedings at the magistration, wouldcontradict not only Kirby, but also Gerstein andGouveia. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well -- no. But my assumption was assuming that the defendant is remandedto custody. I added that. MR. COLEMAN: It's not clear to me that thatmakes a constitutional difference in our circumstances. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you were to saythat where the State arrests an individual, brings himbefore a neutral official and intends and does impose asignificant restraint on his liberty for the purpose ofbringing that individual to trial, there is apresumption that that -- forget the presumption. Ifthat happens for the purpose, the primary purpose,primary purpose of bringing the individual to trial, atthat point the Sixth Amendment right attaches. Now, the State would not have to give him alawyer if there was some other purpose primary, forexample, as in Gouveia, keeping the prisons safe. For example, it's quite clear under thecircumstances, there are people accused, theycouldn't have all have done it, they want to investigatefurther. Or maybe there are other examples. But, forthe primary purpose, then the right attaches. So you pick up Gerstein and add to Gersteinthat additional requirement. What about that? Whatharm would that cause? What inconvenience would itcause, what difficulties, et cetera? MR. COLEMAN: I -- I think the primary issuewith that, Justice Breyer, is that it contradicts whatthe Court said in Gouveia. The Court went through alengthy exegesis in Gouveia about what interests inparticular are protected and talked about this, thisexpression of a concern about our liberty interests; andthat the purpose issue was not something that the Courtaddressed there. It simply said that our Fourth Amendmentprecedents go to the liberty interests. Our SixthAmendment speedy-trial and other precedents go to theliberty interests. The right to counsel is not specifically aliberty-interest protection. It is something, as ChiefJustice Roberts mentioned a few minutes ago as we setout in our brief, something that protects your right toa fair trial. And there are -- there are proceedingsthat take place along the way that the Court has heldare critical stages, and we need and want counsel to bepresent for them, and so we have so dictated. Butgetting behind -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you -- Ithought you recognized that if he had opted to have thisexamining trial to determine whether there really wasprobable cause, that he would be entitled to counsel at that examining trial. And, yet, that's detached fromthe fair trial. The whole purpose of it is that theywill never get to trial. MR. COLEMAN: No. I -- I disagree withthat. Coleman itself says that the reason we'rerequiring counsel for a preliminary hearing or anexamining trial, as we call it in Texas, is preciselybecause there will be witnesses, there will be argumentsmade; and you could waive defenses if not made there;that this is very important. So we're going to defineeven, this examining trial or preliminary hearing, eventhough it comes before an indictment, we're going todefine that as an event of attachment solely becauseyour right to a fair trial could very much be prejudicedthere. And that -- that doesn't exist in this case,and that certainly the failure to ask for a examiningtrial does not prejudice your right to a fair trial. Justice Breyer, you asked a hypotheticalthat I would like -- I would like to address because itis something that happens all the time, and I thinkshould inform the Court's decision here. And, that is,it is not uncommon, and some statistics that I have seensuggest that it may happen in half of the cases, wherean individual is arrested, magistrated, released, and no charges are ever brought. So the bulk of your protesters are never brought. Under Mr. Rothgery's view of the SixthAmendment, the county -- you know, let's say somebody isprotesting whitetail deer hunting in Gillespie County.The county would be required to appoint counsel for allof those individuals even though -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Only if they ask for them.Only if they ask for the lawyer. MR. COLEMAN: If they ask for them. JUSTICE STEVENS: That's why I wondered -- JUSTICE SOUTER: And that would be subject,wouldn't it, to sort of a condition subsequent, becauseif it turned out -- I mean we -- no counsel is requiredif there's no incarceration. So that even if the righthad attached, if it turned out later that there was noincarceration or even attempt to incarcerate, then thatwould relate back, and there wouldn't be a SixthAmendment violation. Isn't that right? Wouldn't thatbe the answer to the -- a partial answer? MR. COLEMAN: If -- if the court were tomake a rule that depended solely on incarceration, thatis true. I don't understand Mr. Rothgery to be makingthat argument because he was released on bond. JUSTICE BREYER: And you couldn't -- you couldn't because of the fact that bail -- if you'regoing to insist on bail, that in effect isincarceration. But the reason I asked the question,which I would ask you the same, is there are a lot ofStates, we're told, that do have counsel attach incircumstances similar to this. So they must have some way of dealing withthe problem that I raised if it's really a problem. AndI want to -- and that's -- and I want to -- if we'regoing into this, I think I need to know how this isdealt with. MR. COLEMAN: That amicus brief attempts tosuggest that Texas's statute is very different fromstatutes that exist in other cases -- in other States,and that's simply not true, Your Honor. I do not understand what happens in each ofthose -- in each of those States, but I have at leastseen decisions in some of those States that suggest thatthey don't act that much differently than we do, andthat -- that they do apply a critical-stage-typeanalysis in evaluating -- JUSTICE BREYER: You see, you would havegiven him a counsel. I mean, in fact, if he had wantedone, Texas would give him one. So Texas must have -- itmust not be a problem. The problem, I just -- MR. COLEMAN: You mean at the magistration? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. COLEMAN: If he would have asked forone, he would have gotten one. JUSTICE BREYER: So the problem I raisecan't be a real problem. JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask on Texasprocedure. Supposing after the magistration he wantedto have the charges dismissed. Could he have hired alawyer to come in and ask the judge to dismiss thecharges? MR. COLEMAN: Absolutely not, JusticeStevens. There were no charges pending. This -- thismagistration that occurs in the jail is simply -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Let's say he wanted to geta release from bond and said he wanted to terminate hiscustody. Is there any procedure whatsoever available toa defendant to say: I want to get this monkey off myback after this bond premium? MR. COLEMAN: A release from bond, it wouldhave theoretically been possible, yes. JUSTICE STEVENS: And could he have a lawyerappear before the Court to ask for that? MR. COLEMAN: I don't -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Could the judge say: You got to appear yourself? MR. COLEMAN: I don't think the judge wouldhave said: You have to appear yourself. I think hecould have personally come forth -- JUSTICE STEVENS: If the prosecutor said:You are not entitled to a lawyer, wouldn't the judgehave said: You're crazy; of course, he is entitled to alawyer to come in for this proceeding? MR. COLEMAN: Well, that's an issue thatdoesn't come up because judges don't exclude -- JUSTICE STEVENS: We are talking abouttheoretical problems here, and the question is whetherhe would he have had a right to a lawyer asking him toget released from bond. Twenty minutes after the firstproceeding ended his father hired a lawyer and broughthim in. Would the lawyer have been allowed to appear? MR. COLEMAN: The difference between theSixth Amendment strict requirements and practicalitiesis a significant one. I don't think the Sixth Amendmentwould necessarily have required it. The -- I am aware-- JUSTICE STEVENS: Even though he is payingfor his own lawyer? MR. COLEMAN: It is the same as every other-- JUSTICE STEVENS: That's your answer? MR. COLEMAN: -- situation. JUSTICE STEVENS: He would not have had aright under the Constitution to have a lawyer come inand say: I want to get released from this bond. I findthat hard to believe. MR. COLEMAN: He would have -- he would havethe same rights as anybody else, whether retained or -- JUSTICE STEVENS: It would not include theright to be represented by counsel if I understand youcorrectly. MR. COLEMAN: It would not be a SixthAmendment right to counsel. There could be a right ifyou otherwise have a lawyer; that the State cannotexclude that lawyer from participating on your behalf.But it would not be an "attachment," an "appointment"issue, where you are entitled to appointment of counselto do that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose that he is out onbail, but he has a suspicion that this alleged felony --that that wasn't cricket because it was expunged. So hesays to the judge: Judge, I want to contest my beingheld to some kind of criminal process because there isno basis for the charge. So he is out on bail. He has no lawyer, but he wants to contest the State's right to hold him atall, and he asks for a lawyer to help him do that. MR. COLEMAN: I think if -- if he were toask somebody, he would be told that you can ask for anexamining trial. If you ask for that, we will appointyou a lawyer; and you will have your examining trialunless the State decides to indict before we actuallyget to it. JUSTICE ALITO: Why is the -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Now -- no, please. JUSTICE ALITO: Why is the question ofwhether the right attaches, which seems to meandifferent things in different situations, a separatequestion from what I would think would be the questionhere: Whether he had the right to have counselappointed for him. Why isn't that the question, and"attachment" is simply a label that is used to expressone of the conditions for having the right to appoint acounsel? MR. COLEMAN: I have given this greatthought, Justice Alito. In my mind, the only doctrinaldifference it really makes is the situation that thisCourt has described in Michigan v. Jackson, which I havepreviously addressed in the Cobb case which I argued. But in most other circumstances we thinkthat the analysis is essentially the same, because theCourt has never said that there isn't a right -- thereis a right to have the assistance of counsel withouthaving a critical stage. In fact, I believe Justice Brennan -- if youwill allow me seconds -- Justice Brennan's decisionin Maine v. Moulton said: "Recognizing that the rightto the assistance of counsel is shaped by the need forthe assistance of counsel, we have found that the rightattaches at earlier critical stages in the criminaljustice process where the results might well settle theaccused's fate and reduce the trial, itself, to a mereformality." JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it then episodic?That is, if the right is turned on when there is acritical event, and then the critical event is over, andno more right to counsel until the next critical event?It's not -- you have no right to counsel in betweenthose critical events? MR. COLEMAN: Once -- once a case getsgoing, I don't believe this Court has ever beenpresented with a case where there has been attachment,there have been some critical stages, and then the Statehas decided to deny access. And we don't think that the Court would like -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you only need this onecritical stage, and then you get appointed counsel atthat stage, and that counsel will continue thereafter.You don't have to -- MR. COLEMAN: That is the usual course ofthings. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you give me -- can yougive me some idea, or some empirical assessment, or tellme where I could go to find out, as we sit here, howmany people are being held in custody after aprobable-cause determination and do not have counselappointed for them and do not have the right to havecounsel appointed to them until some other criticalphase takes place? MR. COLEMAN: In Texas, because the FairDefense Act permits the appointment of counsel for thosewho are held in custody, all persons who request counselare appointed counsel within one business day in thelarge counties and within one -- within three businessdays in the smaller counties. And so that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then there was just amisapplication of the statute here when this man washeld for three days, and then he requested counsel? MR. COLEMAN: No. Section .(j) authorized the counties who went -- to not appointcounsel when an individual is released on bail, and toawait -- to await the first critical stage or theinitiation of adversary judicial proceedings; whicheveroccurs first, it says. And so once this gentleman wasindicted, that would disappear; and he would be entitledto counsel, as he was appointed counsel immediately uponindictment. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm talking aboutthe first phase before there was an indictment, just theprobable-cause phase. You say even then there is --under this Texas statute there is a right to havecounsel in one day? MR. COLEMAN: The Texas statute authorizesappointment. Gillespie County is a smaller county, soit's three business days, Your Honor. Upon -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Then I am not sure why weare having this discussion. MR. COLEMAN: Well, because Mr. Rothgery wasreleased on bail, and so the county was authorized notto appoint counsel. JUSTICE SOUTER: If Mr. Rothgery had,immediately upon being admitted to bail, said: I want a-- I was going to say a probable-cause hearing. Youhave a different term for it. MR. COLEMAN: "Examining trial." JUSTICE SOUTER: "Examining trial." MR. COLEMAN: Right. JUSTICE SOUTER: At that point, under Texaslaw, the right to counsel within one or three businessdays would have attached? MR. COLEMAN: Once -- once an examiningtrial is scheduled, I'm not sure there are one or twodays, but requests -- I think that's what would havehappened. The Constitution requires appointment ofcounsel for an examining trial a reasonable time beforethe examining trial to allow for preparation. JUSTICE SOUTER: Now, at the -- may I? Atthe examining trial, is there a charge filed? MR. COLEMAN: No. The examining trial,itself -- JUSTICE SOUTER: What are they findingprobable cause for if they don't know what the chargeis? MR. COLEMAN: This Court in Coleman saidthat the examining trial, because of the potential harmto a fair trial in the future, would define it as a -- JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but I realize if the --if somebody is going to demonstrate probable cause, theprobable cause has got to be probable cause to hold someone to answer for a particular charge. So whyhasn't there, as a matter of definition, got to be acharge, even on your reasoning, by the time theexamining trial is held? MR. COLEMAN: An examining trial is anextended version of a probable-cause determination. Itis not holding on a charge -- JUSTICE SOUTER: That is right. It is aprobable-cause determination, and you've got to have ananswer: Probable cause for what? MR. COLEMAN: Probable cause that -- that acrime has been committed. JUSTICE SOUTER: So -- so, in other words,you determine whether a crime has been committed withoutcharging the individual with the crime. MR. COLEMAN: If -- if that were the law,Gerstein would have to be reversed. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, I'm just asking whatyou do. Is that the case? Is no charge filed? Then,at the end of the probable cause hearing you say: Well,we -- the judge says: Well, you've got probable causeto hold this person for possessing a gun after havingbeen convicted of a felony, but there doesn't happen tobe any charge to that effect here. Is that the state ofthe law, in fact? MR. COLEMAN: That is what preliminaryhearings and examining trials have always been about.Yes, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Ms. Spinelli, you have three minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIELLE SPINELLI ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that ourprecedents do say, Gerstein versus Pugh, that theprobable-cause hearing is not an adversary proceedingwhere counsel is required; and if we are going to giveyou relief, we have to go beyond what Gerstein says. MS. SPINELLI: I don't believe so, JusticeKennedy. It's correct that Gerstein says that theprobable-cause determination made under Gerstein is not,itself, a critical stage, and we are not contendingotherwise. The Gerstein determination is somethingseparate from the initial appearance that occurred here.A Gerstein determination is made for the purpose ofdetermining whether there was probable cause for anarrest. It can be made ex parte. It's essentially theequivalent of what happens prior to arrest when amagistrate decides whether there is probable cause toissue a warrant. What happened here, by contrast, was afterarrest and after the police had decided to --Mr. Rothgery, he was brought before a magistrate. Hewas officially informed of the accusation against him,and at that time he acquired the right to contest theaccusation against him in an examining trial, which webelieve shows that he was accused within the meaning ofthe Sixth Amendment, and a prosecution had begun. And we are not contending that that initialproceeding was, itself, a critical stage where counselwas required; and it's not necessary to contend that inorder to prevail on the point that that was when aprosecution commenced, which is the only question thatwe believe is properly before this Court and the onlyone we are asking it to resolve. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So Texas would bebetter off if they didn't have a magistration proceedingat all, if they didn't have a proceeding to alert theindividual of the charges against him; they did not havea proceeding to read him his rights; they did not have adetermination of probable cause. They would be betteroff if they didn't do any of that? MS. SPINELLI: Well, I mean I think you aresuggesting, Mr. Chief Justice, that reaffirming the ruleadopted in Jackson would create, you know, a perverse incentive for States to do away with this proceeding. Idon't believe that that's the case because, as JusticeBreyer observed, jurisdictions already follow therule of appointing counsel at, or immediately following,the initial appearance, which the -- any CDL brief laysout and which neither Respondent nor its State amicihave contested. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what's in itfor the State to provide this additional layer?Because, of course, the person gets Miranda warningswhen he is arrested. And so why -- why should the Statedo this? MS. SPINELLI: The initial appearance servesa specific, substantive purpose which I think is welldescribed in the Seventh Circuit's decision in Armstrongcited on page of our reply brief, which is this isthe proceeding at which the defendant is informed: Youare now a criminal defendant. This is the accusationagainst you, and these are your rights as a defendant ina criminal proceeding. And for that reason, as the Armstrongdecision says, it is commonly recognized acrossjurisdictions as the inception of a formal prosecution,and we believe that's the rule that this Court hasalready laid out in Brewer and Jackson and should reaffirm today. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you takean extra minute? We have eaten up your rebuttal time. MS. SPINELLI: Of course, absolutely. Imean, just to respond to one other question that aroseduring the course of Respondent's argument, I think itis important to understand that in Texas, as in otherjurisdictions, there are two phases in a felonyprosecution. There is an initial phase that commences ina magistrate court where a document setting out thecharges will be filed either by the police or by aprosecutor, and the magistrate at that point hasjurisdiction over that criminal case. It is only laterthat an indictment or information will be filed in thegeneral trial court with jurisdiction to enter finaljudgment. But this Court has repeatedly rejected thenotion that a prosecution begins only in that secondphase. It rejected it expressly in Moore. It rejectedit in Coleman, in Brewer, in Jackson, and in statementsin Kirby and McNeil. So that can't be the rule. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. MS. SPINELLI: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Page analysis ::argued :argument ::, :,: ::, :: ::arguments ::arisen :Armstrong:,arose :arraignment:arrest :,: :,: :: :: :,:, :: :,:arrested :: :: :,:, :: :: :arresting :arrests :Article :asked :: ::asking :,:, :: :,: ::asks : :assessment :assist :assistance :: :,,assume :assuming :: :assumption :attach :,: :,: :,:attached :,:,, :: :attaches :: ::, ::attachment ::, :: :: ::attempt :attempted :attempts :attorney :,:,,: :,:,,: :: :attorney-client:Austin :authority ::authorized ::authorizes:available :await :,aware : :a.m : :Bback : :: ::bail : :,Aable :above-entitled: :absence :absolutely :: ::access :accrued :accusation :: : :: :: :: :,:accused : :: :,: : :: ::accused's :acquired :act : :::add :added :addition :additional ::address :: :addressed :: :: :administrativeadmitted :adopt :::adopted :adversarial ::,,,adversary :,: : :: :: ::advice :advise ::advises :,affidavit ::, :affirmance :: :afford :ago :agree :,: :: :,agrees :alert :Alito :, ::,,: :,:, ::,alleged :allow : ::allowed :allows :alternative :: :,amend :Amendment: : :: :: :,,: :,:, :: :: :,:, :: ::amici :amicus :amount :analogous ::analogy ::announced :answer :: :: ::,,:,,,:, :: ::, ::,answered :anybody :appear :: :,:appearance: :,: : :: :: :: :,APPEARAN...:appears :applicable :applies :apply :appoint :: ::, ::appointed :: ::,,: ::, :: :: ::,,,:appointing ::appointment: :,: : :,,,:,,:,,,: :: :: :,,: :,:, ::,balance ::based :,,basic :basically :basis : ::beginning :begins :begun : ::behalf :,:,, :: ::belief :believe :: :,,: :,: :,:, :: :: :: :: ::, ::, ::, ::believes :better :,beyond :big :,binding :bit :bond : ::, ::,,Page : :bound :Brennan :Brennan's :Brewer :: ::Breyer ::,,,,:,,: :: ::,,,:, :: :: ::, :Breyer's ::brief :: :,briefs :bring :bringing :: :,brings :broadly :brought :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,: :bulk :burden :business :: ::CC : :call :called ::candid :case :,,:, ::, :: :,: :: ::, :: ::,,: :: :: :,: ::, :cases : ::, ::, ::cause :,: :,:,,,:, ::, :: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, :CDL :cease :certain :: :certainly ::, :: ::cetera ::change :charge :: ::, ::,,,charged :: :,:, :: ::, :charges : :: : :,:,,,: :: : :: : ::, ::charging :: :Chief :, ::, :,: : :: :,:,,:, :: :: :: ::, ::,,choosing :Circuit :Circuit's :circumstance: :circumstances: :: ::, ::citation :cited :claim :,claiming :clear : :: : :: :: :,client : ::Cobb :Code : :: :Coleman :: : ::,,:,,:, :,:,,:, ::,,,: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::,,,: :,:, ::, :: ::,,:, ::,,,: :,: ::come :: :: ::,, :comes ::coming :commence: ::, ::commenced :: ::commencement: : :commences :: :commission:commit : Page committed: :,common :,commonlycomparable::complaint :: :,,:,,completed :completely ::concern :concerned :condition :conditions :conduct :conducting :confusing :consequences:Constitution: :constitutional: :: :,:, :consult :contain :contained :contend :: :contended :contending :: :: :,: :contention: :: :contest :: :: ::contested :continue :contradict :contradicting:contradicts :contrast :conveyed :convicted :conviction :convinced :core :correct :: :,:,,,: :,: ::correctly :counsel :,:, : ::, :,:, ::,,,,: ::, ::,,:,,,:,,: :,:, ::,,:, ::,,,:, ::,,,:, ::, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :,:,,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,:, :: :: :counsel's ::,counter :counties :: :county : ::, :,: :,:course : :: ::,court :,:, :: :,,: :,: :,: : :: ::, :,: :,:, ::,,:, ::,,,: :: :,: :: ::,,courthouse:Court's : :: :,: ::cousins :crazy :create :cricket :crime :,: :: ::,,crimes :criminal ::, :: :,,:, :: :: :: :: :: :,:critical :,:,, ::,,,:, :: :,:,,,: :,: ::critical-stage-...:custody :: :: :: :,DD :DANIELLE: :, ::day : ::days : ::, ::,deal :dealing :dealt :decide :: :decided ::decides ::deciding :: :decision :: :: :: ::,decisions ::deer :defendant :: : ::, ::, ::, :,: :,:, :: ::,,defendants :: :defense :: ::defenses :define :,:definition :demanding :demonstrate: ::demonstrated: :demonstrates:demonstration: :demonstrations:demonstrators:denied :deny :depend ::depended :depending :describe : Page doctrinal :document :et : :evaluatingdescribed ::despite :detached :detective :detective's:detention :determination: ::, ::, :determine :determineddetermining:::dictated :difference :: :: :: :: :different :,: :: :: :,:differently:difficulties:direct :disagree :disappear :discretion :discuss :discussion :dismiss :dismissed :: :displayed :distinction :district :,:,::doing ::,,:dormant :doubt :drawn :driving :D.A : :D.C :,EE : :,earlier : ::easy :eaten :effect : ::either : :: :elicit :eminent :empirical :enabled :ended :ensure :: ::enter :entitled :: :,: :,: :entry :episodic :equivalent:erroneous :ESQ :, ::,essential :essentially ::Estelle ::event ::,,events :everybody ::evidence :,ex :exactly :,: :examining ::, :: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,,:,,,: :,: :example :: :,examples :exclude ::exegesis :exercised :exist :existed :explanation:::explicit :express :expression :expressly :::expunged :extended :extending :extent :extra :Ffaced : ::fact : ::,,: :: :: ::, ::factor : :factors : :facts : ::factual :failure ::fair :,:, ::,,: :fairly :fate :father :favor : :felon : :felony :,: :,: :: ::field :,Fifth :filed : :: :,:,,,:, :,: :,:,,: ::,filing :,final :find : ::, :: :: :finding :finds :fine :firearm :first : ::, :: ::,,follow :following :: :,:follows ::forfeit ::,,forget :forgets :form : :formal :,: ::, ::formality :former :forth : ::found ::Fourth :,: :,: :free : ::frequently: :function ::further :: ::future :G Page G :general :: :generally :gentleman :Gerstein ::, :: ::, ::,,,:,getting :Gillespie : :: :Ginsburg ::, ::,,,:,,:, :: ::Ginsburg's :give :,: :: ::, :given :,: :: :gives : :glass :go :,: :: :: :,: :goes : :going : ::,,: :: :: ::, :: :: ::Good :good-bye :gotten ::Gouveia :,: ::,grand :great ::GREGORY: : :ground ::grounds :guarantees :guess :gun :,:guy :Hhalf :handle :handled ::,,,:,,,happen :: :,: ::happened ::,,: ::happening:, :happens ::,,:,,:, :: :: ::,,: :: :hard : :harm ::hear :heard :hearing :: ::, :: :hearings :held : ::, :: :,:, ::, :,: :: :: :: :,: :help : :helpful ::hired : :hold : :: :,:, :,: ::holding :: :honestly :Honor :: :: ::house : :hunting :hurry :hypothesis :hypothetical: :Iidea :identical :immediately: :: :,: :,:implicated:implicates :important ::impose :impression :incarcerateincarcerated::incarceration: :,: :incentive :inception :include :including :inconvenienceindicted :: :indictment :: :,: :,: ::,,: :: :,:individual :: :,:, :,: :: ::individuals: :inform :incriminatingindication :indict :::::information: ::informed :: : ::informs :initial : :: :,: : :: :: :: :,:initiate : :initiated :::initiates :,initiation :: :innocence :innocent :insist :insisted :instance :intend :intends :::interest ::interests ::,,,interfere :interim :,intermediary::intervening:invalid :investigate:investigator:,invoke : Page : :involved :,:,,involvement :issue : :: :: :,: ::JJackson ::,,:, :,,:,, :: :,:, :: ::jail : :: :: ::judge :: :,:, :: :judges :judgment ::judicial :: :: :: :jurisdiction:,jurisdictions: :,: :,:jury :justice :, ::, :,:, :,: :,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:,,,,:, ::,,,:,,:,,,:,, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,,:,,,:, ::,,: :,:, ::,,,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:,,,,:, ::,,: :,:, ::,,,,:, ::, ::,, ::,,:,,,:,, ::, ::,,,laid :large :Laughter ::law : ::, :: :,: :: ::, ::,lawyer :: :: :: :,:,,,:, ::,,:,layer :lays :lengthy :let's : :liberty :: :: :,:liberty-interest:lies :limit :list :listening :little : ::locked :long :longer : ::look : :looking ::lost :lot :lots :Mmagistrate :: : ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :,:, :: ::,,,: ::,magistrated: :Magistrates:magistrate's:magistration:, : ::,,,,:,,,:, ::,,,:, ::, ::, :: :: :,: :: :,: :,: :Maine :making ::man : :manner :March :marked :marks :matter : :: :McLaughlin:McNeil ::,,:,,:, :: :,:justify :Kkeep : :keeping :Kennedy ::,,:, :: ::, ::,,:, :: ::,Kennedy's:kick :kind :: :Kirby :: :know : ::, :: ::, :,: :,: :: ::, ::, ::,, :,: :,:, :: :: :: ::knows ::Llabel :lacking : mean : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::meaning ::means ::members :mentioned ::mere ::merely : :: : :Michigan :mind : :ministerial :minute :minutes :: :Miranda ::, :misapplication:misdemeanor:,Monday :monkey :month :months ::Moore :morning :Moulton :moved :NN :, :nature : :necessarilyPage : :necessary ::need : :: :: :: ::needed :: :needs :negotiate :neither :neutral :never :: :: :neverthelessnew :normally :::noticed :notify :noting :notion :OO : :obligated ::observed :obtained :obviously :occur :occurred :: ::occurs :: :officer :: :: :officer's :official :: :officially :: :Oh :Okay : :: :once : :: :,: :,opinion :opposed :opted :option :oral : : ::order : :: :ordered :ought :,PP :page : :pardon :part : ::parte :partial :participate: :participatedparticipatesparticipating:::particular ::, :: ::pass :paying :peace :pending :people :,: :,:, ::period : :: :permission:permits :person : :: :: :: :personally :persons :: :perverse :petition :Petitioner :: :, ::phase :: :,:,phases : :pick :piece :place :,:, ::, ::placed :please : :: :point : :: : :,: :: ::, :: :: :,: :: :police :,: :: :,:,,,: ::policeman ::,portion :position ::,possessed :possessing :possession ::::possible :: :post : ::,posted :potential :power :practicalities::practice :precedent ::precedents: :,:precisely ::, :: ::prejudice ::prejudiced:prejudices:preliminary:, :premium :preparationpreparationsprepare ::::presence :: :present : :: : : : : :: :: ::presentation: :presented :: :: :presumption:,prevail :prevent :: :prevents :previouslypre-charge::primarily :primary ::,,:prior : :: :,: ::prisons :private :probable :: ::, ::,,:, ::, :: :,: :,:, ::,,:, :probable-cause: :,:, ::probably :problem ::, :Page :,,,:,problems :procedure :: ::,proceeding ::,, ::,,,:,, ::, :,: :,: :,: :: :: :,: :,:, ::,proceedings: :: :: :: ::proceeds :process ::promise :promptly :properly :prosecute :prosecution:, :: :,: :,,: :,: :,: :,: :,,:, ::,prosecutions: :prosecution's:prosecutor ::, :,,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,: ::prosecutorial:protected :protection :protects :protesters :protesting :prove :provide :: :provided :: :provision :Pugh :purpose :,:,,,: :: :purposes :pursue :put : ::p.m :Qquestion :,: :,:,,,:,, :: :,: :: :: ::,,,: :quite :: :: :RR :raise :raised : :raises :rare : :reach :reached :,read :reaffirm ::reaffirming:real :realize :really :: :: :reappear :rearrested:reason :: ::reasonable: :: ::reasoning :rebuttal :: :recognizance:recognized :: :recognizes:Recognizing:record :reduce :regarding :regardless :rejected ::,relate :related :relationship:release :,released :,: :: :: ::,relevant ::relief :remain ::remanded :renewed :repeatedly ::repeats :reply :represented:request :: :requested :requests ::require :: :: :required :: : ::,,: :,:, :: :: :: ::, :: :requirement: :requirements:::requires :requiring :reserve : Page :resolve ::respect :: :respond :Respondent: : :: ::Respondent's: :: :rest :,restraint :results ::retained :reversed :right : ::, :,:, :,:, :,:, :: ::,, ::,,:,, ::,,,:, :,: :,:, ::, :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, :: ::,,,:,,,:,,,,:, :: :,: :rights :: :: :,: :,: ::ringleaders:riot :rise :Roberts : :: : :: :: :,:, :: :: :: :: :: :,:role :Roth :Rothgery ::,, :: :: :,: :: :,:Rothgery's :: ::rule : ::, :: :: :: ::, :running :SS : :, ::safe :saw :saying :: :: :: :says : :: ::, :: :: :: ::, :Scalia ::,,,: :,:, :,:, ::, ::,,,: ::,,:,scheduled :second :seconds :Section :see : ::, :seen : :sees :seizure :seizures :sense : :: ::separate :: ::seriously :serve :serves :set :, :: ::setting ::settle :Seventh :shaped :shortly :show :shown :shows :shut :significance: :,significant :: :,: :similar ::simple :simply : :: :: :: :: ::sit :sitting :situation ::, :: :: :situations :sit-in :Sixth : :: :: :,:,,: :: :: :,:, ::smaller ::Smith :solely ::solve :,somebody :: :: : :: :soon :,sort :Souter :,:,,,,: :,: :,:, :,: :: ::,,,: :,:specific :: ::specifically:speedy :speedy-trial:Spinelli : :: :,,:, :: :,,: :,:,,,,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,:,,,,: :,:, ::, :: :,: :,,: :,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,: ::,stage : ::, :,, Page structure :subject ::subjective :submitted :: :,subsequent :: :,:,,: : :: :: :stages :stake :starts :state :,: :,: : ::, :: :: :,:stated : :::statement :statements:States :,: :,:, :State's :station :,:, :statistics :statute :: :: ::,statutes ::Stevens ::, ::,,: :,:,,,: :,: :,,:strange :strict :strong :strongest ::tell :,: :telling :tells : ::ten :term :terminate :Tex :Texas : :,: :,,: :,,:,,:,,: :: ::, :: :: ::, :: :,: :: :,: ::, :: :Texas's :Thank :: ::,theoreticaltheoretically::things :: ::think : ::, :: :: :: :: :,:,,: :,: :: :,: :,:, :: ::thinks :thought :: :three : :: :: :,: ::threshold :,ticket : :,: ::tickets ::time : :,: : :: ::, :: :: :: :: ::, :: :: :: :today : :told :,,: ::touch :traffic :,: :: :tremendous:trespassing :trial : ::, :: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,,:,,:, :: :,,:,,,: :,: :,,:,,,:, :: ::trials :true :,: ::truth :trying :turned :,:Twenty :two : :: :type :Uunaware :uncommon: ::,,:unconstitutio...:,,:undergo :undergoing :understand: :: :: ::understands:United :,universal :unreasonable::::substantiallysubstantive:sufficient :suggest ::,suggesting:suggests :suppose :,: :: ::, :: :supposing :: :Supreme :,sure : :: ::surprised :suspect ::suspicion :sympathetic:TT :,take : :: ::taken :,takes : :: :talked :talking :: : Page unusual :usual :usually :U.S :Vv : : ::version :versus : :view :violation ::, :violations :Wwaive :: :waived :WALTER :want :,: ::,,,: :: :,: :,:wanted ::,,wants :warned :warning :: :warnings ::,,,:warrant :: :warrantless: ::,,:warrants :Washington ::wasn't : :: :way : :: : : : : : : :: :: :: :weeks :: ::weight :,went : :we'll :we're :,:, ::, :: :,: :,we've :whatsoever:whichever :whitetail :window :witnesses :::wondered :wondering:words ::worrying :worth :wouldn't ::,,:wrapped :wrestling :wrong : :Xx :,- : :.(j) :: : :: : : : : : : 