 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xANUP ENGQUIST, : Petitioner : v. : No. -OREGON DEPARTMENT OF :AGRICULTURE, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:NEAL KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioner.JANET A. METCALF, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General, Salem, Ore.; on behalf of the Respondents.LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGENEAL KATYAL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner JANET A. METCALF, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents LISA S. BLATT, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus Curiae, supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFNEAL KATYAL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll argument nextin Case -, Engquist v. Oregon Department ofAgriculture. Mr. Katyal. ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KATYAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: The Ninth Circuit held that nodiscrimination against a public employee is prohibitedby the Equal Protection Clause unless the targetedperson is a member of the suspect class or exercises afundamental right. No matter how outrageous or evil andno matter how unrelated to any legitimate governmentinterest, the clause provides zero protection. Thistheory is contrary to the Constitution's text. It isinconsistent with this Court's precedents. It isunworkable and is unnecessary. The Ninth Circuit ignored the EqualProtection Clause's guarantee to any person that theState will not use its vast powers to discriminatewithout a legitimate government purpose and particularlynot in ways that lead to inefficient government. This Court has articulated three principlesthat control this case. First, the Constitutionprotects the individual from irrational discrimination.Second, the Fourteenth Amendment applies to publicemployers and rational-basis review applies to publicemployment. And third, the clause applies to theadministrative actions of State officials, not justlegislatures. JUSTICE SCALIA: Rational-basis reviewnormally doesn't inquire into the actual motive, forexample, of the State legislators who impose such a taxor impose such a restriction. We simply ask: Couldthere have been a rational basis for this? Now, are youwilling to abide by that test? MR. KATYAL: We are, Your Honor. The NinthCircuit below said no rational-basis test ever; and,indeed, the trial in this case allowed the government toarticulate any rationale, conceivable or not. We dothink, even though it doesn't make -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Listen to what I'm saying.Not whether you could decide that, given all of thefacts of this case, the criticism of the co- workers andall of that, whether it is conceivable to say that thiswas done on a rational basis. That isn't therational-basis test. It's just sitting back without these factualinquiries, just as we don't inquire factually into whythe State legislature acted, just asking: Could therehave been a rational basis for the dismissal of thisemployee? MR. PHILLIPS: Your Honor, we do agree thatthat last part, Justice Scalia, looking at could therehave been a rational basis, is the proper test. Butthat is a factual determination at some level that, asthis Court in Kimel and a variety of other cases hassaid, that you still have to look to the underlyingfacts. And even the Solicitor General doesn't disagreeat page of their brief when they say you have to lookto whether -- that whatever that rationale is, it issupported by the record. The government had theopportunity to -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that what you doin this case -- I mean the person is fired and that'sall you know. And so you go back and see: Well, isthere any possible reason? So you look at the timesheets. Oh, here are a few days where she punched inlate. That's a possible reason, and that's enough? MR. KATYAL: Well, we do think that that canbe enough; and, indeed, that's what the government hadtheir opportunity to argue in this case. The Ninth Circuit, of course, cuts off even that very deferentialinquiry altogether. Now -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in that case --and then let's say you're at trial, and you ask: Didyou fire this person because she punched in late a fewtimes? I take it hat the objection would be that that'sirrelevant, and that would be sustained. MR. KATYAL: Well, if it is a counter-factual -- I mean, the plaintiff would have theopportunity to negate the facts on whatever thatrationale. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. The recordshows she was -- a few times she punched in late. MR. KATYAL: And if it has anything to dowith government efficiency, the rational-basis test isthat deferential to permit that to go forward. JUSTICE BREYER: What about he didn't likehim? I'm the supervisor; I didn't like him. MR. KATYAL: Even that, Justice Breyer, isenough so long as it's related to government efficiency.That is -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, you sayrelated. If the truth is I don't like this person,good-bye, now, is that rational? When you say -- Imean, you know as much about the case now as I do -- not this case but, you know, that's all we know. Isthat rational or not? MR. KATYAL: That, by itself, is not becausethe government has -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now that seemsto me to be the problem, that either -- going back toJustice Scalia's point, you're either going to sayrational in these circumstances, which means you go intoit whether the time sheet was this or whether it wasthat or the other; or you say, hey, it's always rationalbecause he could have fired him because he doesn't likethe person. That's -- and I don't see some intermediatestep there. To put the question differently, everygovernment has a, State and Federal, has anadministrative procedures act. That forbidsunreasonable, arbitrary action. But why do they needthat if the Constitution does it by itself? MR. KATYAL: Okay. Let me say two thingsbecause there are two different questions there. Onehas to do with the State laws, and so on. And thisCourt has never said that the existence of other Stateremedies somehow displaces the Equal Protection Clauseor other constitutional guarantees. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about on the Federal level? Could a Federal employee who says just what wasalleged here come right into Court to bring a Bivensaction and says, I was discriminated against andsimilarly situated people were not, and it wasirrational? Could a Federal employee come to court withsuch a complaint? MR. KATYAL: The answer is no, JusticeGinsburg, and the reason is at footnote of our brief,and I believe the Solicitor General doesn't disagree inlarge amount. That is that for Bivens the question is,will the court imply a right of action, as opposed tothe issue in this case, which is Section . There isa statutory right of action already in existence. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it doesn't matterthat the State has civil service remedies that were notused -- MR. KATYAL: Not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- or there were uniongrievance procedures that aren't used? You can go rightinto Federal court and say, I don't have to use thoseState remedies? MR. KATYAL: That is correct. It doesn't --the existence of those State remedies does not displaceby itself without a statutory -- without Congress comingin and mandating exhaustion or something like that. But in the absence of that, this Court has not said, outsideof the limited area of procedural due process, that theexistence of either collective-bargaining agreements orState laws somehow displaces a Federal constitutionalguarantee. Now, if I could return to the first part ofJustice Breyer's question, which was the dividing linein whether there is a clear standard, let me articulatethis as one. We believe that when a government employercomes in and asserts some sort of objective reality, youknow, so for here they said the wheat prices aredeclining, the plaintiff should have a chance to negatethat and say, well, it turned out that actually thewheat prices weren't declining, and so on. If, however, the plaintiff -- the governmentarticulates the rationale that you had put forth before,I don't like you, and somehow the supervisor says it'sinterfering with my government efficiency and I can't dothe job, well, that's something that the employer willnever really be able to -- the employee will never beable to negate. And that is set forth in our replybrief at page . JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I guess you beginwith the proposition that the government must alwayshave a reason for what it does? MR. KATYAL: The government must always havea reason when it discriminates against individuals. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, discrimination, whenyou say "discrimination," I take it you're meaningdiscrimination not confined to the discrete categoriesof racial, age, et cetera. You're talking aboutdiscrimination for any purpose. And therefore, it seems to me that when yousay the government cannot discriminate, I think, ineffect, you're saying a government supervisor cannotfire somebody simply because he does not like thatperson, because that's a discrimination in relation tothe people that the supervisor does like; is thatcorrect. MR. KATYAL: That is -- that is correct aslong as -- as long as, Justice Souter, it is not relatedto government efficiency; that is, if it's like thiscase, in which -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Right. It's not governmentefficiency; I just don't want to be around this person. MR. KATYAL: Exactly. JUSTICE SOUTER: Then it is the case, then,that if you prevail in this case, that the notion ofparadigmatic, at-will employment within the governmentin any State that recognizes that now, that will, in fact, be eliminated to -- to the degree that there is a-- a class-of-one cause of action. MR. KATYAL: To the contrary, JusticeSouter. I don't think that will happen and indeed hasnot happened and there is not a disagreement -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I thought you just agreedthat it would happen in the hypothetical because as I --and maybe I do not understand at-will employment, but Ithought the concept of at-will employment was that theindividual could be fired for a good reason, a badreason or no reason at all. Somewhere in that trinitywe get Justice Breyer's hypothetical: I don't like him.And you're saying that won't pass muster, but it wouldpass muster under an at-will employment rule. MR. KATYAL: Justice Souter, as a practicalmatter it won't matter -- as a practical matter it won'tmake a difference. And the reason is because anemployee can articulate, I don't like you, and it'sundermining government efficiency, in most cases -- andparticularly in at-will cases, where there isn't acollective bargaining agreement or a State law that willconstrain the ability of the employer to even articulatesome sort of efficiency -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no, no. I'm notworking with this person; he is not going to affect my efficiency. He's under somebody below me but I justdon't like him. MR. KATYAL: And if there isn't anefficiency -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. KATYAL: -- and the State can'tarticulate an efficiency-based rationale -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. KATYAL: -- there will be some effect onat-will employment in those rare cases. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you have a nationalfor-clause employment system. You can only be hired forcause -- fired for cause. MR. KATYAL: Well, except that the causethat the equal protection mandates, the Equal Protectionclauses guarantee, is to deferential that as JusticeBreyer said, virtually any rationale will suffice if itis -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're getting back tothe point the government must always have a reason forwhat it does. Can you cite me a case that says that? MR. KATYAL: That the government must alwayshave a reason? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Must always have a reasonfor the actions it takes. MR. KATYAL: Well, I read this Court'sdecision in Olech as basically mandating that as wellas -- you know, as well as its long history on aclass-of-one starting with Sioux City and Sunday Lakeand Snowden versus -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, those are all taxcases, or in Olech, feet as opposed to feet, wherethere was a clear difference that was not -- but therewas also an allegation of an invidious motive. MR. KATYAL: And here, of course, the juryfound that invidious motive. So even if we were to -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's just hard for me toget that sweeping provision out of Olech. MR. KATYAL: If the Court were worried aboutat-will employment, it has available to it thepossibility of requiring animus just as Justice Kennedy-- or possibly in some -- JUSTICE ALITO: What happens in thissituation? The government gives a reason for whateverthe adverse action is. Somebody -- they give -- andlet's say a person had lower performance ratings thananother person who was retained or given promotion.Your position is the employee can always contest thatand say that's not the real reason; that's not factuallysupported; is that correct? MR. KATYAL: If -- if the governmentarticulates a rationale that is objectively based,budget or something like that, yes; the plaintiff cancome back and try and rebut. It now it does so underthe extremely deferential rational basis test, which iswhy so few causes get through. And indeed -- JUSTICE ALITO: How is it extremelydeferential when the employee is going to say that's notthe real reason; the real reason was simply spite andanimus and personal dislike? MR. KATYAL: Because if the government canput forth -- JUSTICE ALITO: And that goes before thejury. MR. KATYAL: Yeah, I don't believe it goesto the jury, Justice Alito, because under this Court'sdecision in Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, summary judgmentstage will incorporate whatever the rationale basis testor review is. JUSTICE ALITO: The employee says -- look,it seems to me, the employee says in an affidavit thesupervisor doesn't like me, and here are the thingsthat the supervisor has done and said over the course ofthe last five years to indicate personal dislike. Then-- then it goes to the jury. MR. KATYAL: Again as long as the employercan articulate a reason based on government efficiency,there is no way for that employee to rebut that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're going tohave to articulate it in Federal court. You emphasizeit's a deferential standard, it's not -- but every casenow -- every case of an employee firing, in fact everycase of employee not getting as big a raise as hethought he was entitled, that's now a Federal case. MR. KATYAL: Well, there are two problemswith that. The first is those are already Federal casesunder existing laws, Title VII, the panoply of otherlaws. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But Title VII,there's no --you know, there is no, "because you don'tlike me," it's not because I'm a particular race or -- MR. KATYAL: But if we're positing afrequent filer plaintiff who's bent on trying to file alawsuit, they can always make a Title VII. They can sayyou're firing me because of -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not worriedabout a frequent filer. I'm worried about millionsingle filers. MR. KATYAL: And -- and the empiricalevidence, Justice -- Mr. Chief Justice, is that that doesn't happen. You know, we've had this cause ofaction now for and years in two circuits. It'snow the law of the land in nine circuits; we haven't hadthat entire flood, nor have we had the harm to at-willemployment. And the reason is that plaintiffs aren'tgoing to bring these causes of action when they knowthey are so hard to win. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know if that's --that's why I started this. I read through, at leastbriefly, the circuit cases in this area. I was tryingto figure it out. And it seemed to me that thosecircuit cases just really are finding some reason todismiss the employee's claim, that they are not takingthis seriously, that is -- I mean, I don't want tocriticize them because I don't know the facts of thecase; but I couldn't figure out a standard. And then I thought, well, the standard hasto be the APA standard, and if it's -- I know thatstandard. And the reason that you don't have a millioncases under that standard is because States have civilservice systems. MR. KATYAL: The existing -- JUSTICE BREYER: So it seemed to me that'sthe standard you want to apply. You want to bring allthose cases into Federal court, and I'm not sure they are doing it now, really, in practice. Now what's wrongwith what I've just said? MR. KATYAL: Well, I don't think there isanything quite wrong with that. I would say two things:One, the existence of all of those State remedies and soon are far more attractive for the employment plaintiffthan this cause of action. And so, that's one reasonwhy you see these low numbers. Second is I don't quite agree with you thatthe lower courts are, you know, maybe not taking itseriously or however. They have a long-established bodyof law now on how to dismiss these cases on (b)()motions, and the majority of the circuits have alreadyupheld that because of the similarly situatedrequirements and intentionality requirements, as well ason summary judgment; that is, because the test is sodeferential. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's take this case.You say there were similarly situated people withregard to this employee being let go. Wouldn't that bea contested matter? The employer will say they are notsimilarly situated; each of them is differentlysituated. How does that get resolved on summaryjudgment? MR. KATYAL: Well, normally it depends on the rationale that's being offered. Here thegovernment's rationale was declining wheat revenues, andso each of the employees who was paid out of those wheatrevenues is similarly situated. The government in thiscase disclaimed the other rationales, performance and soon. In the ordinary case -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought they withdrewfrom saying that it was a budgetary matter. MR. KATYAL: Well, there were two differentbudgetary issues. One was the budget having to do withthe Oregon State budget, and that was ultimatelywithdrawn by the State. The other was that Ms. Engquistand other or so employees were being paid out ofwheat revenues, and the State's rationale at trial wasthat the wheat market was collapsing, and so theycouldn't pay for Ms. Engquist anymore. And she was -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose the government --suppose the government comes in and says, we don't wantto take a position as to -- as to what the reason was;it could have been any one of the following seven -- youknow, the wheat market collapsed; she came in late fivedays; some of the jobs she did she didn't do well; shedressed inappropriately on the job; her co-workersdidn't like they are -- you know. And -- can thegovernment do that? MR. KATYAL: The government can offer those. JUSTICE SCALIA: How far -- does it have topick a reason? You're -- you're -- MR. KATYAL: Absolutely not. It can pickmany reasons. JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as there isconceivable reason, the court would grant summaryjudgment? MR. KATYAL: We think that's right. Now,there are -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you did notagree with that in your brief. I thought -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought, too. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- you said nohypothetical justification is there. Not likelegislation where any conceivable basis, even if thelegislature didn't conceive it. I thought you werequite clear in saying no, that's not what rational basismeans in this context. MR. KATYAL: I might have misunderstoodJustice Scalia's question. I thought he was saying doesthe government -- can the government put forth aconceivable rationale grounded in some fact, and theanswer to that is yes. It's got to be grounded in fact. That is the test. JUSTICE SCALIA: All those facts are truefacts, but the government isn't claiming that any one ofthem was the reason. It just says here are theconceivable reasons why -- why she might have beenfired. We really don't know which one it was. MR. KATYAL: The plaintiffs -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But here are sevenperfectly conceivable reasons. MR. KATYAL: The government has the abilityto put that forth and the plaintiff has the ability tonegate that. That is the rational-basis test underthis. JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean, to negateit? To negate it as the actual reason is what you mean. MR. KATYAL: As -- to negate the facts. JUSTICE SCALIA: But the government is notpurporting that -- to say that it's the actual reason. MR. KATYAL: Justice -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The government is sayinghad she been dismissed for this reason, and we reallydon't know whether that was the reason or not, but hadshe been dismissed for this reason it would have beenrational. MR. KATYAL: So long as, Justice Scalia, that rationale is itself grounded in the facts. Thatis, you can't come in and say she wasn't -- she wascoming to work late when she wasn't. But if she were,then -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I didn't understandyour position to be that, but that -- - MR. KATYAL: The test here is -- the testI'm trying to offer is one of objective -- objective --whether the rationale is objectively falsifiable. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask youmore -- perhaps a more abstract question about thisclass-of-one? Doesn't that have the effect of adding anequal protection claim to every violation of law? Inother words, you have a Fourth Amendment search andseizure claim, and you're treated illegally; you saywell, everybody else was treated legally and I wasn't,so it's an equal protection violation? You get -- youknow, the zoning ordinance, it was improper under thezoning law, and because everybody else was properlytreated, it's a violation of equal protection. MR. KATYAL: That is a problem, I think,under this Court's decision in Olech generally. Itaffects class-of-one -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think Olech was wrongly decided? MR. KATYAL: I do not. I think this Courthas had a long history on -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't find anything inOlech that says that every action that does not have areason is constitutionally infirm. MR. KATYAL: Let me go back, JusticeKennedy, to answer your question more directly. ThisCourt has held in the employment case -- in theemployment context, that the government must have arational basis. It said so in Harrah v. Martin, Beazerand Murgia, all of which say that when an employer isdismissing employees, it must act with a rational basis.So this Court has already crossed that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: All of those involved agroup characteristic. One involved people -- Beazer,wasn't it was methadone users? But none of theminvolved a situation like this, where she is notclaiming anything about being a member of anyidentifiable class. She is just saying, theydiscriminated against me -- not because of sex, race oranything else. They were out to get me. MR. KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, I don't quitethink that describes the fact of Harrah v. Martin inwhich it was a challenge to an individual termination decision by the school board. But I do agree the othercases are group-based characteristics. We don't thinkthat makes a difference, and indeed we think that theSolicitor General's test on this would be unworkable inpractice, because everyone can assert their membershipin some objective -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, but you could -- youcould take sentiment -- I thought you could break thecases, for the most part, into two parts; one, whatJustice Ginsburg said, and that's where the real reasonis some kind of general characteristic, of a disfavoredgroup. The second is the instance where the -- wherethe body that's acting is a body whose business it is toclassify. That's zoning, taxation, and it means reallyclassifying in fact, not some theoretical thing whereyou say, oh, well, they're classifying it employmentbecause they put you in the class of such and such. Butthose two seem to me to handle the bulk of the cases,which, if I'm right about that, would leave your clientout in the cold. So I assume you'll tell me why I'm notright. MR. KATYAL: Well, I will try. So the firstthing is that -- I don't quite think that describes thefacts of Harrah versus Martin, which is an individualdecision. And, secondly, once you start going down the line of objective, group-based characteristics and thelike, it is infinitely manipulable, and that's why theNinth Circuit decisions after, in the wake of thisdecision below, are dismissing group-based claims on --on disability and age and the like. Everyone canreplead their claim as part of a group, that is, Ms. --you know, Ms. Engquist can say she's part of a group oftwo, those who complained about their supervisors and upthe chain of command. And so the problem is it becomes unworkablein practice. And, of course, the Constitution, JusticeGinsburg, doesn't say, the way the Solicitor Generalwould like it be, doesn't say no State shall deny equalprotection of the law to anyone who is a member of anobjective group-based, you know, group and class. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you brought up -- yousaid this is . It's a cause of action provided byCongress. So that's why this is something State andmunicipal employees can do, but no Federal employeecould do. also uses the word "person or class ofpersons," and yet this Court held that (), thatclaim, it has to be some group-based animus, not malicedirected toward a particular individual. MR. KATYAL: I don't quite think that -- Ithink the Court has already dealt with that in Olech by affirming, essentially, a cause of action based onan individual person's claim. And so -- and so that isthe relevant precedent here, not the section precedents. Now, if we -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, maybe because() is in a discrimination context, The Court couldsay -- we know the classification to which JusticeBreyer was referring, tax classifications, zoningclassifications, but this group of claims we're cuttingout. MR. KATYAL: But the statutory test -- text,Justice Ginsburg, is the same. There's one section -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's a -- it's ageneral statute. It's not a precise statute like TitleVII or the Age Discrimination Act. So it's the kind oflegislation that seems much more amenable to courtinterpretation. MR. KATYAL: I would agree with that. Ithink it might open a whole can of worms were the Courtto say that requires some group-baseddiscrimination outside of this particular context thatwe are talking about. And so I think -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, it certainly opens a can of worms to say that you take every claim againstthe government, every claim of wrongdoing by thegovernment, and make it an equal protection claimbecause you say other people were treated properly and Iwas treated improperly; therefore, I have an equalprotection claim. MR. KATYAL: Except, Justice Ginsburg, we'vehad this cause of action now for and years in twocircuits; we have it in nine. We haven't seen theeffect on at-will employment nor, more generally, on theEqual Protection Clause opening up that can of wormsthat you're hypothesizing. I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Katyal. Ms. Metcalf. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANET A. METCALF ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MS. METCALF: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Ninth Circuit decision in this case isconsistent with this Court's recognition, in otherconstitutional contexts, that Federal court is simplynot the forum in which to second-guess everyday decisions made by public employers. It's alsoconsistent with this Court's recognition, again in otherconstitutional contexts, that the rights of publicemployees simply are not as expansive in a number ofways as those of citizens generally vis-a-vis theirpublic employers. We think that both of those lines of casescome at least in part out of the recognition that publicemployment decisions, indeed employment decisionsgenerally, are highly subjective in nature and highlyindividualistic in nature. We think really that the Ninth Circuit herehas gone no farther than to apply those concepts as aspecific context of class-of-one cases brought in thepublic employment context. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Ninth Circuitdecision would rule out the case where an employee says:I was the most qualified person for this position byfar, but the supervisors took a bribe from a rich uncleto promote somebody else. MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be out? MS. METCALF: That would be out as an equalprotection claim. There undoubtedly would be otheravenues, potential other avenues, where -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The scapegoat case, too,would be out? MS. METCALF: Yes. Yes, it would. It wouldunder this rationale -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- but we have saidthat -- that there is a constitutional claim if thereason the person was not hired is that the person didnot belong to the political party that the -- that thehiring person belonged to, the current administration. MS. METCALF: And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You said you can't turndown somebody just because she's a Democrat or aRepublican. MS. METCALF: That's correct. And ourformulation I think, of the test, Your Honor, is thatthere should be no such thing as a class-of-one equalprotection claim in the public employment context, withcertain exceptions, those exceptions including, forexample, exercising a fundamental right; membership in asuspect class; perhaps certain other criteria, such asthe one you mentioned, certain other classifications.But that as -- as a general matter, the broad questionthat the Ninth Circuit faced, is there, outside of thoseexceptions, is there such a thing as a class-of-onepublic employment? JUSTICE STEVENS: Let me ask, following upon Justice Ginsburg's question: Suppose it's not aclass-of-one, but it's a class of two or three because,on two or three occasions they fired somebody because hewouldn't pay the supervisor a bribe. Would that crossthe threshold? He had a practice of not -- you know,getting a little money out of every promotion. MS. METCALF: No, no, Justice Stevens, andagain to be clear -- JUSTICE STEVENS: If it's not a class of one-- MS. METCALF: I keep throwing up -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Do you say no or yes towhether there would be a cause of action? MS. METCALF: No. Because -- and this iswhy I keep using quotes for "class-of-one.""Class-of-one" doesn't literally describe the number ofplaintiffs, both because in some cases there might be asingle plaintiff, but they're alleging discriminationbased on membership in a class. And because -- andOlech is an example -- as the Court pointed out in afootnote in Olech, Olech could have been described as aclass of five. But, again, we're talking aboutdiscrimination allegedly based on something other than the exceptions that this Court has recognized: Exerciseof a fundamental right, membership in a -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but, as yourfriend points out, the constitutional provision says"any person." It doesn't say any person who is a memberof a particular class or any person who is exercising afundamental right. It's "any person." MS. METCALF: Admittedly, Chief JusticeRoberts. And I certainly don't think the constitutionaltext does us any affirmative good, but I don't think itgoes as far as Petitioner would have it go. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think Olech wascorrectly decided? MS. METCALF: Yes, yes. We take no issuewith Olech. We -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And public employment isdifferent just because it's going to be a big problem?What -- MS. METCALF: Not because it's going to be abig problem, but because the regulatory context issignificantly different, we think, than the employmentcontext. Part of that is the inherently subjectivenature of employment decisions. Regulatory decisionsare made at arm's length; they are made under relatively-- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but we're presumingthat there is an objective reason for promoting orretaining -- the person has a college degree and soforth -- but that that person is rejected anyway becauseof dislike. MS. METCALF: But -- but again -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's the hypothetical.Why is that hypothetical case different than Olech? MS. METCALF: You might have an unusualemployment case in which an employer has drawn up a listof objective criteria. That's not this case. That'snot the average case. In the average case you might,for example, prefer that someone have a degree, but -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then we say that thereis a subset of unusual cases where we will allow thecause of action? MS. METCALF: No. We offer the subjectivenature as a general reason why simply class-of-oneanalysis should not apply in this context, period,because the average -- whereas the average in theregulatory context probably is a high degree ofobjectivity, the average in the employment context is arelatively high degree of subjectivity and discretion. JUSTICE ALITO: But there are areas outsideof employment where there's a lot of discretion. Suppose someone claims that he has repeatedly gottenspeeding tickets for going five miles over the speedlimit by a local police department because of some sortof personal feud with the chief of police. That I takeit would be a valid claim under Olech because it'soutside his employment? MS. METCALF: Because it's regulatory andenforcing, law enforcement. I think so. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm having trouble hearingboth the question and the answer. MS. METCALF: As I understand -- I don'tknow if you want me to try to restate the question or ifyou want to do it. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the question was:Don't you run into the same problem of discretionoutside of the employment context? For example, apolice officer who is alleged to have given someone aticket or a number of tickets simply because of personalmalice as opposed to some sort of uniform policy. MS. METCALF: But, again, there I think the-- hopefully, the norm in law enforcement is arelatively objective standard. Are you in factspeeding? Are you in fact breaking the traffic laws?Are you in fact breaking the law in some other way?Whereas the norm in employment decisions is a much more discretionary, subjective kind of decision. Yes, I mayhave certain criteria that I would prefer a managerhave, but then I'm still going to have to weigh thequalifications and experience of various candidates andultimately make a relatively subjective decision aboutwho I think is the best candidate for that, for thatjob. Which is why we think the regulatory context andthe employment context are significantly different. JUSTICE STEVENS: Yes, but those are allconsiderations that would be an adequate defense to aclaim. If you had a judgment call to make, you say, Ihad a judgment call to make. And maybe there are goodarguments on the other side. You can't be liable forthat kind of decision. MS. METCALF: Well -- and certainly I'msomewhat perhaps surprised by Petitioner's argumenttoday because I understand Petitioner's argument toalmost concede the point that summary judgment shouldhave been given to the -- to the State's defendants inthis case because in fact, with regard to each of thethree employment decisions that are at issue in thiscase, the State and the defendants did proffer and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are concerned aboutthe case -- let's just assume, just take it as ahypothetical case -- where there is an arbitrary and vindictive reason for hiring the employee and it hasnothing to do with race, sex, or other recognizedsuspect or improper categories. And I thought youranswer to me was, well, I might make an exception tothat. MS. METCALF: No. My answer to you is aslong -- well, my answer to you is twofold. If we'resimply considering whether, in fact, there could be sucha thing as a class-of-one case in the employmentcontext, our answer is no. If we're past that and theissue is what's the test to apply, our test is as longas there is any conceivable rational basis for theaction that the government employer took, the caseshould be at end; it should not go to the jury. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't that anodd system? I mean, you have -- like our time cardexample, you're going to have litigation over whethershe was late for work or was not late for work, and infact that's got nothing to do with the reasons she wasfired at all. And yet the government puts it out, well,this is a conceivable reason, and then the other sidesays, no, it's not, and they fight. It just seems sootherworldly; it has nothing to do with the reason atall. MS. METCALF: Well, the -- often the real reason -- and this Court has made this observation inparticular in legislative contexts. But often the realreason is not necessarily apparent or undisputed, andbeyond that, that's simply the test that this Court hasemployed as a general matter in rational-basisequal-protection cases. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but that'swith respect to legislative or regulatory action, wherethere are important reasons not to inquire into themotives of the legislators. It's not clear to me thatthat same rationale applies here. MS. METCALF: Well, two points, Your Honor.I would certainly agree that the Court has most often,if not always, said that in the legislative context.But Petitioner is not really arguing for a differenttest here. As I understand Petitioner's argument, andperhaps I misunderstand it, but Petitioner's argument isthat this Court should apply customary rational-basisanalysis and apply such analysis as long as thegovernment has some conceivable rational basis that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not -- you knowthat that's not the position they took in their brief.They said it's not a hypothetical, any conceivable.They said that by qualifying -- even in the at-willcategory, the government has to articulate a reason rooted in the facts of this case, not a hypothetical. Ahypothetical reason is not good enough. MS. METCALF: Agreed, Justice Ginsburg. If-- we don't agree that that would be the test. We thinkthat the Court should stick to the customaryrational-basis test as it's applied in other contexts,and say if there is any conceivable rational basis, thateven if -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that youwant us to write an opinion that says there are someinstances where the government can act arbitrarily andunreasonably. MS. METCALF: We would ask you to write anopinion, Justice Kennedy, that says that, within thepublic employment context, there are no class-of-oneequal protection claims. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you think the answeris yes, I mean, because -- MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- because theAdministrative Procedures Act forbids arbitrary,capricious action. So you're saying the Constitution -- MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- does notconstitutionalize all -- MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- arbitrary, capriciousbehavior -- MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- of the FederalGovernment -- MS. METCALF: And there -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- or the State government. MS. METCALF: There will and probably aregoing to be other remedies, but not a FourteenthAmendment remedy. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MS. METCALF: Absolutely. JUSTICE BREYER: So the answer is yes.Okay. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's because ofexistence of other avenues of redress. MS. METCALF: Not solely. That, I think, isa factor. It's because of, again, this Court'srecognition in other contexts that public employeessimply are not on the same footing as private citizensgenerally with regard to their employers, and thatFederal court is simply not the appropriate forum inwhich to review the day-to-day decisionmaking of publicemployers; and because of recognition of the inherently subjective nature of public employment decisions. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understood that theargument -- JUSTICE STEVENS: -- your opponent'sstatement that this really has not generated an awfullot of litigation. Do you think he's right or wrong onthat? MS. METCALF: I think so far as anyone candetermine, he's right to date. Obviously, we have somereal concern that if this Court were to say that therewere such a cause of action, that things might change.Beyond that, I think the relatively few number of cases,and in particular the very, very small to-date number ofsuccessful cases is an argument against extendingclass-of-one equal protection analysis into thiscontext, because there will be an adverse effect onpublic employer discretion if the Court were to extendthe analysis. Public employers would have to worryabout what happened in this case, that their decisionsare subject to later second-guessing in Federal court.It may well chill the exercise of public employerdiscretion. And I think the most common complaint aboutpublic employer discretion, it is that it'sunderutilized not overutilized, and there would be areal danger that for the price of a very few successful cases you would chill the exercise of public employerdiscretion. So, we actually think that that point is anargument against the extension, not for it. But I wouldagree that we can't point to any enormous flood of casesto date. JUSTICE GINSBURG: In Oregon, is -- wouldthere be a civil service remedy available to someone inthis situation? MS. METCALF: There would be admittedly verylimited remedies under the civil service laws, per se.The decision about whether to advance her as a manager,of who would pick her as a manager was one really solelywithin the employer's discretion. With respect to thedecisions about the layoff and the bumping into someoneelse's position, she had essentially what wereprocedural remedies under her collective bargainingagreement, which -- which the union would have had toassert on her behalf. If the union had failed to do soand she had thought the union erred in doing so, shecould have filed an action against them. She did have a common-law State-law claim inthis case, which she brought, one for intentionalinterference with her employment relationship, which shewas successful in both in the district court and which we did not challenge in the Ninth Circuit. So thatState-law claim is certainly still a viable claim -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But as far as the Federallaw claim is concerned, you'd urge us to come out thesame way, even if this case came up before theAdministrative Procedure Act was passed, right? MS. METCALF: Yes. Yes, we would.Although, again, that provides yet an additional remedyto -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The AdministrativeProcedure Act doesn't apply to State -- to Stateprocedures. It's a Federal act -- MS. METCALF: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- governing Federalagencies. MS. METCALF: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: But as to Federalemployment, you'd say the same? MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you'd say the same asif there were no State remedies for -- MS. METCALF: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- employmentdiscrimination by the State. MS. METCALF: Yes, we would. JUSTICE SCALIA: Because the State has aright to employ at will? MS. METCALF: Yes, subject to whateverlimitations there may be and other affirmative sourcesof law such as a collective bargaining agreement or someother State or Federal statutory remedy. Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What exactly is theanalytic basis of that? I mean, do you think that --you don't think the Equal Protection Clause applies atall to this situation where it's just a class of one?Or do you think that the clause is always -- the claimof violation under the clause is always rebuttedautomatically? What is the -- MS. METCALF: The former -- the formerwithin the context of public employment. We certainlyagain are not -- not taking issue with Olech. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what authority do youhave for us to parse different governmental actions andsay some are subject to the Equal Protection Clause andsome are not? MS. METCALF: Well, again I don't know -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other than the convenienceof the government -- it might be more efficient for thegovernment -- you want us to say that the government canact arbitrarily with respect to employees? MS. METCALF: And, again, I don't know thatthe Federal Government discusses peremptory challenges,and I'll leave that to them. But, again, steppingoutside the Fourteenth Amendment context for a moment,this Court certainly and without explicit textualsupport has recognized the existence, for example, ofthe First Amendment rights of public employeesvis-a-vis -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but that's verydifferent, because those cases say that thoseindividuals have no First Amendment rights. In otherwords, in the public employee context, talking abouttheir official obligations, there is no First Amendmentright to do that. I think it's quite a differentsituation to say there is no equal protection right ingovernment employment. MS. METCALF: But -- but -- maybe Ishouldn't say again. Your Honor, I think that what weare asking for in this case is the same sort of linedrawing outside textual, atextual line drawing that thisCourt has done in other contexts such as the FirstAmendment context, where it has said that governmentsimply can impose obligations, restrictions on itspublic employees that it could not on citizens generallyand -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why can't you simply saythat they are not being denied equal protection of thelaw? The law that applies to her and to everybody elseemployed by the government is that the employment is atwill? MS. METCALF: And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's certainly an equalprotection. She could be fired at will and everybodyelse can be fired at will. MS. METCALF: Agreed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't that equalprotection of the law? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Except this wasn't --this wasn't employment at will, right? MS. METCALF: Not precisely. But thedecision whether or not to promote effective or notmight have been at will in the sense that was a decisionsubject solely to the discretion of the employer. So,in a sense, it's analogous. I wouldn't say that it isprecisely at will with respect to any of thesedecisions. And, again, because she had only limitedrights under the collective bargaining agreement,outside of those limited rights the employer really hadfull discretion as to what decision it would make. So,again, I think there is an analogy to at will. JUSTICE STEVENS: What proportion of yourworkforce is really hired at will? Haven't they all gotsome kind of protections under your statutes? MS. METCALF: As a matter of fact, none ofthe assistant attorneys general, including me, have anyprotection. Most -- most State employees have some kindof collective -- I'm arguing against myself in this case-- most employees in the State of Oregon have some kindof collective bargaining protection. So at will is theexception, not the rule. JUSTICE STEVENS: Don't have you some kindof civil service system, too? MS. METCALF: Not precisely. It's much morea matter of collective bargaining, but it amounts tomuch the same thing in the end. JUSTICE STEVENS: So that implies people whoare employed at will are the exception rather than therule? MS. METCALF: Absolutely. And I wouldreadily concede that fact. If the Court gets to the second part of thecase and the question becomes what sort of test,assuming that the Court finds a class-of-one analysisshould apply in this context and the question becomes:What's the test? Really, all the State is asking for here is an application of the customary, rational-basistest in which if any conceivable rational basis can beoffered by the government, the case should be at an end. That position was raised below by the Statedefendants, who raised the point both in their summaryjudgment motion and in their trial memo and urged thedistrict court to take this case away from the jury onthat basis, and the district court refused to do so. JUSTICE SOUTER: What do you say to theargument that the conceivable-basis test is appropriatewhen we are judging legislation, because we don't knowwhat goes through the minds of individual legislators.Whereas, these kinds of decisions, employment decisions,are, in fact, very specific state-of-mind kind ofdecisions; and, therefore, the equal-protection standardought to take that into consideration and look to thespecific reasons? MS. METCALF: I think the difference is notthat great. I think, admittedly, the actual rationaleis harder to discern in legislative cases, in part,because you have so many decisionmakers. But here, for example, it is similar becausethe decisionmakers might have had a number, and probablydid have a number, of elements in mind from dislike to apreference for a certain kind of background. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms. Metcalf. Ms. Blatt. ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT ON BEHALF OF UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS MS. BLATT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: There are two types of class-of-one claimsthat should not be recognized in the public-employmentcontext. The first is a claim of residual ill will orbad-motive complicitor, and the second is a simpledemand for a rational basis for an adverse personneldecision. The problem with those claims is that theywould constitutionalize routine employee grievances andimpose a for-cause requirement on public employers,notwithstanding the long tradition of at-will publicemployment. JUSTICE BREYER: Ma'am, the reason that wedidn't say that same thing in Oleck is because in thetaxation area or the easement area we simply don't havethe great number of cases and also because animus is more easily established. MS. BLATT: It is similar. And in theregulatory context a personality conflict is not alegitimate basis for adversely treating citizens. But apersonality conflict between a supervisor and asubordinate is generally, if not always, a legitimatebasis for adversely treating an employee. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I wondered if I wasright, you know; that I thought that maybe, lookingback, that there is something about zoning and taxationwhere it normally is alleged that it's rule-makingactivity. And that perhaps you would apply all ofthese things you are talking about where what the --even if it is employment, where what the employer isdoing, or anyone else is doing, is creating rules, isclassifying. And not a made-up classification like youput me and one other fired person in the fired- personcategory. I don't mean that. I mean like taxation andzoning and legislation. Is there anything to that? MS. BLATT: There is some support in thecase law, but what I think your concurring opinion wastrying to do was to help local and State governments.And it is one thing to say the mayor denied my buildingpermit, and I'm going to make the employee allege animus, and that might be difficult to do. But forsomeone on the mayor's staff, it's not that difficult toallege animus on the part of your supervisor. Employment frictions are inherent in theworkplace, and perceptions of unfair treatment readilyarise by an employee who thinks he or she was unfairlytreated. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I agree withall of that, but -- so the Equal Protection Clausedoesn't apply? MR. BLATT: Sure, it applies. It justdoesn't give you a right to collect what this plaintiffdid: Punitive and compensatory damages based onresidual ill will. She ran an equal-protection claim on race,gender, national origin, sex. She had a statutory claimfor imposing unlawful conduct under Title VII. The juryrejected all of that and imposed punitive damages, andit went to the jury on a legal question that has alwaysbeen decided by this Court and the courts about whetherthere was a rational basis or whether, instead, it wassolely based on vindictive, arbitrary, or maliciousreasons. It went to the jury, and there was noallegation that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think the Equal Protection Clause applies -- MS. BLATT: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in any case ofpublic employment -- what -- that's satisfied? MS. BLATT: It doesn't -- no. If you have amembership in an identifiable group classification asopposed to purely subjective and individualizedcriteria. Here the class was: I was a thorn in mysupervisor's side. That is not a class. And if it is aclass, it would lose, because you would always have arational basis. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the EqualProtection Clause doesn't balk about classes. It talksabout any person. MS. BLATT: That's correct, and -- and inFirst Amendment -- and that's a different amendment, butin the Fourteenth Amendment there is the Batson context.It's just -- just like in the Batson context, the highcost of litigating every single claim to try to ferretout what would truly be an irrational decision is notworth the cost when there is such an overwhelminglikelihood that a truly irrational decision wouldalready be prohibited by some other contract orstatutory source. JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't talk about equal protection, actually, it talks about equal protectionthe law; and if -- if the law in the governmentemployment context is that you can be dismissed at will,or for a number of reasons, so long as everybody issubject to that same law, it would seem to be nodiscrimination in the law? MS. BLATT: Well, we are not relying on thetext of the Equal Protection Clause. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, don't rely on the text,certainly. (Laughter.) MS. BLATT: What we are relying on are twoprinciples. And there is just a longstanding principlethat the Constitution is not the appropriate forum toresolve routine employment disputes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you do that with thetwo cases that I raised with Miss Metcalf? That is, thebribe case and the scapegoat case, they are out, too.If public employment is taken out from thisclass-of-one, those two cases would go as well. MS. BLATT: Right, well, one is criminalconduct, and on the scapegoat case I actually don'tthink that's such a bad thing. One can recharacterizescapegoating as public accountability, and their sidewould allow Federal courts and State courts to second-guess a local employment's response to a publiccrisis. So if there is a school board or some tragicaccident in the city, and a group of employees arefired, their side would give constitutional claim forpunitive and compensatory damages based on a finding ofill will; and although the other side comes up here andtells a story about traditional rational basis, in thiscase it was submitted to the jury, about whether therewas a rational basis or whether whatever articulatedbasis was a mere pretext; it was treated basically likea sex, or gender, a race claim, and not a rational basisclaim. This should have never gone to the jury. It'snot a fact question whether there is a rational basis. JUSTICE SOUTER: Can we -- can we meet yourobjection -- JUSTICE STEVENS: In a mixed motives case,both ill will and a -- some reason, she was also late towork -- you would win that case. MS. BLATT: Well -- JUSTICE STEVENS: If you have one goodreason and one bad reason, the bad reason doesn't trumpthe good reason. MS. BLATT: That's right. In a mixed-motiveconstitutional case involving a fundamental right, it'sa fact question for the jury. In a rational basis case it would be a question for the court whether there is aconceivable rational basis. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But a public employeeapplies for a -foot easement that he is entitled to,and doesn't receive it; and the mayor says and by theway I don't like you, so you're fired: A, you don't getthe easement, B, you're fired. Why -- why do we treatthe cases differently? Other than the floodgateargument etcetera? MS. BLATT: Well, if the mayor doesn't givethe employee a grievance, in her capacity as a citizenshe has a suit under Olech; but in her terminationclaim, she -- unless she can allege membership in anidentifiable class, she doesn't have an equal protectionright to be free from just pure arbitrariness -- - JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that just states yourconclusion. I want to know why this is. MS. BLATT: Why? Because personalityconflicts have no role in the regulatory context andthey generally if not always are the legitimate basisfor a personnel decision. It's just that -- they saythis example, well, employer doesn't like you; that'ssufficient; but the other side never tells you how farthey would take that. Is it because the conflict arosein the workplace; is it because it arose from their neighborhood; is it because it arose from the highschool debate team or law review or cheerleading squadand that's why the person wasn't hired? And we wouldhave courts having just to go, judge by judge and court,and in their case, jury by jury, for these kinds ofdecisions; and these shouldn't be constitutional cases.These are more properly resolved under merit serviceprotection laws and collective bargaining agreements. JUSTICE SOUTER: Would it meet your concernif we held number one, yes, there may be a class ofclaim in the public employment context, but any reasonthat would be a lawful reason for discharge under theat-will rule is a -- a reason that would satisfy thetest; and therefore it would be the real outlier thatwould ever get to the jury? MS. BLATT: Well, in the at-will context, ifan employer says you're fired and gives no reason,that's legitimate; but in their case at least by thetime a lawyer is hired and the case goes to court, theState is having -- has to articulate a basis that couldbe second-guessed. If you write -- if you are going toapply class-of-one and write a very broad opinion sayingalmost anything goes in the employment context, that'scertainly preferable than having us go to juries basedon pretext and bad motive, which is what happened in this case. But I still think it would impose afor-cause requirement that's inconsistent with your dueprocess cases, which presuppose that the personnelentitlement must spring from someplace other than theConstitution. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, let me ask you this.I mean, I wasn't trying a trick question but I -- let mebe explicit about this. If we adopted the rule thatsaid anything that goes under the at-will rule goesunder equal protection class of one, would there beanything left? MS. BLATT: No. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. So the reason is, ifwe opted that rule you'd win across the board. MS. BLATT: Yes. Yes. Unless you leave --right. There is not point. I mean the at-will rule isthat no reason be given, or it could be a bad reason.And if there is any concern about the line drawing, Iwould urge you just to look at the verdict form in thiscase. All that was submitted to the jury, after therewas the rejection of the national origin, the gender,the race, the color, the retaliation for reportingsexual harassment, was just a simple case of without anyrational basis, and solely for arbitrary, vindictive or malicious reasons. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So we should cite there isno constitutional right to be a policeman? We canrevise that? MS. BLATT: Well, no. I mean, there arelots of constitutional limits on public employment.What we are talking about is where you've reduced atwill for a null set, and there is any claim forarbitrary conduct. I mean, we would allow under ourtheory any claim that is not just a residual ill will orbad motive states a valid equal protection case. Andthis is many, many statutory protections as well. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Ms. Blatt. Mr. Katyal, you have four minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL KATYAL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. KATYAL: The Ninth Circuit in this case,Your Honor, has cut out all claims conceivable orotherwise, and that is contrary to the text of the EqualProtection Clause in this Court's precedent. JUSTICE SOUTER: Do you agree with me thatif we adopted a rule that says that anything that goesfor at-will employment goes for one-person-class equalprotection, and that that in effect would eliminate any cause of action? MR. KATYAL: It would, Justice Souter, underthe formal rule; that is, no reason alone is sufficient.That of course as a practical matter is not the wayat-will works anymore, because of the panoply of rules,Title and otherwise that force employers to articulaterationales when they terminate at-will employees. So asa practical matter the no-reason firing doesn't existanymore because those employees, those at-will employeeswho are going to sue are going to sue anyway. JUSTICE ALITO: You keep stressing the textof the Equal Protection Clause. Don't you think it'slate in the day to be arguing that Equal ProtectionClause should be read with that kind of literalness? MR. KATYAL: No. This Court hasconsistently held that the text of the Equal ProtectionClause encompasses personal claims. JUSTICE ALITO: It talks about laws, but itextends to situations where what's being -- the unequaltreatment is not stemming from the law, but fromexecutive or administrative action. MR. KATYAL: That's quite right, JusticeAlito. And in fact since this Court has said -- JUSTICE ALITO: And in the other example,are there not situations where it's been held to apply that might not fall within the literal language of theclause? MR. KATYAL: I'm not sure I got that down,sir. JUSTICE ALITO: You think in all otherrespects it's read literally? MR. KATYAL: I'm not sure if in all otherrespects it is, but with respect to the relevantquestions here -- that is, does this clause apply toindividual agency actions, this Court has held so in in Missouri versus Lewis, and has held soconsistently ever since. So in this case the government put forth onerationale which was an objective one, we -- anddisclaimed all the others, the subjective ones; and wedo think that that subjective rationales in employmentis different, and would almost always be a rationalbasis. In this case they disclaimed all those otherones. So here the government is using its power,its raw power, surely for its own personal ends and thatis contrary to the whole notion of why employment shouldbe different within government efficiency. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is your answerto their Batson analogy? MR. KATYAL: Batson I think supports exactlywhat we are saying, which is this Court has said wedon't review on rational basis, actions by a prosecutorthat are motivated, strikes that are motivated by thetrial, that are -- that are for a good trial; but if therationale of the prosecutor is I don't like the disabledperson, or I don't like -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but you'readding the class aspect. If the rationale of theprosecutor is, I don't like this person, under Batsonyou don't get to bring an equal protection challenge tothat. MR. KATYAL: I don't quite think that thisCourt has confronted that specific issue about whetherit's an individual class-of one juror case. But thelanguage of Batson says that we don't -- that thisCourt won't review on rational basis a claim when it'srelated to the government's motivation. They are tohave a fair trial, a good trial. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought if you have aperemptory challenge it means that you can't challengeon any basis other than the group -- the groups thatBatson has recognized. You - you said you couldchallenge a peremptory, exercise a peremptory challengeif it's unrelated to the selection of an impartial jury. Well, I thought that a peremptory, outsideof the class cases, is matter of the prosecutor or thedefense attorney don't like this juror. MR. KATYAL: Justice Ginsburg, the languagein Batson and J.E.B. was qualified by as saying so longas it related to the task at hand; and the SeventhCircuit and indeed, the D.C. Circuit last year referredto that language and talked about an exemption if theprosecute's motive was personal, as it is in this case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has there ever been achallenge to the exercise of peremptory challenge on theground that the challenge was unrelated to the selectionof an impartial jury? MR. KATYAL: In the Seventh Circuit decisionthe court said this would stay the cause of action.This was after this Court's decision in J.E.B., yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aabide :ability ::,able :,above-entitled: :absence :Absolutely :: :abstract :accident :accountability:act : :: :,:,,:acted :acting :action : ::, :: :,: :: :: :: :: :: ::, :actions :: :: :activity :actual ::, :adding ::additional :adequate :administration:administrative: : ::, :admittedly :: :adopted ::advance :adverse :: :adversely :,affect :affidavit :affirmative: :affirming :age : ::agencies :agency :agree : :: :: :: : ::agreed : ::agreement: :: :agreements :::Agriculture :AL :Alito : ::,,: ::,,,:allegation ::allege :: :alleged :: :allegedly :alleging :allow :: :allowed :altogether :amenable :amendment :: ::,,,: :,:amicus : ::amount :amounts :analogous :analogy ::analysis ::, :: :analytic :Anderson :animus :: :: :,answer :: :: :,,: :: :ANUP :anymore ::,anyway ::APA :apparent :APPEARAN...:application :applied :applies :,,: :: :: :apply :: :: :,: :: :: :asserts :assistant :,:appropriate: ::April :arbitrarily: :arbitrariness:arbitrary :: :: :: :area : ::,areas :argue :arguing :: :argument ::, :,: :,:, :: :: :: :arguments:arm's :arose :,:articulate :: :,: :,: ::articulated :::articulates :asking : ::aspect :assert ::assume :::assuming :atextual :attorney ::attorneys :attractive :at-will ::,,,: :: :: ::, :: ::,,authority :automaticallyavailable :::avenues :: :average ::,,,awful :a.m : :BB :back :, :: :: :background:bad : ::, :: :bad-motive:balance :balk :bargaining: :: ::, : based : :: :,:, ::basically ::basis :, :: :,:, :: :: :: :,: :,: ::,,,:, :: :: ::,,Batson :,: :,:, :Beazer :,behalf :,: :,,,: :: ::behavior :believe : ::belong :belonged :bent :best :beyond :big : :::Bivens :,Blatt : ::,, :: ::,, ::, :: :,: :,:,board : ::body ::,break :breaking ::Breyer :,: : ::, :: :,: :,,:, ::Breyer's :bribe : :::brief : :: ::briefly :bring : :: :broad ::brought :: :budget ::,budgetary ::building :bulk :bumping :business :CC : :call :,candidate :candidates :capacity :capricious ::card :case : :,: :,:, : ::,,: :,,: :: :,: :: ::,,,: :,:, :: :: :: ::, :,: ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,cases : :: :: ::,,,: :,: :,: :: :,:, :: ::, :: : :categories :category :::cause : ::, :: :: :: :: ::causes : :certain :,: ::certainly :: :: :: :: ::cetera :chain :challenge :: :,:,,:,,challenges :chance :change :characteristic: :characteristics: :cheerleading:chief :, ::, :,:, ::, :: :: :: : :: :,:, :: ::chill : :circuit :,: : :: :: :,: :: :,:circuits :,: :circumstances:cite : :citizen :citizens :: ::city : :civil : ::, :claim ::, :: ::,,,: :,: :: :,,: ::, ::,,: ::, :claiming ::claims :: :: :,: :class : :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :: :: :classes :classification: ::classifications:, :classify :classifying:, :class-of :class-of-one: : :, ::, ::, :: :: :: ::clause :,: : ::,,,: :,: ::,,:,clauses :Clause's :clear : :: ::client :cold :collapsed :collapsing :collect :collective :: :: :,: :collective-bar...:college :color :come :, :: : :comes :: :coming ::command :common :common-law:compensatory: :complained:complaint :complicitorconcede ::::conceivable:, ::, :: :,:, :: ::conceivable-b...:conceive :concept :concepts :concern :: :concerned ::conclusion:concurring:conduct :: :confined :conflict :,:conflicts :confrontedCongress :considerationconsiderationsconsideringconsistent :consistently: :Constitution :: :::::::: ::constitutional: : :: : :: :,: :,constitutionali...: :constitutionallyConstitution's::constrain :contest :contested :context :: :,:, ::, ::, ::, :: :: ::,,: :: :,: ::,,contexts :: : :: :contract :contrary :: ::control :convenience:correct ::, :: :correctly :cost :,Counsel :counter :course : :: ::court :,: : :: :,,: : :: :: :,,:, ::, :: :: :,,: :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :,:, ::,,:courts :: :,:Court's :: :: :: :: :co-workers:creating :criminal :crisis :criteria :: ::criticism :criticize :cross :crossed :curiae : ::current :customary: ::cut :cuts :cutting :DD :damages :: :danger :date : :day :days : :day-to-day:dealt :debate :decide :decided :: :decision :: ::, :: ::,,: :,: ::, ::,decisionmakers:,decisionmaking:decisions ::,, :: :: :,: ::,,:declining :: :defendants:, :defense ::deferential : : ::, ::degree : ::,,demand :Democrat :denied ::deny :department :: : :depends :describe :described :describes :determination::determine :difference :: ::different :: :,: :: ::, ::,differently :: :difficult :,directed :directly :disability :disabled :disagree :disagreement::discern :discharge :disclaimed ::,discrete :discretion :: ::,,:, ::discretionary:discriminate: :discriminated: :discriminates:discrimination: : :,:,, ::, :: ::discusses :disfavored:dislike :,: :dismiss ::dismissal :dismissed :: :dismissing: :displace :displaces ::disputes :district ::,dividing :doing : ::,drawing :: :drawn :dressed :due : :D.C :,,:EE : :,easement ::,easily :effect : :: :: :effective :efficiency :: ::, :: :,: :efficiency-based:efficient :either :, :elements :eliminate :eliminated :else's :emphasize :empirical :employ :employed :: :employee :: :, :: ::,,:,, :: :: :: :,: :,employees :: :: :: ::, :,: :,,employee's:employer :,: :: :: ::,,: :,: ::employers ::, :: :: :employer's:employment :: :,: :,: :: :,: ::,,:, ::, ::, ::, :: :: :: :,: ::, :: :: : ::, :: :,:,employment'sencompasses::ends :enforcement:,enforcing :Engquist : ::, :enormous :entire :entitled ::entitlement :equal :,: :,:,,: :,: :: :: :,: :,: ::,,:, :: :,: :,: :equal-protecti...: ::erred :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially ::established :et : :etcetera :everybody:, :: :everyday :evidence :evil :exactly :: :example :: :: :: :: ::exception ::,exceptions:,,:executive :exemption :exercise :: : : :exercises :exercising ::farther :Federal :,:exhaustion :exist :existence ::, :: ::existing ::expansive :experience :explicit ::extend :extending :extends :extension :extremely ::Ffaced :fact : ::, :: :,: ::, :: ::, :factor :facts : :: ::,, :: :factual :, :factually ::failed :fair :fall :falsifiable :far : :: :: ::,, ::,,: :: :,: :,:, :: :feet :,ferret :feud :fight :figure :,file :filed :filer :,filers :find :finding ::finds :fire : :fired : :: :: :: :,:, ::, :firing :,:first : :: ::,,,: :five : :: :flood : :floodgate :following ::footing :footnote :forbids :::force :form :formal :former :,formulation:forth :,: :: ::forum :: :forward :for-cause ::for-clause :found :four :Fourteenth :: ::Fourth :free :frequent ::frictions :friend :full :fundamental: ::, :GG :gender :: :general :,: : :: :: :: :generally :: :,: :: :General's :generated :getting :: :Ginsburg ::,,: ::, :: ::, ::,,: :,: :: ::, :: ::,Ginsburg's :give : :: :given : :: ::gives ::go : : :: :: :: ::,goes :,,: ::, :: :,going :,: :: :: :,: :: :: ::,good :: :: :,:,good-bye :gotten :governing :government:,,: :,:, :,:,,,:,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :: ::, ::, ::, :: ::,,governmentalgovernments::government's: :grant :great ::grievance ::grievances:ground :grounded :: :group :: :,: :: ::groups :group-based: :,,: :guarantee :: : improperly :inappropriatelyinvolved ::,guarantees :guess :Hhand :handle :happen :,:happened :: :happens :harassment:hard : :harder :harm :Harrah :: :hat :hearing :held : :: ::, ::help :hey :high :,: :highly :,hired : :: :,hiring : :history ::Honor : :: :: :hopefully :hypothesizing:hypothetical:, ::, :: :,Iidentifiable: ::ignored :ill : ::, :illegally :impartial ::implies :imply :important :impose :,: ::imposed :imposing :improper ::including :::inconsistent: :incorporate:indicate :individual :: :: :: :: :individualisticindividualized:::individuals :inefficient :infinitely :infirm :inherent :inherently :inquire : :::inquiries :inquiry :instance :instances :intentionalintentionality::interest :interference:interfering :intermediateinterpretationinvidious ::::involving :irrational :: :,irrelevant :issue : :: :: :issues :JJANET : :job : :::jobs :judge :,judging :judgment ::, ::,,:juries :juror : :jury : ::, :: :,: :,: :,: :: :Justice : :: :, :: :,,:, :,: :,,:, :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,:, ::, ::,,:, :: :,:,,:,,:, ::, :,:,,:,,,:,,,:, :: ::, :,:,,,:,,,,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,: :,,: :,: ::,, ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,:,,:,,,: :,:, ::,justification:J.E.B :,KKatyal : :: :,,: : ::, :,:,, ::, :: :,,:, ::, ::, ::,,: :,: :,,: :,:,,:, :,: :: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:,keep :,:Kennedy ::,,:,,: :,:, ::, :: :,: : :, :: :Kimel :kind :: :,:,,,:, :kinds : :know : ::, : :: :,,:, ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :: :LLake :land :language :: :,large :late : :,: ::, ::Laughter :law : :: :,: :,: :: :,,: :,,: ::lawful :laws : ::, :: ::lawsuit :lawyer :layoff ::left :legal :legally :legislation :: ::legislative ::, :legislators :: :legislature ::legislatures :legitimate :: :,: :length :let's : :: :level : :Lewis :liable :Liberty :likelihood :limit :limitations :limited :: :,limits :line : ::, :lines :LISA : ::list :Listen :literal :literally ::literalness :litigating :litigation ::little ::long : :: :: :: ::, :: ::longstandinglong-established::look :,,: ::looking : :lose :lot : :lots :low :lower ::Mmade-up :majority :malice :malicious :::manager ::,mandates :mandating :manipulable::market :,Martin :,:matter : :: ::,,: :: :lead :leave : :Lobby :local : ::, :,:,mayor ::,mayor's :Ma'am :mean : :: ::, :: ::, :: :,meaning :means : :: :meet : :member :: ::membership: :: :: :memo :mentioned:mere :merit :Metcalf : ::,,:, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,,: :: :,:,,,:,,:, ::, ::, :: :methadone:miles :million ::mind :minds :minutes :Missouri :misunderstandmisunderstood::mixed :mixed-motive:moment :Monday :money :motion :motions :motivated ::motivation:motive : :: :: :motives ::municipal :Murgia :muster :,NN :, :national :: :nature :,: ::NEAL : :: : :necessarily :need :negate : :: :, never : :offered :odd :offer : ::::,neighborhood:: ::nine : :Ninth :,: : :: :,: ::norm :,normally :: :notion :::notwithstandi...no-reason :null :number :: ::, :: :: :numbers :OO : :objection ::objective ::, ::, :: ::objectively ::objectivity:obligations:,observation:Obviously :occasions ::ought :outlier :outrageous :outside :: :: :,:, ::overutilizedoverwhelming::PP :page : ::paid :,panoply :paradigmatic::parse :part : : ::, :: :: :particular :: :: ::particularly: :parts :party :pass :,passed :pay : :people : :: :: :perceptions:peremptory: :,: :,perfectly :performance: :period :permit ::person :,: :,: :,: :,: ::,, :,:, :,:, :: :,personal :: :,: ::personality :: :personnel :: :persons :person's :Petitioner :: :, :: ::Petitioner's:, ::PHILLIPS :pick :,:plaintiff ::, :: :: ::plaintiffs :: :please :: :point : :: :,: :pointed :points ::police :,,policeman :policy :political :positing :position :: :: :: :possibility :possible :,possibly :potential :power :,powers :practical :: :,practice :: ::precedent :precedents :::precise :precisely :: :prefer ::preferable:preference:presuming :presuppose :pretext ::prevail :price :prices :,principle :principles ::private :officer :official :officials :oh : :: :Okay : ::Olech :,,:, :: :,: :,: :: :Oleck :once :ones :,one-person-cl...:open :opening :opens :opinion :: ::opponent's :opportunity:, :opposed :: ::opted :oral : : :: :ordinance :ordinary :Ore :Oregon : :: ::origin ::otherworldly probably :: :problem :: ::, ::problems :procedural :Procedure :::procedures :: ::process : :proffer :prohibited :promote :::promoting :promotion: :proper :properly :: :proportion :proposition :prosecute's :prosecutor ::, :protection ::, ::, ::, ::,,: :: ::, ::,, :: : :: :,,: :: :,: :,: :protections :provision :questions ::protects :provided :provides :::public : :: :,,,: :,: ::, ::,,,: ::,,:, ::, :: ::public-employ...punched :::,punitive :: :pure :purely :purporting:purpose ::put : :: :: :: :puts :p.m :Qqualifications::qualified :qualifying :question :: : :: :: ::,,:, ::, :::quite :,: :: :: ::quotes :RR :race : :: :: :racial :raise :raised :,:ran :rare :ratings :rational :,:, : ::, :: ::, :: :: :: ::,,,: :: ::,rationale :: : ::, :: :,: ::, :: :: :,rationales :: :rational-basis:,,,: ::, ::raw :read : :: :readily ::real : :: :: ::, :reality :really :: ::, :: :: :: :,reason :,: : ::,,,:,,:, :: : ::, :: :,:,,,:, :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,:,,:,,,:,,:reasons ::, :: :: ::rebut : :REBUTTAL: :rebutted :receive :recharacterize:recognition: :,:,recognized :: :: :recognizes:record : :redress :reduced :referred :referring :refused :regard :: :regulatory:, :: : :: :rejected ::rejection :related :,: ::relation :relationship:relatively :: :: :relevant ::rely :relying :,remaining :remedies ::,,: ::, : says :, :seriously ::service :: :,: :set : :seven : :Seventh :,sex : :: :sexual :sheet :sheets :shows :side : :: ::, :significantly: :similar ::similarly ::,,:simple ::simply :: :: :: :: ::, :: :single :: :Sioux :sir :sitting :situated ::,,,:situation :: :: :situations ::small :Snowden :solely :: :: :Solicitor :: : ::somebody :: :: ::someplace :somewhat :sort : ::, ::source :sources :Souter :,:, ::, :: ::, ::specific ::, :speed :speeding ::spite :spring :squad :staff :stage :standard :: :,:,,,: :start :started :starting :State : :: : ::, ::, :: :: :remedy :: : :repeatedly :replead :reply :reporting :Republican:requirement: :requirements:,requires :requiring :reserve :residual :: :resolve :resolved ::respect :: :: :respects :,Respondents:, :,: :response :restate :restriction :restrictions:retained :retaining :retaliation:return :revenues :,:review :,: :: :,revise :rich :right : :: :,,: ::, ::, ::, :,:,,: :,: :: ::, :: ::rights : :: :,Roberts : ::, :,: :: :,: :: : ::, :: :: ::role :rooted :routine ::rule : ::, ::,,,: :rules : :rule-making:run :SS : :, ::Salem :satisfied :satisfy :saying :: :: :,: :: :: :: :,: :: :: ::, :: ::Scalia :, :: :,: :,: :,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,,: :Scalia's ::scapegoat ::,scapegoatingschool : :::se :search :second : :: ::secondly :second-guess: :second-guessedsecond-guessing::section ::,see : ::seen :seizure :selection ::sense :,sentiment : :, :: :: :,:, :: :,,: :: :statement :states :,,: : :: :State's :State-law :state-of-mind:::statute :,statutes :statutory :: :: :: :stay :stemming :step :stepping :Stevens :,:, :: :,: :,stick :story :stressing :strikes :subject ::, ::subjective :: ::, :: :,subjectivity:submitted :: :,subordinate:subset :successful :: :sue :,suffice :sufficient ::suit :summary ::, :: :Sunday :supervisor :: :,:, :: :supervisors ::supervisor's:::support :supported :supporting :: :supports :suppose :: ::Supreme :,sure : ::,surely :surprised :suspect :: :sustained :sweeping :system :: :systems :TT :,take : :: :: :: :: :,:taken :takes :talk :talked :talking :: :: ::talks : ::targeted :task :tax : ::taxation :: :,team :tell :tells : :terminate :termination: :test :,,: : :: ::, :,: :: :,:, :,:, :: :text : :: :,: :,textual :,Thank : :: :,: :theoretical:theory ::thing :,:, :: :: :things :: :: :think : :: : :: :,:, :,: :,:, :: ::,,,:, :,:, ::,,,: :,,:, ::, :: :: ::, ::thinks :third :thorn :thought :,: :: :,:,,: :: :: :three : :,:threshold :throwing :ticket :tickets :,time : :: ::times :,Title :,: :: :today :to-date :tradition :traditional :traffic :tragic :treat :treated :,: :,: :treating :,treatment ::trial : :: ::,,,trick :trinity :trouble :true :truly :,trump :truth :try : :: :trying :: :: :turn :turned :two :,: :: : :: :: :,: ::,,twofold :types :Uultimately ::uncle :underlying :undermining :understand :: :: :understood :underutilized:undisputed :undoubtedly:unequal :unfair :unfairly :uniform :union ::,,United :,,: :unlawful :unnecessaryunreasonable::unreasonably:unrelated :: :unusual :,unworkable: ::upheld :urge : :urged :use : :users :uses :Vv : : ::,valid : :variety :various :vast :verdict :versus :: :viable :VII :,,: :vindictive :: :violation ::, :virtually :vis-a-vis ::Wwake :want ::,,: :,: ::Washington ::,wasn't :,,: :,: :way : :: :: :ways : :weigh :went :,weren't :We'll :we're :: :: :,we've : :wheat :,:,,,:willing :win : :withdrawn::withdrew :wondered :word :: : : : : :: : : ::,, : :() :: : : : : : : : : : : :-foot : : : : : :words ::work : :: :workers :workforce :working :workplace ::works :worms ::,worried ::,worry :worth :wouldn't :: :write :,:,wrong :,wrongdoing::wrongly :Xx :,YYeah :year :years : ::Zzero :zoning :,: ::,- : : :: : :(b)() : 