 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xJACK DAVIS, : Appellant : v. : No. -FEDERAL ELECTION :COMMISSION :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:ANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Appellant.GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Appellee. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Appellant GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the Appellee REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANDREW D. HERMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Appellant P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst today in Case -, Davis v. The FederalElection Commission.Mr. Herman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HERMAN ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT MR. HERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court: This case involves the constitutionalquestion of whether the government may regulate thepersonal spending of a candidate on behalf of his owncampaign. This is an activity that constitutespolitical expression at the core of the First Amendment,yet BCRA Section seeks to deter and, failing that,penalizes such protected political expression. Even ifthis Court finds that the harms upon speech of Section are modest, the provision still fails to satisfy anyconstitutional standard. It furthers no legitimategovernmental purpose and conversely increases the undueinfluence of contributions upon Federal candidates. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is norestriction whatsoever on the wealthier candidate. Hecan spend as much of his money as he wants. MR. HERMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.The harm from Section is that he is burdened fromthe beginning of his campaign throughout every step withthe knowledge that any time he spends money he is goingto be providing his opponent with an advantage; he isgoing to be enhancing his opponent's speech. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what if, forexample, somebody takes out a television ad that sayssmoking this type of cigarette is actually, is notharmful to you. The government is free to take out acontrary ad saying, no, it is and so you shouldn't doit, right? MR. HERMAN: Of course, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So governmentalresponses to the exercise of free speech are notautomatically -- don't automatically burden the exerciseof that speech. MR. HERMAN: That is absolutely correct,Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well then, why doesit burden it for the government to make it easier forprivate citizens to respond to that speech. MR. HERMAN: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, it'smaking it easier for a self-financed candidate'sopponent to respond to that speech. In essence, what Section says is, we are going to make it easier foryour opponent to beat you. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Herman, can thegovernment respond to political speech? The governmentcan have a position on smoking cigarettes, it can have aposition on a lot of things, but can it have a positionon whether the Republican Party or the Democratic Partyshould win the next election? MR. HERMAN: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that a distinctionhere? MR. HERMAN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What case supportsthat proposition? MR. HERMAN: That the government cannottake -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Government can'tengage in political speech. MR. HERMAN: Your Honor, Buckley is on --there is not anything -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How is the governmentspeaking? You have already acknowledged that thewealthy candidate can spend as much as he or she wantsand the end result of this scheme is that there will bemore, not less, speech because the non-affluent opponent will now have money to spend that he didn't have before.So I think you have to concede that overall the schemewill produce more political speech, not less. MR. HERMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I can'tconcede that, and this is the reason why. If Section operates as it's intended to, it will deterself-financed candidates from ever reaching that$, threshold and triggering the, quote unquote,"more speech." What it is really designed to do atevery single step -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Has it done it? I mean,we do have some experience under the statute now. MR. HERMAN: We have very little experienceunder the statute, Justice -- JUSTICE SOUTER: Well your clients -- wasn'tyour client's latest filing that he intended to spend amillion dollars. MR. HERMAN: For the campaign? JUSTICE SOUTER: I think that's -- MR. HERMAN: That is correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: So it didn't deter him.You're in the position in which it clearly didn't deteryour client. He says, I'm going to spend three times asmuch as the threshold figure, and there is no empiricalevidence that it's deterring anybody else. MR. HERMAN: Well, Justice Souter, in factit did deter my client. If you look at his election inits totality, his opponent spent over $ million. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we usually evaluaterestrictions on First Amendment rights on the basis ofwhether the chill that was imposed by the government wasactually effective in stifling the right? MR. HERMAN: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: If the person goes aheadand speaks anyway, is he estopped from saying that thegovernment was chilling his speech nonetheless? MR. HERMAN: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that's what's goingon here? MR. HERMAN: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOUTER: Don't we expect a chillargument to at least have a ring of plausibility? Andyour chill argument is that it is deterring. It didn'tdeter your client. There is no indication that it woulddeter anybody else and I have to say I don't see why itwould. MR. HERMAN: Justice Souter, respectfully, Idon't think that you can categorically say that it didnot deter my client when he was outspent by $ millionin that campaign. As he went through the campaign against his -- JUSTICE SOUTER: You mean if the -- if theother side had not had an enhanced spending capacity,your client would then have spent $ million? MR. HERMAN: Your Honor, he actually didspend $ million. JUSTICE SOUTER: Whatever it is, I mean areyou saying that if the -- if the client -- if theopposing party had not had an enhanced spending capacityyour client would have spent even more? MR. HERMAN: Potentially. Potentially. JUSTICE SOUTER: That seems to substantiatethe, at least the ostensible basis for this statute. MR. HERMAN: Your Honor, if the basis forthe statute is to, quote unquote, "level the playingfield," to equalize the candidates, I haven't receivedan explanation from the government or from the districtcourt that explains how a statute designed to do thatwould have allowed my client's opponent to have raisedanother $. million even though he had already outspentmy opponent by $ million. JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any reason to thinkthat this statute will have any greater or differenteffect of Mr. Davis in the upcoming election than it didin the last election? MR. HERMAN: There is, Justice Alito. JUSTICE ALITO: Why? MR. HERMAN: Because his incumbent opponentfrom the last two elections has announced his retirementand so Mr. Davis will now be facing very likely primarychallengers, and then if he were to prevail in theprimary he'll be meeting a non-incumbent challenger inthe general election as well. So it's an open seat. And again, one of the great deficiencies of is that it fails to take into account any of theadvantages of incumbency, not just the financialadvantages but the inherent advantage that each andevery incumbent brings to an election when he or sheruns for re-election, the fact that the incumbent hasmuch greater status as -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The government says that infact more and quite a bit more incumbents went over the$, personal funding limits than non-incumbents.Something like -- I don't know, - or something likethat in the last election, is that right? MR. HERMAN: First of all, the statisticshere are incomplete because basically the briefing inthis case was concluded in early September of ,before a lot of primaries occurred for the Houseelection. And so I think referring to those numbers -- the FEC has never -- we've never received any additionalnumbers for the effect, but -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it was a four-yearrecord and the numbers are rather startling that -- isit senators or representatives qualified for theenhanced contributions and only of them wereincumbents? JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. HERMAN: The other number that was citedis that only of incumbents actually triggered theMillionaires' Amendment in those -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, that could meanthat the millionaires have already been elected and arenow pulling up the ladder after them. (Laughter.) MR. HERMAN: That's certainly our argument,Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, if that's so, oneof the reasons that has been given for this statute isthat it encourages the parties to favor the wealthiercandidates; it deters people who are non-affluent buthighly meritorious. So -- and it gives the public theperception that the seats in our Congress are there tobe bought by the wealthiest bidder. And if there's anything to that -- well, do you reject that out of handas what the statute is all about? MR. HERMAN: Justice Ginsburg, I believethat the -- the fact that the statute expands thesupposedly anti-corruptive $ to $ and allows anational party to make coordinated communications of anunlimited amount in response to the, what Buckley called"ameliorative speech" by a self-financer, would alsoincrease the perception that -- that our candidates arethere to be bought. It seems to me that if Mr. Davishad sat down and read all of this Court's jurisprudencebefore he decided to run, he wouldn't have seen a wordin there about leveling the playing field. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought -- Ithought your brief -- and correct me if I'm wrong --said at one stage that there is -- what Congress wasdriving at is a valid concern, but there are lessrestrictive alternatives. And I was trying to find whatthose less restrictive alternatives were. MR. HERMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I canthink of one off the top of my head which is not thiscase, and that's public funding. If Congress were trulyconcerned about providing a boost to minor partycandidates who may not be able to raise the $ tobegin with, much less take advantage of the benefits of , or wanted to boost self-financed candidates who,say, like Mr. DeRossett in the amicus brief, in hisamicus brief, who mortgaged his house or others who haveencumbered their pensions and raised $, or$, and then triggered the amendment, if theywanted to foster all of those people of modest means toparticipate, then the easiest way and the way sanctionedby this Court in Buckley is to institute a publicfunding system and allow them to choose. They can raiseprivate funds if they'd like; they could do itpersonally with their own money; or they could takewhatever amount that the -- that the State was willingto give them -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But that wouldn't level theplaying field. I mean, the other side, the millionaire,won't take the public funding and he'll spend hismillions and whoever gets the public funding -- or areyou saying the public funding should match whatever theother side pays? MR. HERMAN: No, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well then -- MR. HERMAN: But this Court's analysis inBuckley -- the public funding analysis in Buckley doesnot center on leveling the playing field or providingequality for all candidates. It -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think that's a validconstitutional objective, to level the playing field? MR. HERMAN: I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think we shouldtrust our incumbent senators and representatives tolevel the playing field for us? (Laughter.) MR. HERMAN: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia.And there's a reason why there's a distinction betweenan anti-corruptive purpose and aleveling-the-playing-field purpose. When Congresslegislates to deal with the actuality or appearance ofcorruption, they are legislating uniformly and they'renot taking an interest in the outcome, in thecompetitiveness. When they are talking about levelingthe playing field, one of the players on that playingfield are incumbent members of Congress. It's likesaying that we're going to trust basketball players not-- to call their own out-of-bounds plays. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't there somethingdifferent between what the statute was at the time ofBuckley, that a lid on, you can't spend more than Xamount of money, and a statute that says we're going tolet you spend, the sky is the limit for you, but we'regoing to give a boost to your opponent? MR. HERMAN: Justice Ginsburg, in Buckleythere -- there was no lid on personal expenditures. TheCourt struck down that aspect of Buckley and upheld thepublic funding provision. So the Court was -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm talking about thestatute as it was originally enacted by Congress didhave expenditure limits and this Court said that was nogood. This statute doesn't have that problem because itdoesn't put a lid on the candidates self-financing. MR. HERMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.But -- but again, if you're going to make a comparisonto the public funding system in Buckley that wasapproved by this Court, that system was indifferent tothe -- the source or the amount of funds. All the Courtsaid there -- or the equality -- that that statute wasindifferent to whether the playing field was level. All-- all Buckley said and all Congress said in enactingthe public funding was we want to take the allegedlycorruptive private funds out of the system, and we wantto replace it with public funds and -- JUSTICE ALITO: Even if -- even if levelingthe playing field is not generally a compelling or maybeeven a permissible interest, is it a stronger interestwhen one of the reasons why the playing field is notlevel is other action that Congress has taken? If there weren't expenditure limits, then self-financedcandidates wouldn't perhaps have as much of an advantageas they do. So if we accept the world in whichcontribution limits are constitutional, it -- does thatprovide a basis for Congress to try to rectify at leastin part what it itself has done by imposing thecontribution limits? MR. HERMAN: Justice Alito, leveling theplaying field is -- I'm not quite sure how Congresswould start to do that without implicating their owninterest. When you say that you're going to level theplaying field, Congress has to look at the whole playingfield. They can't just carve out a section that appliesto other people and not talk about their interest inleveling the playing field. I think it's a verydifficult road to go down. JUSTICE SCALIA: What we're talking about inleveling the playing field, I guess, is leveling theamount of speech that each side has, to make sure thateach side has the same amount of speech. Is that -- isthat what's going on here? MR. HERMAN: Well, it's an attempt to dothat. And again, in Buckley this Court said that --that Congress has no interest in determining whetherspeech is excessive or unwise or wasteful. That's -- that's ultimately the purview for the voters, and that'sreally the fallacy in at its heart, is there's nosuch thing as secret self-funders. They will --everything that they do is disclosed in the same waythat all other expenditures and contributions aredisclosed in quarterly and pre-election reports.Certainly, in many cases, their opponents are going tomake the case that this wealthy person is out of touch,they don't represent the district, your vote is not tobe bought. And then ultimately the voters will have thedetermination on what kind of candidate they want. JUSTICE SCALIA: Are we -- are we talkingwealthy people here? What's the average price of a homein the United States? I think it's a good deal above$,, isn't it? MR. HERMAN: It certainly is in this areaand in many congressional districts in the UnitedStates. And that's a very good point, Justice Scalia.This provision affects less -- about a quarter of whatit costs to run a competitive race in . Socertainly it's not as if Congress said, well, if youspend some disproportionate amount of money to acongressional race, if you go ten times over what itshould cost, we're going to step in. They said -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't think that would be any more constitutional than this, do you? MR. HERMAN: I think it would be equallyunconstitutional, Mr. Chief Justice. But if you'retalking about the tailoring of the statute, I think thatthat is certainly something that's relevant. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'd like to ask about theprovisions of the statute which allow the candidate whodoesn't have the personal funds -- what was the name ofthe challenger in this case? Not Davis -- Reynolds? MR. HERMAN: Tom Reynolds. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Reynolds -- - to receive,is it, unlimited contributions from his own party? MR. HERMAN: He can receive up to percent of whatever that OPFA number is -- the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. HERMAN: -- the purported difference infunds. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose you had a statutewhich either explicitly said or has the effect, as thisdoes, that the less wealthy challenger, the challengerin Reynolds' position, has more access and more supportfrom his party than the challenger does from his party?What is your best case that indicates that that isunconstitutional, and what is your argument that that isunconstitutional? MR. HERMAN: I'm sorry, Justice Kennedy? JUSTICE KENNEDY: That concerns me in this.What is your best argument that differential treatmentof the candidates vis-a-vis support from theirrespective parties is unconstitutional? MR. HERMAN: Well, again, Your Honor, ifyou're making a distinction -- when you talk about the-- JUSTICE KENNEDY: The statute makes thatdistinction. MR. HERMAN: Well, the statute talks aboutthe less wealthy candidate. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems to me thatthat distinction is somewhat questionable, and I'masking you for your best statement of the theory as towhy it's unconstitutional and your best case to showthat it's unconstitutional. MR. HERMAN: The best argument, JusticeKennedy, is that money and speech are synonymous in anelectoral context, and it's inappropriate for thegovernment to say that you, as the purportedly wealthiercandidate, have too much speech; that that's enoughspeech from you. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you make that argumentto the statute generally. Is there any more specific argument that you can make in the context of the lesswell-funded candidate having more support from the partythan the well-funded candidate had? MR. HERMAN: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that that'sa particular vice of the statute, and I want to know ifthere is a formulation that's more precise than thegeneral attack that you made -- that you make. MR. HERMAN: I -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you clarify withrespect to that question two things: The party is notat liberty to give anything it wants. You explainedthat it would be -- it's tied to that formula. So thewealthy person could still have a lot more to spend.But the party also is -- there's no obligation of theparty to give one cent to anybody that it doesn't chooseto give money to; is that right? MR. HERMAN: No, Justice Ginsburg. Ofcourse, the party would have to make a determination ifthey felt that this person was -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the party for the lesswell-funded candidate has the option to have much closerties, much greater involvement, than the party for theother candidate; and that seems to me highlyproblematic. And I want to know the best case that you have for that proposition and the best statement of lawthat can you give me for why that is unconstitutional. MR. HERMAN: Well, Justice Kennedy, if yourefer to Colorado II, where this Court talked about thefacts that -- where this Court upheld limitations onparty, unlimited party- coordinated communications,because that -- allowing the party to do so would raisethe possibility of evading the contribution limits. Andso accordingly they upheld the -- the $, limiton coordinated communication. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you saidearlier that money is -- money is speech in this area.So I take it you think that the restrictions, otherwiseapplicable restrictions on the less wealthy candidate,raise problems under the First Amendment? MR. HERMAN: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this law easesthose problematic restrictions. It's less violative ofthe First Amendment. MR. HERMAN: It is less violative of theFirst Amendment, but, again, this Court has made thedistinction between contribution limits, which it foundwas a reasonable burden on the Constitution, andexpenditure limits, which -- which are not. This -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't limit those restrictions on your candidate. MR. HERMAN: It does not limit therestrictions. JUSTICE SCALIA: It simply makes theimposition of the restrictions uneven. MR. HERMAN: That is, that is correct. But-- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but yourcandidate isn't subject to any restriction at all onwhat he can spend and his opponent is subject to lessrestrictions. It seems to me the First Amendment comesout better. MR. HERMAN: He is -- my candidate, myclient, is subject to restrictions. The statute in itsentirety -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Why can't he go out andraise funds? Does the statute prohibit him from raisingfunds from third parties? MR. HERMAN: Absolutely not, JusticeStevens. But for many -- for many self-financedcandidates, the fact that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't it prohibit -- Ithought it prohibited him from raising funds in theamount from as wealthy donors as his opponent can now goto? Don't those limits on contributions continue to apply to him? MR. HERMAN: The contribution limits applyto him as they would to any other candidate except forhis opponent. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And he cannot have thesupport from his party that the opponent can have fromthe opponent's party. MR. HERMAN: He cannot have the same levelof support. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Not the same level ofsupport. MR. HERMAN: That's correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is party supportsometimes important in an election? MR. HERMAN: Of course, it can be vital inan election, and it can be vital for a candidate who maybe a candidate of modest means. That would be certainlyone way for them to generate support. Did he convincetheir party that they were worthy of that support? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does anything in Coloradoindicate that there can be a differential between theparty support given to one candidate and the partysupport given to the other? MR. HERMAN: Not -- only as determined bythe party's decision as to how they feel about the candidate's positions. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but they certainlycan allocate funds more generously to one candidate thananother; can't they? MR. HERMAN: They certainly have thatopportunity, but under -- under a limit, under the$, limit, as opposed to essentially an infinitelimit when you're dealing with a self- funded candidate. And incidentally, Justice Stevens, toaddress something else that you just brought up, formany self-financed candidates the fact that they don'ttake money from their party or from donors or from PACsis a significant issue for them in their campaign. Imean certainly for Mr. Davis, the fact that he isindependent and can make his own determinations -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Who is more incorruptiblethan the millionaire, right? MR. HERMAN: He is the ultimate independent. JUSTICE SCALIA: The ultimate incorruptible. (Laughter.) MR. HERMAN: You cannot corrupt yourself.And, again, the voters will get to decide whether theywant someone who is like that or they want someone whois more in tune with, say, what the party wants or withwhat his donors want. I mean, that's really the essence of our -- of our electoral system. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think -- I mean,obviously you're correct that this system benefitsincumbents, but it benefits your client in a particularway as well. The parties are certainly interested incandidates who will fund themselves because thatpresents less strain on the party's resources. MR. HERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, they areinterested in those candidates only inasmuch as they getelected. The moment that the public turns on them, theywon't be interested. And certainly the public was notparticularly interested in Mitt Romney, who spent asignificant amount of money on his own behalf, and manyother spectacular flameouts. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure we needcharacterizations of the political candidates -- (Laughter.) MR. HERMAN: I apologize. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in this forum. MR. HERMAN: Let me just add -- let me justadd one other thing. The government's own experts, allof their information is derived from an individual whois quoted as saying that self- financed candidatesrarely win, and when they do, it's usually for some other reason. The fact of the matter is they don'talways make great candidates because they're not withinthe mainstream. I'd like to reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Herman. General Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLEE GENERAL CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and mayit please the Court: Appellant's claim here is an odd sort ofFirst Amendment complaint. He does not suggest thatSection has limited his own spending at all. Infact, he has twice spent a substantial amount of his ownmoney in excess of the statutory triggers. JUSTICE SCALIA: It has penalized his ownspending. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well -- and we can talkabout that as well, but I think it's worth recognizingthat his own spending is unlimited both in theory and infact. And, if anything, he has announced his intentthis next time around to spend even more of his ownmoney. And the other thing that I think is relevant ishis experience is not atypical in this regard. JUSTICE SCALIA: That just means he iswilling to accept the penalty in the next election evenif this case doesn't come out in his favor. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't prove that itisn't a penalty. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I don't think in anyway it's a penalty. And I think in order to understandit as a penalty you have to accept the proposition thatyou start out with a constitutional entitlement to speakfreely without the opportunity for the other side torespond, and I don't think the Constitution recognizesthis. This isn't a context where they forced theAppellant to pay for the other side's speech, as inTornillo, or carry the speech, as in PG&E. And I don'tthink it's fair to look at the record here and suggestthat what Congress was trying to do here was actuallylimit or deter self-financing. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't there somethingvery -- isn't there something very strange about havingdifferent contribution limits for candidates in anelection? Do you think it would be constitutional forCongress to say that the -- the contribution limits forincumbents is X, but for challengers it's X or one-half X? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I think X would beconstitutional. And I think most people would besurprised if Congress passed the statute that gave moregenerous contribution limits to challengers, but I thinkit would be a perfectly appropriate regime because itwould recognize that incumbents have certainly built-inadvantages such that the relatively low hard moneycontribution caps have a greater influence, greaterimpact on a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You think that's really aproper function of government, to look out over thereand say, we're going to even the playing field in thiselection? What if some -- one candidate is moreeloquent than the other one? You make him talk withpebbles in his mouth or what? (Laughter.) GENERAL CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, I thinkthere's an important distinction that was suggested inone of Justice Alito's question, between the governmenttrying to level the playing field in the abstract andthe government looking out, not at the eloquence ofcandidates, but at its own campaign finance regime afterthis Court's decision and recognizing that, look, thedifferential -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But the campaign financeregimes we've approved up to now, the significantlimitations, have had an anti-corruption rationale.There is no anti-corruption rationale here. The onlypurpose of this is to level the playing field. And I amdeeply suspicious of allowing elections to be conductedunder a regime whereby Congress levels the playingfield. That seems to be very dangerous. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again, JusticeScalia, though, you start with the anti-corruptionrationale that underlies the hard money contributioncaps. And what Congress has recognized is that afterBuckley and after this Court said that a candidate'sability to self-finance is unlimited, it's recognizedthat in a subset of elections where somebody is going tospend an awful lot of their own money to self-finance,the ordinary hard money contribution caps are going tohave a potentially skewing effect. JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not just money. It'snot just money. It's the quality and kind of speech.You're saying, the government is saying, the statutesays, that the underfunded candidate has less access tocoordinated expenditures with the party than -- than theother party -- than the other candidate. And the caseshave acknowledge, the statute acknowledges, that coordinated expenditures have a particularly potentforce, and you are saying candidates are treateddifferently in the access to this kind of speech. And I know of no precedent of this Courtthat says one party is entitled to assistance from acertain segment and another party is not, based onthe -- the content of the speech. And that's exactlywhat this is. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy,what I would say is, if you analogize to a system whereCongress decided that because of the advantage thatincumbents have, there is a greater scope forcoordination of the party with the challengers, I wouldcertainly be here defending that statute. I would like to make clear, though, JusticeKennedy, in fairness, that this focus on the coordinatedexpenditures of the parties has really not been thefocus of Appellant's challenge in this case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it's in the statuteand it's part of the challenge. I agree that it's beengiven a relatively minor position, but it's of greatconcern to me because it puts this Court, it puts thisstatute, in the position of preferring one kind ofspeech over another. And we simply do not do that. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, let me say two things about the fact that this was not thegravamen of the challenge here, because one reason Ithink that's clear is if you look at the record here, atthe point that the record closed in this case no partyhad taken advantage of that coordinated expendituresprovision. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying thatargument is not properly before us when we are judgingthe validity of the statute that's been challenged? GENERAL CLEMENT: I'm saying that thisrecord would not allow you to invalidate the statute onthat ground. The record at the time that it closedshould -- there was no time that a party had takenadvantage of that. Now, I understand that it's outsidethe record, but I understand after the record closedthere were some coordinated expenditures. But another thing I would certainly want toknow before I considered that challenge, JusticeKennedy, is whether this particular Appellant hadcoordinated expenditures from his own party up to thelimit, because we know as a general matter that thereis -- parties will fund different candidates differentlyor may fund -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the provisions -- GENERAL CLEMENT: -- some and not others. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The provisions of the lawwhich prefers one candidate over the other with respectto coordinated expenditures has an impact on campaignstrategy. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, again, JusticeKennedy, in fairness, though, I mean, one would expectif that were the nature of the claim, that at a minimumwe would know two facts that I don't know, aren't in therecord. One is whether or not his candidate reached thecap from his party's coordinated expenditures, becauseif he didn't I don't see why that individual would havestanding. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Mr. Solicitor General,you're defending this statute on its face, I take it. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I am defending -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems to me thatthis is a facial invalidity of substantial proportions. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kennedy, Ialways thought it was harder to bring a facialchallenge, not easier to bring a facial challenge. AndI realized that we relaxed the normal rules aboutas-applied challenges in the First Amendment context,but I think there has to be a limit to that, too. And Ithink in a case where we don't know the fundamentalfacts that at least I'd want to know before even evaluating that challenge, I think it would be bad forus to invalidate the statute, it would be wrong for usto invalidate the statute on those grounds. And I thinkI would still be here defending it. -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that that's whata facial challenge essentially consists of. You don'tlook to see whether in fact the harmful First Amendmenteffect has occurred; you look to whether it opens up thepossibility for that to occur. GENERAL CLEMENT: But I don't think meretheoretical possibility is enough, even in the FirstAmendment context. And I still think you ask thequestion: Does this individual even have standing tobring the First Amendment challenge? And I would thinkan element of standing to bring the First Amendmentchallenge Justice Kennedy has in mind would be acandidate who, first of all, his opposing candidate tooksubstantial amounts of excess contributions. But at abare minimum, I would think that the plaintiff wouldhave to say that, look, I took up to the cap of thecoordinated contributions from my party and I would haveloved to have gotten more, the party was willing to giveme more, but I wasn't able -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't go in before theelection and say: Look, I'm about to be terribly disadvantaged; my opponent is about to have all of thesecoordinated expenses and I'm not able to. And you'regoing to say: Oh, we have to wait until the election isover to see whether in fact that happens. It seems tome this is precisely the kind of a situation a facialchallenge is designed for. GENERAL CLEMENT: With respect, JusticeScalia, there is two things. There is whether you canbring a facial challenge or not and there's when you canyou bring it. And I think if you go in and allege thatall of those things are likely, then you probably havestanding at the outset. But those allegations weren't made here.The focus of this case has always been on thecontribution levels and the contribution provisions ofthis statute. At the end of the day the analysis isquite similar, so I'm not -- JUSTICE STEVENS: Isn't one of the virtuesof the independent self-financed candidate is he canemphasize his independence? So he very rarely is goingto complain about not being able to get too much money,enough money from outside sources. And isn't it a factthat most of them do finance a very significantpercentage of their total campaign costs? GENERAL CLEMENT: I think all that's right, Justice Stevens. And as you suggest, it's an unlikelychallenge to be brought because often times theself-financer is advertising his independence from partyand contributors here. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you want us to write anopinion which says that independently wealthy candidatesgenerally have different sorts of views than otherpeople? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, I don't think that'strue. But I think that they do have different ways ofraising the funds necessary to mount their campaigns. And I think -- to get back to the focus ofthis, I think all that the Court needs to recognize isthat the Buckley decision itself has created a potentialanomaly, because if you want to think aboutself-financing, you can think about it as being theultimate form of soft money, because the Constitutionitself precludes Congress from limiting the amount ofself-funding. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, we haven'ttalked yet about the disclosure, the special disclosurerequirements in that money is speech, and in a FirstAmendment area it strikes me as very problematic thatthe government requires you to disclose in adifferential way how you intend -- when you're spending a particular amount of money and on such preciseday-by-day requirements. I mean, is there any other area -- if you'rewriting a book, you don't have to disclose to thegovernment when you're going to publish it and how faralong you're getting in the draft. And yet, it justseems this is the same sort of thing in the electioncontext. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,there are other contexts within the election area wherethere are comparable disclosure requirements. And Ithink I would point you to the McConnell case and thefact that this Court approved a -hour disclosurerequirement for electioneering communications. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But those areapplicable across the board. These are specialdisclosure requirements for people who are going toengage in additional speech. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, I mean, I'm not --I'm not sure that's right in a sense that these aredisclosure requirements that apply across the board.The timing is triggered particularly by a candidate'scontribution to their own campaign. So that's the wayin which they're different. But I think it's worthfocusing on that, because I actually think the constitutional issues that are implicated by adisclosure of a candidate's contribution to his or herown campaign are actually less significant thangenerally is true of campaign finance disclosure,because what this Court talked about in Buckley as theprimary concern in the disclosure context was theassociational rights that are reflected when somebodycontributes to a candidate or an organization makes anelectioneering communication on behalf of a candidate. I think those associational interests areobviously not implicated when all you're forcing someoneto disclose is the amount that they spent on their owncampaign. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So wouldn't youthink they would require more detailed and moreexpeditious disclosure of the associational link than ofthe self-funding? And yet it's the exact opposite? GENERAL CLEMENT: No. I would think theConstitution would be more concerned about thedisclosing the associational link because there is morethan one constitutional interest at issue. And I thinkif you look at this as a whole there really isn't adifferential regime. Every electioneering communicationfrom the first $, has to be disclosed. Ifanything, the complaint should be the electioneering communication should come in here complaining about thefact that these self-financing candidates get a freepass for the first $, of their financing, beforethe disclosure requirements kick in. So I mean, I really think this is arelatively modest disclosure provision and it arises ina context where there aren't associational interests. JUSTICE GINSBURG: The problem is it's every$,. As you pointed out, it doesn't require moredisclosure. All of this information would be disclosedunder the system without this -hour, and that I thinkis the complaint, the burden of having every time youspend $, to file something. GENERAL CLEMENT: But Justice Ginsburg, Ithink that's the same in the electioneeringcommunications, which is it's triggered for $, butI think it continues to be triggered. Now, it isn't thenature of the challenge, so I may be wrong about that,but I think that's the way that that works. In any event, I think it's a fair point herethat the fact that you trigger additional disclosureswith each $, I think is useful in informing theelectorate; but I also think it's fair to say isnecessary in order for the substantive provisions of thestatute to operate, because what they want to do is they want to enable as a self-financed candidate spendsadditional money as the election date approaches, theywant to put the opponent, if they have otherwise reachedthe cap of what they can raise in additional funds in aposition to continue to raise additional funds. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the -- whatif the restriction were more tailored, if Congressdecided the one area where the wealthy really have anadvantage is buying television time, so that's whatwe're going to restrict. If the wealthy individual buysa certain amount of television time, we're going toallow contributions to the less wealthy candidate to buytelevision time. They think the money is not as big adeal in the other areas. Would that be all right? GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it would beconstitutional, Mr. Chief Justice. I think it'sreacting to the same basic phenomenon, which is oneaspect of the campaign finance regime gives self-financers an ability to spend a tremendous amount ofmoney and creates a potential disparity. What createsthe disparity is the fact that you have relatively lowhard money contribution caps, and Congress recognized -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What if one party has moretime on his hands? He's -- he's unemployed, so he --you know, he can go around, whereas the other party has to -- has to hire people to speak for him. He has -- hehas a job most of the time. Are you going to even thatdisparity, too? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, Justice Scalia, andagain I think there's an important distinction betweentrying to level the playing field in every respect -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I can understand leveling,leveling contribution limits when you're worried aboutcorruption, I can understand that. But doing it just to-- to make sure that there is an even playing field, I-- there's just no end to that. And it just isn't moneythat makes it an even playing feed. A lot of otherfactors -- incumbency, the war chest that incumbentshave which -- money from the last election, that isn'tcounted for -- for the millionaires' provision. There are so many factors that -- that go tomaking the even playing field that I -- I'm just veryreluctant to acknowledge a congressional power to -- tosit in judgment of our elections that way. GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, Imean, in an odd way I think this principle is actuallyimplicit in the plurality opinion against -- in Randallv. Sorrell. I know you didn't join that opinion, but inthat opinion this Court said, the plurality said, thatcontribution limits can in some ways be too low because if they're too low they preclude the ability forsomebody to raise enough money and that exaggerates theadvantages that incumbents have. And I think Congressreally made an analogous judgment here. I'm notsuggesting it was constitutionally compelled, but theymade an analogous judgment, which is there is more thanone source of advantage; one source of advantage is theself-financing candidate's ability to spend unlimitedamounts of their own money. They respected the factthat that's a constitutional entitlement, but they saidit's not that in the abstract that's the problem; it'sthe combination of unlimited self-financing andrelatively low hard money contribution caps -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- GENERAL CLEMENT: -- and they relaxed theone thing that they could control, which was the cap. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what if Congressdecided that a debate on a particular issue wasdistorted by the wealth of owners of newspapers? And soit passed a law saying that people who are responding tothat are relieved of the tax burden they would otherwisehave to pay, on whatever their -- you know, sales tax onpamphlets that they want to sell. Would that be allright? GENERAL CLEMENT: I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To level the playingfield on the debate on that particular issue? GENERAL CLEMENT: I think it might be andit's not that radically different than what this Courtapproved in Ragan against Taxation WithoutRepresentation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No -- so you can tax-- you can tax a newspaper, but you cannot -- you don'thave to tax people who are responding to the newspaper? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The taxing power isan -- is a limit on the exercise of First Amendmentrights? GENERAL CLEMENT: Maybe there aredifferences in that particular context. Maybe theFreedom of Press clause informs the analysis. But thisCourt has upheld the regime that withheld tax benefitsto an organization if it engaged in lobbying; and at thesame time this Court said that it was okay to give thosetax benefits -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's any --any organization that engaged in lobbying. GENERAL CLEMENT: Yes, but the next coupleof lines of the opinion said: And it's okay if we givethose tax benefits back to a veterans organization, but only veterans organizations. So I just think what thatcase shows up is that the Court has recognized that thegovernment has a fair amount of flexibility. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is there nolimitation on the rationale of leveling the playingfield throughout the First Amendment? GENERAL CLEMENT: No, there is -- there is alimiting principle, and I think that, importantly, thereis a limiting principle that's very applicable to thisvery context, which is I think if Congress went to thepoint where they weren't doing what I think they'redoing here, which is not trying to limit the amount ofself-financing, but using it as a mechanism here toidentify particularly costly races where they shouldraise the contribution limits, if they went further andbasically said we're going to give you public financingif your opponent self-finances, and we're going to giveyou two dollars for every dollar that your opponentself-finances, I think at that point as a practicalmatter the regime would operate as a ban on -- as a cap,just like this Court held in Buckley. But I think that's the way to approach thisissue, which is to basically say if what Congress isdoing is really trying to effectively capself-expenditures, then Congress cannot do that; but if what Congress is doing is giving candidates choice andis trying to react to the regulatory environment createdby self-financing -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's trying --it's certainly trying to chill self-financing byburdening it when it reaches a certain level. GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean, I really don'tthink that's an accurate description of what happenedhere, because if you look at the legislative record here-- I know not everybody likes to do that -- but if youlook at the legislative record here, you will see thatboth parties in this, the opponents and the proponentsof this amendment, realize that they couldn't limitself-financing and that they were unlikely to limitself-financing because it's such an attractive optionfor parties and for candidates. And both parties tookit as a given that the effect of Section and itsSenate counterpart would be to put more money, not lessmoney, into electoral speech. JUSTICE ALITO: How is it that there is aserious corruption problem in most instances if acontributor gives more than $, to a candidate, butthere is no serious -- presumably Congress doesn't thinkthere is a serious corruption problem when this statutekicks in and somebody gives $, to a candidate? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, whatI would say is that what the relaxation of thecontribution limits reflects is an adjustment of otherinterests; and I don't think in principle what Congresshas done here is different from what a number of Statesdo, which is they say for the race for governor thecontribution cap limit is going to be ,; for Stateauditor it will be a little less; and for localrepresentative it will be substantially less. Now, I suppose somebody could have come inand said, look, you know, the race for governor you cangive $,; you can only give a , for thisrepresentative race, so surely that's irrational becausethe State has recognized that a contribution of $,is noncorrupting. It's not the way it's ever proceededand I think this Court's -- JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't there a difference,because it may take -- it may take more money tocampaign for a particular office, and so the -- it mighttake a greater amount to have a corrupting influence on-- on that particular race than on a race where thetotal amount spent is -- is lower. But here you're nottalking about different offices. GENERAL CLEMENT: No. But I think you'retalking about Congress using a mechanism that is equally effective in identifying races that are likely to bemore expensive. When one party is spending more than$, of their own money, that's every bit as likelyto be a more expensive race than the race for governoror State treasurer or a local representative. Andthat's why I think this is so responsive to the problemthat Congress recognized with the combination -- JUSTICE ALITO: But it applies differentlimits to different in the same -- to candidates in thesame race. So why would Mr. Davis be subject topotential corruption if he got $, -- $, from a-- from a contributor, but his opponent in exactly thesame race would not be exposed to corruption if he got$,? GENERAL CLEMENT: Well, can I say two thingsin response to that? One is it would not beunprecedented for this Court to approve a regime wherethe choices of the candidates led to differentcontribution levels in the exact same race for the exactsame office, because that's what happens in Buckley inthe public financing scheme that this Court approved.If somebody accepts public financing for the generalelection for presidency, they are effectively agree to azero contribution limit; whereas, their opponent, minorparty opponent for example, would be subject to higher contribution level. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the price ofaccepting the government subsidy. They're -- nobody isaccepting a government subsidy here. The man isspending his own money -- GENERAL CLEMENT: But one -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for a speech. GENERAL CLEMENT: But one of the prices ofaccepting the government subsidy in Buckley was to agreeto limit your own financing of your own campaign to$,. Now, their whole theory of this case is thatsomehow a benefit to their opponent is the same thing asa detriment to themselves. And it seems to me that -- Imean, the base lines here are sufficiently manipulable;the analogy is exactly the same. JUSTICE BREYER: Can you back to JusticeKennedy's question, where as I took it he identifies aproblem that he sees in this portion of this act which,should the limit be exceeded by our opponent, then wecan go to the party and the party can give us more?Now, assume for the sake of argument that he hascorrectly identified a problem with that. Now, myunderstanding is that once the limit is exceeded and youhave this extra amount, three things happen: One, an individual could contribute two or three times theamount to the party directly. A second possibility isan individual who has exceeded the global amount nowgets a bump up and can contribute. And the third thingis the party thing. So focus on that statute where this iswritten. In your opinion, if, for the sake of argument,there were a problem with the party, would thatparticular form of words in the statute be severablefrom the rest of it? GENERAL CLEMENT: It certainly would,Justice Breyer, and one thing to keep in mind ininterpreting the statute is that it has Section ofthe original BCRA -- I think we have it at page ofour brief -- is what I would describe, I think, as a"super-severability" clause, because it says not onlyare unconstitutional provisions severable, but evenunconstitutional applications of the same provision areseverable. And I think there would be no problemeffectively leaving the statute with the disclosurerequirements in place and two of the three means oftaking advantage of additional opportunities that thestatute affords challengers. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It -- GENERAL CLEMENT: So I certainly think itwould be severable. JUSTICE SCALIA: On the theory that itdoesn't make much sense anyway? Is that why -- GENERAL CLEMENT: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- we can chop it up thisway? GENERAL CLEMENT: No. To the contrary, onthe theory that this statute operates on this recordwithout that provision being implicated at all. I mean,in the first applications of this, the entirety of the election cycle, no party took advantage of thecoordinated -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I thought that -- GENERAL CLEMENT: -- contributions. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- that Justice Breyer'squestion, General Clement, was he asked you to assumethat that was unconstitutional, and you were answeringif it was unconstitutional. But there is one personwhose speech is being discouraged in the picture, andthat's the contributor to the self-financed candidate.You have to recognize that that one can't speak as muchvis-a-vis the contributors to the other candidate. GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean, I would concedethat there will be these differential limits, but it's based on the choice of the candidate to engage or not inself-financing, and -- I mean, the restriction there ismuch more substantial than the public financing schemeapproved by this Court in Buckley, because in thegeneral election if the candidate decides that it'sgoing to -- that a candidate is going to take the publicfinancing scheme then in the general presidentialelection I can't give even a dollar to that candidate. And it's also I think worth recognizing thatin Buckley this Court recognized that, forconstitutional and associational rights purposes, it'sreally the ability to associate with the candidate bygiving any contribution, rather than the amount of thecontribution, that satisfies that limit. In all events, this is not a challengethat's being brought by contributors. And I think it'sworth recognizing that Appellant, even though some ofits challenge, and I would say the gravamen of thechallenge, sounds -- his challenge sounds in equalprotection terms, he doesn't really want a leveling-upwhere the opportunity would be for contributors to bothcandidates to make triple the $ limits. He reallywants to keep the yoke of relatively low contributionlimits on his opponents. And that's why I think this issuch an odd First Amendment challenge. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the lawexpressed a displeasure at the introduction ofself-financing and said that, as you have these veryrapid disclosures, that the less wealthy candidate canaccept contributions whatever, twice the amount ofwhatever the self-financed candidate is spending on hiscampaign? Is that all right? GENERAL CLEMENT: I mean, I'm not sure Ihave the hypo. If he can spend twice as much? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he -- youknow, the millionaire, as we are talking about, spends-- discloses that he has spent $,. Then thecontribution limits are off the table for the lesswealthy candidate to the tune of a million dollars, inother words twice as much as the self-financedcandidate. GENERAL CLEMENT: If I'm understanding thehypo which we were just talking about contributionlimits, because there are no expenditure limits, if I'munderstanding the hypo right, I think that would stillbe okay. I mean, I think if Congress had decided herethat if a self-financer spends beyond a certain amount,then what is important is that then the contributionlimits would be lifted entirely. I suppose Congresscould do that, as long as they maintained what they called the "parity principle" or the "proportionalityprinciple," which is in no circumstance will theopponent be able to raise more than the amount of theadditional spending. And if your hypo is suggestingthat that would be relaxed so that they could raisetwice as much, I think that would raise more difficultconstitutional questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why not?Because as -- your point in this case, rather than thehypothetical, is that the self-financed candidate is notburdened in any way, but simply that his opponent hasbenefited. And it seems to me that would be true in thecase of my hypothetical as well. GENERAL CLEMENT: Again, if I'munderstanding the hypo right, I think you would saythere that the candidate is effectively burdened becauseif you get to the point where you're past what I wouldcall "parity" and you actually -- by spending anadditional dollar, you're allowing your opponent tospend $ additional additionally, I think at that pointa rational candidate is not going to engage inself-finance. And so in practice, the provision wouldoperate as an absolute cap, rather than the way itoperates here, which is not as a cap. And I think ifyou look at the numbers in the record, joint appendix page -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thoughtall the arguments that you gave before, like theself-financed candidate wants to be able to say hedoesn't rely on contributions and so on, those wouldstill be equally applicable. GENERAL CLEMENT: They would, but I do thinkthe statute in practice would operate quite differently.And that's why I think it's very helpful that we have arecord here in this case that we can cite to. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's not a --it's not a qualitative argument you're making but aquantitative. At some point, the benefit to theopponent gets to be too much of a chill on theself-financed candidate, but under this system you thinkit's below the line. GENERAL CLEMENT: I would put it differentlyand say we're not arguing for a principle withoutlimits, but what I would say is that we really benefithere from the fact that this Court found no standing forthe challenge to the Millionaires' Provision inMcConnell, and we have a record of actual experience. JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose we found -- we wereof the view that all of the provisions, that thebenefits given to the other side here are bad. I suppose we could even -- re-even the playing field byeither denying those benefits to the candidate opposingthe Appellant, the Petitioner here, or we could do theopposite and eliminate similar restrictions upon -- uponthe Petitioner. Do you have any idea which way we oughtto go? GENERAL CLEMENT: May I answer the question?I mean, you're right that to the extent that this saysthis really sounds as an equal protection case more thana First Amendment case, at the remedial stage you'd askthe question: Should we level up and have bothcandidates have a larger cap or should we level down andhold them both to the $ level? I would say two things, if I may. One isit's no accident that Appellant isn't asking you tolevel up because what -- they're not interested in doingadditional financing; they're really taking --interested in taking advantage of keeping the opponentdown to the $ level. The only other thing that I would say aboutthis choice between leveling up and leveling down is Iwould say that the statute that would have relaxed thecaps for both candidates would pose the same FirstAmendment issue as this statute. And so it really is,at bottom, an equal protection claim that you have before you. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, GeneralClement. Mr. Herman, you may take five minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW D. HERMAN ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT MR. HERMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. First of all, let me answer this -- thediscussion about the quote "parity principle." In thiscase, Mr. Davis was outspent by $ million, yet theparity principle would have allowed his opponent toraise another $. million. The district court hasnever answered-- never answered that flaw in thestatute. I haven't seen any explanation of how thatcreates parity when the higher fund -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where did the money comefrom? Was it a war chest left over from priorcampaigns? MR. HERMAN: For his opponent? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, because he didn't --his opponent did not take advantage of the relaxedcontribution limits. MR. HERMAN: He went into the election,Justice Ginsburg, with about a $. million war chest. And then he -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because he was just agood fundraiser? That -- MR. HERMAN: He was a chairman of the NRCC.He was an excellent fundraiser. (Laughter.) JUSTICE ALITO: Can you address JusticeScalia's question about leveling up and leveling down? MR. HERMAN: I would agree with -- with myfriend that we have no interest in leveling up. That's-- that's -- as an independent candidate, Mr. Davis isforgoing, for the vast, vast majority of his funding,contributions from private sources, and he has nointerest in fostering higher contribution limits foranyone. Let me also discuss the intent -- excuse me-- the disclosure very briefly. There has been somediscussion about how this is -- it's very similar toindependent-expenditure disclosure. It's really not. What the -- what the statute requires isthat a self-financed candidate declare, at the verystart of his campaign, whether he intends to spend morethan $,. That, as the government's briefacknowledges, has no analogue in any other disclosureprovision, and it serves -- it serves no purpose. It doesn't -- it doesn't inform the electorate of anythingother than that this gentleman is going to beself-financing. It certainly doesn't address corruption.It's simply -- simply harassment of a self-financerrequiring them to go on the record -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it advises the otherside that they should get ready to raise more money. MR. HERMAN: That's exactly right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- I mean if you sayall of the rest of the statute is okay, that's certainlyreasonable. If you're going to let the guy go above thelimits that would otherwise apply, it's useful to lethim know in advance so he can start, you know, beatingthe bushes, right? MR. HERMAN: Certainly. And then, finally,there is a reference to this -- this is the ultimatesoft money. We would submit this is the ultimate hardmoney. This is money that was raised by Mr. Davis. Heearned it. He is entitled to spend it as he wishes, andhe is certainly entitled to spend it furthering hiscandidacy. Now, if there are no further questions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank youMr. Herman. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aability :: :,:able : ::, ::above-entitled: :absolute :absolutely :: :,: :abstract ::accept : :: :accepting :,:accepts :access :: :accident :account :accurate :acknowledge: :acknowledged:acknowledges: :act :action :activity :actual :actuality :ad :,add :,additional :: ::,, ::,,:additionally:address :: :adjustment :advance :advantage :: :: ::, ::, :: ::advantages :: : :advertising :advises :affords :agree :: ::ahead :Alito : :,: :: ::, ::Alito's :allegations:allege :allegedly :allocate :allow : :: :allowed ::allowing :: :allows :alternatives:,ameliorative:amendment: : :: :,: :: ::,,,: :: :: :,amicus :,amount :: :: :,: :: :: :: :,:, :: ::, ::, :amounts :analogize :analogous :::analogue :analogy :analysis :: ::ANDREW ::, : :announced ::anomaly :answer :answered :::answering :anti-corruption:,,anti-corruptive: :anybody :: :anyway ::apologize :appearanceAPPEARAN...::Appellant :: :, :: :: :,:Appellant's: :Appellee :: :appendix :applicable :: ::applications: :applies ::apply :,: :approach :approaches :appropriate:approve :approved :: :: ::April :area : :: :,:areas :arguing :argument ::, :,:, :: :,: :: :: :: :arguments :arises :asked :asking ::aspect ::assistance :associate :associational:,,,: :assume ::as-applied :attack :attempt :attractive :atypical :auditor :automatically:,average :awful :a.m : ::Bback :: :bad : :balance :ban :bare :base :based : :basic :basically ::,basis : :,:basketball :BCRA ::beat :beating :beginning :behalf :,:,, :,: :: :believe : benefit ::,benefited :benefits ::, ::, ::best : ::,,: :better :beyond :bidder :big :bit : :board :,book :boost : ::bottom :bought :: :Breyer ::Breyer's :brief : :: ::briefing :briefly :bring :,:, ::brings :brought :: :Buckley :: :,: ::,,,: :: :: :: :,built-in :bump :burden :,: ::burdened ::,burdening :bushes :buy :buying :buys :CC : :call : :called : :campaign :: : :: :: :: :: :,: :: :: :campaigns: :candidacy :candidate :: :: ::, ::,,: :,: :,:, :: ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,,,:,,,:,,:, ::,candidates :: : ::, :: :: :: ::,,,: :: :: :: :,:, ::,candidate's :: :: ::cap : :: ::, ::, :capacity :,caps : :: :: :carry :carve :case :, :: :: :,: :: :: :: :: ::, ::, ::,cases : :categorically:cent :center :certain :: ::certainly ::,,: ::,, :: :: :: :: :,:,chairman :challenge :: :,:, ::,,:, :: :,:,,:challenged :challenger ::,,,challengers :: :: :challenges :characterizati...:chest ::,Chief :,,:,,,:, :: :: :,: ::,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,: : :: ::, :,:chill :,,: :chilling :choice : ::choices :choose ::chop :cigarette :cigarettes :circumstance:cite :cited :citizens :claim : ::clarify :clause ::clear : :clearly :Clement :: :,,: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,:, :: :,: :,: :,,:,,:, ::, ::client : ::, :,: ::clients :client's ::closed :,:closer : competitive:Colorado ::combination: :come : :: :comes :Commission ::communication: :,:communicatio...: :: :comparablecomparison::compelled :compelling:::competitivenesscomplain :complaining:complaint :: :concede :,:concern :: :concerned ::concerns :concluded :conducted :Congress ::, :: :,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :,: :,congressional:, :considered:consists :constitutes :Constitution: :: :constitutional:, :: ::, ::, :: ::constitutionallycontent :context :: :: :: : :: :contexts :continue :continues :contrary ::::contributes :contribution:, :,: :,:, :: :,: :: :,: ::,,contribute :::, ::,,:,,: :contributions: : :: ::, :: :: :contributor: ::contributors: ::,control :conversely :convince :coordinated: :,: :,:,,:, :: :coordination:core :correct :,: :: :: :correctly :corrupt :corruptingcorruption: ::, :: :corruptive:cost :costly :costs ::Counsel :counted :counterpart:couple :course :: ::court :,:, :: :,,:, ::,,: ::, :: :: :,: :,:, :: ::Court's :: ::created ::creates :,:cycle :DD :, :,: :, ::dangerous :date :Davis : :: : :: :: :: :day :day-by-day :deal : ::dealing :debate ::decide :decided :: :: :decides :decision :: :declare :deeply :defending ::, :deficiencies :Democratic :denying :Department:derived :DeRossett :describe :description :designed :: :detailed :deter : ::, :,:, :determination: :determinationsdetermineddetermining::::deterring :deters :detriment :difference :differences::different :: :: :,: ::, :, :differential :: :: ::differently :: :,difficult :directly :disadvantaged::disclose :: :disclosed :,: :discloses :disclosing :disclosure :: :,:, ::,, ::, ::,,disclosures: :discouraged:discuss :discussion ::disparity :: :displeasure :disproportion...:distinction :: :,: :: :distorted :district :: :districts :doing : ::, ::dollar :: :dollars :: :donors ::,draft :driving :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier :early :earned :eases :easier :,: :easiest :effect : :: :: :effective ::effectively :: ::either :elected :::election : :: : :,:,,,:, :: :: ::, :: :: :,:electioneering: :,: :elections ::, :electoral :: :electorate ::element :eliminate :eloquence :eloquent :emphasize:empirical :enable :enacted :enacting :encouragesencumbered::engage :: ::engaged :::enhancing :entirely :entirety ::entitled ::,entitlement: :environment:::equal : :equality :equalize :equally :: :ESQ :, :essence :essentially ::,::enhanced :,:estopped :evading :evaluate :evaluating :event :events :everybody:evidence :exact ::,exactly :: ::exaggerates:example ::exceeded :: :excellent :excess :excessive :excuse :exercise :,:expands :expect : :expeditious:expenditure: :: :expenditures: :: :,:,,:,expenses :expensive :,experience :: ::experts :explained :explains :explanation: :explicitly :exposed :expressed :expression ::extent :extra :Fface :facial :,: ::,facing :fact : :,: ::, ::, :: :,: :,: ::factors :,facts : ::failing :fails : :fair : :: :fairness ::fallacy :far :favor : :FEC :Federal : ::feed :feel :felt :field : ::, ::,,:,,:,,, : :,:, :,: :: :figure :file :filing :finally :finance :: :: :financed :financers :financial :financing :: :,: :,:find :finds :first :, :: :,: :: ::,,,: :: :: :: ::, :five :flameouts :flaw :flexibility :focus :,: ::focusing :force :forced :forcing :forgoing :form : :formula :formulation:forum :foster :fostering :found ::,four-year :free :,:Freedom :freely :friend :function :fund : :: :fundamental:funded :funding :: :,:,,:,,:fundraiser ::funds ::,,:, ::, :: :,further ::furthering:furthers :GG :GEN : ::general : :: :,: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,: :,:, :: :: ::, :: :,:, :: :,:, :: ::,,,,: :,:, ::, ::: :,goes :going :, :: ::,,: :,:, ::, :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,generally :good : :: ::generate :generous :generously :gentleman :getting :Ginsburg ::, :,:,,: :,:, :: ::, ::, :give : ::,,: ::, :: :,: :given ::, :: :gives :: :,giving ::global :go : ::, :: :: :: :gotten :government: :,:,,,,:, :: ::,,: :: : ::,governmental: :government's: :governor :: :gravamen :great : :::greater :: ::, ::ground :grounds :guess :guy :Hhand :hands :happen :happened :happens ::harassment:hard : :: :: :harder :harm :harmful ::harms :head :hear :heart :held :helpful :Herman ::, :,,:,,,:,,,,:,,,:,,,,:,, :,: :,:, :: :,:, :: ::,,,:,,,:,, ::, ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: ::,,,,:, :,:he'll : :higher :: :highly : :hire :hold :home :Honor : :: :,: ::house : :hypo :,,:,hypothetical:,Iidea :identified :identifies :identify :identifying :II :impact ::implicated :: :implicating:implicit :important :: ::importantly:imposed :imposing :imposition :inappropriate:inasmuch :incidentally:incomplete :incorruptible:,increase :increases :incumbency: :incumbent ::, ::incumbents: :,: :: :: :independence: :independent:, ::independentlyindependent-e...::indicate :indicates :indication :indifferent:,individual :: :: :,infinite :influence :: :inform :information: :informing :informs :inherent :instances :institute :intend :intended :,intends :intent ::interest ::, ::, ::,interested ::,,:,interests :: :interpretingintroduction:::,invalidate :invalidity :involvement:involves :irrational :issue :: :: ::issues :JJACK :job :join :joint :judging :judgment :jurisprudence:,:Justice : ::, :,:,,,:,,,,: :,,:,, ::,,,,: :,,: :,,:,,,:, ::, :: :,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,: :,,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,:,, ::,,:,,:,,,: :,: :,:,, :: ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: ::,,,:, ::,,,:, ::,,:,,,: :,,:,,Kkeep ::keeping :Kennedy ::,,:,,,,: :,: :,:, ::,,,:,,:,,,: ::Kennedy's:kick :kicks :kind :: :,:know : :: ::, ::,,: :: :: ::,knowledge :Lladder :larger :latest :Laughter :: ::, ::law :, :: :leaving :led :left :legislates :legislating :legislative ::legitimate :level : ::, :: ::, :: : :: ::,,, :leveling :: :: :,:, :: ::, ::,leveling-the-pl...leveling-up:::levels : :liberty :lid : :,lifted :likes :limit : :: ::,, :: :: ::, :: :,: :limitation :limitations ::limited :limiting ::,limits : ::,, ::, :: :,: :,: :: ::, ::,,: :: :line :lines ::link :,little : :lobbying ::local : :long :look : :: :,: :,,: ::, ::looking :lot : :: ::loved :low : :: :,:lower :Mmainstream:maintained:majority :making :: ::man :manipulable:match :matter : :: ::McConnell: :mean : :,: ::, :: :,: :: ::, ::, :minimum :noncorrupting: :: :: :,:,mortgaged :mount :mouth :NN :, :name :national :nature :::necessary :need :needs :never :,:,newspaper :newspapers:::non-affluent: :non-incumbentnon-incumbents::normal :NRCC :number :: :numbers ::, :OO : :objective :obligation :obviously ::occur :occurred ::odd : :office :::offices :Oh :okay :,: :once :one-half :open :opens :operate :: ::operates :: :OPFA :opinion ::,,: :opponent :,:, : :: : ::, :: : ::, ::, :: :,: :: :,:opponents :: :opponent's :opportunities::opportunity: ::opposed :opposing :: :opposite :::means :: ::mechanism: :meeting :members :mere :meritorious:million : :: :,,: ::,,millionaire: ::millionaires:, ::millions :mind :::minor :: :minutes :Mitt :modest :: ::moment :money : :: :: :: ::, :: :,: :,:,,:, :: ::,,,:, ::, : option :::oral : : :order : :ordinary :organization: :,:organizations:original :originally :ostensible :ought :outcome :outset :outside ::outspent :: :out-of-bounds:overall :owners :PP :PACs :page : ::pamphlets:parity :,:,,part : :participate :particular :: :: ::, :: :particularly: :: :parties :: :: :: :,:party :, ::, ::, ::,,,:, ::, :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,,:party's :: :pass :passed :PAUL : :::pay : :pays :pebbles :penalized :penalizes :penalty :,,:pensions :people :: :: :: :: ::percent :percentage:perception: :perfectly :permissible:person : ::, :personal :: : :personallyPetitioner :::PG&E :phenomenon:picture :place :plaintiff :plausibility :players :,playing :: :,:,,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :,:, :: :plays :please :::point : :: ::, ::, :pointed :political :,:, ::portion :pose :position :,,: ::, :positions :possibility ::, :potent :potential :: :potentially :: :power ::practical :practice :precedent :precise :::precisely :preclude :precludes :preferring:prefers :presents :presidency:presidential:Press :presumably:prevail :pre-electionprice : :prices :primaries :primary :,::, ::, ::,prior :private :: ::probably :problem :: ::, ::, ::problematic: ::problems :proceeded :produce :prohibit ::prohibited:proper :properly :proponentsproportionality::proportions:proposition :: :protected :protection ::,prove :provide :providing :: :provision :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :public :: :,:,,:,,,:, ::, ::publish :pulling :principle :provisions :plurality :: purported :purportedly:purpose ::, ::purposes :purview :put : :: :puts :,Qqualified :qualitative:quality :quantitative:quarter :quarterly :question :: :: :: :,:questionablequestions :::quite : :: :quote : ::quoted :RR :race :,:,,,: :,:,,races : :radically :Ragan :raise : ::, ::, :: :,,: :raised : :::raising :,Randall :rapid :rarely ::rational :rationale :,: :reached ::reaches :reaching :react :reacting :read :ready :realize :realized :really : :: :: :: : :: ::,,: :,: :reason : :: : :reasonable: :reasons ::REBUTTAL: :receive :,received ::recognize :: :recognized:, ::: :: :recognizes:recognizing: ::,record :: :,:,,,: :,: ::, :rectify :refer :reference :referring :reflected :reflects :regard :regime :,: :: :: :regimes :regulate :regulatory :reject :relatively :: :: ::relaxation :relaxed :: :: :relevant ::relieved :reluctant :rely :remedial :replace :reports :represent :Representationrepresentative:, :representatives: :Republican :require :requirement::requirements: :,:, ::requires ::requiring :reserve :resources :respect :: : :respected :respectfully:respective :respond :,: :responding: :response ::responses :responsive :rest : :restrict :restriction :: : :restrictions ::,,:,,,,:restrictive ::result :retirement :Reynolds ::,,re-election :re-even :right : :: :: :: :: ::, :: :,rights : :: :ring :road :ROBERTS :: :,,:, ::, ::,,: :: :: ::,,,: : :: ::, ::Romney :rules :run : :runs :SS : :sake : :sales :sanctioned :sat :satisfies :satisfy :saying : :: :: ::, ::, :says : : :: :: :: : :Scalia :,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,,: :,: :,:, ::,, :: :,:, :: :,: ::, :,: :,Scalia's :scheme : :: :,scope :seat :seats :second :secret :section :,: : :: :: :see : :: ::seeks :seen : :sees :segment :self : :::self-expenditu...self-finance:, :self-financed: : :: :: :: ::, ::, :self-financer: :: :self-finances:,self-financing: :: ::, ::,,,: : :self-funders:self-funding: :sell :Senate :senators ::sense : :September :serious :,:serves :,severable ::, :show :shows :side : :: :,: ::side's :significant: :: ::similar :: :simply :: ::,single :sit :situation :skewing :sky :smoking : :soft : :Solicitor ::somebody :: :: :: :somewhat :Sorrell :sorry :sort : :sorts :sounds :,:source ::,sources ::Souter :,: :,,:,,speak :: :speaking :speaks :special ::specific :spectacular:speech : ::,,,:,, :,: ::,,:,,: :,: :,: :: :: :spend : ::,, :: :,: :: :: :: :: :: :,spending ::, :,: :: : ::,spends : ::,spent : :,: :: ::stage ::standard :standing ::, ::start :: :: :startling :State : :: :statement ::States :,:, :statistics :status :statute :,:,,,: :,:, ::, :,: :,: ::, ::, ::, :: ::, :: ::,,,: :: :,: ::statutory :step : ::Stevens :: :,: :stifling :strain :strange :strategy :strikes :stronger :struck :subject :,: :,submit :submitted ::subset :subsidy :,,substantial: :: :substantiallysubstantiate::substantivesufficiently::suggest :: :suggested :suggesting :super-severab...::support :: : ::,,,:,, supports :suppose :: :: :supposedly :Supreme :,sure :,: :: :surely :surprised :suspicious :synonymous:system ::,,:, :: :TT :,table :tailored :tailoring :take : :: ::, :: :: :,: ::,taken : ::takes :talk : :: :talked :: :talking :: :: ::, ::talks :tax :,:,,,,:Taxation :taxing :television ::,,ten :terms :terribly :Thank : ::, :theoretical:theory :: ::,they'd :thing : :: :: :: :,: :things : :: :,: ::think :,: : :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,,: :,,:, ::, ::,,,: :,:,,,:, ::, ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,:, :: :,,:,,:, ::, ::,,: :,: :,:,,,:,,third : :thought :: :: :: :three : ::,threshold :,tied :ties :time : ::, :: ::,,,: :times : :: :timing :today :Tom :top :Tornillo :total ::totality :touch :treasurer :treated :treatment :tremendous:trigger :triggered :: ::,triggering :triggers :triple :true : ::truly :trust :,try :trying :: :: :,:,,Tuesday :tune : :turns :twice : ::, :two : :: : :: ::, :type :Uultimate :: ::,ultimately ::unconstitutio...:,,:,,: :,:,underfunded:underlies :understand ::, ::understanding: :,:undue :unemployed:uneven :uniformly :United :,:,unlimited :: :: ::,unprecedented:unquote ::unwise :upcoming :upheld ::, :useful ::usually ::Vv : : :valid : :validity :vast :,veterans ::vice :view :views :violative ::virtues :vis-a-vis ::vital :,vote :voters :,:Wwait :want :,: :,:,,: ::, ::, ::wanted :,wants : :: :: : :Washington ::,wasn't ::wasteful :way :, :: :: :: ::, :: ::, :ways ::wealth :wealthier :: :wealthiest :wealthy ::, :: :: :: :,: :,well-funded:,,went : ::, :weren't :: :We'll :we're :,: :: ::, :: :we've : :whatsoever :willing :: :win : :wishes :withheld :word :words :works :world :worried :worth :: :,worthy :wouldn't :: ::write :writing :written :wrong :: :Xx :, :: :Yyoke :Zzero :$$. :$. : :$, ::,,,$ :, :$, :,$, ::$, :$ :,: :,$ : ::$, :: :: :: :$, :$, ::$ :war : :: :$, :$, :$, ::$ :- : :, :: : : :: : :- : :X : :, : : : :: : : :-hour :: : : : :, :: : :: :: : : : : : : 