Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x JUAN SMITH, : :: No. - BURL CAIN, WARDEN : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: DONNA R. ANDRIEU, ESQ., Assistant District Attorney, New KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. Orleans, Louisiana; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ. DONNA R. ANDRIEU, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ. Mr. Shanmugam. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief In Brady v. Maryland, this Court established (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next this morning in Case -, Smith v. Cain. Justice, and may it please the Court: the now-familiar principle that the prosecution must hand over all favorable material evidence to the defense before trial. This case presents a flagrant violation of that principle. The Orleans Parish district attorney's office produced almost no relevant evidence to the defense before Petitioner's trial, and Petitioner was convicted of first-degree murder based solely on the testimony of a single eyewitness. Unbeknownst to the defense, however, that eyewitness had told the police on multiple occasions that he could not identify any of the perpetrators or, as he put it, that he would not know them if he saw them. justifies a new trial, but the district attorney's Official P R O C E E D I N G S The suppression of those statements alone Official If all of that information had been In our view, in order to conclude that doubt on Petitioner's involvement and role in the office in this case also engaged in the wholesale suppression of statements of numerous other witnesses, statements that further undermined the sole eyewitness identification of Petitioner and, more broadly, cast shootings. disclosed to the defense before trial, the jury surely would have viewed this case in a completely different light. The trial court therefore erred by rejecting Petitioner's Brady claim, and its judgment should be reversed. Petitioner is entitled to a new trial here, this Court statements of the key eyewitness, Larry Boatner. Respondent concedes that those statements were withheld from the defense before trial, and argues only that the failure to disclose those statements was not more clearly contradicted Boatner's confident identification of Petitioner at trial --need do nothing more than to consider the suppressed JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, he saw a picture. Boatner saw a picture in a newspaper, and that turned on prejudicial. Those statements, however, could not have Official MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. The basis photograph in the New Orleans newspaper of Petitioner. the light for him, right? It wasn't any police suggestion. for Boatner's identification was that he saw a It was in connection with an article describing the shootings and suggesting that Petitioner was one of the suspects in the case. And that was what led to his prior identification out of court. But just to be clear, Justice Ginsburg, we're not arguing today that the identification was somehow constitutionally problematic. At most, we're arguing that the identification was of questionable validity in light of the fact that Boatner had only a of the circumstances that led to his identification. Now, even if his identification were more clearly reliable, our argument today would be the same. In a case such as this one, in which the sole basis for linking the defendant to the crime is the testimony of a single eyewitness, and there is evidence that the single eyewitness said on multiple occasions that he couldn't identify anyone, we believe that, absent extraordinary circumstances, that will be sufficient to --JUSTICE ALITO: Well, aren't you limited opportunity to see the perpetrators and in light Official when he had been at the scene where five people that he He was lying on the floor with a big gash on exaggerating a little bit about the value of the impeachment evidence regarding Boatner? Now, my understanding is that he made his first statement to the effect that he couldn't identify anybody at the scene knew very well had been killed. his head. He was questioned at the scene, and at that time -- and this was in the evening -- he said: I can't identify anybody. But then, later that very day, wasn't it, that very evening, after midnight, he was questioned at the police station; am I correct? description of the person that he said was the one who first came through the door. So, you know, that -- I don't know -- and then later, he said he -- there were statements to the effect that he couldn't identify But in light of the fact that he did provide a pretty, you know, somewhat detailed description on the very evening of the event, doesn't that -- aren't you exaggerating when you say that he said numerous times -- MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's correct. JUSTICE ALITO: And at that point he gave a description. He did make an -- he did provide a anybody. the effect of these statements that he couldn't Official But I think more broadly, with regard to identify -- MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, it is true that Boatner provided identifying details in the later statement that night. I would respectfully submit that they were relatively limited identifying details, simply the fact that the first man through the door had a low-cut haircut and gold teeth. And as we indicate in our brief, those were characteristics shared by numerous other suspects in the case. both sets of statements at issue here, the State's explanations for those statements are at best plausible. And we really think that in a case such as this one, in which the evidence on its face is so clearly of high exculpatory or impeaching values, it takes something more than that. It is not sufficient for Respondent to argue here simply that, even taking into account these statements, a rational juror could still reach the same result and return a verdict of guilty here, because this for Brady claims is not a Jackson v. Virginia type sufficiency of the evidence standard. So, again, where you have statements that on their face are not simply statements calling a witness's Court made clear in Kyles v. Whitley that the standard credibility into question, but statements that really Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: The standard is a directly contradict the confident in-court identification, it would take an exceedingly persuasive explanation for those statements to defeat a showing of materiality. Now, with regard -- reasonable probability that the result would have been different, reasonable probability? MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, that's correct. And this Court made clear in Kyles v. Whitley that that's briefly why we think that those explanations are frankly not even plausible. With regard to the first statement to which Justice Alito referred, the statement that was made at the scene approximately half an hour after not a more likely than not standard. That is essentially the same standard that this Court has articulated for prejudice for ineffective assistance of counsel claims under Strickland v. Washington, and by now it's a quite clearly established standard. And, again, it requires something less than a showing of more likely than not and perhaps something slightly more than the showing required for harmless error under Chapman v. California. But I do want to touch upon the State's explanations for these statements and explain very initial -- officers initially responded to the scene, Official to of the joint appendix. JUSTICE ALITO: That may be true, but if you the State's argument is that Boatner was somehow too traumatized to make an identification at the time. But not only did Boatner not so testify at the postconviction hearing -- in fact he testified that he couldn't recall the statement at all -- but the very officer who took the statement himself testified at trial in this case that at the time of the statement Boatner was, quote, "coherent and articulated very well the events that transpired." And that is at pages were a juror and Boatner testified and he was cross-examined and they attempted to impeach him based on his failure to make an identification right at the scene, and he said, well, that was because five of my friends had just been killed and I was lying on the floor and I thought I was going to be shot too and I had a big gash on my head, and then a couple of hours later when I collected myself and they asked me the same and didn't say I couldn't identify anybody -- do you think jurors would just dismiss that and say, well, he couldn't identify him at the scene so he must have been lying when he identified -- when he provided a question at the police station, I provided a description description later at the police station? Official I couldn't -- I couldn't identify him. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there also an intervening -- didn't he say days after that he MR. SHANMUGAM: That is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Five days later he said: MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, I think that it's possible that a juror could credit that explanation in any retrial, though I -- couldn't identify? And that was after what he said on the night, the same night. MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct, Justice Ginsburg. But even if we didn't have the March th statement or statements, I would frankly be happy to take my chances with the jury, even with regard solely to the March st statement, in light of that testimony of Officer Ronquillo that Boatner was in fact coherent, articulated very well the events that transpired, just like any witness, and so on and so forth. our burden to show that no juror could credit the State's explanation. It's simply that we think that that explanation doesn't hold water. So, again -- -JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor -- MR. SHANMUGAM: -- we don't think that it's JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, your argument Official Number one, was the testimony mixed across their face or over their entire head? MR. SHANMUGAM: There was some degree of But you also mention other things, and Respondents spend MR. SHANMUGAM: There -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the best take on now and in your brief suggests that you're relying most heavily on the failure to provide the impeachment materials of the only witness to this crime and the only piece of evidence that ties your client to the crime. percent of their brief arguing against the other things. But I just want to clarify those other things. testimony about whether the assailants wore a mask what the evidence showed that was presented on that issue? variation in what the witnesses said. Now, in the main, we're talking, again, about statements that were withheld. And I want to lay out those statements very briefly, if I may. There were two eyewitnesses who made statements to the police indicating that some or all of the perpetrators, including the first man through the door, were wearing masks. Those were the statements of Shelita Russel and the statement of Dale Mims. Now, with regard to the statement of Shelita Russell -- and this was what we believe was the dying Official So, it is at least theoretically possible -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you declaration that she made at the scene in the immediate aftermath of having been shot multiple times -- Russell said she saw people barge into the kitchen; one had a black cloth across the face, first one through the door. something? Who determines that issue of whether that's a dying declaration? Do we determine that in deciding whether the withholding of the Brady materials was harmful or not? Do we give deference to the lower court's determination of that? Do they have to decide whether it was a dying declaration? What's the standard on something like this? MR. SHANMUGAM: The lower court did not make such a determination in this case on this or any of the other evidentiary issues that Respondent now advances, at least in part because it does not appear that Respondent advanced any of those arguments below. But I think more broadly, Justice Sotomayor, in terms of the role of this Court or any other court considering a Brady claim, this Court hasn't quite spoken to the specific issue of whether a Brady court is supposed to itself make an evidentiary determination where there's a question about admissibility, but the closest that this Court came was in Wood v. Bartholomew, in which this Official Here, we really don't think that it's a that score. That was a summary reversal in a per curiam appears that it's reasonably likely that the evidence would be admissible. Court indicated that with regard to Brady material, it either has to itself be admissible or be reasonably likely to lead to admissible evidence. And the Court's reasoning in Wood v. Bartholomew was somewhat spare on opinion. But I do think that it would be appropriate for a Brady court to make that determination itself or, at a minimum, make a determination as to whether it close question, particularly with regard to the statement of Shelita Russell, because the context of the handwritten notes makes clear that the statement was taken at the scene of the crime. Shelita Russell was taken to the hospital approximately a half an hour after the shootings occurred. She told two witnesses that she believed that she was dying. And so, under the law on dying declarations -- and I have no reason to believe that the law is any different in Louisiana from the Federal system or the other States -- that would comfortably satisfy that requirement. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, Mr. Mims was the neighbor who saw the two -- there were three assailants Official MR. SHANMUGAM: There's some doubt as to didn't say anything further other than that the masks were ski-type masks. in total, right, and two left the scene? whether or not there were three or four assailants. And Mims himself, in all candor, was a little bit inconsistent on that point. But he consistently said, both in the handwritten notes and in his testimony at the postconviction hearing, that all of the assailants, however many there were, were wearing masks and that -- that he saw them as they were getting into the car. He But the State's argument with regard to the materiality of Mims's statement is that it is possible that the men would not have been wearing masks when they entered the house to allegedly commit the armed robbery; and, therefore, the fact that Boatner saw the first man unmasked can be reconciled with his statement. And, again, we would be happy to take our chances with the jury and make the argument that that would be an armed robbery. Mims statements, I think it's important to remember that we view those statements as going directly to and contradicting Boatner's in-court identification. And exceedingly unconventional way to go about committing an And, again, with regard to the Russell and Official JUSTICE ALITO: Does the defense have any so, in some sense, we view those statements as being of a piece with Boatner's own prior statements in which he indicated that he could not identify anyone and that he did not -- theory as to why Boatner would lie about whether he could identify this individual? MR. SHANMUGAM: First of all, Justice Alito, it would, of course, not be the defense's burden in any subsequent retrial to come up with a theory of its own. The defense could simply argue, as it did at the first trial, that the prosecution simply didn't bear its burden on reasonable doubt. But --impact of your impeachment evidence would be related certainly to if a juror would ask, well, why would he lie about this? And I -- I'm just asking, would -- did the defense have any theory about what his motive would be about whether he could identify somebody, whether MR. SHANMUGAM: As this Court will be aware from its recent consideration of eyewitness evidence, it doesn't necessarily follow from the fact that an eyewitness identification is mistaken that the eyewitness was somehow lying about it. It may very well JUSTICE ALITO: But, yes -- but the -- the this first person had a mask or not? Official And, indeed, as the amicus brief of the Innocence Project explains in this case, there is a have been that Boatner made a mistaken identification in good faith out of a desire to identify the person who killed several of his friends. phenomenon known as "mug shot exposure effect," where an individual who sees a mug shot in some other context is more likely to identify that same person when confronted with a subsequent line-up. Of course, where, as here, the individual is exposed to the mug shot for the first time in seeing a newspaper article that depicts the individual in question and suggests that that individual is a suspect in the crime, it would not at all be unusual for the individual, when confronted with that that individual. said that the person wasn't masked and provided a description was long before he saw any mug shots. It questioned at the police station. MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, on the evening of the event, he provided those limited details about the gold teeth and the low-cut haircut.photograph again in a line-up a few weeks later, to pick JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but by doing that he's JUSTICE ALITO: But the first time he -- he was the evening of the event. It was when he was Official But I think it's important to realize, MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that may suggest that possible that the person somehow had part of his face details, he also made statements suggesting that he was not confident of his ability to actually make an identification. And in that statement, which is found at page of the joint appendix, he says: I was too scared to look at anybody. I wish I could give y'all a description. saying this person wasn't wearing a mask. That's the critical point. the person was not wearing a mask. Of course, it's covered. Justice Alito, that even with regard to that statement, while it is true that Boatner provided those limiting So, in some sense, we think that the focus on the gold teeth and the low-cut haircut in this case is a bit of an aside, because the question here is not whether he saw enough to support the subsequent identification; the question is whether his suppressed statements in which he repeatedly said, I can't make an identification, contradict his in-court confident identification of Petitioner. And we think that in order to decide this case, all that the Court essentially need say in an Official have concededly been suppressed, the Brady materiality opinion is that in a case such as this one, in which all you have is the identification of a single eyewitness, where you have statements in which that eyewitness said I can't make an identification, and those statements threshold is satisfied. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Am I right -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: In looking at the appendix, there are some asterisks. Were these statements were given to the defense. The only relevant -- MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. None of the statements or the surrounding materials was given to the defense at all. The only even remotely relevant thing that was given to the defense was the initial police report, statements, the first two -- the one at in the joint appendix and then the statement on March the nd, which is the one you just referred to, , were parts of those statements given to the defense counsel or none of the statements? And how long were the documents? Were they or pages? Can you tell me a little bit about that? MR. SHANMUGAM: First of all, none of those JUSTICE KENNEDY: I shouldn't have said "statements." None of the reports. Official Now, with regard to these specific record that was received from the district court at contained in a relatively voluminous document -- I believe it was an -page document -- that was a narrative prepared by Officer Ronquillo that set out everything that took place over the course of the investigation. And none of that was disclosed. which was a five-page document prepared by the officers who initially responded to the scene, with a one-page narrative of what took place. And that document, for the Court's reference, is in volume of the initial pages R to . statements, both the narrative statements and the handwritten notes, the narrative statements were court reviewed that document in camera, but we think that it is somewhat unclear what, if anything, the trial court actually reviewed in camera. There's no dispute that that document was not handed over to the defense. actually are a relatively small number of relevant handwritten notes in this case, but all of them were contained in the police files, and none of them, none of the ones at issue on which we're relying, was handed Respondent makes the argument that the trial With regard to the handwritten notes, there over before trial. Official reports? MR. SHANMUGAM: No. This Court has made So, this is not a case in which selective materials were handed over. None of this material was handed over, and that's why we really think that this is a case that involves the categorical withholding of documents and not simply the withholding of selected documents that may subsequently turn out to be relevant. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you just tell me, how does Brady work? Is there some obligation for the defense counsel to say please give me all relevant clear that a request is unnecessary to trigger the Brady obligation, and this Court has made clear in cases dating back to Brady itself that the good faith or bad faith of the prosecutor is irrelevant. And, of course, the prosecutor has a duty under Brady to hand over not only materials in the prosecutor's own possession but also materials in the possession of the police as well. cuts? suspects who had gold teeth or -- and low-cut haircuts. Three of the other individuals who were primarily in the group or gang, all of them had gold teeth and faded hair frame for this murder had those characteristics. I JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, is -- this MR. SHANMUGAM: There were five other Official shootings was withheld. These --JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, what were these --(Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: They're uncommon to me. believe that the three were Bannister, Phillips, and Young. The only other suspect who is a reasonably likely suspect who didn't was Robert Trackling, the suspect whose confession to involvement in these JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In short, faded hair cuts and gold teeth were not a unique characteristic. MR. SHANMUGAM: They were not uncommon in the s. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: These were not gold teeth that were implanted, right? They -- what was it? Some kind of a mouthpiece of gold? familiarity with this practice is perhaps not that much understanding is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry to hear that. (Laughter.) MR. SHANMUGAM: My understanding is that MR. SHANMUGAM: I have to admit that my greater than yours, Justice Scalia. But my these are gold teeth that are worn either as temporary Official had those characteristics. Justice Sotomayor, there was one thing you or perhaps semipermanent implants, and that in hip-hop culture in the s, this was relatively common. But whatever the provenance of this practice, it is undisputed on this record that multiple other suspects asked that I just want to get back to with regard to the remaining categories of evidence. I just want to set them out, and then I'd be happy to answer any questions that the Court has about them. And if there are no further questions, I'll reserve the balance of my time. As we explain in our brief, there are three other categories of evidence at issue here. There was the statement of Phillip Young, Petitioner's co-defendant, suggesting that Petitioner was not involved in the shootings. There were also the statements that would have called into question the prosecution's theory that Petitioner was one of the shooters, a theory that was essential to establishing Louisiana law. Louisiana is somewhat different from other States in that it doesn't require premeditation, but that it -- but it does require a specific intent to kill or inflict great bodily harm.the intent required for first-degree murder under JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on that point, the Official But I think that what's noteworthy with MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we don't think that that's a meaningless distinction, and we cite numerous State says that you're drawing a meaningless distinction between a hand -- a -millimeter handgun and a -millimeter automatic pistol. sources in our brief that draw precisely that distinction. regard to the statements at issue is that both Boatner, who identified the weapon that the perpetrator whom he believed to be Petitioner was carrying, and the State's ballistics expert, Kenneth Leary, who identified the weapon that was responsible for the firing of the casings at issue, conspicuously failed to say that the weapon at issue was a - millimeter handgun. But at trial their testimonies suddenly converged, and Boatner, who had previously said only that the perpetrator was carrying a handgun, said that the perpetrator was carrying a -millimeter handgun; and Leary, who said that the casings at issue had come from a machine pistol of the Intratec or MAC- type, suddenly said that they came from a -millimeter handgun instead. possessed those statements, it could have sown doubt on And so, at a minimum, if the defense had whether the firearm was in fact one and the same and, Official MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, that's right with And finally, the only other category -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'd just like to go back to that because I'm not sure I understand the argument. therefore, sown doubt on a critical element of the offense at issue. Both the ballistics expert at trial said that the casings were consistent with a -millimeter? And I know that Boatner said that it was a -millimeter that was used. And the issue was whether anybody would call a MAC gun a handgun as opposed to an automatic pistol, correct? regard to Leary's testimony. I think the thing that was a little bit odd with regard to Boatner's testimony was the sudden degree of specificity. Having said only that it was a handgun or a chrome automatic in his prior statements, he said at trial that it was a -millimeter handgun, which he had not previously said in the statements that were withheld. consists of the notes of the interview in which Eric Rogers relayed Robert Trackling's confession to involvement in the shootings. As the amicus brief of the NACDL points out, courts have routinely held that And, finally, the last category of evidence confessions by other perpetrators constitute exculpatory Official here today -- was that presented to the State postconviction court? evidence, even with regard to offenses that may have had multiple perpetrators. And we certainly believe that at a minimum the suppression of those notes, when considered in conjunction with all of the other evidence, comfortably satisfies the Brady materiality standard, and it's for that reason that we think that the judgment of the trial court should be reversed. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shanmugam, just a quick one. Was -- is all the evidence that you're discussing MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. We believe that all of this evidence was before the State postconviction court. may it please the Court: assailant who led the massacre in the small home at North Roman Street was Larry Boatner. He identified -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Andrieu. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONNA R. ANDRIEU Larry -- he identified the Petitioner after having ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Mr. Chief Justice, and The only survivor who could identify the Thank you, and I'll reserve the balance of my time. Official assailant wore his hair like this -- MS. ANDRIEU: No, it was not. I believe the -- Mr. Smith's photograph was pictured in the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does this -- was this searched the faces of individuals who were presented to him in photo line-ups, one after the other. And, yes, Justice Sotomayor, several of the -- those faces or several of those individuals bore short fade haircuts. And, yes, some of the individuals who were pictured in those photo line-ups were other suspects. The record reflects that Mr. Boatner scrutinized those faces. At one point, line-up was shown to him on March nd, and he remarked about the haircut. He said: My line-up -- was this after Boatner saw the photograph in the newspaper? Times-Picayune newspaper on June th, and this particular line-up was shown to Mr. Boatner on March nd. So, at that point, line-up , he stopped and remarked about the hair -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me why Boatner waited weeks to -- or never told the police that the face that he saw in the newspaper was the face of his assailant? I -- as I understand the facts, he says he saw the newspaper, recognized his assailant, and remained silent. Official for the delay? MS. ANDRIEU: His reason, Your Honor, is -- MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, he did. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It wasn't until they presented him with the line-up including Mr. Smith's face that he identified Mr. Smith. What's the reason it's contained most specifically on page of the joint appendix, and it is frankly that he was afraid. He -- and I think the jury would have understood that. He obviously knew what Mr. Smith was capable of. He -- I'm sure he feared -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so what turned -- what changed his mind once the police showed him the line-up? changed his mind, but he was presented with a line-up, and when he was presented with the line-up, he very quickly identified Juan Smith and said: That is him; I will never forget his face. So -- MS. ANDRIEU: That was after. And all of this, by the way, was vetted during -- during a motion to suppress hearing. When the trial judge learned or --that the photograph had been shown in the newspaper, he MS. ANDRIEU: Well, I don't know that he JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that was before or after the picture in the paper? Official not that newspaper had in any way tainted the later reopened the hearing on the motion to suppress to determine -- and over the State's objection. We argued that this was not State action. But he reopened the motion to suppress to determine for himself whether or identification of Juan Smith. JUSTICE BREYER: What is this? I mean, I thought -- I may -- I thought the issue is that there were some notes, and the first note, which was made on the day, the policeman says that Boatner said he could not supply a description of the perpetrator, other than to say they were black males. Then he said they had golden teeth and a low-cut haircut. anyone because he couldn't see faces. Then he said he'd only glanced at the first man. He couldn't tell if they had their faces covered and didn't see anyone. Then he said, I could not ID, would not know them if I saw them. And another set of police notes says he said that he murder. the prosecution did not give to the defense. So, if you were a defense lawyer, whatever this other stuff is, I guess you would have been pretty happy to have those And days later, he said he could not ID could not identify any of the perpetrators of the So, I guess those are all notes that the -- Official he could have tried to impeach him and said where did this sudden recognition come from. MS. ANDRIEU: And I can appreciate your MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, and -- JUSTICE BREYER: And so, what are -- you're saying that I guess it would have made no difference? MS. ANDRIEU: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Then I'd like to hear that notes because you might have tried to impeach his identification. because it seems on its face that it certainly could have made a difference, that if he had those notes that concern. This Court has held that favorable evidence -- well, this Court has held that favorable evidence which is not material need not be turned over to the defense. And if I could -- material? Here is the only eyewitness -- inconsistent statements. Are you really urging that the prior statements were immaterial? them in perspective. Mr. Boatner provided two JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how could it not be MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- and we have MS. ANDRIEU: Yes, Your Honor. If I may put statements -- I'm sorry. Mr. Boatner provided a Official Later, homicide Detective John Ronquillo postconviction testimony, he asked Larry -- he asked Larry Boatner for a description. And Larry Boatner said, I can't give you a description. statement on the scene, two statements the day of the incident. To a first responding officer who was not Detective Ronquillo, he gave a description, and that description was heavy built, with a hair with a fade with a little small top, with a lot of gold in his mouth. That was while he was at the scene. arrived at the scene, and apparently, according to his notes and, most importantly, according to his I'll put them all in perspective and then go back to what Detective Ronquillo and Mr. Boatner had to say about that. But in any case, Mr. Boatner's severe laceration was treated, and then he was escorted to the homicide office, where he gave his formal statement. And in that statement, part of which has been reproduced here by opposing counsel, Mr. Boatner said: I can tell face. He was a black male with a low cut, golds in his mouth. I don't know how many; that's all. I was too scared to look at anybody. All of them had guns, one with an AK; one with a TEC-. The one who hit me had a you about the one, the one who put the pistol in my chrome automatic. It was big. So -- says, I can't identify. And taken in -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does that make it not MS. ANDRIEU: You would like to have it, but would like to have that statement where he said: I could argue, presumably you did argue, that before the jury, and that would be compelling evidence for the jury. And if you were the defense lawyer, you really couldn't identify them. it's not material because, sandwiched between two descriptions -- and he's -- between two descriptions, he material? You can argue that it should be given diminished weight. But an inconsistent statement by the only eyewitness seems to me most material and useful to the defense in cross-examining the eyewitness. I really don't understand how you can -- you can argue that the jury shouldn't put much weight on it because there were these other things; but to say that it's immaterial I find that that is -- is not plausible. eyewitness but, if I understand it correctly, the only evidence against the defendant. This was the only evidence against him, this one eyewitness identification, right? Was there anything else? JUSTICE SCALIA: And not only the only Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and you MS. ANDRIEU: There was -- the Official known to each other, Juan Smith and -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- MS. ANDRIEU: -- but yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But just on the identification of Juan Smith was bolstered by evidence, by testimony of the brother of Phillip Young. The perpetrator who was left at the scene is an aphasic amnesiac. So, he established a link that the two were materiality point, I -- I just have to agree with the pistol in my face. JUSTICE BREYER: So, I take it that your -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm talking about the Boatner statement of //, in which Boatner told Justice Ginsburg. What you're telling us is that when the defense stands up and said, and isn't it true that, in this statement which you just have testified to on direct and which the police have put in on direct, you also said you could not identify any perpetrators of the murder -- and then the prosecutor says immaterial, and the judge says strike it. MS. ANDRIEU: But that's not -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just can't believe that. MS. ANDRIEU: But that's not what he says. He says: I can tell you about the one, the one who put police he could not identify any of the perpetrators of Official MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you say that's MS. ANDRIEU: That is what I mean, yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, we can forget Now, you're saying there's so much other the murder, JA -. immaterial. I find that just incredible. JUSTICE BREYER: Is it that you mean immaterial, or is it that you mean that it wasn't prejudicial because there's so much other evidence, there was no reasonable probability it would have made a difference in the trial? the word "material." evidence here against him that it wouldn't have made any argument. right. That is -- that is -- now I think I can go back to Justice Kennedy's question, put it in those terms, and say, well, why wouldn't -- this could have made a difference. I mean, here, we have this witness who said all of these great things for your side, and within a MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, I can understand that difference. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I --JUSTICE BREYER: But I don't know if it's fast-forwarding. The next -- the statement after the statement made -- the one made in the homicide office was made on March th. And at that time, Detective Ronquillo called Larry Boatner, and Larry Boatner said, I can't identify anyone. space of hours, he has been telling the policemen that he can't identify anybody, he doesn't know. I mean, what -- that sounds like there's a probability that would have made a difference. Why not? important evidence in this case is the testimony or the transcript from the postconviction relief hearing. John Ronquillo, whose notes these are, was asked about the March th statement. And I guess we are say about that -- first of all, Larry Boatner didn't remember saying that. But what Detective Ronquillo had to say about it -- and he was the person who was -- whose impressions -- about whose impressions we're many murder witnesses, was retreating, temporarily equivocating, as we wrote in brief. He was retreating somewhat from his assistance with the police. Not an -- not an abnormal phenomenon --speaking -- was that at that point, Mr. Boatner, like Based -- and what Detective Ronquillo had to Official MS. ANDRIEU: The -- among the most JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What if -- what if -- Official that excuse by Ronquillo? MS. ANDRIEU: They would, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if they were statements that I can't identify someone not have been an argument that defense counsel could have used, number one, and that had a reasonable probability of making a difference? could the jury be entitled to reject that conclusion? They have four statements by this man who Ronquillo described as very coherent, very with it at the scene of the crime. Would a jury be entitled to -- to reject And -- entitled to do that, why would the absence of four couldn't identify anyone, again. He gave two statements the day of where he described, and one statement -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At different hours. MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At different hours. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And to different officers. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, that's two MS. ANDRIEU: First of all, there were not four statements that were made where Boatner said he Official MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. Those are statements. My math is wrong? statements where he inculpated the defendant. There are two statements. Starting on the scene, there is a statement provided to the first responding officer, where he provides a description. Larry Boatner provides a description -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is a description that others, other suspects, fit. The close-cut hair, the gold teeth. That didn't identify Smith, as opposed to the other suspects who had those same characteristics. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. And those other suspects' photographs were all contained -- were contained in photo IDs -- in photo line-ups, and Mr. Boatner never selected one of them. knew that his perpetrator had gold teeth. The next time he saw Mr. Smith was at trial in court. Mr. Smith revealed his teeth, and he had gold teeth. But as far as the other suspects having the haircut or physical -- similar physical attributes -- inconsistent statement, and we can argue about whether there were more consistent statements than inconsistent The other thing is he -- gold teeth. He JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was a prior Official statements, but to say that this was not Brady material, we -- we're not saying that Larry Boatner made up a story on the stand that wasn't -- didn't conform to the truth. The question is, should the prosecutor -- should the defense attorney have access to a prior inconsistent statement? MS. ANDRIEU: And this Court has said that Brady is a reflective -- is a reflective analysis. He did not -- impeachment material, they have to be turned over to the defense. And under Louisiana law, is there are a rule that requires the turning over of statements by witnesses, prior statements by witnesses?JUSTICE ALITO: Well, can you explain how this -- how this took place? You have a case in which you're -- you're relying almost entirely on the testimony of one witness, and you have these notes that were taken by, and are presumably in the possession of, the lead investigator. Wouldn't any prosecutor ask the lead -- the lead investigator, do you have any statements of this witness? MS. ANDRIEU: Under Louisiana law, prior MS. ANDRIEU: Absolutely. JUSTICE ALITO: They have to be examined, and if there's anything in them that's -- that is Official over --Louisiana? MS. ANDRIEU: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. Not in the State of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you have to -- MS. ANDRIEU: -- guilt or innocence -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You have to supply statements of witnesses are not discoverable. But of course, under this Court's decision in Brady v. Maryland, if the prosecutor makes a determination that they would materially affect the outcome of -- statements by a witness when they take the stand, don't you? Those are immaterial? Don't you have to turn Not --You don't have to turn over witness statements when they're taking the stand? MS. ANDRIEU: No. And these statements were provided in camera. There was -- defense filed a motion for discovery, and he asked for Brady material. He where these statements are contained. claiming that the judge's failure to catch these inconsistencies excuses your Brady obligation?asked specifically for the supplemental report, which is MS. ANDRIEU: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you -- are you MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all. The Brady Official that the prosecutors never received these statements are not material? that practice. obligation is ours. In fact, we believe that that's actually a poor practice. But it is one -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Andrieu, if I could go back to Justice Alito's question, was the problem here from the police officers, or did the prosecutors make a determination similar to the kind of argument that you're making today -- make a determination that these statements simply should not be turned over because they MS. ANDRIEU: The prosecutor in this case actually turned them over to the trial court for an in camera inspection. And article -- Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure article actually provides for JUSTICE BREYER: It's so odd that -- I mean, look, it seems like here it is days after the shooting and well before, I guess, that this witness saw any mug shots or did anything. And he says, I could not the people. And now you're saying later, which you introduce into trial, his having looked at the faces of people and identified them from their faces. their faces. All right. And in Louisiana, the State of identify anyone, because he couldn't see the faces of Now, previously, he said he couldn't see Official Louisiana, the prosecution and the judges say that isn't -- you don't have to turn over that statement that he couldn't see the faces made earlier. MS. ANDRIEU: No. What he --JUSTICE BREYER: What? MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. When he's saying that he could not see the faces, he is not referring to Juan Smith. He and Detective Ronquillo testified at postconviction that he always said he could identify the one, the one whose face appeared a handgun's length from his own, unmasked, when he opened that front door at North Roman. at postconviction. And as I said, he -- give express findings of fact or finding of law, but -- JUSTICE BREYER: Perhaps the defense would have liked to say they did apply to the defendant.JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you mean all these --all these statements that we have here, you're saying, all referred to people other than the defendant. MS. ANDRIEU: Juan. Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, was there a finding on that? MS. ANDRIEU: There was -- the judge did not Detective Ronquillo put this in perspective JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't say all of them. Official JUSTICE BREYER: This was not at the scene. JUSTICE SCALIA: That applied to everyone, MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SCALIA: The one at the scene MS. ANDRIEU: To everyone. JUSTICE SCALIA: "I can't identify anyone." MS. ANDRIEU: March th -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MS. ANDRIEU: -- applied to everyone -- All of them didn't apply to the -- MS. ANDRIEU: No. The one at the scene, when he says I can't describe anyone here, clearly -- right? applied to everyone. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. JUSTICE BREYER: So, you're -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait, wait. I'm sorry. You've lost me there. When he says I can't identify anyone, Smith is out of that group already? MS. ANDRIEU: Oh, I'm sorry. No. He's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. In both circumstances, he is saying -- the first time, he's saying, I can't describe. The second time, he is everyone except Juan Smith. Official But the jury would have -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. He says, I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me. I can't heard -- JUSTICE BREYER: He says, I can't identify MS. ANDRIEU: Anyone. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MS. ANDRIEU: And the jury would have saying, I can't help you; I can't identify everyone. can't identify -- identify everyone or everyone? anyone because I couldn't see faces. Okay? That's what it says here, at least in my notes that my law clerks gathered. And -- point then is this seems very odd, I mean, really unusual that in the State of Louisiana that they have some kind of system that doesn't turn that statement judge under article for in-camera inspection. the record? I --(Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: All right, I -- and my over to the defense. MS. ANDRIEU: It was turned over to the JUSTICE ALITO: Where's that reflected in MS. ANDRIEU: That's on October st of Official JUSTICE ALITO: What you said in your brief now were examined by the judge before--contains no Brady material. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Mr. Smith -- JUSTICE ALITO: I didn't understand the . There is a hearing. was that the judge determined that the supplemental report relating to the North Roman Street murders record to be that all of Boatner's statements -- that all the statements of Boatner that we're concerned about st, . The -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And is it the view of the prosecutor's office that because those materials were over to the judge, that that obviates the Brady obligation? MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: -- trial? MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: And the record reflects that MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all. JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that the view of the where? MS. ANDRIEU: The transcript of October turned over to the judge, assuming that they were turned prosecutor's office? Official MS. ANDRIEU: Not at all. We believe it's a JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did you concede there was MS. ANDRIEU: No. If the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're telling the Court MS. ANDRIEU: Did we concede? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you now concede-- MS. ANDRIEU: No. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- there was a Brady bad practice. But it is -- a Brady violation in this case? violation in the case? that this should have been kept from the defense, all of it? MS. ANDRIEU: Under this --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under Brady. MS. ANDRIEU: -- Court's decision in Kyles, I believe a prudent prosecutor would have disclosed it. I do not -- good practice. under our holding in Kyles? MS. ANDRIEU: No. But -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, is there a violation JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Kyles is a decision saying what the prosecutor must disclose, not it's a MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. MS. ANDRIEU: No, there is not. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, explain why what is on its face seemingly inconsistent statements are not Detective Ronquillo had to say about that is dispositive. And he said, at that point Larry Boatner was withdrawing from -- he was afraid -- he was withdrawing from police assistance. violation under our holding in Kyles? required to be turned over. MS. ANDRIEU: With regard to the March th statement where Larry Boatner tells John Ronquillo at that point, I can't identify anyone, what Mr. -- what earlier that a jury would be entitled to reject his conclusion. All right? Tell me what -- how his conclusion makes it non-Brady if a juror could decide differently. testimony is pivotal because there is a petition that's filed with attachments, with exhibits. That is what gets, and that is what got, Mr. Smith his day in court, his four-day postconviction hearing testimony -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand how he becomes the arbiter of what's Brady. You said to me MS. ANDRIEU: The -- the postconviction Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a Brady postconviction hearing. Larry Boatner took the stand. Official those are -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There are two components MS. ANDRIEU: There is not. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Should they have been What Larry Boatner had to say and what John Ronquillo had to say -- because after all, these are John Ronquillo's notes -- I think they are important. And I think they're important in a Brady analysis because to Brady. Should they have been turned over? And if they had, is there a reasonable probability of a different outcome? turned over? That's the question that I think my colleague asked you, and you're saying no. bit too close to the wind, but a prudent prosecutor would have. I also think that -- articulate what legal theory --MS. ANDRIEU: Because it -- because Mr. -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would say these are not -- these are not materials that needed to be turned over, when they say: Could not ID; would not know them if I saw them; can't tell if had faces covered; didn't MS. ANDRIEU: No. I believe that a prudent prosecutor would have. I believe we're tacking a little JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Now see anyone. That's one of the notes. The other one: I Official What makes any of those statements -- MS. ANDRIEU: If Mr. Boatner could not identify anyone, Mr. Boatner would not have viewed MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me why they didn't on their face constitute Brady materials that needed to be turned over. What's the legal principle that doesn't make them Brady? don't know how many, that's all; I was too scared to look at anybody. And -- lineups. When the lineups were presented to him -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is all a jury argument. presented -- if those statements had been presented to defense -- or presented to a jury, the -- the outcome would have remained the same. The jury -- you know? How can you possibly know? The jury is supposed to decide on the credibility of this witness. There's a statement that he made a prior inconsistent statement. The -- Mr. Shanmugam outlined five categories of what he called Brady material. Is -- are you maintaining that none of those categories, that there was no Brady material at all in this case? MS. ANDRIEU: Because if they had been JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you know? How do Official MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. You're speaking of the sure if the Charity Hospital's medical records of MS. ANDRIEU: Shelita Russell. Well --JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Young and the snitch, JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. Well, I'm -- I'm not the one who said that his cellmate told him that his cellmate was the perpetrator. other pieces of evidence? Mr. Boatner are still being urged to this Court as -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm talking about Mims and -- what was the woman's name? Russell? never made a dying declaration. What the defense is declaration are words and dashes of Detective Ronquillo written at some point where he -- written at some point -- specific facts of finding or law. The judge -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And how about Mims? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because it was not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was it a determination by the judge that it wasn't a dying declaration? MS. ANDRIEU: The judge, again, did not make MS. ANDRIEU: Well, to be clear, Ms. Russell presenting to this Court as evidence of a dying Official transposing two very different things. And so, that's incorrect. MS. ANDRIEU: And I'm sorry, Justice because it was not turned over. And with all respect, I think you misspoke when you -- you were asked what is -- what is the test for when Brady material must be turned over. And you said whether or not there's a reasonable probability -- a reasonable likelihood -- pardon me -- a reasonable probability that the result would have been different. That's the test for when there has been a Brady violation. You don't determine your Brady obligation by the test for the Brady violation. You're Ginsburg, your -- Shelita Russell did not give a dying declaration. The notes are -- MS. ANDRIEU: And that information -- Dale Mims testified at postconviction. He testified he did not see the assailants arrive. He did not see them -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But isn't it most unlikely, as your -- as Mr. Shanmugam said, that robbers -- I mean, the people who are entering, Mims, who said, I saw them -- I saw the perpetrators go to their car when they were exiting. They had ski masks. JUDGE GINSBURG: All right. Let's go to intruding on another's premises to rob, or whatever else Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is that maybe -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought -- I'm MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. So worried that the car MS. ANDRIEU: And it's plausible that Mr. Boatner -- I'm sorry -- that Mr. Smith masked they're going to do, would wear masks going out but not going in? I mean, they don't want anybody -- they don't want anybody to be able to identify them. himself upon escape after -- sorry. I thought the idea was they were going to kill everybody who might have seen them inside. Their only worry would be someone who would see them outside, right? that they arrived in had no license plate. They were ever consider just confessing error in this case? a bunch of time to think about it. You know? We took cert a while ago. I'm just wondering whether you've ever considered confessing error. MS. ANDRIEU: Your Honor, we believe that we have an argument that these statements of Larry Boatner definitely looking not to be identified. JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Andrieu, did your office MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry. JUSTICE KAGAN: Did your office ever consider just confessing error in this case? You've had Official So, the suggestion that he said at one JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're taking that several occasions, and he ultimately identified him, and are not material. The other evidence that Mr. Shanmugam has put before this Court were either not suppressed or not favorable. The -- Larry Boatner gave several -- he -- he did describe Juan Smith. He described him on he identified him after scrupulously viewing line-ups. point -- because he's equivocating because his name is on -- his name, address, contact information are on the police report. It is not a surprise -- and I don't think it would be a surprise to Orleans Parish jurors -- to find that, early in an investigation, a murder witness equivocates. He -- judgment away from the jury. There was a prior inconsistent statement. Shouldn't that be the end of it? A prior inconsistent statement, one that is favorable to the defense, has to be turned over, period. I thought was what Brady requires. MS. ANDRIEU: And in this case -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- may I suggest that -- MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- you stop fighting as to whether it should be turned over? Of course, it should Official MS. ANDRIEU: Well, I -- and I actually case, perhaps, but surely it should have been turned MS. ANDRIEU: Made a difference. Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and that's a closer have been turned over. I think the case you're making is that it wouldn't have made a difference. over. Why don't you give that up? thought I had when I said a prudent prosecutor would, but in making a sort of over-the-shoulder, rear-window Brady analysis, I don't think that these statements -- that the statements made to -- the statement made to Ronquillo at the scene where he's all shook up and he says, I can't describe anybody; then he goes to the hospital, gets his severe laceration taken care of -- MS. ANDRIEU: I'm sorry? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You read Cullen. MS. ANDRIEU: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You read the dissent in Cullen. There has been serious accusations against the practices of your office, not yours in particular but prior ones. It is disconcerting to me that when I asked you the question directly should this material have been turned over, you gave an absolute no. It didn't need to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, my worry is the following: You've read Cullen. Official MS. ANDRIEU: And I think I misunderstood JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the second prong be. It would have been prudent, but it didn't need to be. That's really troubling. your question -- I think I misunderstood your question. Should it have been turned over? Yes. Now that we are here years later, and the Court is making -- of Brady. I said there were two prongs to Brady. Do you have to turn it over, and, second, does it cause harm. And the first one you said not. That -- it is somewhat disconcerting that your office is still answering equivocally on a basic obligation as one that requires you to have turned these materials over -- MS. ANDRIEU: If -- if I may explain. I obviously misunderstood your question. Present-day prosecutors -- oh, I'm sorry. May I -- MS. ANDRIEU: We would have -- today we turn all of this over. Our only concern is redacting victim information, identifying information, so that -- for MS. ANDRIEU: Your Honor --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- whether it caused victims' safety. But it -- it should have been turned CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can, very briefly. harm or not. Official Justice. Just three very quick points. First of all, REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MS. ANDRIEU: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shanmugam, over. I guess what I was addressing or attempting to address was the materiality prong of Brady. minutes. with regard to Larry Boatner's statements on March the th, Justice Breyer, you'll be happy to know that your law clerks' notes were correct. Boatner on March the appendix -- could not ID anyone because couldn't see faces; can't tell if had faces covered; didn't see anyone; would not know them if I saw them. (Laughter.) MR. SHANMUGAM: It is quite clear that that statement applies to all of the perpetrators. The State advances the argument today, as it did in its brief, that Boatner must have been too scared to cooperate by th said -- and this is at page of the joint JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not surprised they're correct. Official looking for Petitioner after seeing his photograph in that the -- that all of Boatner's -- all the notes about Boatner's statements were turned over to the judge before trial for in camera inspection? March the th, but that is utterly belied by the record in this case. Boatner continued to cooperate with the police investigation in the following weeks, reviewing police line-ups. He even testified that he wanted to go the New Orleans newspaper, pages and of the joint appendix. He didn't leave New Orleans until June, months later, and he actually returned to New Orleans before Petitioner was even apprehended. So, again --JUSTICE ALITO: It is your understanding Respondent cites the transcript from October st, , a transcript that wasn't even prepared until after cert was granted in this case. transcript what the court reviewed. And, of course, even if the court had made an in camera determination, it would no way -- in no way affect our claim after the fact here. It's clear that the court reviewed something, but it is entirely unclear from that MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, it is entirely unclear based on this record. Counsel for My second point: The State today for the Official first time says, in response to the question from Justice Scalia, that there was more evidence here linking Petitioner to the crime and relies on the testimony of Eddie Young, the brother of Phillip Young, the individual who was found at the scene. But the sole substance of that testimony was that Phillip Young knew Petitioner. And we would respectfully submit that that is scarcely inculpatory, and if it was, anyone in New Orleans who knows a felon ought to be worried. And, therefore, we really don't think that that adds anything to the evidence in this case. The sole evidence linking Petitioner to the crime was the statement -- the testimony of Larry Boatner. the language in this Court's cases in Kyles and Agurs suggesting that prosecutors should err on the side of caution. That is part of the constitutional standard because, after all, the materiality requirement is part of the requirement for a constitutional violation under Brady. But all of the evidence at issue here, including Boatner's statements, was withheld from the defense, leaving aside this question of what the trial court may have reviewed in camera. And the prosecutor's conduct in this case, with all due respect to Ms. Andrieu, was not, quote, "a Third, there has been some discussion about Official judgment should be reversed. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the no real ambiguity about what that standard requires, and Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, little too close to the wind." The Orleans Parish district attorney's office acted with flagrant disregard for its obligations under Brady in this case. The Brady standard has been around for half a century. There is we think that the conduct in this case was in fact egregious and clearly violated that standard. We think that the trial court erred by rejecting Petitioner's Brady claim, and for that reason, we think that its counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial articulate : based : : aphasic : apparently : articulated : appear : APPEARAN... : : aside : A ambiguity : amicus : : : : : : : : apprehended applied :, access : account : accusations acted : action : address : applies : apply : : appreciate : : absence : absent : absolute : Absolutely appeared : appears : appendix : : :, : : : ability : able : abnormal : amnesiac : analysis : above-entitled : : Andrieu : : :, : : :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :,, : :, :,, :, : :, : :,,, :, :, appropriate :, : :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, argued : : :, : :, argues : : :, : :,, :, : argument : :,, :, : :, :,, : : : :, : :, : : : :,, :,,, : : : : : : : :, addressing : adds : admissibility admit : advanced : advances : : : arbiter : argue : affect : : afraid : admissible : approximately : : :, : : : another's : answer : answering : anybody :, : : : : : : : :, : arguments : armed :, arrive : arrived : : article : : :, : aftermath : ago : agree : Agurs : AK : Alito : : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : Alito's : allegedly : : : basic : basis :, bear : : :, : :, : : : asking : assailant : :,, assailants : : :, : asked : : behalf :, :,, : : : belied : believe : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : believed : assistance : : : Assistant : assuming : best : : asterisks : attachments big : : : : : attempted : attempting : attorney : bit : : : : : : black : : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, :, : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : Boatner's : : : : aware : a.m : : B back : : : : : : bad : : balance : ballistics : : : Bannister : barge : Bartholomew : : : :, :, : attorney's : Boatner :, : : : : attributes : arguing :, automatic : :, : : Official : : : : :, : call : Cain : : California : bodily : bolstered : bore : Brady : : camera :, called : : : calling : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : : :, : : :,, Breyer : :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, brief : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : candor : capable : car : : : care : carrying : :, case :, :, :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, : :,, cases : : casings :, chances : changed : : : Chapman : characteristic : characteristics : : : : Charity : Chief :, :, : :, : : : : :,, : chrome : : circumstances :, : : : claiming : claims : : clarify : clear : : : : :, : : : clearly : : : : : : clerks : : briefly : : cast : catch : categorical : broadly : : categories : : :, : : : brother : : built : bunch : burden : :, BURL : C C : : category :, client : close : cause : caused : : : caution : closer : closest : cellmate : close-cut : century : cloth : cert : : Code : coherent : certainly : : : : : : concerned : conclude : conclusion : cite : cites : claim : : conduct : :, : continued : contradict : : contradicted : confessing : contradicting : : colleague : collected : come : : : comfortably : : commit : committing : common : compelling : completely : components : consistent : : consistently : consists : conspicuously constitute : : : constitutional :, constitutionally : contact : concede :,, contained : concededly : concedes : concern : : : :, : contains : context : : :, confession : : confessions : confident : : :, conform : confronted : : conjunction : connection : consider : :, consideration : : : considering converged : convicted : cooperate : : correct : : : : : : : :, correctly : counsel : : :, : : : : : : :, Counselor : couple : course : : : : considered : : : : : : court :, : : :, : : :, :,,, :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : courts : court's : : : : : : covered : : : : co-defendant credibility : : : credit :, crime : : : : : : :, Criminal : critical : cross-examined cross-examini... Cullen :, : : : : culture : curiam : cut : cuts : : DD :Dale ::dashes :dating :day : : : ::days :,: :decide :: ::deciding :decision ::,declaration ::, : :, : declarations:defeat :defendant :: ::,defense :,: :,:,,:,,,: :: :,: :,: ::, : : :: :: ::defense's :deference :definitely :degree ::delay : Detective :, district : : :, : :, : : determination :,, :, : :, : : :, : : document : :,,, : documents : :, doing : determine : DONNA : :, : : : determined : door : : determines : : : difference : : : :, : : : :, doubt : : : : : different : : draw : equivocally: equivocates: equivocating: : Eric : err : erred : : error : : :,escape : escorted : ESQ :, : :,essential : essentially : : established : : : establishing: Official : : : depicts : describe :, disclosed : : : disconcerting : : discoverable described : : : describing : description : earlier : : early : Eddie : effect :,,: :, : : : : : :,,, :,, descriptions :, desire : detailed : details :, : : : egregious : either : discovery : discussing : : : discussion : element : dismiss : engaged : entered : dispositive entering : entire : entirely : : dispute : disregard : dissent : distinction : entitled : :,:, :,, : drawing : due : duty : dying : : : : :,, : :, differently : diminished : : :, evening :,:,, : :,: event : : direct :, D.C :, directly : : : disclose : EE : :, : events : : everybody: Official evidence :, eyewitnesses : G : finding :, G : gang :findings : gash : : firearm : gathered :firing : getting : first :, : Ginsburg :: : : :,,: : : ::,, :, : :, : : :,: :, : :: : :,,,: : : :,: : : :: : :first-degree : : give : : fit : five : : : : : five-page : flagrant : : floor : : focus : follow : following : : forget : : :: :: :given :,:, : glanced :go : : : :: :,:goes :going : : :,,,gold : : : formal : forth : found : : :,:,,,: :,:,: golden :four : :, golds :: four-day : frame : frankly : : : friends : granted :great :good : : ::: front : further : : : greater :group ::guess :,: : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :,, : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, evidentiary :, exaggerating examined : exceedingly : :, : : exculpatory : : excuse : : excuses : exhibits : exiting : expert : : explain : : : : : explains : explanation : :,, explanations : :, exposed : exposure : express : extraordinary : eyewitness : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : Fface :,: :: :,:, : : : : : : faces :,, :, : :,, :, : : :, fact : : : : : : : : : : : : facts : : fade : : faded : : failed : failure : : : : faith : : : familiarity : far : fast-forwarding : favorable : :, : : feared : Federal : felon : fighting : filed : : files : finally :, find : : : :guilt :guilty :gun :guns :Hhair : : :, : :haircut :: :: ::haircuts :half : : hand : : handed :,:,handgun ::,,,:,,handgun's::::handwritten: ::,,happy :: :: :harm ::,harmful :harmless :head : : hear : : ::heard :hearing : : : :: ::,heavily : Official : : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :,, : : : : indicate : indicated : : indicating : individual : :,,, :, : identifying :, individuals heavy : held : : : help : high : hip-hop : hit : hold : holding : : home : homicide : : : Honor : : : : : : hospital : : Hospital's : hour : : hours : : :, house : I ID :, : : idea : identification :, :,, :,, : :, : : : :,,, :, : : : : identified : :, : : :, : : :, identify : : :,, : :, :, :, : :, : IDs : immaterial : : : :, : immediate : impact : impeach : :, impeaching : impeachment : : : : implanted : implants : important : : : : : importantly : impressions :, incident : including : : : inconsistencies : inconsistent : : : :, : : : :, incorrect : incredible : inculpated : inculpatory : : : issues : JJA :Jackson :John : : : :,joint : : : :: :Juan : : : :,:, : :judge :: :: :,:, : :, : :judges :judge's :judgment :: ::June : : juror : : :, : :jurors ::jury : : : ::,, : : :,: :,:, : Justice :,: :,: : :, : :,,:,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : :,: :,: :,: :,: : :,,,:,,:,,,:, : :,,,:, : :,,,: :,:, : :,,,:,, : :,,,:,,,,:,,,:,,,,: :,:,,,:,,,,:, : :, : :,,:,,:,,,:, : : :,:, : :, : :,,:,,:,,,: :,: : justifies : KK : :, : :KAGAN :: :: :,, ineffective : inflict : information : : : :, initial : : : initially : innocence : : : inside : inspection : : : intent :, intervening : interview : Intratec : introduce : intruding : investigation : : : investigator :, involved : involvement : : : involves : in-camera : in-court : : : irrelevant : issue : : :, : : :,:, : Official :, : Laughter : :, : : : long : : masks : look : : misspoke : :,,, mistaken : : : : : : length : know : : Let's : KANNON : :, : : KENNEDY : :, : :,, : :,, :, : Kennedy's : Kenneth : kept : key : kill : : killed : : kind : : : : kitchen : knew : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, : :, known : : knows : Kyles : : :,, : : L laceration : : language : Larry : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : law :, : :, : : : : lawyer : : lay : lead : : :, learned : Leary :, Leary's : leave : leaving : led :, : left : : legal : : license : lie :, light : :, : : : liked : likelihood : limited : : : limiting : lineups :, line-up :, :,,, :,,, line-ups :, : : : link : linking : :, little : : : : : : : : : looked : looking : : : lost : lot : Louisiana : : :, :, : :, : : low : lower :, low-cut : : : : : lying : :, : MMAC :machine :MAC- :main :maintaining: making : : :, : male : males : man : : : : : March :, : :, :, : : :, : Maryland : : mask : : :, masked : : massacre : misunderstood material : :,, mixed : : : :, : months : :, : morning : :, : motion : : : :, : :, : motive : mouth :, : : materiality : mouthpiece : : : : : : mug :,, : : : materially : multiple : materials : : : : : : : :,, : : : : math : matter : : mean : : :,,: : : : : : meaningless:,medical : men : mention : midnight : millimeter : Mims : : :,:, : : Mims's : mind :,minimum : : : minutes : murder : : : : : : : : murders : NN :, : NACDL :name : : :narrative :,:,necessarily:need : : : ::needed ::neighbor :never :: :: :new : : : : :, : : Official officer : : part : : : :, policeman : policemen : poor : possessed : particular : photograph : possession : :, :, : : phenomenon : : Phillip : : :, Phillips : photo :, : :, : : photographs physical : : : pick : picture :, : pictured :, piece : : pieces : pistol :, : : : pivotal : place :, : plate : plausible : : : : please : : : point : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : points : : police : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : possible : : : : possibly : postconviction : : : : : : :, :,, : practice : : :, :, practices : precisely : prejudice : prejudicial : premeditation: : premises : prepared : : : presented : : : :,,:,,,presenting: presents : Present-day: presumably: : pretty : : : : newspaper : offense : offenses : : : :,,, office : : : : paper : : : : : :, : pardon : : Parish : : : : : : : night : :, non-Brady pages : : : North : : : note : notes : : :,, : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : officers : : : : oh : : : Okay : particularly : : parts : people : : :, : : :, : : percent : once : period : ones : : perpetrator :,, : : : : perpetrators : noteworthy : one-page : opened : November : now-familiar opinion : : number : : : numerous : : : : opportunity opposed : : : order : : opposing : oral : :, : : O O : : objection : obligation : Orleans : : : : : : : obligations : ought : obviates : obviously : outcome : : : : occasions : : : occurred : October : : : outlined : outside : over-the-shou... : P: : : : : : :, : : person : : :, : :,, : persuasive : petition : Petitioner : : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : : perspective :,, : : : : : odd : : P : : page : : Petitioner's : Official previously : : : primarily : principle : : : prior : : : : : :, : : :, : probability : : : : : : :, problem : problematic : Procedure : produced : Project : prong : : prongs : prosecution : : : : prosecution's : prosecutor :, : :, : : :, :, : prosecutors :, : : prosecutor's : :, : provenance : : provide :, provided : :, : : : :, : : provides :, : prudent : :, : : put : : :, : :, : : : p.m : Qquestion :: :: ::, : : :: :: :,: :,questionable:questioned :: :questions ::quick : : quickly :quite : : :quote : : RR : : : :rational :reach :read :,:real :realize :really :,: :: :,: :rear-window rejecting : : : reason : : :, : reasonable :, : : : : :,, reasonably : : : reasoning : REBUTTAL : : recall : received : : recognition : recognized : : : related : relating : relatively : :, : relayed : relevant : respectfully : responded : : : Respondent : : : : :, : : : :, : Respondents :, : reliable : relief : relies : relying : : : : remaining : remarked : : remember responding : : response : responsible: : retreating : : retrial : : remained : result : : reconciled : record : : remotely : : : return : returned : reopened :, revealed : repeatedly reversal : reversed : : : : : : :, : : report : : : : records : redacting : reference : referred : : : referring : reflected : reflective :, request : reflects : reports : reproduced : : : regard : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : regarding : reject :, require :, required : : : requirement : :, requires : : : : : reserve : respect : : : reviewed : : :,: reviewing : right : : : :: :: :: :: :,: :: :rob :robbers :robbery :Robert :::ROBERTS : Official : : says : : semipermanent : : :, sense : : : :, serious : :, : set : : :, : : :, : sets : : severe : silent : similar : : simply :,, : :, : : single : : : : Shanmugam : ski : ski-type : slightly : : :, : small : :, : : : : :, : : :, : Smith : : : : :,, : :, : :, :,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : snitch : sole : : Smith's : : scene :,, :, : : : : : : :,, : : : :,, : Shelita :, :, : : : shared : score : scrupulously shook : shooters : shooting : shootings : :, : : solely : : standard : somebody : : :,,somewhat : : : : : :,,: : : : : Scalia :, :,, : : : :, :,, :, : : scarcely : Ronquillo's : scared : routinely : : : rule : : Russel : Russell : : : :, : : : : :, : Rogers : role : : Roman : : : Ronquillo : : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : R : S S : : safety : sandwiched : : scrutinized : satisfied : searched : satisfies : second : satisfy : :, : saw : :, see : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : saying : : seen : : : sees : : : selected : :, : : : seemingly : seeing : selective : : : : : : : : short : : : :, shot : : :,, :, : : :, shots : : :, : sorry : : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, : : show : showed : sort : Sotomayor showing :, shown :, : : : side : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :,,, : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, sounds : sources : sown : : space : spare : speaking : : specific : : : : specifically : : specificity : spend : spoken : stand : : stands : Starting : State : : : : : : : : : statement : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,:, : : :,: :,:, : :, : Official submitted : : :, : survivor : suspect : :,, testify : testimonies : suspects : : testimony : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : subsequent : : : : : : : suggest : subsequently sufficiency : sufficient : substance : sudden : statements : :,,,, : :, :,,, :, :, : :, suddenly : :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, summary : : :, supplemental : :, : :, : : : :, supply : : : : suggesting : : : : suggestion : suggests : : : : : support : supposed : States :, : : : State's : : suppress : : : : : : station : : : : stop : stopped : story : Street : : Strickland : strike : stuff : submit : : :, suppressed : : : : suppression : : : Supreme :, sure : : : surely : : surprise : : surprised : surrounding : : : :, :, system : : TT :,tacking :tainted :take : : : :: :taken :,: ::takes :talking :: :TEC- :teeth : : : :,:,,: :,:,,tell : : : :: :: :: :telling :: :tells :temporarily:temporaryterms :::test :,,testified :,,: ::, : : : : :, : : times : : Times-Picayune : today :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :,, : :,, :, Thank : : told : : : : : top : total : touch : theory :, theoretically : : :, Trackling : : Trackling'sthing : : : : : things :,, : : : think :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, : :,, Third : thought : :, :, : : three : : : : : : threshold : ties : time : :, transcript : : :,: transpired : : transposing: traumatized : treated : trial :,,:,,,: : : :,,: :,: : : : :, : : : : tried :, trigger : troubling : true : : : : truth : Tuesday : turn : : work : worn : worried : : : wouldn't : : : : Xx :,Y years : Young : : :: :,,y'all : st : :- : : :: : : : : : : : : : : :s : : :,:: : : :, turned : unusual : : : urged : : : urging : : :, : :, useful : utterly : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : turning : two : : v : :, : : :,, : : : V U type : : ultimately : Unbeknownst Whitley : : wholesale : wind : : weight :, We'll : we're :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : validity :value : values :variation :verdict :vetted :victim :victims :view : : wish : : :, withdrawing viewed : : viewing : withheld : violated : : : violation : : : :,, : withholding :, : : :, Virginia : witness : unconventional volume : : : voluminous :, : : : : : witnesses : : : : :, : undermined : understand : : :, : : : uncommon : unclear : :, :, : : : : Wwait :,waited :want : : : :,:, wanted :WARDEN :Washington :: :wasn't : : : :: : : understanding : :, : understood : undisputed : unique : United :, unmasked : : unnecessary Official : : : water : way : : weapon : :, wear : wearing : : :, worry : :, :, written :,weeks : : : wrong : wrote : witness's : woman's :wondering : : Wood : :nd : :word : :words : nd :,wore : : : : : : - : : : : : // : : :st : : : : : : : : : : :th : : : :: :,:th : : : :, : : -page : :-millimeter:,,,:,, : 