Official v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Tuesday, February , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x KOUICHI TANIGUCHI, : : No. - : KAN PACIFIC SAIPAN, LTD. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioner. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ. DAN HIMMELFARB, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FRIED: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Saipan, Limited. Mr. Fried. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, Kouichi Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Our brief lists six categories of authorities demonstrating that the work of an interpreter under U.S.C. section () is limited to spoken communication. Primary among these is the afford simultaneous or consecutive spoken interpreter services. When the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I make sure that I understand the extent of your argument? Are you saying that it's interpretation, oral interpretation, just in the courtroom? MR. FRIED: Well, Your -- Justice Sotomayor, I think that it's a -- that there is a textual ambiguity in the statute about the extent of covered spoken Court Interpreters Act itself, whose central provisions interpreter services. One could argue it either way, Official MR. FRIED: Court-appointed experts, Your Honor? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I have to say that and we don't -- I am happy to proceed under either assumption. But what's clear is that, however far it extends within the area of spoken interpretation, document translation is -- if you read it the way you do, then what you're suggesting is that for appointed experts, they only get recompensed for the time they're testifying, because that's the only time they spend in court. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. MR. FRIED: I think the -- the legislative history of that seems to indicate that that provision housekeeping reason, because it paralleled Rule of the Federal Rules of Evidence, which was a pre-existing rule addressing court-appointed experts, and simply put it into the enumeration. that -- that that may well be the case. But I -- I think that the --was actually inserted into () for a separate JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I -- one further JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But court experts get a -- get paid for their prep work. MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor. I -- I think Official Given that the courts for years have been MR. FRIED: Of course. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I take all your question. arguments, but I read the common dictionary and there's no question that the primary meaning of "interpreter" is interpretation of oral languages. But the dictionary is broad enough to include translation work as well. awarding -- most of the them except for I think the Seventh here. Virtually every court over a -year period has been awarding translation fees as -- as authorized. Why shouldn't that be enough for us? dictionary term is broad enough and that's what the courts have been doing and the world hasn't crashed despite one case where a large amount was given -- your adversary points to the fact that most of the translation fees tend to be fairly reasonable. Why that -- I'm drawing from ways that my colleague next to me MR. FRIED: Well, I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning, if the should we muck with what works? MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think I'm drawing --usually asks a question. Official noting that the courts -- none of the courts of appeals (Laughter.) MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I think that the MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor. (Laughter.) MR. FRIED: And -- and it's also worth primary reason why the Court should -- should not adopt that is because it's -- it's inconsistent with the text. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's wrong is your answer, right? who have adopted this construction of () have considered or addressed our primary arguments in this case. They haven't addressed the -- the uniform professional literature addressing this -- this topic, the dictionaries in their aggregate, the Administrative Office's interpretation of this statute, the consistent congressional distinction between written translation and spoken -- spoken interpretation that runs throughout the code. And -- sure that I have a -- a good answer to that. I --perhaps that they weren't presented with some of JUSTICE KAGAN: So, just out of curiosity, why do you think that all these courts just took for granted the opposite reading? MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I'm -- I'm not Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Perhaps it was our central argument. Their discussion of -- these -- these arguments and didn't have the opportunity to consider them. Dr. Johnson's answer when a lady pointed out an error in his dictionary, and his answer was: "Stupidity, madam, sheer stupidity." (Laughter.) MR. FRIED: I think -- I think, Your Honor, that -- that Kan Pacific disputes very little of -- of JUSTICE BREYER: There are -- there are lots of regions of the country -- Puerto Rico, for example -- where there are vast numbers of documents that have to be translated if you go into Federal court, not necessarily in the Commonwealth courts. That's expensive to people. And they might have thought for a long time, while that expense won't go away, it's at least better to have it paid by the loser than to have it paid by the winner. think that's a foolish approach. And you can find language in this, which is to go back -- go back to Justice Sotomayor. That's been the common practice. I don't MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think that -- again, the best reason to reject that view is Official And the way they -- these provisions constitutional Confrontation Clause concerns about criminal defendants not understanding the spoken proceedings, in those core class of cases the Congress elected to pay for spoken interpreter services directly in the first instance. because it doesn't make a coherent whole of the statute. These provisions operate together in a uniform set of -- as a uniform set of policies for addressing a common subject. interact in broad strokes that make perfect sense on our reading is that in the -- in the primary class of cases that motivated the passage of this statute, namely cases brought by the government where there were significant JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think of the -- I mean, the First Circuit went into this, which deals a lot with Puerto Rico, and it felt that this fell within the idea of fees for exemplification, which is certifying a document. And, in fact, to certify a Now, in the non-core class of cases, private civil litigation, the Congress elected not to pay for these services but in () to facilitate them in the lesser manner of providing that a party that incurred these expenses could recover them at the end of the case if it wins. Official to -- you may impose the cost on the loser. that when the Congress was addressing written translation, which was part of the -- part of that provision, it specifically used the word "translation" to refer to that. document that comes into the Federal court in San Juan, you have to have it translated very often. And so, the translation cost is at least consistent with the idea there of trying to -- well, you may -- you don't have MR. FRIED: Well, Justice Breyer, there was actually a specific provision in this bill -- in a prior version of this bill that addressed the context of Puerto Rico. And the significance of that provision is between these terms in -- in statutes generally was fully applicable here, that the Congress knew the difference between these terms, used them appropriately. And the fact that having removed that -- that provision from the statute, the statute as passed contains only the words "interpreter" and "interpretation," and no forms of "translate," just again reaffirms that -- that the ordinary meaning of these terms should apply. And -- And this just, again, confirms that the --that the usual congressional practice of differentiating JUSTICE GINSBURG: What of the document Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what if the -- if being communicated to in the course of a spoken proceeding. that's -- that's read out in open court and it's a document, a contract, in another language, and the interpreter -- the witness presents the document, and the interpreter interprets it? MR. FRIED: Your Honor, the professional literature addresses this as sight interpretation or sight translation, and it's uniformly recognized to be a species of interpretation. It occurs -- the -- the interpreter speaks aloud in the presence of the audience the interpreter, being diligent, said I'm going to have to translate this document in open court, I'd like translation is going to be accurate? So that in fact the interpreter looks at the document and, in -- in preparation for the trial, translates it. court would not be compensable interpretation work. But when the -- when the interpreter returned to court and gave the oral interpretation of that document, that would constitute interpretation. But --to have it in advance so I can be sure that my MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think that the -- the preparatory work that occurred outside of CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- but Official MR. FRIED: That's true, Mr. Chief Justice, English or who -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I misunderstood she's not interpreting it. She's already got the thing in whatever language they're -- English, I guess. But, I mean, she's not interpreting; she's reading the English translation. but the key reason why that would constitute interpretation is because the -- the interpreter is speaking aloud, communicating in the course of a spoken conversation to an audience who -- who doesn't speak the hypothetical, then. I'm sorry. I apologize. MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, I think that the literature does typically class the in-court oral communication of its content as a form of situation where you've got a -- a document in -- in, say, French and the person translates it or interprets it -- I don't want to prejudge the issue -- and -- and then -- in English and then the person reads the English thing in -- in court. That's not interpretation at any point, is it? interpretation. But any ambiguity on this point MR. FRIED: Well, perhaps I did, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought it was a Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is it true that as a MR. FRIED: If I understand Your Honor really -- really doesn't -- doesn't affect anything in practice. I mean, any sight interpretation occurs as a brief interval in a larger proceeding. matter of common usage, when we are talking about oral testimony in court, we often use "interpretation" and "translation" or "interpreter" and "translator" somewhat interchangeably, but when we're talking about rendering a document into -- into a different language, we generally talk about that as "translation"? This is a matter of common usage. Do you think that's correct? correctly, yes. I think that the ordinary meaning of "translate" applies to the context of -- of the communication of information in written documents. And it's discrete from "interpretation," which -- which is limited to the spoken -- the question. MR. FRIED: I'm sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: My point was that I think we say -- in fact, in a Supreme Court case, we've said in the Hernandez case, when we're talking about oral JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you didn't understand JUSTICE KENNEDY: That wasn't quite my point. Official MR. FRIED: Oh, I apologize, Your Honor. Yes, there -- you can use the word "translate" testimony in court, we tend to use "translator" or "translate" and "interpreter" or "interpret" somewhat interchangeably. Is that correct? generically. There's no question. Frequently in court, and I think out of court as well, that some people can use the word "translate" in a manner that doesn't differentiate between modes. Our point is that that --that double meaning doesn't apply to "interpreter," which has a single narrow meaning limited to spoken communication. And Kan Pacific's discussion of the dictionaries is limited to a single dictionary, Webster's Third. The majority of dictionaries categorically exclude document translation from the scope of -- recall, is the dictionary that defines "imply" to mean "imply." MR. FRIED: It does, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and "infer" to mean It's not a very good dictionary. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: Webster's Third, as I "infer" -- Official MR. FRIED: Well, the Court in the MCI -- in But in any event, the -- on its terms, that because it does indicate, even as to that dictionary interpretation, as it did in Mallard in construing the word "request," and in Ramsey in construing the word "envelope." the MCI v. AT&T case did indicate that. definition supports our reading over Kan Pacific's definition, that the -- that the most common meaning of the term is the meaning referring to spoken communication. And this Court frequently looks to the most common meaning for purposes of statutory JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we get back to the issue? In the legislative history of this provision, is translation work from its coverage? the text does. I mean, the text -- congressional bill or the study -- statement that I'm aware of in the legislative history. There's a lot of provisions in the legislative history MR. FRIED: I'm not -- I'm sorry. I'm not sure that there's an explicit JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Outside of the text. Is there a statement by one of the sponsors in the there any indication that Congress explicitly rejected MR. FRIED: Well, I can talk -- there's a -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those are the other provisions that they passed with respect to -- MR. FRIED: Well, specifically with respect Rule (d)'s cost provision is -- is limited to spoken communication of interpreters. So, there is that in the history as well. which plainly presuppose that. And the Congress received professional literature from -- documents from the American Association of Language Specialists. to costs, the Congress -- the House Report alludes to Rule (f), which is now (d), as a relevant pre-existing rule. And, of course, it's undisputed that But I think that there's no doubt that in the -- under the text of the statute, subsection (k), the modes subsection, which appears at page a of the red brief appendix, as it was initially passed, expressly says that the interpretation under -- under this section must be done using methods that all agree are limited to spoken communication. down with an interpreter now in his office and says to the interpreter I can't pay for translation work; now, you sit here and interpret what this letter says for me Now, in the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if a lawyer sits --is that what we're asking lawyers to do now? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you would say that Honor. MR. FRIED: That -- that's correct, Your JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there something MR. FRIED: No, Your Honor. That would not Official MR. FRIED: Not at all, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we accept your MR. FRIED: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because the lawyer is reading? constitute interpreting, because it would not -- the interpreter would not be communicating between live parties in the context of a real-time proceeding. might be different in the courtroom. communicating something live. It could be in the courtroom, but not outside. logical about this? MR. FRIED: Yes, Your Honor, because in the courtroom, in the context of a live spoken proceeding, that satisfies all of the ordinary definitional elements of interpreting. But that's not the case in somebody's office in the presence of a single party and a written document. And -- and there's no question, Your Honor, that to the extent there's any ambiguity with respect to Official MR. FRIED: Well, I do think there -- one JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about depositions? The -- the translation would be of the spoken word, but dictionaries like Black's Law Dictionary, which -- which indicates that the word is restricted to people who work in trial. But I certainly think that it could be argued either way, in a case where -- unusual examples, this is a distinction that's absolutely clear in the vast majority of real-world incidents. it wouldn't be in court. could potentially argue that spoken interpretation at a deposition isn't covered in light of some of the your position? I -- I take a deposition at -- in my law office and I have to have an interpreter there. Is that recoverable or not? definitive -- I mean, I think you could argue it either JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, how do you think it affects the way you read the statute? What do you think should be the result? MR. FRIED: Well, I think there's a reasonable reading that that should be covered. I think JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what's -- what's MR. FRIED: I'm not sure we have a way, Your Honor. It doesn't affect our case. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this MR. FRIED: Well, Your Honor, that sort of that we're going to have minor cases but with huge discretion demonstrably does not prevent the issuance of these large awards, because there have been a number of large awards issued notwithstanding that discretion. that that's certainly -- we have no vested interest in opposing that. I mean, that -- question: In the background here, is there some concern translation costs, and it would be simply unfair? And if the answer to that is "yes," isn't that taken care of by the statutory direction that the court "may" give costs? Honor. The -- the district courts -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I mean, in other words, if the court sees that the cost of preparing documents into an English-language is quite substantial in light of what's involved in the case, and it's just not fair to -- to award them, can't that court in its discretion deny that, or is that not the way it works? MR. FRIED: That's the way it works, Your Honor. But I don't think that that discretion is JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, isn't that an abuse of discretion? MR. FRIED: Well, not necessarily, Your Official suit. The deterrent effect occurs ex ante when a sufficient to eliminate the deterrent effect that this Court has recognized in cases like Farmer and Fleischmann, because it occurs at the end of the case, after a litigant has already decided whether to bring risk-averse litigant has to decide whether to bring the case. But I would just note that these sorts of policy questions, Your Honor, arise in the context of language that by its terms extends to interpreting and not translating. And we would say that the relevant policy question is simply whether there are sensible reasons to -- that Congress may have drawn a line where it did. And, plainly, there are adequate reasons that these services, document translation services that were excluded, are potentially large and fall under the general principles that this Court has recognized are --are presumptively not frequently avoided -- having a problem with, you know, they're "potentially large." Interpretive services are potentially large, although you claim that they -- that they don't -- they have sort of a terminus point. I've been in trials where we've had multiple languages simultaneously being JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess I'm -- I'm translated to multiple defendants, with witnesses Official So, potentiality's not the question. If speaking even other languages. I was in the Southern District of New York. And fees there without translation, just for the oral courtroom work, sometimes went ahead for months. you're talking about disproportionality, then that goes to the word "reasonable" in the statute, doesn't it? I mean, the Ortho case you point to, the court did sizably cut the translation fees. And, more importantly, from the little I can tell, that was a huge patent case with a patent that was claimed to control percent of a market. by anyone's definition. The sort of necessity review that would be necessary to police these document translation awards MR. FRIED: Certainly, Your Honor. I -- as to the difference, I mean, I'm not aware of, under this statute, an interpreter's spoken interpretation award approaching anywhere near some of the larger document translation awards that have been issued. But nonetheless, I am not denying that there could be large interpreter awards in some cases. But the fact is that adding on document translation awards is additive. So, I don't know that that was a small case would be quite burdensome on the district courts. And, Official JUSTICE BREYER: Why haven't the -- I was interested here that the amici on your side consist of in fact, the necessity standard is actually particularly problematic to apply to translations, Your Honor, because the fact is you don't know what a document says until it has been translated. And the exercise of trying to go back and reconstruct ex ante what a -- whether a person was reasonably necessary in causing to be translated something that they didn't know what it meant is likely to lead to very subjective -- some professors and the -- I guess the trade association of interpreters or translators, but the people who would have the financial stake in it, the defense bar, the plaintiffs' bar in some circumstances, have not filed weight on it, to take it as a sign, along with the long period of time, that there hasn't been some tremendous financial problem. What evidence is there that there has been? I -- a few cases, but in general. suggesting that there has been a tremendous financial strain on the system. We're saying that this is a statute that, by its plain language, extends to --any brief. And I tend, though not putting a lot of MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I'm not at all JUSTICE BREYER: There's a plain language argument I got. But how many years has the great bulk Official MR. FRIED: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I JUSTICE BREYER: How many years has, would JUSTICE BREYER: That's the bulk. MR. FRIED: Well, I think it's -- I think of the court been going the other way? actually -- I didn't hear the end of your question. you say, the great bulk of the Federal system been deciding this differently from the way you think it should be? MR. FRIED: I'm not sure that it's the great bulk. I mean, there's been a significant disagreement-- that it's increased over time as these -- set in, in your opinion? How long? JUSTICE BREYER: What's the first one? MR. FRIED: Your Honor, I'm not sure. I'll have to find out while my adversary is arguing when the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've got one going as far back as -- it was a district court. But it was as far back as the s. MR. FRIED: Well --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some in the 's, some MR. FRIED: I'm not sure that I could pinpoint a date, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, when did all this rot first decision was. Official MR. FRIED: Certainly, Your Honor. Addressing -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought we're -- I MR. FRIED: Well, certainly, it wasn't JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Clearly. But these awards have been common. MR. FRIED: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: You have a case cited from in the 's. construing () at that time, Your Honor. . I take it that's it. thought we're addressing not whether it's a good idea to give fees, but whether fees are payable under this particular statute, right? Which was enacted when? within the Court Interpreters Act itself are every bit as powerful as the ordinary textual indicia that support our reading. MR. FRIED: , Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: . MR. FRIED: And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not so long ago. MR. FRIED: Absolutely correct, Your Honor. And, in fact, Kan Pacific's argument that the word "interpreters" should be assigned different We agree. And -- and the structural reasons are -- Official But Kan Pacific doesn't examine the context in which section does and does not use that broader meanings in different parts of the statute is -- is unsupported. Kan Pacific relies on what it characterizes as different language in section , which put in and , and section , which put in the cost provision. And it notes that section sometimes uses the broader phrase "interpreters in courts of the United States," whereas section uses the word "interpreters" alone. phrase. And those specifics really undermine any argument I might make along these lines. As originally passed in section , contains occurrences of the word "interpreter," not counting the title. And of those uses, simply use the word "interpreter" by itself. So, there's certainly at the very threshold no overarching pattern of usage distinction between them. substantive provisions addressing the use of interpreters by parties in these cases in do so without using that broader phrase. Subsection (d) -- Honor. Without using the broader phrase "in courts of JUSTICE SCALIA: Do so without -- MR. FRIED: Without -- I'm sorry, Your More fundamentally, though, the -- the the United States." Official The only two provisions that use the phrase determination of need, the services of an interpreter Subsection (d) is the provision that -- that governs the use of interpreters in cases brought by the government. This appears at page a of the red brief appendix. And it simply provides that upon a will be used in these cases. "interpreters in courts of the United States" are subsections (a) and (b), which are both at a of the red brief appendix, and both of these provisions simply are addressing the scope of the Administrative Office's duties under the statute. And as such, it simply makes clear that, in keeping with the office's ordinary function, it's -- it's facilitating the work of the Federal courts and making clear that the office isn't, for instance, certifying interpreters for the State courts. way that the -- that the word "interpreter" means something different in different places or that the -- or that the services of an interpreter are viewed as embracing the same thing. meaning converge in this case to support the conclusion So, nothing in this language suggests in any So, we think that a variety of indicia of that () is limited to spoken communication. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Himmelfarb. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAN HIMMELFARB ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. HIMMELFARB: Thank you, If there are no further questions, I'll The word "interpreter" has two possible meanings that are relevant here, a broader one and a narrower one. The broader meaning is a person who translates from one language to another. Under this definition, the terms "interpreter" and "translator" are used interchangeably. reserve the balance of my time. Mr. Fried. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you ever seen a book, you know, translated from a foreign language, you know, "War and Peace," you know, and you're at the mercy of what we call the translator, and it says on the fly page, you know, "John Smith," comma, "Trans.," period. Does it ever say "John Smith," comma, "Int.," period? MR. HIMMELFARB: It's used in the narrower sense in that context, I think, Justice Scalia. The narrower meaning of "interpreter" is member of a profession that specializes in oral translation; and in Official Our submission is that, as the great The first is that the basic purpose of translation in the litigation context is to make evidence intelligible to the parties and the court. Section reflects a congressional judgment that the cost of making evidence intelligible to the parties and the court can be borne by the losing party. that narrower sense, an interpreter is distinct from a translator, which is the sense you've just identified, which is a person who specializes in written translation. majority of courts who've expressed a view on this question have recognized, the broader definition makes more -- more sense in the particular context at issue here. And we say that for a number of reasons. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't. It reflects that judgment only if you're right that "interpreter" means "translator." MR. HIMMELFARB: Well --JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you're begging the question. You could say that the one should embrace the other. But whether Congress thought that or not is mostly dependent on the language Congress used, isn't it? MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, let me be as clear as Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why does your-- why does your statute. is it most likely that Congress would have intended in I possibly can. I'm obviously not standing here saying we lose under the language, but it would be a good idea for the statute to cover written translation. That's not a legitimate enterprise for a court interpreting a What I'm saying is that the text of the statute bears two -- permissibly bears two possible meanings. That being the case, it is a legitimate enterprise for the Court to say which makes sense, which this particular context? interpretation make sense? Shouldn't we view this against the backdrop of the American rule on fees, that each party generally bears its own costs and only in specific circumstances does the loser pay? Now, the taxation of costs is a very narrow concept. What is the difference between a case in which a lot of documents have to be rendered from one language to another prior to the court proceeding and a case in which there's a mass of scientific evidence that has to be interpreted by a scientist or financial evidence that has to be interpreted by an accountant? In those instances, the losing party doesn't pay for the winner's expenses, does it? JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the background -- costs get MR. HIMMELFARB: I think ordinarily that's Official MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, let me -- let me part of the expenses of a party litigating a case. address the first part of your question first, which is essentially, as I understand it, isn't there a background principle that says costs don't get taxed? I actually think insofar as far as tax -- costs are concerned, as distinct from attorney's fees, the background principle actually goes the other way. taxed, but costs are very narrow. They are a very small Isn't that -- isn't that true? true, but I don't think that it follows -- it follows in any way that there is some sort of tie-breaking interpretive canon that says when you're interpreting the costs statute, some version of which has been in effect since the middle of the th century, if you're unsure about the scope of it, that you err on the side of narrowness rather than breadth. I just don't think an interpretive principle that errs on the side of breadth rather than narrowness? MR. HIMMELFARB: No, we don't. JUSTICE KAGAN: Why don't we just ask there's any such interpretive principle. And -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, aren't you asking for Official MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think you obviously JUSTICE KAGAN: But the dictionaries than the other. MR. HIMMELFARB: I mean, I guess I just have statutory case. And our submission is that you have two ourselves what's the most common, what's the best reading? have to start there in this case, as you do in any possible ordinary definitions. You have two possible common usages. themselves tell us that one usage is far more common to dispute that. We have Webster's, which, you know, Justice Scalia's view notwithstanding, is viewed by many people as an authoritative dictionary of English language. We've got Black's Law Dictionary, which I think everyone agrees is the leading law dictionary, which provides as a definition of "interpreter" the broad definition that we advocate here. To be sure -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I guess Black's Law co-author with me. So, I -- I feel obliged to spring to his defense. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: Since it is a law Dictionary, which -- the editor of it is a -- is a dictionary, presumably it ought to have taken into Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One -- one of the account the cases you're referring to, many of which use the word in -- in this sense, right? MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true. JUSTICE SCALIA: Garner. MR. HIMMELFARB: That's absolutely true, and just as a dictionary, a law dictionary, will take those cases into account, I think it's ordinarily presumed that Congress is taking into account the cases, too, and it's taking into account dictionary definitions as well. element of costs than the interpreter. things that concerns me is the impact of -- of cost allowance on the normal litigation incentives. An interpreter in court is one thing. When you suddenly get a situation where the costs could be quite large, particularly in a -- in a disparate way, not necessarily shared by both sides -- somebody goes into court; they know they're going to have to -- if they lose, they'll have to pay an interpreter this. And the other side comes in and says, well, we think we need to submit this , pages of -- of documents, which will have to be translated, and by the way, if you lose, you're going to pay for that. In other words, it is a much more variable MR. HIMMELFARB: I -- I'm not sure that's Official translation costs. translating every document. The Fifth Circuit, which is one of -- true. I think in large litigations where you have many, many days of trial and potentially pretrial proceedings, you could have very large oral translation costs. Where there are many depositions, you could have large oral But even if I were to accept the premise of your question, it seems to me that the way these costs get controlled is through the exercise of district courts' discretion, not to tax every -- the cost of goes into the exercise of that discretion? taxing costs of every sort, not just interpreter costs and not just document translation costs, are essentially thought to be necessity and reasonableness. So, in connection with document translation costs, the Fifth appropriate way to tax them, might be just to tax the cost of translating headings of foreign language documents, which should be sufficient to let the lawyer know whether this is a relevant document that might bear further translation, and then only the documents that Circuit has suggested that the way to tax them, the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what -- so, what MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, typically the criteria for -- I should add that the criteria for Official For --MR. HIMMELFARB: That's -- that's true. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are asking to read JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Himmelfarb, in really turned out, based on the translation of the heading, to have some significance to the case. So, that's just one example of the way the discretion gets exercised. section , there are two provisions that specify costs necessarily obtained for use in the case. And the interpreter provision doesn't have that qualification, doesn't say "necessarily obtained for use in the case." "interpreter" to mean "translator" as well and to import into sub () "necessary for use in the case." subsection (), as with other subsections that don't specifically use the word "necessarily," come not from that term, but rather from the word "may" in the first sentence of the provision, which in tandem with Rule of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, essentially make this a discretionary call for the district court. Necessity has long been recognized as one of the components of that discretionary determination. MR. HIMMELFARB: The necessity limitation in The reason we say it doesn't make sense to have the narrower definition of "interpreter" be the one Official Now, if you're going to make a copy for use documents, for the costs of making copies of any materials obtained for use in the case. that Congress enacted is that written document translation can be and often is every bit as important as oral translation. In many cases, it could be more important, in a contract case, for example. JUSTICE BREYER: What do you think on the -- I guess nobody wants to defend this argument, including you, but the First Circuit and several others did look to the provision which permits the taxing of costs for the making of -- it says exemplifications or official of the case of something in Japanese, you're going to have to turn it into English. So, they included that as part of the cost of making copies of the material – of a document for use in the case. Now -- which is discretionary as to whether you do or whether you don't. But that's how several courts did read it. I'm just wondering as that didn't strike me as so obviously goes without saying that we'd rather win under subsection () than lose under subsection (). There are --wrong. Maybe it's obviously -- MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I mean, I suppose it JUSTICE BREYER: I'm sure you'd like to win Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, the history There are some courts that have suggested (Laughter.) MR. HIMMELFARB: That's true, absolutely on any subsection. true. that document translation fits under subsection (). I think those that have done so have tended to do it -- tended to do it before section () was added in . We haven't -- is that, prior to ', a serious number -- some number of circuits said you can get the translation paid for under -- as -- as being necessary to create a copy that's usable in court. All right. Then Congress passes this, knowing of those cases in principle. And then there is a shift after Congress passes this, and then the majority of courts say, all right, this is the provision that permits it. Is that an accurate statement? MR. HIMMELFARB: I think that is accurate. Before , some of the courts that taxed document translation costs, I believe, also relied on their inherent authority, which at the time was thought to be a permissible ground for taxing costs. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anything in the Official MR. HIMMELFARB: Absolutely not. There appointment of interpreters in cases initiated by the United States. history of the ' statute which suggested that Congress didn't want these taxed? is -- there's frankly nothing in the legislative history of the Court Interpreters Act really that bears on this issue one way or another. There's a lot of legislative history on which Petitioner relies, but it's all addressed to section , which is a separate provision which deals with a separate subject, which is the legislative history, there's no legislative history on the other side either, right? Saying that we -- we mean don't -- we -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, absent legislative history, I guess we have to rely on the words of the to look at this. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: That means you don't have MR. HIMMELFARB: I guess I'd just go back to where I started, which is that we think, under this to include translation. MR. HIMMELFARB: No, that's right. We JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if there is no statute, right? dispute the fact that it is more natural and common to dictionary definitions and under common usage, there are two permissible meanings of "interpreter." CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there are two -- there may be two permissible, but you don't speak of someone interpreting oral communication and someone translating written, correct? would dispute it. I don't know whether one is more Code? Is there any place in the U.S. Code where the word "interpreters" clearly encompasses written There aren't -- there -- I frankly don't think there are that many places in the United States Code where the term "interpreter" is used other than in its sort of common than the other in any meaningful way. It may be slightly more common to use it in its narrower sense to refer to a member of a profession, but it's certainly common enough that you have district judges from all over the country in written opinion just sort of matter-of-factly talking about the people who translate documents as interpreters. translators? MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm not aware of any. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how about in the U.S. Official MR. HIMMELFARB: I don't -- I -- I think I obvious, narrow sense based on the context of the MR. HIMMELFARB: Justice Kagan, I would say the word, but in this case, we're supposed to reach a different conclusion. statute. So, for example, a number of statutes talk about funding translators and interpreters who are not citizens of the United States. It seems to us that in that context what Congress is getting at is the members of a profession. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, in every other case in which the U.S. Code uses the word, "interpreters" means only oral translators, and that's the obvious way to use this: In every other provision of the United States Code in which the "interpreter" -- the word includes document translation or the context is such that it strongly indicates that it's limited to oral translation. And neither of those situations obtains here, in our view. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose somebody -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just to phrase your answer a different way, you're -- you don't know of any situation in the U.S. Code where "translators" -- or "interpreter" means "translator"? "interpreter" is used, either it's not clear whether it Official interpreter and translator in the narrower sense of MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm not aware of any other Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you checked (Laughter.) MR. HIMMELFARB: There -- there is none JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose somebody did a computer search in a database of, let's say, newspaper articles, magazine articles for use of the term "interpreter" in relationship to a foreign language. And let's say you look at a thousand hits. provision in the United States Code. every one; so, there is none, right? where it is clear that it covers document translation. There are -- there are State statutes which we've cited which use the term "interpreter" to -- to clearly cover document translation, and we cite them in our brief. MR. HIMMELFARB: I think it -- I would not be at all surprised if it was more than percent of Alito to go do this now. (Laughter.) MR. HIMMELFARB: However --JUSTICE ALITO: How much would you bet? term "interpreter" to refer to rendering a written document from one language to another? the hits that used it in its narrower sense. JUSTICE KAGAN: You're, like, daring Justice How many of those do you think would use the and I would rather not bet you. One of the reasons we think that the broader for sight translation. In this case, for example, our Official (Laughter.) JUSTICE ALITO: If you bet me enough, I'll (Laughter.) MR. HIMMELFARB: I do want to say something translation is a hybrid endeavor. It is the oral translation of written documents. look at a thousand. I'd be surprised if it's percent. MR. HIMMELFARB: I couldn't venture a guess, about the concept of sight translation, which is something that my friend Mr. Fried adverted to. Sight meaning of "interpreter" makes more sense in section is that it can't really account in any sensible way counsel, Kan Pacific's counsel, took Taniguchi's deposition, and to prepare for the deposition, he reviewed -- he had to review some contracts which were written in Japanese and some medical records which were translated in writing to prepare for the deposition would result in a potentially taxable cost. Under Taniguchi's view, they wouldn't. But it sounds like written in Japanese. Now, under our view, having those documents under either party's view, if instead of handing those Official documents off to a document translator to have them translated in writing, he had sat down in his law office with a member of the interpreter profession and said here's a box of documents; please, tell me what they say, that would potentially be a taxable cost. That seems to me to be a very odd result and one that's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an odd result because nobody's going to do it, because at that point you don't know who is going to get saddled with the costs. So, it wouldn't be likely that you would do something that would increase the costs, would it? MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I don't know that it would increase the costs. It may be cheaper to use an oral translator -- an oral translator as opposed to a variety of reasons why you would choose to use one or another: time constraints, the importance of the particular document, what have you. But I don't think that it's likely that Congress would have thought that anybody contend, does the other side contend, that the use of a viva voce translation outside of court is covered by the meaning of "interpreter" here? I assume that "interpretation" here meant interpretation in the written document translator. And there might be a the potential taxability of the translation -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it -- is it clear? Does Official And you're saying that if we hold against MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, there's -- I don't MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think every court not -- not in the lawyer's office where he asks somebody to sit down and -- and read this document to me. oral proceeding that is the trial. you, interpretation will still include all oral translations outside of the trial. that's ever thought about this has found that deposition -- oral translation at deposition -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, at deposition, which I consider part of the -- part of the trial process, but see any basis in the statute or, frankly, in the practice of translators or interpreters for drawing that would have the Court draw it is concerned, I think that's a very hard question to answer, because he has moved back and forth so many times on that. His briefs definitions of "interpreter," sometimes saying it's the oral translation of oral speech, sometimes saying it's the oral translation of any language, whether it's oral or written, sometimes saying it's limited to in-court offer several different -- several different narrow line in that particular place. And as far as the question where Taniguchi interpretation; sometimes it's saying it's not. Official line-drawing exercises. JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't know, created some close cases, cases that are near the line. That, it seems to us, is a very good reason for adopting the broader interpretation. It seems very unlikely that Congress would want courts to get into these extremely complicated and, frankly, unprincipled Mr. Himmelfarb. I mean, why is this any -- any different from any case in which we draw a line and we find that the result of drawing a line is that we've So, you know, just to give you an obvious example, the fact that there are some few minutes in every -hour period where's it's hard to say that something is night or day does not mean that there's not night and that there's not day. And that seems to me what the question is here. Yes, you can think up some hard cases, but they're just that; they're marginal cases. the text of the statute compels you to do it. Our submission is that the text of this statute doesn't compel it, because you've got a readily available alternative interpretation which doesn't require any MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think -- I think line drawing is sometimes a necessary exercise because sorts of these line drawings. Official And as far as whether this is sort of a --interpreters and translators alike. And I guess the only other point I would proceedings, which I think is -- is yet another narrowing of the word "interpreter." But as far as I'm aware, most sight translation -- little, if any, sight translation actually occurs during the course -- JUSTICE BREYER: I accept -- I accept the following, that there was a history basically giving -- an outlying -- the examples I give are outlying oddball circumstances goes, I don't think they are. Sight translation, for example, is a core function of say -- make about sight translation, my friend Mr. Fried suggested that that -- that is something that could only be covered if it takes place during the course of live doing what you want before the statute, but the statute -- nobody thought what it was going to do that history. That statute is capable of being translated, but it isn't the most natural thing. with the smaller capability, saying leave -- leave well enough alone, or do we say, gee, that's just too hard to translate it that -- to interpret the statute that way? Have you got any other example in the law? I mean, can you think of an example in the law which And so, the question is, do we take -- go Official sleeping dogs lie. MR. HIMMELFARB: Well, I think -- I mean, I particular document translation should be taxed, which is one of the arguments on the other side. I think the history of this is strong evidence that it's not difficult. I've been trying to think of where there was a history of doing something? A statute comes along that makes it a little tougher for the judges to do it, and then the Court says either, sorry, too tough now, or it says let think it's an important point. And this goes to the question of, you know, whether it's difficult for district courts to make a determination of whether a then. And they haven't had any evident difficulty in deciding whether to tax documents in its document translation, and if so, how much. So, I think the -- the history certainly bears on the case in that respect. asking, can you think of an example where words are not on their face plain, and the Court has looked to the practices that have been imbued into that word and said -- and we've decided that they will be accepted in the A word -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Justice Breyer is Courts have been doing this, certainly, since when this provision was added and even before Official done. But I don't think it's entirely irrelevant courts were taxing document translation costs before way that practice has given them meaning? MR. HIMMELFARB: I can't think of any case off the top of my head, and I think it's true that this case is a little bit different because, insofar as , they were relying on something other than the word "interpreter." So, it may be a stretch to say that when Congress chose to use the word "interpreter," it was necessarily incorporating what courts had previously that this has been done for a long time, and I think it's not unfair to presume that Congress would have been aware of that. An important part of Taniguchi's submission is that section is limited to oral translators, and, therefore, it should follow that section , the provision at issue here, is likewise limited to oral translators. The Court Interpreters Act has two main provisions as relevant here. There's section , which is really the more -- the main provision, and then section , which became () in Title , which is the provision at issue here. And our main submission on that -- on that Official "Interpreters in courts of the United States" and "interpreters in courts of the United States," and then "special interpretation services." question is that Congress actually used different language in section and section . Section added two provisions to Title : section and section , which are titled, and which address, respectively, "Special interpretation services." In section , which added subsection () to , Congress does not use those two phrases. Instead, it uses the phrase "interpreters" simply, not appropriate canon about the use of similar or different language in different provisions of a statute, it seems presume that when Congress uses different language, it intends different meanings. about the number of times the word "interpreter" is used in section . And as I understand his point, is that -- it's that it's much more frequently used by itself than it is with the -- with the words "in courts of the United States." to us that the appropriate canon is that one should What the statute actually does is add -- say that it's adding section , which it calls So, to the extent that there is any I do want to respond to Mr. Fried's point Official of the United States. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where are you of the Court Interpreters Act. And then there's subsection (c), flipping over to the next page -- I'm sorry -- subsection (b), which says that the director has to certify interpreters in courts of the United States. So, what it does at the beginning of the MR. HIMMELFARB: I'm sorry. This is the red "Interpreters in courts of the United States." It then has a subsection that says that the Administrative Office of the United States Courts has to establish a program to facilitate the use of interpreters in courts reading from? brief, a of the appendix, which is the very beginning statute is establish this thing called a certified interpreter in courts of the United States. When it thereafter speaks of "interpreter" simply, that's just a shorthand for a certified interpreter in courts of the United States. So, it seems to us that as far as the Court Interpreters Act is concerned, even if it's true that section uses the term in the narrower sense, it doesn't necessarily follow that it's used in the narrower sense in section . And the only point I would add about that, Official And one of the main aspects, the main Administrative Office would publish these notices in the as we set -- point out in our brief, it's really not clear that section is limited to oral translators. Soon after the Court Interpreters Act was enacted and for approximately years thereafter, the Federal Register notifying the public that there were going to be certification exams for interpreters under section of the Court Interpreters Act. These were pretty streamlined notices, not long at all. sufficiently clearly limited to oral translators, that the director of the Administrative Office couldn't issue want to make about other statutes, some of which use the term "interpreter" and "translator" together, I've already addressed that in part by saying that in many of those statutes, it really is pretty clearly used in the sections, of the notice, was a list of what the director of the Administrative Office said were the -- were the duties of interpreters in courts of the United States. And to be sure, it listed simultaneous and consecutive interpreting, but it -- it listed sight translation, and it listed document translation. So, at a minimum, section is not these notices saying otherwise. I guess the -- the last point I would -- I Official The -- the only other thing I would say But subsection () of itself has a redundancy in it because it covers both interpreters and special interpretation services. And I don't think anybody could dispute that anyone who carries out a special interpretation service is an interpreter. narrower sense because you're talking about members of a profession. about that is that the premise of Taniguchi's reliance on those statutes seems to be that it would be strangely redundant for Congress to speak in other statutes about interpreters and translators together, if, in fact, the two terms could be used interchangeably, and that redundancy should be avoided. points. In the first place, Justice Breyer, I just wanted to let you know that the first decision -- the So, it's not at all odd to have redundancy when Congress is addressing the subject of translation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Fried, you have minutes remaining. first appellate decision construing () to encompass REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL S. FRIED ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FRIED: Very briefly, Your Honor, three Official And this change in the definition occurred in , in the seventh edition, after a number of these Finally, Your Honors, Mr. Himmelfarb cited document translation was the D.C. Circuit's decision in Quy in . Second, Mr. Himmelfarb noted that Black's Law Dictionary takes a definition that arguably could encompass document translation, but he didn't mention that the -- that the operative version of Black's in when this statute was passed did not -- was a different definition that excluded document translation. judicial decisions construing () had already come down, which supports Your Honor's observation that it could very well merely reflect a recognition of these decisions, rather than independent support for them. certain notices issued by the Administrative Office from many years ago. These brief notices were ministerial documents that simply announced a forthcoming examination. The office has issued the Guide to Judiciary Policy, which is the -- which is the fully expressed views on this issue and is posted on the office's Web site. It's current as of June th, , and expressly provides that document translation is not a part of the statutory services of an interpreter. If there are further questions, I'd be happy Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) to address them. OfficialOfficial adversary : : applies : apply : : authorized : Black's :authority : :: adverted : advocate : appointed : affect : : appointment afford : aggregate : approach : ago : : approaching agree : : : : appropriate : :, agrees : ahead : alike : Alito : : approximately appropriately : : :, : : : area : allowance : arguably : alludes : argue : : aloud : : alternative : : ambiguity : : : American : : amici : amount : announced : answer :, :, : : : ante : : anybody : : anyone's : apologize : appeals : APPEARAN... appears : : : : appellate : appendix : :, : applicable : argued : arguing : argument : :,, :, : : : : : : : : arguments : : : : articles :, asking : : : : asks : : aspects : assigned : association : :assume :assumption :attorney's :AT&T :audience :authoritative::authorities :available : avoided : : award : : :, ::book :borne :box :awarding :, breadth :awards :, ::,,, Breyer :: aware : : : : : : a.m : : Bb : :back :,: ::, ::backdrop :background: :,,balance :bar :,based ::basic :basically :basis :bear :bears :,,: :begging :beginning ::behalf :,, : : : believe : best : : bet : :, better : bill :, : bit : : : : :: :,:, ::, :: :: ::brief : :: ::, :: ::briefly :briefs :bring :,broad :, ::broader :,:, :: :: :brought ::bulk : ::,burdensome:Cc : : :call : :called :calls :canon ::,capability :capable :A above-entitled : : absent : absolutely : : : : : abuse : accept : : :, accepted : account :,, : : accountant : accurate : :, Act : : : : :, : : add : : : added : : :, adding : : additive : address : : : addressed : : : : : addresses : addressing : : : : :, : : : adequate : Administrative : : : :, : : adopt : adopted : adopting : advance : Official : :, : :,, :,,, : : : : : connection Commonwealth consecutive : : : communicated consider : communicating considered : : :, consist : communication consistent : : : : : : : : : :, : : compel : compels : compensable : complicated : components : computer : concept : : concern : concerned : : : concerns : : conclusion : : confirms : Confrontation : constitute : : : constitutional : constraints : construction : construing :, : : : contains : contend : : : content : context : : :, : : : :, : : :, contract : : checked : Chief :, care : carries : case : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : choose : chose : Circuit : : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, : : :,, : :, :,,, circuits : :,,, :, : Circuit's : circumstances : : : : :, :, : :, : cite : cited : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :,,, claim : citizens : civil : : : cases :,,, categorically : categories : causing : central : claimed : class :,, : Clause : clear : : : century : certain : certainly : :, : : : : : clearly : : : : : :, : :, : :, close : certification code : : : : certified : : certify : certifying : : : change : characterizes : cheaper : coherent : colleague : come : contracts : :, : Congress : control : : :, :, : controlled : : :, : :, converge : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, congressional copies :, copy : core : : correct : comma :, common : comes : : conversation : : : : : : : : : : : correctly : cost :, : : : : : :, : : : costs : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : : counsel :, : : counting : country : : course : : : : : : court :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : courtroom : :,, : Official definitions : difficult :, documents : : :, :,,, : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : elected :, element : elements : eliminate : embrace : embracing : enacted : : : encompass : : encompasses : endeavor : English :, :,, : : English-langu... enterprise : : : dogs : entirely : doing : : enumeration :, : : defend : defendants : :, : decisions : courts :, :,, : : : :, :,, : : : :, : : :, :, defines : :,, :,,,, : : defense : definition :, : : difference : : : different : : : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : court-appointed :, cover : : coverage : covered : :, : : covers : : : : : :, : :,, differentiating differentiate : definitional : : differently : : : : difficulty : diligent : definitive : direction : directly : demonstrably director : : :, disagreement : discrete : discretion : : deny : denying : dependent co-author : demonstrating crashed : create : created : criminal : criteria :, curiosity : current : cut : D deposition : : d : : : despite : DAN : : : determination : :,,, double : doubt : :, : : :, discretionary Dr : : :,, envelope : err : error : :, : draw : : errs : depositions : discussion : drawing :, ESQ :, : : : :, disparate : drawings : disproportion... drawn : duties : : : : : deterrent :, dictionaries : :, : : dispute : :, : disputes : distinct : : dictionary :, distinction : : : : :, : : :, :,, :,, : : : : district : :, : : : : : document : D.C :,, : : EE : :, edition :editor :effect :,:either : : :, : :,essentially : : : establish : : event : evidence : : :,:, : evident : ex : : examination : examine : example : : : : daring : database : date : day :, days : deals : : decide : decided : deciding : : : decision : Official : : :,, : examples : : exams : exclude : excluded : fair : fairly : fall : far : :, : : : :, : Farmer : February : exemplification Federal : : forthcoming : found : frankly : : : : French : frequently : : : : generally : : : heading : headings : Hernandez generically : hear : : getting : GINSBURG : : : :, give : : Himmelfarb : : : given :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :,, :, : :, : : : : : : : history : :,, : : :,,,, : :, :,, hits :, hold : Honor :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, :, :,,: :,: : : :,:,,:,,,,: : Honors : Honor's : House : housekeeping: exemplificatio... : : exercise : :, : exercised : exercises : expense : expenses : : : expensive : experts :, :, explicit : explicitly : expressed : expressly : : : extends : : : extent :, : : extremely : F face : facilitate : : facilitating : fact : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : feel : fees :, : :, : : : : fell : felt : Fifth :, filed : Finally : financial : :, : find : : : first :, :, : :, : : :, : fits : Fleischmann : flipping : fly : follow : : following : follows :, foolish : foreign : : : form : forms : forth : Fried : :, : : : : : goes : : : : : : : :,,, : giving : :, :, go :,,, : :,,, :, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : :, :,,, good : : :,,,, : : : : : government : :,, Fried's : governs : friend : : granted : fully : : function : going :, : :, :, : : :, : : : : : great : : : : : : fundamentally : funding : further : : : : ground : guess : : : :, : :, : : : Guide : G G : Garner : gee : general : : Hhanding :happy : : hard ::, : head : Official :, : : : :,, : :, : :,:,,,:,,: :,: : :, : :,,: : : interpreters: : : :,:,, : :, : : :,:, : : : :,, : :,,,:,,,:,interpreter's: interpreting:, :, : : : : : interpretive : :, : interprets : : interval : involved : in-court : : irrelevant : issuance : issue : : : : :, : : inherent : initially : initiated : inserted : insofar : instance : : : instances : Int : intelligible :, intended : intends : interact : interchangeably : : : : interest : interested : interpret : : : interpretation :, : : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : interpreted :, interpreter : :, : : : : :,,, : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : huge : : hybrid : hypothetical : I idea : : : : identified : imbued : impact : imply :, import : importance : important : : : : importantly : impose : incentives : incidents : include : : : included : includes : including : inconsistent : incorporating increase : : : increased : incurred : independent : indicate : :, indicates : : indication : indicia : : infer :, information : : : :, : :, : Kk :Kagan ::, : : :,: :Kan : : : : :: :,:issued : : :, JJapanese ::, John :, Johnson's : Juan : judges : judgment : : : key :knew :know :KENNEDY:,,:, : :,: :,:,,,: :: :: :,:, : :judicial : Judiciary : keeping :June : Justice :,, : :,, : :,, :, :, : : : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : :, :,,, :,, :,, knowing :: :, :,,, Kouichi : : :, : :,,,: :,:, : : ::,,:,,,:, : :, : : :,:,,:, : :,,:,,,: ::, : : : : : ::, : : :,: :,: ::, : :,,languages :: :Llady :language :large : : : :, Official : lists : literature : marginal : minimum : New : :, : : need : : neither : middle : manner : : : : : market : mass : material : minor : ministerial : litigant :, litigating : materials : minutes : litigation : : : matter : : misunderstood : : : litigations : matter-of-factly little : : : : modes : newspaper : night :, nobody's : non-core : normal : note : noted : notes : notice : notices :, : :, notifying : noting : notwithstandi... : : number : : :, : : : numbers : OO : : obliged :observation obtained :, ::obtains : obvious :: :: : : live :,, : logical : long : : : : : : : look : : : : looked : looks : : lose : : : : loser : : losing : : : lot : : : : : lots : M madam : magazine : main :, : :, majority : : : : : MCI :, mean : : months : : :, motivated : moved : : : muck : :, : multiple : : : : : : : : :, : : : NN :, : narrow :: :: :narrower : :, : : : : : :, : narrowing: narrowness :, natural : : meaning :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : meaningful : meanings : : : : : means : : : :,meant : : medical : member : : : members : : : : : :,, larger : : Laughter :, : : : : : :, :, law :, :,,, : : :, : lawyer : : : lawyers : lawyer's : lead : leading : leave :, legislative : :,, :,,, : legitimate : : lesser : letter : let's :, lie : light : : likewise : limitation : limited :, : :, :, : : : :, : : line : : :,,, : near : obviously :: :, necessarily : occurred :: : : :,, : occurrences: ::necessary : occurs : : lines : line-drawing making : : :, : : list : listed :, Mallard : mention : mercy : merely : methods : MICHAEL : : : : : necessity : : : :, :, : odd :, : oddball :offer :office : Official :, : page : : permissibly : potentially : : : : : : : : :,, :, office's : official : Oh : : : open :, operate : operative : opinion : : opportunity : opposed : opposing : opposite : oral : :, P : Pacific : : : :, Pacific's : : : : perfect : period : possible : : :, : :, possibly : posted : : potential : potentiality's : :, permissible : : : pages : paid : : : : paralleled : part :, :, : :, : : : particular : : : : : : : permits : : person :, : : : Petitioner : : :, : : : phrase :, :, : : : phrases : pinpoint : place : : : : :,, : : : powerful : practice : : : : : practices : prejudge : premise : : prep : preparation preparatory : : prepare : principle :, :, : principles : prior : : : private : problem : problematic : Procedure : proceed : proceeding : : :, : : proceedings : : : process : profession : : : : : professional program : provides : : : providing : provision : :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : provisions : :, : : : :, : : :, public : publish : : : : : preparing : professors : presence : : party's : presented : presents : passed : : please : : presumably plaintiffs : : :, : particularly : : :, : : : :, :, parties : : : : : : :, : :,,, :, : : :, ordinarily : passage : : :, places : parts : party : : plain :, : : :, : : plainly : : ordinary : : : : : : : : : passes :, patent :, : : : presume : point :, :, : presumed : : : : : : presumptively :, : :, : pay :, originally : pattern : Ortho : ought : outlying :, outside : : : : : overarching : :, :, pointed : points : payable : Peace : people : : police : policies : policy :, : : : : : percent : : : position : : : P presuppose : pretrial : pretty :, prevent : previously : pre-existing : : primary : : :, : Puerto : : real-world : reason : : : purpose : purposes : put : :, putting : p.m : Q qualification : question :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : questions : : : quite : : : : Quy : R R : Ramsey : reach : read : : : : : : : readily : reading : : : : : : : : : reads : reaffirms : really :, : : : : : :, real-time : : : : : reasonable : : : reasonableness : : : : : reliance : relied : relies : : rely : relying : remaining : reasonably : removed : rendered : reasons : rendering : : : : : : : REBUTTAL : : recall : received : recognition : recognized : :, : : recompensed : Report : request : require : reserve : respect :, : : respectively : respond : Respondent : : : restricted : reconstruct : result : records : recover : recoverable : :, : returned : review : : red : :, : : redundancy :,, redundant : refer : : referring : : : reviewed : Rico : : : right : : : : :,, :,, : reflect : risk-averse : reflects :, ROBERTS : regions : : :, Register : : : reject : : : rejected : : : relationship : : : : : relevant : rot : Official rule :, :,, : : Rules : : sections : runs : S:,,,,, : :, :,, see : seen : sees : sense : : :,, : : : : :,: : : :,: sensible : : sentence : separate : :,serious : service : services :,:, : :, : : :,: : set :, : seventh :::shared :sheer :shift :shorthand :side : : : :: ::sides :sight :, : :,, : :,,:sign :significance ::significant : S : :,, :, : saddled :Saipan : : San :sat :satisfies :saying :: :,: ::,,,: ::,says :,,: ::, : : :,:,Scalia : : : :,:,,: :,:, : : ::, : :Scalia's :scientific :scientist :scope :: :search :Second :section :: :,,:,,: :: :: :,:, : : similar : simply : : : : :,, : : : simultaneous : : simultaneously single :, : : sit : : site : sits : situation : : : :, :, :, : :, : : sounds : Southern : speak : : speaking : : : speaks : : special :, :, Specialists : specializes : : species : specific : : : : somebody's specifics : : : : situations : six : sizably : sleeping : slightly : small : : specify : speech : smaller : Smith :, spend : somebody : spoken :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : sponsors : spring : stake : standard : standing : start : : : : : : :, : : : :, started : : Soon : sorry : sort : : somewhat : : : sorts : : Sotomayor : : : : :,, States :, :, : : :,, : :, : : State : : statement : : substantial : substantive : suddenly : sufficient : : sufficiently : suggested : : : : suggesting : : suggests : suit : support : : : supports : : suppose : : : supposed : Supreme :, : sure : : : : : :, : : : : : surprised : system : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : :,, : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : statutes : : : :, : : : : : strain : strangely : streamlined : stretch : strike : strokes : strong : strongly : structural : study : stupidity :, sub : subject : : : subjective : submission : : : :, submit : submitted : : subsection :, : takes : : talk : : : talking :, : : : : tandem : Taniguchi : : : Taniguchi's :, : : tax : :, :, : taxability : taxable : : taxation : taxed :, : : : taxing : : : : tell : : tend : : : : tended :, term : : : : :,, : : terminus : terms :, : : : : : testifying : testimony : : Official :, : :,, :,,,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : statute : : subsections : specifically : statutory : TT :,take : : : :: :taken : : text : :, : : : :,textual : : Thank :, Official times : : title : : :,,, translations : : unfair : : uniform : : : thing :, : : : : : : titled : top : topic : tough : things : think : : :, :, : :, : tougher : trade : :,, : Trans : : : translate : :,, : : : : :,, : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, :,, :,,,, : :, :, : Third :, thought : translated : : : : : : : : : : : :, : translates : : : translating :, translator : uniformly : : :, :, : United :, :, : :, : :,, : : :, : : :,, :,,,, : : unprincipled translators : : :,, : : :, : : : tremendous unsupported : : :, : :,, unsure : trial : : unusual : usable : usage :, : : : trials : true : : :, : : : : :, : : usages : use : :,, vast : : venture : version : : : vested : view : : : : : :, : viewed : : views : Virtually : viva : voce : Wwant : : : :: :: wanted : wants : War :Washington : :, wasn't ::way : : : :,, :, : : ::, : : :,: :: ::, : : :ways : Web :Webster's : : :weight :went : : weren't :We'll :we're :,: trying : : turn : turned : two : : :, :, : :,, : :, : translation : :,, : :,, : Tuesday : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : :,, :, : :, :, : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : : :, : understand ::, : : understanding typically : undermine undisputed : : : : U :,, :, : :,,, :,, : : :,, :,, : :, : : uses :,, : :, : usual : usually : U.S :, :,U.S.C : Vv : : : variable : variety : : : :, : : : : : : thousand : : three : threshold : tie-breaking : time :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : we've : : : : : : who've : win :, winner : winner's : wins : witness : witnesses : wondering : word : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : words : : : : : : work : : : :, : : : : : works : :, world : worth : wouldn't : : : writing : : written : : : : : : : : Official : : : : -hour : : :, : : : : : : s : (d) : (d)'s : (f) : : a : : : s : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : -year : : : : :, : :,, : : wrong : : X x :, Y years : : : : : York : a : : , : - : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : th : : : : : : () : : : : : : : : : s : :, :, : : : : : th : :,,, : : :, : :, : :,, a : 