Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xFIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL :CORPORATION, SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST:TO THE FIRST AMERICAN CORPORATION,:ET AL., : No. - Petitioners : v. :DENISE P. EDWARDS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:AARON M. PANNER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners.JEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent.ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEAARON M. PANNER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFJEFFREY A. LAMKEN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFAARON M. PANNER, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, First AmericanFinancial Corporation v. Edwards. Mr. Panner. ORAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. PANNER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Article III requires a private plaintiff toshow injury-in-fact, which means at a minimum that thealleged illegal conduct made her worse off. Factualinjury does not automatically follow from violation of astatutory duty owed to the plaintiff, and Ms. Edwardshas not alleged the type of harm alleged by plaintiffsin the common law cases that she invokes: nomisappropriation of her property, no loss of desiredopportunity or benefit, no injury to reputation. JUSTICE BREYER: So, let me just be -- usean example, a hypothetical based on the next case,really. I was thinking Congress passes a law, says youcan't phone people between : at night and : in themorning and try to sell them something. Okay? That'sthe law. Official MR. PANNER: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: And anyone who gets such aphone call gets $ in damages automatically if theysue in court if they receive such a call. The harm was getting the call. So, mygrandmother, who is always complaining no one ever callsher, loved the telephone call. She loved it. Bestthing happened to her in a month. Okay? Now, can she sue? MR. PANNER: No, Your Honor. If she doesnot have actual injury, the fact of the statutoryviolation would not give rise to standing in that case.Now, it's -- I think it would be quite unlikely that aplaintiff would come before the court and say:Actually, the statutory violation delighted me; Inevertheless would like my $. But if the injury-in-fact requirement meansanything, it means that a plaintiff who comes before thecourt must have a harm in fact. JUSTICE BREYER: So, in other words, if theFDA bans a substance on the ground that percent ofthe people it hurts, and there's some kind of automaticrecovery, $, anybody who bought the substance becauseit wasn't supposed to be sold, and she's one ofthe percent that it helped -- Official MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, in the casein which -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- can't sue? MR. PANNER: In the case in which someone isexposed to a substance that has -- that is illegal, theymight well suffer a harm, and the harm might be theexposure to the substance. And the -- the sort ofinquiry that you're looking into, which is even if theexposure ended up not being harmful, would that be acase -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here she was exposed,or the plaintiff was exposed, to the kind of transactionthat Congress said was harmful as a general matter, justlike the example you gave. MR. PANNER: I don't think so, Your Honor.And the reason is that in this case, the violation -- asher complaint makes clear, she paid the only rate fortitle insurance available in Ohio. She does notcomplain of the quality of the insurance or the serviceshe received. She does not maintain -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because she can't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, going back toJustice Breyer's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Justice Ginsburg. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because she can't proveit at the early stage. I mean, the problem thatCongress was concerned about was that you can't telluntil the house is going to be sold in the end howadequate the title insurance was. So, Congress isacting on the potential that these kind of kickbacks cancause harm. And this does seem to fit the bill ofrestitution, unjust enrichment cases, where theplaintiff doesn't have to prove any harm; she just getsback what the defendant should not have received. MR. PANNER: Your Honor, with respect tounjust enrichment cases, those cases reflectcircumstances where there's a benefit received at theexpense of the plaintiff. And in -- in the traditionalsorts of cases -- unjust enrichment, of course, is aninvention as a category that's relatively recent. Butthe unjust enrichment cases reflect quasi-contractcircumstances where a benefit was conferred that injustice should have been compensated; so, the plaintiffis made worse off in not receiving the benefit -- or thecompensation for the benefit; or a circumstance ofconstructive trust where there was property or otherright of the plaintiff that was misappropriated and usedwithout the permission of the plaintiff; so, anopportunity or a property was taken away. Official This is not a case like that, and there's noallegation that there is anything lacking in theinsurance that was issued. This is a circumstance inwhich Congress may believe that a certain practice as ageneral matter can tend to bring out -- bring aboutbad -- bad outcomes and can therefore make it unlawful.But the question here is whether this plaintiff has aharm -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are you takingthe very broad position that this is an unusual State,as appears to be in three or four others where theStates mandate that title insurance be at a fixed price?But in those States in which there is no such mandate,you seem to be arguing that Congress can't ever presumedamages or injury, that even in those cases, theplaintiff has to come in and prove that they would havepaid less. Is that the position you're taking? MR. PANNER: I -- no, Your Honor. The typeof injury that is incurred doesn't necessarily have tobe a financial one, and there could be circumstanceswhere a plaintiff would allege an injury. And I -- it'simportant to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Please tell me,in those States in which insurance is not fixed by the OfficialState -- MR. PANNER: Well, if there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what does theplaintiff have to do other than to say I -- they didn'tdisclose to me that there was a kickback, and I want theamount I paid for the service? Do they have to show something more? MR. PANNER: If the -- I want to -- I'm notsure I understand Your Honor's question, but if thequestion is there were various rates available and theplaintiff alleges an overcharge, that they purchaseda -- a policy and there was a cheaper policy available,and as a result of the violation -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you are in factarguing very broadly that there is no presumption of --of injury in these cases, that the plaintiff still hasto come in and prove -- MR. PANNER: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that in fact theywould have gotten a cheaper -- a cheaper policy? MR. PANNER: Your Honor, the -- theplaintiff would have to allege in the complaint and theneventually show that there was some injury. It doesn'thave to be a financial injury. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Same thing with nominal Officialdamages and statutory damages? You're -- you're takinga very broad position now. MR. PANNER: I don't think so, Your Honor,because, again, the question for purposes of standing,the question for purposes of the ability of a plaintiffto come into court, is to show that they have someinjury-in-fact, that there is some harm, some way inwhich they were made worse off. This plaintiff -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not soextraordinary. It's what has to be shown in -- inSherman Act cases, right? Contracts and combinationsin -- in restraint of trade are unlawful; but in orderto recover under the Sherman Act, you have to show notonly that it was unlawful, but that you were harmed byit. MR. PANNER: That's true. That's certainlythe norm in all sort of tort -- tort cases. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I was going to ask you,along that line, are there antitrust cases that -- thatRespondents or the Government could cite in which aparty can go into court alleging that the market hasbeen distorted, even though that person has no damage?Anything like that in the antitrust -- what would betheir closest case? MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, I'm not Officialsure -- I did not see any of the cases that they citedinvolving the trust -- the trust circumstance -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. PANNER: -- where there was that sort ofvague allegation. The trust cases I think actually area good illustration of the type of injury that'srequired. We're talking about trust, not antitrust now. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. MR. PANNER: But the trust cases involve acircumstance, the -- I think that the plaintiff herekind of gives the game away by, in the -- when talkingabout the Michoud case, using the phrase "the plaintiffmay sue." And, of course, that's not what the casesays. What the case says is that a -- that abeneficiary can come into court and say the trust hasviolated the duty to me; I want to unwind thetransaction to get the benefit that I would have gottenhad the trustee behaved in the way required. So, in those cases involving trustees, forexample, they -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's not automaticdisgorgement in those -- MR. PANNER: There could be automaticdisgorgement, Your Honor. But, again, that reflects thelost value of what was paid for in terms of the -- of Officialthe -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Panner, Ithought -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- let's assume that atrustee acts on its own interest and sells property, butlet's assume that he gets top dollar for that property,so that the beneficiary hasn't really been deprived ofanything. What's the injury to the beneficiary? MR. PANNER: Well, the injury to thebeneficiary in that circumstance, Your Honor, is thatthe trustee would have misappropriated an opportunitythat belonged to the beneficiary. In the casesthat are -- in the ordinary case, then, the beneficiaryhas the option to say I'd like to unwind that or get thebenefit that the trustee got, if there was self-dealing.But in a circumstance where a trustee sells, forexample, a piece of property and the -- and the claim isone for restitution to try to unwind the transactionthat was done, it's the option of the beneficiary tosay: You know what, maybe I am wrong, but I think Iwould be better off if I could undo that transaction. So, it's a very conventional kind of harmwhere someone believes that their property was -- wastaken away from them and used in a way to their Officialdetriment, and they are therefore seeking relief. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what more does thisplaintiff have to allege other than, if I had been toldthat this was a prearranged, tied product between themortgage and the title company but that I had a right toget an untied product even at the same price, and Iwould have exercised that right if I had known? Wouldthat be enough? MR. PANNER: That might be enough, YourHonor. But that's exactly what she didn't allege -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would that be enoughin -- in Justice Breyer's example, of someone who says Ireceived a call at midnight and it bothered me? MR. PANNER: Yes, I think that certainlywould be enough, absolutely. The point is that thiscomplaint abstracted away any such particularized claimfor a very particular purpose, which was that in orderto maintain this case as a class action, the basis ofharm could not be anything personal or individual tothis plaintiff. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you go back to yourposition that Congress has no power to give a cause ofaction on the basis of a statutory violation in which itis presuming injury? MR. PANNER: That is correct, Your Honor. OfficialThe -- what Congress cannot do is to confer on aparticular plaintiff an injury that's constitutionallysufficient under Article III. I think this Court hasmade clear that Congress cannot do that and that theexistence of a statutory right by itself, even theinvasion, the violation of the statutory right does notcreate injury for constitutional purposes. Injury -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, certainly youcouldn't -- you couldn't sue. But if I paid money thatI would have -- and that I'm entitled to get back, thenI've been injured, because -- MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, you paidmoney -- in this case the plaintiff paid money for atitle insurance policy which she received. She paid at-- at the legally required rate, and she makes nocomplaint about the policy, nor does she claim that itwould have mattered to her -- JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you to clarifysomething? What could a plaintiff who purchases titleinsurance in Ohio allege that would be sufficient toprovide standing? MR. PANNER: Well, certainly if a plaintiffsaid that the -- that the manner in which the titleinsurance was provided had delayed her closing or thatthere were procedures that were -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: No, what could be done --okay. Go ahead. MR. PANNER: -- that there was somethingabout the service that she received as a result ofthe -- the referral to a particular title insurer,again, assuming that this is a violation, which wedon't -- we don't think it is. But -- but assuming thatit is, that -- JUSTICE ALITO: So, you could -- theplaintiff could allege some kind defective service atthe time when the title insurance was purchased? Therereally is no service provided at that time, is there? MR. PANNER: Actually, most -- JUSTICE ALITO: You get -- you get a titleinsurance policy and that's it; and you don't knowwhether -- you don't know what will happen if there'ssome problem alleged with the title at some point downthe road. MR. PANNER: Well, that's really -- the --the risk of that is really on the title insurer, whichis why the title insurer has no incentive whatsoever toencourage poor service by a title insurance agent. Thetitle -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that leadsme to this -- I thought -- I never thought of title Officialinsurance companies as being fungible, and some werevery, very good about narrowing the exceptions, aboutworking with the seller of the property, if yourepresented the buyer, to get rid of the exceptions.And so, I'm not sure that it's just a question of apolicy versus no policy. There's a -- there's a qualityto the -- to the research they do. And the next -- and related to that is this:You -- you put the case as if the price is going to bethe same for the insurance. (A) I think there's nothingin -- in the State law that permits the insurancecompany to get -- to set a lower rate; and, second,don't the title companies charge other fees, titlesearch fees and so forth, other fees in addition to theprice of the insurance? And those other fees,arguably -- I know she didn't allege any damage -- butthose other fees arguably are too high because of thisfixed market. MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, she didn't allegethat. I know that. MR. PANNER: She didn't allege it, and Ithink that's critical, because the -- the issue is notwhether it's conceivable that an injury could occur fromthe violation. It could. And what you have indicated Officialabout difficulty clearing objections to a title, forexample, if there was a problem that she had withrespect to that and she believed that it was the case,that would actually be the job of the title agent,which -- and there's no allegation that she wasimproperly referred to the title agent. So, there -- the insurer is issuing --underwriting the policy and bears the residual risk, butit's the agent that is actually engaged with the -- withthe plaintiff here. And there, the agent's name herewas Tower City. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose Congress makes afinding, and this is the finding: We think that lawyersor whoever is engaged in these who hire title insurancecompanies should hire the best one on the merits, not onthe basis of which one will give them the biggestkickback. We think that's so because that will helpkeep people secure. Everyone in such -- who buys ahouse will feel more secure knowing that the marketworked there. We can't prove who feels insecure and whodoesn't. We think in general they would. And so, wegive everybody the right to recover $ if they areinjured where the injury consists of being engaged in atransaction where the title insurance company was notchosen on the merits but was chosen in whole or in part Officialon the basis of a kickback. And they write that rightinto the statute. So, therefore, there is no doubt that theplaintiff here suffered the harm that Congress sought toforbid. That harm was being engaged in a transactionwhere the title insurance company was not chosen on themerits but partly in terms of a kickback. Now, what inthe Constitution forbids Congress from doing that? MR. PANNER: The Constitution, Article III,as this Court has interpreted it, requires that aplaintiff that comes into court must have suffered aninjury-in-fact. And Congress cannot create that injurylegislatively. Otherwise, the Congress can enlist thecourts for regulatory purposes that are unrelated to thecore function of the court as this Court has -- hasarticulated it -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Panner -- MR. PANNER: -- which is -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- suppose that there were acontract between Mrs. Edwards and Tower and the contracthad a no-kickback clause, not one that suggested thatMs. Edwards had to show any kind of injury, greater costor lesser service, but just you can't have anykickbacks. Can she sue on that contract? MR. PANNER: Well, if it was a negotiated Officialagreement and it was -- it was one where the parties hadgiven value for that assurance, then that wouldrepresent something that there had been a judgment inadvance by this -- by this particular individual thatthere was -- that that was something -- that was aperformance that she was willing to pay for and apromise that meant something to her. And so, that wouldpotentially be a different case. JUSTICE KAGAN: And now suppose thatCongress passes a law and says every contract of thiskind has to have such a provision in it. MR. PANNER: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: Would she now have standing? MR. PANNER: Most likely not, Your Honor,and the reason is that it's the difference between acontract that the parties engage in, where there wouldbe a -- if there's a negotiated contract, it would bereasonable for the court to say, well, there's valueattached to the rights that the parties have bargainedfor here. But it's different if Congress is using it asa mechanism to create injury legislatively, and in thatcircumstance, the court would still have to determinewhether there was injury-in-fact that would allow the --allow the plaintiff to get into court. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could -- Official MR. PANNER: But it's a different case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could Congress decree thatthe agent in this case shall be an agent of thepurchaser rather than an agent of the title insurancecompany? As it has done in real estate, I think. Thereal estate broker must be an agent of the seller andnot of the purchaser. Can it -- can it establish atrust relationship between the purchaser here and theperson selecting the title insurance company? MR. PANNER: Well, I think that Congresscould potentially create a trust relationship -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it did, would theviolation of that trust relationship constitute injuryfor -- for Article III purposes? MR. PANNER: Well, it would depend, YourHonor. Not -- not per se. It would depend on whetherthere was some way in which that violation caused aninjury-in-fact. So, for example -- first of all, to theextent that there was some -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't requireinjury-in-fact for most breaches of trust, do we? MR. PANNER: You do, Your Honor. That is tosay that in the case of any of the examples that theplaintiff has cited there is an underlying interest, anantecedent interest, a concrete interest in property or Officialin an economic opportunity, paid-for services of anagent, and it is that concrete interest which is invadedby the -- by the alleged violation of the -- of theresponsibility of trust. But, of course, here you don't even havethat relationship of trust. The -- as -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I understand, but I'mjust saying that that concrete interest can be createdby Congress instead of being created by contract. Whatdifference does it make? If you become a trustee bycontract, you get one result; but if you are a trusteeby government decree so that you must be a trustee,contract or not? MR. PANNER: No, I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Somehow the situationchanges? MR. PANNER: I don't -- I don't think thesituation would change. I guess what I'm saying is thateven -- I don't see any of the common law casesinvolving trusts, trustees, as involving recoveries orsuits in the absence of what this Court would certainlyconsider to be an injury-in-fact, that is to say someharm to a concrete interest that exists apart from thestatutory duty or the common law duty. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Panner, in response Officialto Justice Scalia's questions and my questions, you aresuggesting that there's a difference depending on whatthe source of the law is. If the source of the right is-- is a contract, there's one result. If the source ofthe right is a statute, there's another result. And Ithought that that was very much -- that is -- that'svery much inconsistent with our case law, andspecifically with Lujan. MR. PANNER: I certainly didn't mean to saythat, Your Honor. So, let me try to clarify. Thequestion was -- there are circumstances in which thelegal relationship is such that there could be -- let meback up. The question is whether there's aninjury-in-fact, that is to say a harm that exists as afactual matter. And those interests certainly can bereflected by the legal duties that are created. So, forexample, there are legal duties in contract that areintended to protect the interests of the contractingparties. There are legal duties under the law of trustthat are intended to protect the beneficiary. But this Court has frequently reflected thefact that there is the question of the violation, butthen there is separately the question of the injury.And the point that I'm making -- and it should be the Officialsame answer with respect to your question andJustice Scalia's -- is if -- the mere fact of theviolation of a duty does not create injury per se, andnone of the cases reflect that. And that is theproposition that plaintiff relies on here, preciselybecause of what she alleged and what she isattempting -- the type of case that she is attempting tobring. She's attempting to bring a case in whichthe statutory violation is the injury. No other injuryis required. She very straightforwardly says it doesnot matter if there's any economic harm, it does notmatter if there's any quality difference, it does notmatter if there is any consequential effect on me atall. JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm not sure that that's theright understanding of her complaint. She's saying: Idon't have to prove those things because there's been ajudgment made that -- that these kinds of practices tendto decrease service and tend to increase price, andtherefore I don't have to prove those matters. And that's the exact same judgment that'smade in the trust cases, for example. MR. PANNER: Again, I don't think that thetrust cases can be fairly read to say that, Your Honor. OfficialBut the key point is that there's a distinction betweenwhat Congress -- the statutory duties that Congress canimpose and the manner in which Congress can choose tohave those enforced -- well -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose she -- supposeshe appended to her complaint an affidavit by awell-respected economist that says Congress was right;these kind of arrangements will have an adverse effecton the people who are purchasing title insurance. Andgoes through all kinds of analyses that show that.Would that be adequate then? MR. PANNER: Well, at the pleading stage, itmight be, Your Honor. That is to say that if -- if thequestion were whether there was an allegation, certainlyit's possible that there could be a sufficientlyconcrete allegation in a complaint that there was thatsort of an impact, but -- and this is critical -- notonly was that not alleged here, but the mere fact thatthere's a statutory duty does not reflect that's thejudgment or, you know, the fact that there's been anysort of systemic effect. Congress has broadly prohibited practicesinvolving kickbacks, and the paradigm case has nothingto do with a situation in which a title insurance agentis issuing a title insurance policy for an underwriter. Official Now, it's not to say that Congress can'tpass a broader prohibition and -- you know, and requirethat it be enforced. Well, Congress can pass a broaderprohibition, and then the executive could enforce it.But what Congress cannot do is to dictate in advancethat a particular practice has caused injury to aparticular plaintiff. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm stillhaving problems -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just following up JusticeGinsburg's hypothetical, suppose the Congress works witheconomists and concludes there is a reasonableprobability that if there were no kickbacks, there wouldbe a more competitive market, there would be lowerprices for some of the escrow fees, some of thecollateral fees in addition to the title insurance, andthe plaintiff then alleges that there is this reasonableprobability that there would be a more efficient market,resulting in cost savings. Would that be enough? MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, there has tobe a connection between the violation alleged and theharm that ensues. And so, a general understandingthat a particular -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the person alleges:And I was in this market and I might have -- there's a Officialreasonable probability I could have had a lower price,according to economic theory. MR. PANNER: Well -- well, again, thatwasn't alleged here. So, the question with theseparticular -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, I'm assuming it'salleged. MR. PANNER: I understand that, Your Honor.And so, the question would be particular to theallegations that were made. In a case like this one,it's in all likelihood a generic allegation that therehad been -- that there was some sort of systemic effectis -- it would be insufficient. That would be aspeculative sort of claim of harm, and that would bereally something where if it's a general systemic effectwith no traceability between the violation that'salleged and any supposed harm to the plaintiff, thatthat would be something for the executive. Mr. Chief Justice, if I can reserve -- JUSTICE ALITO: And if the plaintiff wentany further and alleged some harm particular to her,wouldn't that be even more speculative? MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE ALITO: Some economic harmparticular to her? I don't want to take up your Officialrebuttal time, but -- MR. PANNER: Thank you, Your Honor. I think it would depend. I mean, certainlythere are all sorts of circumstances where there isbroad systemic harm, but yet the harm to the plaintiffis very clear, if you think about, for example, aboutprice fixing. If I could reserve the remainder. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Panner. Mr. Lamken. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY A. LAMKEN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. LAMKEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: For at least years, the law has beenclear that when someone breaches a duty of loyalty owedto you by taking a kickback or otherwise introducing aconflict into a transaction, you can sue on the basis ofthat alone, without showing a further harm in terms ofeconomic loss. The invasion of your right toconflict-free service was itself a sufficiently concreteand particularized injury-in-fact, not an abstract andundifferentiated -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You speak of a duty of Officialloyalty. There's no duty of loyalty owed here. It wasjust a law that said you cannot get -- and I'm not evensure it's proper to call it a kickback. It's acommission. These people are agents for the titleinsurance company, and they get a commission on -- onevery sale of title insurance that they make. You cancall it a kickback, I suppose. I don't know why theother side does. But -- but it seems to me acommission. There's no duty of loyalty. Isn't -- isn'tthe seller here the agent of the title insurancecompany? MR. LAMKEN: Congress could have made them,the agent, could have -- as you pointed out, could havemade them a full-fledged fiduciary. Elevating yourinterest in having no conflicts whatsoever in thetransaction -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We have a different -- wehave a different case then. MR. LAMKEN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: But they didn't do that,did they? MR. LAMKEN: Congress actually elevated onecomponent of that by giving you a right to freedom froma particular conflict of interest, and that is thekickbacks that undermine their incentive to serve your Officialbest interest, that undermine their incentive to choosethe insurer that provides the best quality and the bestservice. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this is where I haveproblems with your argument, because this doesn't seemto me to be a fiduciary relationship, and I don't seewhere the -- where the duty of loyalty comes from. Andto say that Congress can just impose some attributes ofa fiduciary relationship wherever it wants seems ratherstrange. Let me give you this example: I take my carto an auto dealer to have -- because it's making astrange sound. And I say call me up when you figure outwhat you think is the problem. They call me up, andthey say, well, there are certain things wrong with it,and it's going to cost you $,. And I say, okay,now, thanks for diagnosing the problem; where should Ihave it fixed? Should I have it fixed at your shop orshould I go to another place and have it fixed? Andthey say, well, have it fixed at our shop. Now, isthere a breach of a duty of loyalty there? MR. LAMKEN: Well, you might have aninterest in getting an honest opinion. It's just notprotected in law. They're allowed to tell you what theywant to tell you because you have no protected interest Officialin their opinion. JUSTICE ALITO: I know. But we're lookingfor whether there's an injury-in-fact. Put aside thequestion of whether there's a breach of the duty in law.There is allegedly here. I just don't see where there'san injury-in-fact, because I know -- I'm an idiot if Idon't realize -- that they have a strong economicincentive to say come have it fixed at my place. MR. LAMKEN: Well, in fact, Your Honor,Congress is entitled to elevate your interest inobtaining honest judgments or conflict-free advice tolegal protection, whether you would be an idiot inaccepting it or expecting it in the first instance.They can take that relationship and make it confidentialand make it an honest one, even if you hadn't expectedthat in the first place. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the issue isn'twhether they can afford it legal protection. Theycertainly can. And there can be suits by -- by theFederal Government or, I think, under this statute evenby State -- State attorneys general. The issue isn'twhether Congress can achieve that result. It's whetherthey can achieve it by permitting private suits. MR. LAMKEN: Right. But the common law wasabsolutely clear that when someone invaded your right to Officiala conflict-free transaction, invaded your right not tohave kickbacks in your transaction, you didn't have toprove that there was an economic consequence. Theinvasion of your right not to have conflicts invade thattransaction was sufficient. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you tell -- couldyou tell me, just with Justice Alito's automobilehypothetical, just as a matter of agency law -- I'm alittle rusty on this one. If the auto repair peoplephone and say: And you need two parts and we'llpurchase those parts for you. And they then purchaseparts from a company that they own. Under standardagency law, could the vehicle owner get disgorgement? MR. LAMKEN: If the -- if they are acting -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And he doesn't know --they haven't been informed -- MR. LAMKEN: If that is an agency duty --and we assume that that's an agent; they're acting asagent for the person with the broken car -- the answeris absolutely, without having to show any loss. Andthis Court's case in Magruder v. Drury was that type ofcase, where it was absolutely clear that the plaintiffwould not have paid a cent more, the estate would nothave paid a cent more, if that -- they had goneelsewhere to make the purchase. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: If I take a car to an automechanic, he's not my agent. He's an independentcontractor doing business. He's not my agent. MR. LAMKEN: That's exactly why I said -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's not an agencyrelation here, either. MR. LAMKEN: Congress -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a customer going tosomebody who is an independent contractor. MR. LAMKEN: Congress imposed one componentof the duty that applies to agents and fiduciariesacross the board, and that is: Don't take kickbacksthat undermine the incentive to obtain the best deal foryour consumer. JUSTICE SCALIA: More than agents andfiduciaries across the board. He is neither an agentnor a fiduciary. And what's the closest case you haveto a situation where there is neither an agencyrelationship nor a trust relationship, and yet this kindof a right to sue without showing damage exists? What'sthe -- what's your best shot? MR. LAMKEN: Well, the law has a number ofcontexts where you don't have to show financial loss.If somebody defames you, you don't have -- in yourbusiness, you don't have to show that you're financially Officialinjured. That's injury-in-fact in and of itself. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that gets to apoint that I'm having trouble getting my arms around.It seems to me what your position is, what you want usto focus on, there are three possible arguments. One isthat there is injury-in-fact in this case. I see someof that argument in your briefs. Two, that Congresspresumes injury-in-fact. Injury-in-fact is stillrequired, but that is presumed. I read that to beperhaps what the trust cases say. Or, three, thatinjury-in-fact is not required at all. Now, which areyou arguing? One, two or three? MR. LAMKEN: I think our argument is thatthe invasion of your statutory right to a conflict-freeservice is itself an injury-in-fact -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, statutoryright. MR. LAMKEN: But it also has -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I -- I'm sorryto interrupt you, and I want to pause on that question.You said violation of a statute is injury-in-fact. Iwould have thought that would be called injury-in-law.And when we say, as all our standing cases have, is thatwhat is required is injury-in-fact, I understand that tobe in contradistinction to injury-in-law. And when you Officialtell me all that you've got or all that you want toplead is violation of the statute, that doesn't soundlike injury-in-fact. MR. LAMKEN: It's injury-in-fact in thefollowing two senses, Judge -- Mr. Chief Justice:First, all you have to do -- getting a conflict-freereferral is itself substantively more valuable thangetting one laden by conflict. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Now, thatgoes back to the first proposition. That's an argumentthat there is injury-in-fact here. So, it seems to methat -- I don't mean this in a pejorative sense, but itseems to me that you slide back and forth between one,two, and three, which makes it hard for us to get adecision. MR. LAMKEN: I think the answer is, so longas Congress has entitled you to something of potentialvalue that isn't being denied to every other member ofthe public in an undifferentiated way, that issufficient to be injury-in-fact. Now -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Potential --potential value. MR. LAMKEN: Potential value. And it's morevaluable -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, we said in the OfficialWhitmore case, and this is a quote: "Allegations ofpossible future injury do not satisfy the requirementsof Article III." Potential value sounds to me likepossible future injury. MR. LAMKEN: In this sense, Your Honor:It's what you received is substantively less valuable.All you have to do is ask yourself, would I value moreadvice from somebody who's playing it straight -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. LAMKEN: -- on a financial side orsomeone who is taking kickbacks from -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, that'sinjury-in-fact? MR. LAMKEN: That's injury-in-fact -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. LAMKEN: -- and there's another way inwhich it's injury-in-fact. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if you tell mewhat this case is about is whether or not you've showninjury-in-fact, it's not a significant -- significantcase, and your client has to prove that at trial. MR. LAMKEN: Well, she proved that she gotsomething less valuable. She got something she wasentitled to -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought -- and Officialmaybe it's a unique circumstance in this case, but Ohiosays this is going to cost you the same no matter whatyou do. MR. LAMKEN: That's actually quiteincorrect, Your Honor. Ohio -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. But thenagain, that's an argument about was there or was therenot injury-in-fact. MR. LAMKEN: Well, the injury-in-fact isgetting something that's potentially -- not gettingsomething to which the law entitles you, which haspotential value to you. And a conflict-free referral ismuch more valuable than one laden by conflicts. And there is another thing. We haven'tdisclaimed the notion entirely. We haven't -- in fact,we believe it is very likely that -- that quality orprice suffered as a result of these -- of theseconflicts. But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds --again, to use a word we've said is inadequate to supportstanding, that sounds conjectural. MR. LAMKEN: No, it's not. It's notconjectural at all. Congress specifically found thatthese are the consequences. But the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. We're Officialtalking about not what Congress found; what theinjury-in-fact is. MR. LAMKEN: Right. Your Honor -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you will agree,won't you, that the idea that it's certainly possible orwhatever your formulation was, that the quality herewasn't good enough or that the entire quality across theboard might be better, that's conjectural, right? MR. LAMKEN: No. Well, Your Honor, it'svery hard to prove. And it was for that exact reasonthat -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now we're in point-- now we're at level two: It's hard to prove. So, isthat your argument, that Congress presumed injury? MR. LAMKEN: No, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. LAMKEN: That's why the common lawelevated the right to conflict-free services from notbeing legally protected to legal protection, because itwas so hard to figure out, for the judge -- JUSTICE BREYER: What is the -- I think --this is very interesting and informative to me. Go backto the middle category. As I'm now seeing it, you havea version of the middle category that the Chief Justicewas asking. And -- and call it Congress sometimes Officialpasses a statute that creates a pariah. It could be asubstance. It could be a form of behavior. It could bea structure of an industry. And then once it does that, it makes thatunlawful. And now what it's done, it is more unusualthan I ever thought. It comes up in the loyaltycontext, fiduciary, but we're not talking aboutfiduciary. It says it is a harm and you will earn moneyif you deal with a pariah, assuming it wasn't yourfault. Now, that's where I have ended up with youranswers to the Chief, and now, having put it that way, Ican find loads of examples in my mind where there's atrustee or fiduciary involved. I can think of anexample in the qui tam context, but to think of oneright on point is a little hard, though I thought theremust be some. MR. LAMKEN: Justice Breyer, the breach ofcontract, in some sense, is precisely that pariah. JUSTICE BREYER: The what? MR. LAMKEN: A breach of contract. Ifsomebody breaches a -- a contractual duty owed to me, Idon't have to prove that I suffered economic injury.The breach of the promise itself gives me a grievancesufficient to entitle me to sue for nominal damages Officialand statutory damages. JUSTICE BREYER: You mean you can sue incourt even if what you come in and you say, theybreached my contract, and as a result, I made $, Iwouldn't have otherwise made? And when the judge says"And what damages do you seek," you say? MR. LAMKEN: I'd like $ more, Your Honor.I want nominal damages or if there's -- JUSTICE BREYER: And you can do that? MR. LAMKEN: Or -- or -- so, if there arestipulated liquidated damages, you're entitled to thoseas well. That was the common law rule for years -- JUSTICE BREYER: No liquidated -- MR. LAMKEN: -- it's the majority ruletoday. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Okay. MR. LAMKEN: So, that is -- that isprecisely the context. But if I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you would accept$ in this case? MR. LAMKEN: Well, Your Honor, we're in --but I think that is -- (Laughter.) MR. LAMKEN: We're hoping to do better, Your OfficialHonor. But that actually illustrates -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, that --that gets -- I didn't mean to be facetious, but it getsto the question of whether or not you have to actuallyshow injury-in-fact. Your allegation in this case isfor damages, not just nominal damages but damages. MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, if the injury issufficient to get you in court to get $ -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that -- is that right?I thought -- MR. LAMKEN: -- it doesn't evaporate justbecause you want to get -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Lamken, you're notseeking damages. You're seeking what the statute saysyou can get, which is your money back treble? MR. LAMKEN: Exactly, Your Honor. We'reseeking precisely what the statute entitles to us whenthere is the breach of this duty owed to us -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, it's not that youhave to prove -- MR. LAMKEN: -- for our protection. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- any other damagesbecause the statute has specified what the recovery is. MR. LAMKEN: That's exactly right. When youshow -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, do you -- I'msorry. MR. LAMKEN: -- one injury not two, oneinjury-in-fact, a violation of a duty owed to us for ourprotection, not an additional injury in the form ofhaving suffered an economic loss. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want to getout of this contract? MR. LAMKEN: Pardon? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you want to getout of this deal? MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor, I don't knowwhether or not Ms. Edwards would want to get out of thedeal or not. But the statute says that she doesn't haveto give up her insurance which protects her home inorder to obtain the benefits of -- that Congressguaranteed her, which were -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't see -- Ididn't see an allegation for rescission or -- or, youknow -- so, you're perfectly happy as far as we knowfrom the complaint with this deal; you just want theextra $ per class member without showing anyinjury-in-fact. MR. LAMKEN: I think this -- I think thisbrings me back to the question you were asking me Officialbefore, which is, indeed, it's -- we think it's like --that there is -- there are diminution in quality andpaying excessive price, but the law says we don't haveto prove that because the -- because the law haselevated our right to a conflict-free transaction to be-- to legally protected status. The very reason the common law said -- inthe fiduciary and the trust and all the otherconfidential issues in context, said we're not going toask about the economics, we're not going to regulate theeconomics here, because that's too hard. What we'regoing to do is we're going to protect your right toreceive the best advice possible. And at that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, maybe I'm justlooking at this too simply. You pay -- your client paid$ for title insurance, correct? MR. LAMKEN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She is claiming that shepaid that money on the statutory assumption that theagent would disclose to her any kickbacks, correct? MR. LAMKEN: It's not a disclosure duty buton the statutory basis that she was entitled to aconflict-free referral, that they were not directing herpurchase on the basis of conflict that so undermined -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She said I didn't Officialreceive what I paid for, correct? MR. LAMKEN: Exactly, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I paid money, I lost themoney, I'd have it back because what I've bought was aconflict-free -- MR. LAMKEN: That's exactly right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- referral, and that'snot what I got. MR. LAMKEN: Like an aggrieved trustbeneficiary, she is seeking to get back something thatbelonged to her, $ that she parted company with in aconflicted transaction. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you don'twant a conflict-free transaction because you don't wantto get out of this contract. You're perfectly happywith the contract. You want $. You don't want aconflict-free transaction, because even if it was a --were a conflict-free transaction, the price would be thesame, in Ohio. MR. LAMKEN: Not necessarily so, Your Honor,because Ohio does not preclude price competition. Youcan file for -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Now, therethe answer to my question -- and I don't mean to focuson a peculiar structure, but there -- your answer was on Officialpart one. You said no, not necessarily. Here there wasan injury-in-fact; she might have gotten a better deal. MR. LAMKEN: She has been exposed -- it'simpossible to tell whether or not Fidelity would havebeen better because of financial soundness or anothercompany would have been better because it has betterclaim handling down the road. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you don't want to haveto prove that, because if you proved any damage, theregoes your class action -- MR. LAMKEN: Absolutely not. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because you don't havecommonality. MR. LAMKEN: The reason we're not -- we didnot allege it is because the statute doesn't require it,and for years, when somebody takes a -- takes akickback that interferes with your obtaining the bestdeal possible, that itself was actionable withoutproving any further -- JUSTICE SCALIA: How does it -- how does itharm her to get a title insurance policy for the priceof $ from what you call a kickback-free seller, asopposed to getting the same title insurance for $from a non-kickback-free seller? Is that aninjury-in-fact? Official MR. LAMKEN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: The -- the vague notionof -- of buying it from -- from -- I don't know, a whiteknight? Is that the kind of injury-in-fact that ourcases talk about? MR. LAMKEN: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me purely -- Idon't know -- philosophical. MR. LAMKEN: It's not philosophical at allbecause that exact right, ensuring that she gets her --her purchase in a kickback-free transaction is for herbenefit. And when she is denied that right, she hasbeen denied something of potential value that hasn'tbeen denied to everybody else in the universe. For her protection, she was entitled to havethem -- the very fact of a kickback undermines theincentive to pursue her best interest. Like a trustbeneficiary, a home buyer spending her money to insuretitle on her home has a concrete and particularizedinterest in insuring that those who direct the purchaseare not doing it based on kickbacks, which soundermine the incentive to seek her best interest. It may be very hard to prove in individualcases that, you know, Fidelity is more financially soundor another has better claims handling. But it was Officialprecisely for that reason that Congress got out of thebusiness and the courts got out of the business oftrying to regulate the underlying economics. They'renot going to regulate price. They're not going toregulate quality. And, instead, we're going to give youa right to get the referral from somebody who hasexpertise and who doesn't have a conflict created by aconflict -- by a kickback that so undermines theirincentive -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Doubtless Congress wantedto get out of the business. But the issue here iswhether Congress can get out of the business, whether itis the function of courts to provide relief to peoplewho haven't been injured. I mean, that's -- that's --that's the whole issue. MR. LAMKEN: Justice Scalia, theConstitution, statutes, the common law regularly createbright-line across-the-board rights to protectunderlying financial or other economic interests, wherethe right may sweep more broadly and may apply in caseswhere those underlying interests are defected. But wedon't go look backwards at the purpose of the right,abstract the right to its purpose and say, well, unlessit's purpose was -- was achieved in this particularpurpose, we're not going to -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: Would there beinjury-in-fact if the plaintiff knew everything that wasrelevant to this -- was an economist who had studied theeffect of these things on title insurance price andquality and, in fact, had -- was aware of every singletransaction that had ever occurred between the titleinsurance company and the title agent? Would there beinjury-in-fact in that situation? MR. LAMKEN: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: Nevertheless said, okay, Iunderstand this is what I'm getting into, but I'm goingahead. MR. LAMKEN: Yes. There's -- there'sinjury-in-fact. JUSTICE ALITO: There would beinjury-in-fact? MR. LAMKEN: Yes, because he has been deniedsomething he is entitled to, which is another expert'suntainted referral which is not affected in any way bykickbacks, which we know are entirely corrosive in theinterest to pursue his best interest. He might -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but it's circularfor you to say he's denied something he's entitled to.The question is whether there's an injury. TheConstitution requires an injury. Official MR. LAMKEN: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: For you to say he wasentitled to it and, therefore, it's an injury, that'sjust -- that's just circular. That gives no substanceat all to the -- to the meaning of the term "injury." MR. LAMKEN: Yes, but the -- the invasion ofa statutory right itself can be injury-in-fact so longas it's sufficiently concrete and -- and particularized.That you're not just asserting another -- an interest ofthe public at large. The Court has protected interests asdivorced from property interests as the right to obtaininformation from the government through FOIA or FACA.It can protect your -- your non-property interest in notbeing defamed. All of these things are protected. Yourrights to performance of your contract. All of thethese things are protected whether or not there'sfurther economic harm that results. And the no further inquiry rule that'sapplied in the trust and fiduciary contracts for yearsis just another example where the law elevates yourinterest in not having conflict -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask you, justto follow up -- you said whether or not there's furthereconomic harm. So, you say economic harm is required -- Official MR. LAMKEN: No, I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- because therecan't be further economic harm if there isn't economicharm in the first place. MR. LAMKEN: Further, comma, economic harm.Further harm of the economic sort, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Further harm thathappens to be economic, not further economic harm. MR. LAMKEN: Exactly. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. LAMKEN: There doesn't need to befurther harm, much less further economic harm. Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Lamken. Mr. Yang. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: When an individual has a statutory right toa kickback-free referral in a financial transaction, sheparticipates in a particular financial transaction inwhich her right is violated, and she pays money for the Officialservice unlawfully referred, she has sustained anArticle III injury-in-fact based on, as this Court hasrepeatedly explained its test, an invasion of a legallyprotected interest that is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose -- Mr. Yang, letme give -- give you a hypothetical. Suppose, you know,Congress did this to spare the Attorney General thenecessity of suing to enforce these requirements.Suppose Congress wants to take the burden off the backof the Internal Revenue Service. So, it says that anybody who buys anyproduct from a company that has not paid its taxes isentitled to $. Okay? What that person is entitledto is a -- a tax-observant seller, given a nationalright to a tax-observant seller. Would every person whobuys from some -- some company that hasn't paid itstaxes have a cause of action? MR. YANG: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not? MR. YANG: This Court has explained, I thinkprincipally in your opinion in Lujan v. Defenders ofWildlife, that Congress cannot convert anundifferentiated public interest in enforcement of thelaw -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But this is differentiated. OfficialYou have to have bought from one of these companies.It's not everybody. Not everybody has bought from thesetax cheats. MR. YANG: I -- I understand. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's only the people whobought from tax cheats. MR. YANG: There is also a threshold.Obviously, Congress can't simply narrow the class of --of plaintiffs to say people with college degrees orpeople who were born on a Monday. There needs to be asufficient connection between the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: A nexus, right? Your briefis full of "nexus" -- MR. YANG: Well, would you -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's legal jargon for"connection." MR. YANG: We'll use "connection" here. JUSTICE SCALIA: Lovely. Say "connection."I like it. (Laughter.) MR. YANG: We'll say "connection." JUSTICE SCALIA: I love it. MR. YANG: But what -- in our view, thereneeds to be a reasonable connection between theproscribed conduct -- here, the paying of taxes -- and Officialthe class of persons -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. YANG: -- to which the Congress hasconferred the right, and that has to be such that theperson class is reasonably regarded as victims of theconduct -- JUSTICE SCALIA: How much of a connectionis -- is necessary? Suppose you have a law thatrequires all machine parts produced by companies to --to contain a certain feature, and anyone who buys onethat doesn't contain that feature gets $. I purchaseone. That feature is of no use to me at all. Thatproduct would be just as good for me for the purposesfor which I am using it had it not had that feature. Would that be okay? Would I have a cause ofaction? MR. YANG: It's unclear. Let me -- let metry to figure out the hypothetical a little bit further.If Congress -- for instance, if the machine part was asafety harness in your car and you purchased a car witha safety harness but you happen simply, you know, to notuse the safety harness, Congress might well be able tosay -- provide for a protection for all purchasers ofthis particular vehicle or any kind of vehicle must --that those types of vehicles must have that safety Officialequipment in order to protect the consumers who purchaseit. And in that instance, Congress could wellprovide for a statutory damage provision to protect suchan individual generally. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, even though I'veinstalled my own safety harness, which I always do whenI buy a car, I -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: -- I can sue because thiscar that they sold me didn't have the safety harness? MR. YANG: That's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: bucks. MR. YANG: That's correct. And let me --let me go to some historical analogues to explain whythe focus has to be on the invasion of a legallyprotected interest. You have things like trespass. Atcommon law -- and this was well known to the framers.At common law, if you simply step across a boundaryline, a line defined in law and the rights that aredefined in law that are associated with that line, ifyou simply step across this and step back, that is atrespass. You could bring an action in court. Youcould have no -- no impact whatsoever except theinvasion of your legal right, and you would get nominal Officialdamages. And that type -- similarly, if you had acontract, you could have a breach of the contract. JUSTICE BREYER: Justice Scalia has a point,because, I mean, as I heard him, he was -- he wasreiterating what used to be called a prudential rule ofstanding. It wasn't constitutional, but you looked tosee if the statute is meant to protect this kind ofperson against that kind of harm. All right? And ifnot, there's lack of prudential standing. Well, if that's the test, his case wouldfall outside it, because the tax law is not meant toprotect the plaintiff there, but this case would fallwithin it. MR. YANG: I think it's more than prudentialstanding. It goes to what is an injury-in-fact, whichthe Court has, again, repeatedly explained is aninvasion of a legally protected interest that issufficiently concrete and particularized. Now, we don't think that Congress can,through the guise of a right, convert a generalizedinterest in enforcement of the law into something thatan individual can come in to -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why do -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What is -- I'm sorry, OfficialChief, go ahead. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- why do wealways say injury-in-fact then? You say so long as theharm is a violation of the law, a legally protectedinterest. Our standing cases always say injury-in-factas opposed to injury-in-law. And yet, you're saying ifyou violate the law, you have sufficient injury. MR. YANG: Well, your cases actually say aninjury-in-fact, and then you go on to explain that --for instance, in Defenders of Wildlife, that that is aninvasion of a legally protected interest. And I'm notsaying it's any invasion of the law, but when Congressconfers a right -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because they also goon to say that it has to be concrete. MR. YANG: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Real and immediate,not conjectural or hypothetical. MR. YANG: That's right. It can't be anabstract type of a thing; it has to be in a specificfactual context that's amenable to judicial -- arealistic judicial appreciation of the consequences -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that all of ourcases -- we could have left "in fact" out of all ofthem? None of them come out differently because we Officialinsist on injury-in-fact? MR. YANG: Well, I -- I don't know if youcould have left it out. You could have called itanything. It is a legal label that the Court hasapplied to -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The differencebetween legal harm, though -- I mean, isn't that -- Iguess I'm just repeating myself. Injury-in-fact -- howdo you understand that to be different than any otherkind of injury? MR. YANG: Well, an injury-in-fact is notsimply a legal injury in the sense of any violation ofthe law. It is an invasion of a legally protectedinterest with respect to this particular individual, theparticular plaintiff. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are twoelements. That's the particularized requirement, and Iunderstand that. But you're saying there's --injury-in-fact simply means particularized? MR. YANG: No. No, no, no, no. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. YANG: It includes several concepts. Aninjury-in-fact is an invasion of a legally protectedinterest. It either has to be actual or imminent, andit has to be concrete and particularized. Now, again -- Officialso, there's several concepts within the umbrella ofinjury-in-fact. But I'd like to go back to the examples thatwe would find, at the time of the framing, of many typesof injuries where you don't have to have anything otherthan an invasion of your legally protected right. Forinstance, a right to an agreement. If there's a breachthat has no impact whatsoever, you would be able to getin and sue. Now, there's a question of thequantification of damage, but that's separate. That'snot whether you have an injury-in-fact. It is how --the measure of damages, and the measure of damages atcommon law would be nominal damages. Similarly, an invasion -- a trespassinvasion, or, for instance, if you were a beneficiary ofa trust -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure abouttrespass. The object of my owning property is that Ihave a right to exclude. This is what I own. This iswhat the law protects. This is a -- this is a spatialarea for -- MR. YANG: But why does -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- for my -- which is myown domain. Official MR. YANG: And why you have that is -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there -- there is aninjury to that right. Now -- MR. YANG: But if the right's threatened -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- you want to say -- youwant to say that Congress can say that you have a rightto buy a conflict-free title insurance policy. I'm --I'm not sure that the two equate. MR. YANG: Well, going back to yourhypothetical, the reason you have that interest, thereason you have the right to exclude this space, issolely by operation of the law. Those concepts that areattached to property rights were created by common lawcourts. Just as common law courts can create rights,the invasion of which create interest, so too can aState legislature or when Congress is acting within itsArticle III -- Article I power. JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but it's essential tomy -- it's essential to my feeling of security anddignity and privacy. Like the Justice Breyer telephonecall hypothetical. MR. YANG: I don't -- I don't think the --any common law court has inquired whether the invasion-- the trespass somehow made you insecure or invadedyour privacy -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can -- thetrespass cases, it seems to me, are different becauseyou are talking about a property right, and you can sella property right. You can go to somebody and say I havethe right to keep people off of this piece of property.Do you want to buy it? Here's how much it's worth. Butif -- that's only a property right to the extent you cankeep people off of it. Here, no one's going to buy this right fromthe -- the plaintiff, because everybody's got it anyway.You don't -- you don't pay her, because she doesn't havea tangible concrete right. The trespass case, theperson obviously does, because he can sell it. MR. YANG: Well, anything can be monetized. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, this one --that's my point. This cannot be monetized becauseeverybody's already got it. You can answer. MR. YANG: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not really aquestion, but you can answer. (Laughter.) MR. YANG: Well, it is -- it's kind of astatement, although you know in this -- this is aspecific financial transaction. It's a transaction Officialinvolving the plaintiff. She paid money for a servicethat she got, and it was unlawfully tainted by akickback, and that's the type of thing we thinktraditionally could be enforced in court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Yang. MR. YANG: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Panner, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF AARON M. PANNER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. PANNER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. It seems to me that there are two positionsthat have been articulated before the Court, and bothare inconsistent with the Court's prior decisions. Thefirst is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Not yours and his? (Laughter.) MR. PANNER: That of the -- that of theplaintiff and that of the Government, Your Honor. Ishould have been more particularized. (Laughter.) MR. PANNER: The violation of a duty owed tous, that is what plaintiff claims is the injury here.The violation of a duty is a violation of a duty; it isnot injury. And similarly the Government says that what Officialis required is a sufficient connection to the conduct.But what is required is not a connection to the conduct;what is required is an injury-in-fact, a harm to theplaintiff who is seeking to obtain redress from thecourts. And that fundamental limitation on the role ofthe courts is critical to the liberty of the people whocome before the courts and who are subject to the powerof the courts. It is absolutely appropriate for someone whohas been harmed through the violation of a statutory orcommon law duty owed to that person to come before thecourt seeking redress, but what is not possible is forthe courts to be open to a plaintiff who has not allegedthat the statutory duty -- the statutory violation thathas been alleged has caused any adverse impact. Now, of course, there are broadly -- thereare -- there's illegal conduct that may have caused harmto a broad section of the population. If somebodyengages in price fixing and then sells those price-fixedgoods, it may be very easy to show that, as a result ofthat, many people suffered harm and can come into courtto sue for it. Similarly, there are non-financial harmsthat are the basis for standing in many, many cases:for example, defamation, harm to reputation,discrimination where somebody is subject to a -- an Officialinjury of being discriminated against. JUSTICE SCALIA: What about a -- I'm sorryto interrupt your -- your concluding remarks, but I amtroubled by the dollar nominal damages for breach ofcontract. What do you say about that? MR. PANNER: Well, Your Honor, in -- in acircumstance in which there is a bargain forperformance, and it may well be that there is arecognition that there is value that was assigned tothat performance that may be hard to measure, andtherefore there is a concrete injury that's hard tomeasure, and, therefore, nominal damages is awarded. Now, it's -- the cases are not uniform onwhether nominal damages are available. There's -- it'sactually split and that there's -- we are not aware of acase in this Court that would say that in a circumstancein which there was a harmless breach, that -- that asuit for nominal damages would establish Article IIIstanding. So, with respect to that, I'm -- I'm not surewhat the correct answer would be. Unless the Court has further questions? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.)Official OfficialOfficialAAARON ::, : :ability :able : :above-entitled: :absence :absolutely :: :,: :abstract :: :abstracted:accept :accepting :achieve :,achieved :across-the-bo...:Act :,acting : :: :action :,: :: :actionable :acts :actual :addition :::additional :adequate :advance :::adverse ::advice :: :affidavit :afford :agency :,: :,agent : ::, :,,: :: :,:, ::, ::agents ::,agent's :aggrieved :agree :agreement ::ahead :: :AL :ALITO ::,,:, :: :,:Alito's :allegation :: ::, :: :allegations: :allege : ::, :: :,: :alleged :,: :: :: ::,,,:,allegedly :alleges ::,alleging :allow :,allowed :amenable :American :,:amicus :: :amount :analogues :analyses :answer :: ::, :: :answers :antecedent:ANTHONY: : :antitrust :: :anybody ::anyway :apart :APPEARAN...:appears :appended :applied ::applies :apply :appreciation:appropriate:area :arguably ::arguing :: :argument ::,,, :: : ::, :: :: :arguments :arms :arrangements:: :: :,: :: :backwards:bad :,bans :bargain :bargained :based :: :basis :,: :: :,:bears :behalf :,,: : :: :behaved :behavior :believe :believed :believes :belonged ::beneficiary: :,:,,,: :: :benefit ::,,,: ::benefits :best : ::,, :: :: :,:better :: ::,,,:Article :: :: :: :,:articulated: :aside :asking ::asserting :assigned :Assistant :associated :assume :,:assuming :,: :assumption:assurance :attached :attempting ::::,Attorney :attorneys :attributes :auto : ::automatic ::,automatically: :automobile :available ::, :awarded :aware :a.m : :::Bback : :: :: :, Officialcite :cited : :City :claim :: :: :claiming :claims :clarify :::class :: :: :,clause :clear : ::, ::clearing :client :closest :::closing :collateral :college :combinations:come : :: : :: :: ::,,comes :: ::comma :commission:,,common :biggest :bill :bit :board :,:born :bothered :bought :: :,,boundary :breach :: :,: :: : ::breached :breaches :: :Breyer : :: :,: ::, ::,,: :Breyer's ::brief :briefs :bright-line:bring :, :: :brings :broad : :: :broader :,broadly :: ::broken :broker :bucks :burden :business :,:,,,buy : ::,buyer ::buying :buys ::, :CC : :call :,,,: :,:, :: :called :: :calls :car : :: :,:,case :, ::,,, :: :,: :: :: : ::,, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :: ::, ::,,cases : ::,,,: : ::, :,:, :: :,: :,:, ::,, :: :category ::,cause : :: :caused :: :,cent :,certain :: :certainly :: :,: :,: :: :change :changes :charge :cheaper :,:cheats :,Chief :, :: :,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,:, :: ::,,,:, ::,,,: ::,,,: :,: :,: :,: :choose : :chosen :,circular :::circumstance: : :: :,: ::,circumstances:, :: ::companies :: :: :company :: :: :,:, :: :: :,compensatedcompensation::competitioncompetitive::complain :complaining :complaint :: :: ::, :component: :conceivable:concepts :: :concerned :concludes :concluding :concrete ::,,: :: :: :: :::, :: :: ::, ::,,:conduct :: ::,,confer :conferred ::commonalityconfers : confidential: :conflict :: :: :,:conflicted :conflicts :: :,conflict-free: :: :: :: :,:,,,:Congress :: :, :: ::, ::,,,:, :: ::,,,,:,,,:, ::, :: :: ::,,: :,: :,: ::,,: :: :,conjectural:, ::connection: :,:,,,: :,consequence:consequences: :consequential:consider :consists :constitute :Constitution:, ::constitutional: :constitutionallyconstructive::consumer :consumers :contain :,context :,: ::contexts :contract ::, ::, ::, :: :,: ::, ::, :contractingcontracts :contractualcontradistinct...conventional:::::::core :Corporation :: :correct :Official:, :: :corrosive :cost : :: :counsel : :: :: :,course :: ::court :,: :,,:, :: :,:, ::, :: :: :: ::, :: :: :,:, ::courts ::, :: :,,:,Court's ::: :: :: :,created :,: ::creates :critical :: ::customer :DD :damage :: :: ::damages :: :,: :,,: :,,:, ::,,:,,,deal : ::,,:,dealer :decision :decisions :decrease :decree :defamation::defamed :defames :defected :defective :defendant :Defenders ::defined :,degrees :delayed :delighted :denied ::,,:,DENISE :Departmentdepend :,::depending :deprived :desired :determine :detriment :diagnosing:dictate :difference :: :: :different :: ::, ::differentiated:differently:difficulty :dignity :diminution :direct :directing :disclaimeddisclose :::disclosure :discriminateddiscrimination::disgorgement:, :distinction :distorted :divorced :doing : ::dollar : :domain :doubt :Doubtless :Drury :duties :,: :duty : ::, :: :,:, :,: :: :contractor :create :convert :curiae : : Official: :: :,: :,D.C :,,:EE : :,early :earn :easy :economic :: :,: :: :: ::,,:,,,,,:economics :: :economist ::economists:Edwards : :: :,:effect : :: :,:efficient :either ::elements :elevate :elevated :: :elevates :Elevating :encourage :ended : :enforce ::enforced :: :enforcement: :engage :engaged :,: :engages :enlist :enrichment ::,,ensues :ensuring :entire :entirely ::entitle :entitled :: :: :: ::, ::,entitles ::equate :equipment :escrow :ESQ :,,:,,,essential :establish :::estate :,:ET :evaporate :eventually :everybody: ::,everybody's:,exact :: :exactly :: :,:, :example :: :: :: :: :: :: ::examples :: :exceptions ::excessive :exclude :executive :::exercised :existence :exists :: :expected :expecting :expense :expertise :expert's :explain ::explained :: :exposed :,: :exposure :,extent :extra :extraordinary::FFACA :facetious :fact :, :: :: :,: :: ::factual :: :fairly :fall :,far :fault :FDA :feature :,:,Federal :feel :feeling :feels :fees :,,:, ::Fidelity ::fiduciaries:,fiduciary ::, ::,, ::figure :: :file :financial : :: :: :: ::, :financially: :find : :finding :,first :, :,: :,:, ::fit :fixed :,: :,:, :fixing ::focus : ::FOIA :follow ::following ::forbid :forbids :form : :formulation:forth ::found ::four :framers :framing :freedom :frequently:full :full-fledgedfunction :fundamental:::fungible :further :: ::,,:,,,,,: ::future :,GG :game :general :: : :: :: :generalized:generally : Officialgeneric :getting :: ::, :: ::Ginsburg :: : ::,,,Ginsburg's:give : ::, :: ::,given : :gives :: :giving :go : :: :: :: :,: ::goes : :: :going : :: :: :: :,:, ::,,: ::good : :: :goods :gotten :: :government: :: ::,grandmother:greater :grievance :ground :guaranteed:guess : :guise :Hhandling :happen :::happened :happens :happy ::hard ::,,: :: :,harm : :: :, :: : :: ::, :: :: :,:, ::, :: :,: :,,:,,,,: : ::,,,harmed ::harmful :,harmless :harms :harness ::, ::hear :heard :help :helped :high :hire :,historical :home ::,honest ::,Honor :,:, :: :,:, :: :,: :: :,: :: ::, :: : ::,, :: :,: ::, ::, ::Honor's :hoping :house : :hurts :hypothetical: :: :: ::,Iidea :idiot :,III : :: :: :: :illegal : ::illustrates :illustration :immediate:imminent :impact :: ::important :impose ::imposed :impossible :improperly :inadequate:incentive :: :: ::, :includes :inconsistent: :incorrect :increase :incurred :independent:,indicated :individual :: :: :: :industry :informationinformative::informed :injured :: ::injuries :injury :,: :,: :,: : :: ::,, :: :,: :: :,: ::, :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,:,injury-in-fact: : :: ::, :: ::, :,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:, :: :,:, ::,,,: :: :,,:,,,: :,:injury-in-law:, :inquired :inquiry :insecure :::insist :installed :instance :: :: :,insufficient:insurance :: : :,: :,: :,: :,:, : Official: ::, :,: ::,,: ::, :: :insure :insurer :,: ::insuring :intended ::interest : ::,,:,,:, ::, ::,,:, ::, :: ::, :: :,:,interesting:interests :: :,:,interferes :Internal :interpretedinterrupt :::introducing:invade :invaded :: ::invasion :: :: :: :,: :,:, ::, ::invention :invokes :involve :involved :involving :: :,: :issue ::, ::issued :issues :issuing ::Jjargon :JEFFREY :: :job :judge : ::judgment ::, :judgmentsjudicial :::justice : ::, :,:,,,:,, :: :, ::,, :: :,,:,, ::,,:, :,:, :: :,:,,:,,:,,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,:, ::, :,: :,,: :,: :,:, ::,,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,:, :: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,:, ::,,:,,:,,,:,KKAGAN ::, :: ::keep : ::KENNEDY: :,,: ::, ::, :: :,:,,key :kickback :: :,: :,: :: :kickbacks :: :: :: :: :: :kickback-free: ::kind : :: :: :: :: :: ::, ::kinds ::knew :knight :know ::, :: :: : :: ::,,:,,: :: ::knowing :known ::Llabel :lack :lacking :laden : :Lamken :: :,: :,: ::, :: :,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,, ::,,:, ::,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:, ::,, ::, ::, ::,,:, :,,:,large :Laughter :: :: :,law :,,: ::, ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :,,: :: ::,,,:, ::, : money :,number :Officialnominal :: :: :: :,:,non-financial:::non-kickback...non-propertynorm :notion ::November :no-kickback:OO : :object :objections :obtain :: ::obtaining :obviously :::occur :occurred :Ohio : ::, ::okay : :: :: ::, :: :: :: ::, :once :one's :open :operation :opinion :: :opportunity: :: :opposed ::option :,oral : :,,: ::order : :: :ordinary :outcomes :outside :overcharge :owed : :: :: :: :owner :owning :PP : :PAGE :paid : :: : ::,,:, :: :,:, :paid-for :Panner : :: :,,:, :,,: : :,:, :,: :,,:, ::, :: :,: :,:,,,:, ::,,:, ::,,:lawyers :leads :left : :legal :,:, :: :: ::,,legally :: :: :: :,:, :legislatively: :legislature:lesser :let's :,level :liberty :likelihood :limitation :line : ::,liquidated :little : :::loads :long : ::look :looked :looking : ::loss : :: ::lost : :love :loved :,Lovely :lower :: :loyalty ::,, :: :Lujan ::MM : :,: :machine :,Magruder :maintain ::majority :making ::mandate :manner :::market :: ::,,matter : :: ::,,: : :mattered :matters :mean : :: :: :: :: :meaning :means : :: :meant : ::measure :: :,mechanic :mechanismmember :::mere : :merits :,:Michoud :middle :,midnight :mind :minimum :minutes :misappropria...: :misappropria...Monday :monetized ::::: :: ::, :: :month :morning :,mortgage :NN :, :name :narrow :narrowing :national :necessarily :: :necessary :necessity :need ::needs :,negotiated: :neither :,never :nevertheless: :nexus :,night : Official: :,plaintiffs :presume :presumed ::,,: :: ::,, :: :,:,,:paradigm :Pardon :pariah :,,part : ::parted :participates:particular :: : ::,, ::,,: :: ::,particularized: :: :: :,: :parties :,: :partly :parts :,: :party :pass :,passes :: :pause :pay : :paying :::pays :peculiar :pejorative :people : :: :: :: :,: :,:,percent :,perfectly ::performance: ::,permission :permits :permitting:person : :: ::, :: ::personal :persons :Petitioners :: :, ::philosophicalphone : ::,:phrase :piece : :place : :: :plaintiff :,:, ::,,,: :,,:,,,:, :,:, ::,,: ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :: :,:playing :plead :pleading :please : :: :point :: :: :: :: :pointed :policy :,: :,: :,: :: :poor :population:position :,: : :positions :possible :: :,: :: :potential ::,,,: ::potentially :: :power :: :practice :::::presumes :presumingpresumption::price : ::, :: :: ::, :: ::prices :price-fixedprincipally::prior :privacy :private :::probability:, :problem :: ::,problems ::procedures:produced :product :,: :prohibited:::: :: ::,,,proposition ::proscribed:protect :,: :: :,:,protected :: :: :,: :: ::, :: :protection :: :: :: :protects ::prove :, :: ::, :: :,: :: ::proved ::provide :: ::provided ::provides :proving :provision :prudential ::,public :: :purchase :practices :prohibition :prearrangedpromise ::precisely :: :: :preclude :proper :property ::, :,:, : Official:, ::, ::purchased :: :purchaser ::,purchasers:purchases :purchasing :purely :purpose ::,,,purposes :,: :: :pursue :put : :::Qquality :: :: ::, :: :quantificationquasi-contract::question : :: :, ::,,,: ::, :: :: :: ::questions :,:qui :quite : :quote :RR :rate : ::rates :read : :real :,:realistic :realize :really : ::,,: :reason :: :: :: :,reasonable: :,: :reasonably :rebuttal :: :receive :: :received ::, :: ::receiving :recognition :recover ::recoveries :recovery ::redress :,referral :: :: :: ::referred ::reflect :,: :reflected ::reflects :regarded :regularly :regulate ::,,regulatory:reiterating :related :relation :relationship:,,: ::, ::,relatively :relevant :relief : :relies :remainder :remaining :remarks :repair :repeatedly ::repeating :represent :represented::reputation :require :: :required :: :: :,: ::,,requirement: :requirements: :requires :: ::rescission :research :reserve ::residual :respect :: :: :Respondent:, :,: :Respondents:response :responsibilityrestitution :::restraint :result : :: :,: :: :resulting :results :Revenue :rid :right : :: :,:, :: ::, :: :: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,:, :: :: :,:,,:,, ::, :,:,,,rights :: :: :,right's :rise :risk : :road : :ROBERTS :: : ::, ::, ::,,,:,,:,,: ::,,,:, ::,,,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :role :rule :,: :rusty :SS : :safety :,:, ::sale :satisfy :savings :saying :,: :,:says : :: :: :: : :: :: :: : Official: :: ::,,: ::statutes :statutory ::, :: :,: ::, :: ::, :: ::,,step :,,stipulated :straight :straightforwa...:strange :,strong :structure :studied :subject :,submitted ::substance :: :, ::substantively: :SUCCESSOR:sue :, :: :: :: :: :: :suffer :suffered :,: :: :sufficient :: :: :: :: :sufficiently: :: :suggested :suggesting :suing :suit :suits ::,support :supporting :: :suppose :: ::, :: :,,:supposed ::Supreme :,sure : :: :: :: :sustained :sweep :systemic ::, :TT :,tainted :take : :: :,:taken : :takes :,talk :talking :,: : :tam :tangible :tax :, :taxes :,specifically ::Scalia : :,: :,: :,: :,: :,,: :,: :,:, ::, ::,,,:, :,: :,: :Scalia's ::se : :search :second :section :secure :,security :see : :: : ::, :seeing :seek : :seeking ::,,: :,selecting :self-dealing:sell : :,seller : :: :,:,sells :,:sense : :: :senses :separate :separately :serve :service : ::,,,: :: :: :,:services ::set :Sherman ::shop :,shot :show : :: :,: :: :,:, :showing :: :shown ::side : :significant:,similarly :: ::simply :: ::, ::single :situation :: :: :slide :sold : ::solely :Solicitor :somebody :: :: :: ::,sorry : :: ::sort : :: :,:, :sorts : :SOTOMAYOR: :, ::,,:,,: :: :,: :,sought :sound :: :soundness :sounds ::,source :,,space :spare :spatial :speak :specific :::specified :speculative:,spending :split :stage : :standard :standing :: :: :: :,: :: :State : :: :,:statement :States :,,: :,: :status :statute : : :tax-observant:,telephone ::tell : ::, :: :: :tend : ::term :terms :: :test : :Thank :,,:, ::, :thanks :theory :thing : :: ::things :: ::, :think : :: :,: :: ::, ::, :: :: :,: :: :: :,: :,: ::, ::thinking :thought ::, :: ::, :threatened :three : ::, :threshold :tied :time :,: :title : :: ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,,,: :,:,,: :,: ::, ::,, :today :told :top :tort :,Tower :traceability::trade :traditional :traditionally:transaction :: :,: :: ::,, ::,,,: ::, ::treble :trespass :: :,: :,trial :trouble :troubled :Officialtrue :trust : :,:,,,:,,,:, ::, :: :: :: :trustee ::,,,:,,:trustees ::trusts :try : :: :trying :two : :: :,: :: ::type : :: :: :: :types : :Uumbrella :unclear :underlying: :,:undermine: :: :undermined:undermines: :understand :: :: :: :,understanding: :underwriterunderwriting::undifferentiat...: ::undo :uniform :unique :United :,,: :universe :unjust :,,:unlawful ::, :unlawfully ::unrelated :untainted :untied :unusual ::unwind ::,use : :: :,Vv : : ::vague : :valuable :,:, :value : :: :,: :,: ::various :vehicle ::,vehicles :version :versus :victims :view :violate :violated ::violation ::, :: :: :: :,: ::, :: :: : :: :,: :,Wwant :, :: ::, :: ::,,,:,,,: :,:wanted :wants : :Washington:,,,wasn't : :: : :way : :: :: :: :well-respected:went :we'll : ::,we're : :: :,: :,: :,:, : Official$ :,$ ::$ :,,: :: ::- : :: : :: : : : : : : : : : : : :: :, ::,we've :whatsoever: :: :white :Whitmore :Wildlife ::willing :word :words :worked :working :works :worse : ::worth :wouldn't ::write :wrong ::Xx :,YYang : ::,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,,:,,:,years :: ::$$ :, :$, :$, : 