 v. Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Wednesday, January , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x DANA ROBERTS, : : No. -: SEA-LAND SERVICES, INC., ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Federal Respondent. PETER D. KEISLER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for private Respondent. The above-entitled matter came on for oral JOSHUA T. GILLELAN, II, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioner. On behalf of the Federal Respondent On behalf of the private Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSHUA T. GILLELAN, II, ESQ. JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER D. KEISLER, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOSHUA T. GILLELAN, II, ESQ. please the Court: Dana Roberts was injured and shortly Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) Services. Mr. Gillelan. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSHUA T. GILLELAN, II, ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GILLELAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next this morning in Case -, Roberts v. Sea-Land thereafter became disabled in the course of his work for Sea-Land in fiscal year , but he was not awarded compensation until fiscal year . maximum weekly rate established by section of the Longshore Act that was in effect at the time his disability began or that which was in effect at the time he was awarded compensation governs his case. He is entitled to whichever maximum is the applicable one. that the applicable maximum is that in effect at the time that the claimant is "newly awarded compensation." The term "award" or "awarded" in the Longshore Act has a consistent meaning throughout, contrary to the views of Section (c) of the Act provides explicitly The question presented here is whether the Official JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happens in the JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that the two parties are the court of appeals below; and that meaning is a compensation order filed pursuant to section (e) of the Act, which is described in section (e) as "the order making the award." case -- at extremes and that there is indeed something in the in some sense of the word "award" it is. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, a sense that -- that the text would bear, as opposed to the -- to the sense that the other side argues here. not bear that reading, in particular because the middle. I mean, you say it has to be the determination of entitlement to compensation by the agency. The other side says no, it's just entitlement, whether it's been decreed or not. Why -- why wouldn't it be an award, however, if it was the employer that voluntarily paid the amount due, which is what he's supposed to do anyway, right? Why wouldn't that be an award of compensation? payments that you are describing that could be MR. GILLELAN: Well, because the statute -- MR. GILLELAN: I think that the text will Official defies the meaning of that word. MR. GILLELAN: Section (a) through (e) refers to compensation payments without an award. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. GILLELAN: Those are the provisions. considered an award are described throughout the Act as payments "without an award." Now, how the claimant can have been newly awarded benefits at the time the employer makes a payment "without an award" I think JUSTICE SCALIA: Where -- well, I wish you would submit the sections of the Act that use it that way, that say "compensation without an award." Section (a) and (b) directs those payments without an award. critical time, then -- I think, isn't it true that most compensation payments are the -- are as a result of voluntary action by the employer and not a proceeding? MR. GILLELAN: That is true, yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- and then in those cases, when the employer says, okay, I will voluntarily make this compensation available, then measuring -- the -- the pay would be measured by the time the employer makes -- makes the compensation available, JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the -- and the right? Official MR. GILLELAN: I think not, because the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's --JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no award. MR. GILLELAN: But there can be an award. I injured and gets compensation without having to bring any legal proceeding for it. What is the weekly -- the measure then? It can't be an award, the date of the award, because there is no award. So, what is it? the statutory provision says it's the award that's determinative. think that's the critical -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we have -- what is -- I mean, there can be. But here's a person who has been liability progress above that simply needs to have an award entered. doesn't. He can just begin payment. This (c), which is provide for newly awarded compensation. It also says "survivors currently receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits." MR. GILLELAN: The employer that wants to lock in this year's maximum rate and not have his "Currently receiving." Now, does that mean it has to have been decreed by the agency? I don't JUSTICE SCALIA: No, he doesn't. No, he the section we're talking about here, doesn't just JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. But it --but it applies to the question, it seems to me, that JUSTICE SCALIA: That clause. MR. GILLELAN: -- that separate clause -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. GILLELAN: -- which is not in this case, think so. clause -- because -- Justice Ginsburg asked, doesn't it? is that in permanent total and death cases, because there's an annual escalator provision, whatever your rate is this year is going to go up -- if it's a permanent total or death case -- is going to go up each October st by the increase in the national average receiving compensation. MR. GILLELAN: If you -- if -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay? If neither the employment -- if neither the employer gives you the MR. GILLELAN: No, I think not. JUSTICE SCALIA: No? MR. GILLELAN: The function of that clause Official MR. GILLELAN: That provision, which -- that rate. JUSTICE SCALIA: But only if you've been Official apply, no. I think -- MR. GILLELAN: I wouldn't say (c) doesn't compensation voluntarily nor as you -- as you contend, there has been an award by the agency, you're out; (c) doesn't apply. Right? JUSTICE SCALIA: How else would it apply? You are either receiving compensation, which I would understand to mean receiving it from the employer or by reason of an award, or else you've been newly awarded compensation, which I guess means it hasn't yet been paid, but -- but you have the award in your pocket. MR. GILLELAN: Well, the -- the function of that separate clause is for cases in which an award has been entered of death benefits or permanent total disability benefits, and everything up to that point is governed by the maximum that's in effect at the time of that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't say that, counsel. It says "survivors currently receiving compensation." It doesn't say "by virtue of an award." It says "receiving compensation." So, if the employer is paying it voluntarily, you're in there. And then it goes on and it contrasts with receiving compensation those newly awarded compensation. You're not yet receiving it, but you've been awarded it. Official MR. GILLELAN: Well, Mr. Roberts did not MR. GILLELAN: Okay. I hope I can provide that sense. The function of that separate clause is JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that. MR. GILLELAN: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: But I'm just trying to make fall within the currently receiving compensation -- sense out of the provision. And it doesn't seem to me to make any sense unless you read it just the way I suggested. that a claimant who has been awarded compensation at a given rate, at the -- which is the maximum at the time of the award, will continue to receive compensation in -- those terms would appear to apply --says nothing about an award. The last part talks about an award. It says "currently receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death benefits." And if you're receiving it from your employer, I don't know why that isn't covered by that. Why isn't it covered? MR. GILLELAN: I can certainly see that JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. GILLELAN: -- to that situation in which the employer is paying compensation for death or for JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't say that. It Official this provision is talking about. MR. GILLELAN: Yes. And the -- what I'm permanent total disability. That wouldn't provide us for a maximum -- any applicable maximum. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think it affects your case. It's just a matter of understanding what trying to say about the function of this clause is that a claimant who has been awarded compensation for permanent total disability -- let's assume the employer hasn't paid anything until the ALJ issues an award, and at the time that award is issued the maximum is $, a week, and the employer was making -- the employee was making more than . So, that maximum is the rate. JUSTICE SCALIA: But if the employer has been paying voluntarily, you don't penalize the employee for not having an award, right? I mean he's in the same position; the employer has conceded the liability. same position, no. Justice Scalia's reading in your judgment -- accept his proposition that those currently receiving voluntary payments from the employer fall under subsection (c). Would his reading require the employer every year to recalculate the benefits to the maximum that's MR. GILLELAN: He certainly is not in the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, would Official MR. GILLELAN: And that is precisely the reading --and future. MR. GILLELAN: Yes, it would. Yes, it JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's why his established that year? would. function of that clause. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The function of (b) is to set a maximum that will control all payments present MR. GILLELAN: Yes, yes, definitely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, if you read it the way he does, that maximum would change each year. that's so only for employment -- for employer payments and not the case for awards. If that's so for the employer's payment, why isn't it so for awards that have permanent total disability or for death, they do. makes perfect sense.been decreed? Why don't they change every year? MR. GILLELAN: Yes. And for permanent total disability and death cases -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand why MR. GILLELAN: They do. If the award is for JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So, then my reading MR. GILLELAN: Yes, your reading does make Official that new maximum is the applicable one for the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When -- one of the perfect sense. And the function of that second -- that -- the clause for those currently receiving compensation for permanent total or death is that even when the maximum continues to go up after the date of an award, continuing period of disability or survivorship. arguments on the other side that I thought made some sense was the idea that you should focus on a particular perhaps so. But that is an argument that should be addressed to Congress. Congress could easily have made section (c) turn on the time of injury. Instead, they provided very explicitly -- if we think the statute -- in other words, your argument, your response, is that the statute is point in time when you're figuring out what the amount of the award is going to be; that it doesn't make --that it's at least odd to say, well, we're going to calculate how much you're entitled to at this point, but in terms of the applicable maximum, we're going to wait however long it takes and calculate that as of this point. Doesn't it make more sense to figure out the applicable numbers at the same point in time? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if we think -- MR. GILLELAN: Marginally more sense, Official MR. GILLELAN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- in a more MR. GILLELAN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. GILLELAN: Yes, and that each use of the in this statute to an award or compensation being awarded, it is talking about the order making the award as it's described in section (e). unambiguous and it can't be read -- sensical way. term "award," contrary to the Ninth Circuit's view, is consistent with that. That is, whenever Congress refers JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't really have to establish that, do you? All you have to establish is that it is -- there is no way in which "newly awarded compensation" means entitlement to compensation. That's all you have to establish. used to mean entitlement to compensation. correct, and I -- MR. GILLELAN: That is exactly correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to show that it's used consistently throughout, only that it's never MR. GILLELAN: That is -- that is exactly JUSTICE ALITO: Are you conceding in answer to these questions that your reading doesn't really make Official MR. GILLELAN: No, I hope I'm not conceding JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what sense does it any sense; that's just what Congress -- that's what Congress did? that. make? What -- why should the ceiling depend on whether an employee is getting compensation voluntarily from the employer or as a result of a formal award? If you have two identical -- identically situated employees and one is getting the compensation without an award and one is getting it with an award, as you understand the term "award," why -- what sense does it make to treat them differently? award -- in every respect except one. One has a formal award; one does not. What sense does it make to treat them consequences of the fact that one has an award and the other is being paid only without an award. MR. GILLELAN: I would say they certainly are not identically situated. The claimant who has an JUSTICE ALITO: They're identically situated JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, if I understood your response to my prior line of questioning, you deny differently then? MR. GILLELAN: There are serious Official awarded compensation. Those two classes are treated exactly the that they are treated differently. The one who is receiving compensation is treated the same, under the same provision. There are two parts to it: survivors currently receiving compensation and survivors newly same. The only one that is treated differently is somebody who is neither being paid by the employer nor has yet received an award. MR. GILLELAN: No. No. JUSTICE SCALIA: No? MR. GILLELAN: No, no. The clause that depends on whether you're currently receiving only applies to permanent total disability and death cases. is the only applicable provision. in other words. Temporary total has -- the rates do not go up each year. JUSTICE BREYER: Would you then go back -- I did have the same question Justice Alito asked, and I'd MR. GILLELAN: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. GILLELAN: And temporary total. In all other cases, the clause that says "newly awarded" JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. Partial disability, like to hear the answer. The answer -- that there -- Official You're going to apply it to him at some random date. His wage that he's getting paid is figured calculate what his wage was. His wage was $ a week. I'll add one footnote, perhaps, which -- make it a more complete answer, and that is that it makes very little sense to me when a worker becomes disabled on January , , for example. He is now disabled. And so, we And now we say: But that shouldn't exceed twice the average weekly wage, and we're not going to apply it to him. out as of January , . could be is figured out as of January , , when he Now, I just -- for both reasons, why would you distinguish and why would you get that result? For those two reasons, it doesn't seem to make much sense to me, your reading of it, while theirs does make sense. point is to encourage the employer to get an award entered promptly because that way they will lock in that early maximum rate or minimum rate. The minimum rate provision applies exactly the same way under section MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: But the maximum that it finishes a proceeding. Now, you explain why that is. MR. GILLELAN: Okay. Okay. I think the Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But I thought Congress MR. GILLELAN: Well, they want that to (c). wanted the system to operate so that people just did it voluntarily without an award. happen as often as possible, but the employer has the right in any case to file a notice with the Department of Labor saying we do not believe the claimant is entitled to compensation. JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, it really doesn't make a whole lot of sense. I mean, it seems to me you have to acknowledge it would be a much better statute had it been written differently. And really your argument here is it's not up to us to revise the inadequacies of a statute. I mean, your argument is you just can't read the language that way. And it provides a stupid result. There are such things as stupid statutes, and this is one of them, right? JUSTICE BREYER: But you think -- you think it is not stupid because you think it is a good idea to give a lot of work to the Department of Labor and that all the employers who are going to do this voluntarily and there will never be a problem with it -- all should MR. GILLELAN: I don't think it's stupid, but yes, my basic argument is it isn't. Official And now, why is it I can't read the statute JUSTICE BREYER: Where now there exactly? It says -- you mean in (c)? be encouraged to go and get a certificate from the Department of Labor. All right. I'll take that as -- something. the way that it seems to make somewhat more sense? I don't see any words here that stop me from reading it. MR. GILLELAN: "Newly awarded compensation" are the critical words. MR. GILLELAN: In -- yes, (c). JUSTICE BREYER: You just told me that just has to do with permanent or total disability, and this is far -- we now have a special thing, you know, which these people are the dead ones and the widows are getting it and the permanently disabled people, and the -- this individual, and the Secretary, the Secretary or his MR. GILLELAN: No. Excuse me. The other clause of that provision, the one that says "currently receiving compensation" -- that one only applies to survivors and permanently totally disabled workers. JUSTICE BREYER: But why -- why don't they both? I mean, as I read it naturally, it says that --delegate is going to calculate this thing all the time. Official And they've got a special thing here for -- for permanent people, permanently disabled, and they're saying as to those people, we're giving them a break. They can't look for more work. They can't look for --they're dead, for example, and they can't find other sources of income. And so, we say that, that if the average wage goes up and their wage was higher to begin with, we will raise it a bit. MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And that applies not only to the people who are just getting this for the first time in the relevant period; it also applies to all those who have been getting it. It applies to both groups. Well, that makes sense to me. disability -- just to the permanently disabled and the death things. What says it applies to anybody else? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Right. MR. GILLELAN: -- and death. JUSTICE BREYER: Right. MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: So, the whole thing applies MR. GILLELAN: For permanent total MR. GILLELAN: No, the -- the clause --JUSTICE BREYER: The whole thing. The Official Abbott and Costello movie, but I'm getting this -- MR. GILLELAN: Well, that's certainly -- no one has put forward that construction, and that would JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, yes. Oh. MR. GILLELAN: The new --JUSTICE BREYER: I feel slightly like an whole -- the whole -- all of (c). That's -- in my thing here, that's seven lines. All of (c) applies to permanently disabled and those who died. mean that there is no maximum applicable to other categories of disability, like Mr. Roberts's disability. your argument if we disagree with you that employers regulations, the only way they can do that is if the employee files a claim, and the employee's filing of the claim then sets the process in motion. I can't imagine that an -- any employee, knowing that a future award employer lock in his rate. experience, my universal experience with this statute, is that that is not a realistic view of what claimants' (Laughter.) JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, what happens to have a way to seek a compensation order? As I read the could help them, would bother filing a claim to help the MR. GILLELAN: I think -- actually, my behavior is. Official The critical difference is an -- the entry MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- by seeking an award. MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If I disagree with you of an award does not merely confirm that the employer is making payments; it requires it to continue making those payments until --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not my question. Most of your argument is premised on the -- I thought, that the employer could lock in his rate -- that the Act doesn't provide for that and neither do the regulations, that only employees can seek awards, what happens to your argument? MR. GILLELAN: Oh, I think -- well -- I have trouble accepting that hypothetical situation because -- it, I think that's the case. So, assume that fact to be true, that employers have no regulatory or statutory have the employee make a claim or not. if that's accurate? MR. GILLELAN: Nothing. It simply requires the employer to induce the claimant to file a claim if JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, as I've studied right to seek an award. They can either stop paying and How -- what does this do to your argument, Official whole voluntary payment aspects of this. MR. GILLELAN: Well, they wouldn't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: By stopping payment. MR. GILLELAN: Yes. Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, that destroys the it wants that award. indeed, they wouldn't have to stop payment. They simply need to tell the claimant: If you don't file a claim, we're going to stop payments. No --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't it an odd statute? JUSTICE BREYER: I see. Is your argument this now -- I'm sorry to be so slow. But that, look, there is a statute here; it that says compensation cannot exceed more than percent of the annual weekly calculate that particular number. And then you go over to (c), and (c) says that calculated number applies to those newly awarded compensation. compensation" means somebody got it through an award, not somebody got it automatically. And since somebody got it -- had to get it through an award or it wouldn't apply when you just get it because they pay for it, it just doesn't apply. You have to go get the award. And -- or the weekly wage. Then in (), it says how to And you're saying "newly awarded the word you're turning on is "newly awarded." Official MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: That's the argument? MR. GILLELAN: Yes, it is. JUSTICE BREYER: Like Abbott and Costello, I don't know what I'm talking about. But I do -- I do -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, could I -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I follow -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Could I ask you about (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: I was -- I was -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Gillelan -- JUSTICE BREYER: Now I fully understand your another inconsistency in this section? We've gone over one, which I think is there. Isn't there a group left out of this thing, even under -- even under the Government's interpretation of it? What happens to people who are receiving compensation for temporary total disability or for partial disability? They don't -- they don't come under either one of those two categories, even under the Government's interpretation, right? Government's interpretation, as under ours, they fall MR. GILLELAN: No. I think under the argument. under those -- Official MR. GILLELAN: Well, they are covered by it, JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, that's right, but they? they -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, they haven't gotten an award yet. They have not gotten an award yet, and they are only partially disabled or have temporary permanent disability. They're -- they're not covered by (c), are but before we know which year's maximum applies, an award -- sense? encourages the employer to have an award entered so that it will have the benefit of the current maximum rate and not next year's or the year's after or the year's after MR. GILLELAN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't take effect -- MR. GILLELAN: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- during that year. MR. GILLELAN: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, does that make any MR. GILLELAN: Yes -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, it doesn't. But you say the statute doesn't make sense. MR. GILLELAN: I think it does because it that. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not a But that does assume that "newly awarded" JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Gillelan, if a --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. You've make sense, and you've been saying, as you have every right to say, yes, but this is what the statute says based on the "newly awarded" language. serious -- been -- you've been waiting the longest. (Laughter.) JUSTICE KAGAN: I think the way the argument has gone so far is that we've all been saying this can't can't mean an entitlement. And then you run up against some other statutory provisions where an award does seem to mean, not a formal compensation order, but instead an entitlement to funds. So, (d)(), it seems as though the word "award" means entitlement; (h)(), it seems as though the word "award" means an entitlement; and (b), which says "award in a compensation order," suggests that awards can be made in a formal order or awards can be made differently because of an entitlement that is automatically paid. So, I guess there are three places that it seems to me your reading of the word -- your limited Official MR. GILLELAN: I may have missed what the third of those was. I have the -- JUSTICE KAGAN: (b), (d)(), and MR. GILLELAN: Ah, okay. Yes, -- the award to an -- the unpaid portion of an award to an employee who dies before that award has been paid out. Their reading of "award" in that provision is contradicted by the subsequent paragraph of the same subsection, which says "an award may be made after the death of the injured employee." It's (d)(). reading of the phrase "newly awarded," you know, runs into problems in those three ways, and I'm left then thinking we should do what makes sense. (h)(). section (d)() that they're referring to refers to an Now, that is impossible on their reading of "award" -- on the reading they give "award" in section (d)(). No, what it means in (d)(), as throughout the Act, is an award. And if none has been entered his death. And the survivors under that provision take the rest of it that had not been paid before the death. Now, we have essentially the same analysis of those other provisions. Yes, in those other provisions as well, it does mean a compensation order. while the claimant is still alive, it's entered after Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're -- you're I -- I think in -- in (d), I don't think it means that, but it certainly means an amount due and not If you cut it loose from that statutory foundation, we get three or four different possible meanings that the Respondents try to put on it, and we are cut loose from anything. making your case harder than it has to be, it seems to me, by saying that it always means an award of compensation by the agency. an entitlement. It means an amount, a specific amount due, and that explains its meaning elsewhere, but that's quite different from saying that it means entitlement. MR. GILLELAN: No doubt it is, yes. And --and perhaps there may be some variation in the meaning in the other provisions. That's possible. But in section (d), we think it has to mean the entry of an award. That's the only definite event it could refer to. but only because of the earlier portion of (c) which -- which covers all other payments that are not by virtue of an award. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I think that's true, MR. GILLELAN: Right. Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Receiving compensation. Official MR. GILLELAN: Yes. I would reserve what time I have left. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. GILLELAN: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Palmore. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT MR. PALMORE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Petitioner's interpretation of section , which hinges entirely on the date of an administrative compensation order, renders that provision impossible to apply in the many cases expressly contemplated by the Act in which there is no such order. That between beneficiaries' benefit levels based on administrative happenstance. walking down the street, you're on a business enterprise, they haven't shoveled the snow, you slip and fall and you're hurt, you go home and say: Good news, JUSTICE SCALIA: Your -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if you're --JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if you're interpretation also creates arbitrary distinctions I've been awarded damages. page a --Official MR. PALMORE: The statute provides for the way, but you -- will you grant that it's not up to us to rewrite the statute? award of damages, and I think this is -- this -- the key to this, understanding how this scheme works, is understanding section and section . These are at JUSTICE SCALIA: But we're not talking -- MR. PALMORE: -- of the appendix. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- about how the scheme works. Grant you that it makes a lot more sense your you -- Justice Scalia. about is whether "awarded" in that provision can bear the meaning that you want to give it. Let's assume that Congress passes a -- a new statute providing for tax credits for -- for each child, okay? My wife gives birth to a child just before Christmas, and I say, oh, goody; I've been awarded $,. I wouldn't say that. That's not a normal use of the language. MR. PALMORE: I think it's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. PALMORE: -- to rewrite the statute, MR. PALMORE: It's absolutely not up to JUSTICE SCALIA: So, what we're talking Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I am entitled to it under been awarded $,. But that's analogous. And Justice's example is another one: Oh, good, I've been awarded damages. this statute. But when the event of having a child occurs, I don't say I've been awarded $,. You might say it analogously. I mean, you know, oh, hey, I've statutes are not written by analogy; they're written to say what they say. term "awarded" the way you want it used. The Chief entitled to them. fact use the word "award" to indicate a statutory entitlement. how -- I agree with you that they don't mean the entry of an award by the agency, but I don't agree with you that the only -- only reading you can give them is JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's go through those. MR. PALMORE: I'd be glad to, Justice MR. PALMORE: I think Justice Kagan highlighted three provisions where the statute does in Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you -- you show me And I don't know anybody that would use the You haven't been awarded damages. You're entitlement. Official MR. PALMORE: Well, just -- to start with MR. PALMORE: Of the gray brief. (b) JUSTICE SCALIA: -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- of the gray compensation order filed by the deputy commissioner" will have certain consequences. That expressly contemplates -- this is page a, Justice Scalia. Sorry. section , which is at page a of the Government appendix. This is one of the sections highlighted by Justice Kagan. brief. says: "Acceptance of compensation under an award in a isn't it? MR. PALMORE: Absolutely. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. What page? MR. PALMORE: Page a of the appendix to JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Got it. MR. PALMORE: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: And the language is? JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. Give me a minute. Give me a minute. MR. PALMORE: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: The language is important, the gray brief. be an award that's not in a compensation order. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. PALMORE: -- "filed by the deputy JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. PALMORE: -- that aren't important here. Moreover -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, yes. Yes. MR. PALMORE: -- the last sentence says: "Acceptance of compensation under an award in a compensation order" -- commissioner" shall have certain legal consequences -- That sentence, even read by itself, suggests there can "For purposes of this subsection" -- not the purposes of the entire Act -- "for purposes of this subsection, the term 'award' with respect to a compensation order means a formal order issued by the deputy commissioner, an administrative law judge" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's true. And what that means is that it can be considered an award if you've gotten it from the employer voluntarily. That is still an award of compensation. Official MR. PALMORE: So, the first sentence says: That's all that that last sentence proves. MR. PALMORE: I think it contemplates -- it certainly precludes, I think, Petitioner -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, yes. Yes. I agree inconsistent. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. I think he's Petitioner's -- he's wrong. (Laughter.) MR. PALMORE: Well, the actual -- the "actual receipt" interpretation that Your Honor is advancing is not one that's been advanced in this case. It would have extraordinarily -- extraordinary practical difficulties, and application would be really persuaded me that in -- in the section we're talking about, subsection (c), the only meaning left for "award" is an award by the agency, because -- me one other provision at least where the only meaning you can give "award" is entitlement to money. (h)(), another provision cited by Justice Kagan, is another example. JUSTICE SCALIA: (h)()? MR. PALMORE: (h)(). JUSTICE SCALIA: "Upward adjustments to" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but you have to show MR. PALMORE: Well, I'd like to try -- I'd like to try to convince you otherwise. MR. PALMORE: Well, I think section Official MR. PALMORE: Right. This is a very MR. PALMORE: At a. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- "compensation to which" --complicated provision, but what's important to note here is that Congress made -- this was Congress's attempt to provide additional benefits to beneficiaries whose disabilities commenced before . JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. PALMORE: They make a critical -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What page are you on? MR. PALMORE: I'm sorry. Page a of the appendix to the gray brief. of the phrase, and it's one, two, three, four, five lines from the bottom, "or his survivor was awarded compensation as the result of death." So, it makes a key determinant for figuring out how these adjustments are going to be made whether someone was awarded indication here, and it would make no sense to suggest, that Congress meant to distinguish between people who had a formal compensation order and those who didn't. compensation prior to October th, . There's no The specifics aren't as important as the use I think -- but if I could go back to section -- Official MR. PALMORE: That's his answer on some of the other provisions -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it's -- the MR. PALMORE: Right. But here that -- here compensation order, because these were long-past disabilities, and Congress was simply creating a rule for how to true up these past beneficiaries and provide them additional benefits. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: His answer to that was that the provision also permits an entry after someone -- of an order after someone dies. incongruity is taken care of by the Act directly. there'd be no reason for someone to go in and get a Prior to , there was a $ maximum. the maximum? No? But I think if you --JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what does "awarded compensation at less than the maximum rate" mean? I'm not sure what that refers to. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. PALMORE: Okay. So, if someone was -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Aren't you entitled to get MR. PALMORE: Yes. But some people --two-thirds of their average weekly wage resulted in a MR. PALMORE: There was an old maximum. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. PALMORE: But there's no indication -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You're right. It doesn't figure below the maximum, right? So, for those people, what section (h)() did was said if you were awarded compensation at less than the prior maximum, you're going to get an inflation adjustment. JUSTICE SCALIA: I got you. MR. PALMORE: For everyone else who was already at the maximum, they got a new, statutorily created time of injury, which is itself significant, that Congress went -- used that route. make sense. It -- under our reading. section works in the statutory scheme. Section , at the bottom of the page, a to the Government's brief, provides that employers must pay compensation without a compensation order promptly, as soon as they JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes. MR. PALMORE: Okay? And if you go to page -- page a, I think MR. PALMORE: Well, it doesn't make sense under Petitioner's reading. I think it does make sense these are the key provisions for understanding how have notice of an injury. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're doing that -- you're doing that without an award. MR. PALMORE: Correct. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, how can you say (b), which is on the next page, a, says that the first payment has to come in days, within days of notice of the injury, unless the employer controverts liability. So, if I'm an employer, I have an employee who's injured, I've got to get out my checkbook on day and start writing checks. I need to know what number to fill in. I need to know -- what the employer pays should be considered an award? that, then the -- the statutory maximum provision is impossible to apply because then it's unclear -- and I maximum is. If that employee who gets his first check after days has not been newly awarded compensation and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then we're back --we're back to (b) overrides (a). You -- you're saying haven't heard Petitioner answer what the statutory MR. PALMORE: Because --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's without an award. MR. PALMORE: Because if you don't consider Official Chief Justice. Without an award, it seems to me it MR. PALMORE: No, I'm saying that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because I agree with the that (a) would be interpreted in favor of the Petitioner but for (b)? tends to help the Petitioner. MR. PALMORE: That use of "award" clearly means compensation order, and I'm not here to suggest that the -- that the statute never uses the word "award" to mean compensation order. Often it does, and in this case, that provision does. But the larger point is that that employer has to start payments in days, and he has to know what statutory maximum applies. Under Petitioner's view of the statute, there is no answer to that question, because that employee has not been newly awarded compensation. So, section (c) -- the cases are we in that world? Page of the red brief points to legislative history before Congress in which demonstrated that, and that remains the case. This is a workers' compensation scheme that encourages employers to pay without administrative compulsion. It's supposed to be JUSTICE KAGAN: And in what percentage of MR. PALMORE: It's a -- in a substantial majority of cases no claim is ever filed, Justice Kagan. Official MR. PALMORE: Absolutely. They have a JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your reading doesn't encourage employers to pay, because they can stop just simple to apply. The employer is supposed to know how much to write that check for at the time he writes that first check, after days. by saying they contest, right? statutory right to controvert. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- so, your reading I think leads to protraction. And they get that date of injury rule no matter how long they string it out under your reading. If you read -- what is the magic phrase -- newly -- means in the case of the employer who pays promptly, pays immediately and continues to pay voluntarily, that the compensation is acquired when the employer starts paying voluntarily. But if the employer is not paying, then the compensation is newly awarded when there's an award. this statute would have if we say newly awarded could mean awarded by the statute, which would be newly awarded when you're injured; but it can also mean MR. PALMORE: Newly awarded compensation. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You can say, well, that So, I don't see why -- what kind of problems Official What's wrong with that reading? MR. PALMORE: That's again a reading that there may be many cases where an employer will write one or two checks and then stop. There made be cases in which an employer will write a check for the wrong amount; there will later be a dispute about what the proper benefit level would be. compensation ordered by an award. So, you have the employer who pays promptly can lock in that early date, but if he doesn't pay promptly, the -- then the ceiling is going to go up till the time the award is entered. hasn't been advanced in this case, but I understand Your Honor's question and Your Honor's point. I think that reading of it would be very difficult to apply because So, I think you'd develop a whole body of case law and controversy about what it meant for the employer to have paid, in that sense. going to be the typical cases, I think. You said there may be cases, and I suppose there may be. I assume what happens -- employers just don't write checks. They say this is how we calculate what we owe you. And it is based on the maximum of this year, not any future ones, and if the employee says no, no, no; I have a right to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But those aren't get the -- then the employer will say, well, okay, I Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I understand either agree with that or not, but you don't get a check. MR. PALMORE: Well, the -- the employer will need to protect itself by writing that check unless it's going to controvert liability. Justice Ginsburg pointed to one of Petitioner's arguments that this provides an incentive for employers not to controvert liability when they don't have a good-faith basis for doing so, but section of the Act provides for attorney's fees in that situation. So, there's already a remedy for that kind of situation. the amounts at issue here. What is a usual amount that's at stake in this sort of case? We're talking gamesmanship, but how much difference are we talking about? MR. PALMORE: Well, I can -- we can use this case as an -- as an illustration. So, in this case, the Petitioner's disability began in . So, our view is that that's when he was initially awarded compensation. MR. PALMORE: Well, the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know; maybe about the concerns -- I guess on both -- about you don't have statistics, on an average. And so, the maximum of $ applies. Official Petitioner's view is that because he So, it can make a considerable difference. I think, though, that Petitioner recognizes -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The consequence -- I received a formal compensation order in , the maximum applies, this ,. mean, there's the time value of money, too. The consequence of the employee saying I'm going to wait years because I think the maximum is going to be a lot higher is that he doesn't get anything in the meantime, right? an employer to say, okay, if you want to wait, I'll point though is that in many cases in which compensation is paid without compulsion of a compensation order, an employee never files a claim. Section expressly in which to file a claim from an injury unless he has been receiving payments, in which case the time runs from the last payment received. MR. PALMORE: Well, that's -- that's right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's reasonable for contemplates that by saying that an employee has year JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- just for my technical knowledge here. The -- the employee suffers MR. PALMORE: That's right. The larger wait. Official work? MR. PALMORE: Well, he needs to provide -- partial disability on February . He then doesn't notify the employer until, let's say, February , and then the employer waits for a week or so, and then begins to pay. Now, is the employer supposed to calculate the -- the weekly wage that he's paying on in the week February to February or -- days, he puts it aside. But -- in the first week or does he do it on the first week he got notice? How is that -- how does that he needs to make a payment within days -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's right. MR. PALMORE: -- of notice. JUSTICE BREYER: But I'm saying he has to write the check now. changed in those few weeks. MR. PALMORE: It's from the -- JUSTICE BREYER: The first week he didn't get the notice. Then the second week he did get the notice. Which week does he calculate the payment on? MR. PALMORE: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And the wage could have MR. PALMORE: From when the disability commenced. Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, what you're MR. PALMORE: That is our submission --JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. PALMORE: -- Justice Breyer. And -- JUSTICE BREYER: And the tough thing is MR. PALMORE: And -- JUSTICE BREYER: Then we can't -- we cannot read this thing "award" to mean award by the employer. not -- We can't mean it to read "award" by the -- by the government, in your view. We have to mean it to mean the time that he became entitled to some money. saying, well, that that's an award. That's what this case turns on. MR. PALMORE: Well, as we -- as I was discussing earlier, we think that the statute does sometimes use "award" that way. JUSTICE BREYER: And what you pointed to in the statute is you pointed to some situations which say we have situation and , and they're not present here; but in situation or , award does mean this. MR. PALMORE: I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. That's -- MR. PALMORE: Right. I think if I can show you -- if I can show you -- there are some cases -- became obliged to give him some money? MR. PALMORE: Well, I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: Even if that time first was example of a -- of a situation where "award" did mean -- and so, you're saying there are some others where "award" doesn't mean, okay. But -- what's the most analogous thing you can find anywhere where award has referred to the time a person became entitled to a thing, prior to the time anyone was -- the period for -- way for calculating the money? the weeds of that -- it talks about those who were entitled to total permanent disability or death, which commenced -- so, it JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, don't do it again. MR. PALMORE: -- provision. (Laughter.) MR. PALMORE: But the first sentence says -- JUSTICE BREYER: (h)(). MR. PALMORE: And I hesitate to go back into MR. PALMORE: I think (h)() is that example --Official JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have another MR. PALMORE: Well, I think there are -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- is there anything --talks about commencement of entitlement and then -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: It says was awarded MR. PALMORE: -- and then later uses the claim issue. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your brief -- your brief disability, the time of entitlement to compensation. And it seems to use those terms interchangeably. What term are you settling on and why? compensation. "awarded compensation." If I could go back quickly to seem to use the "newly awarded compensation," your meaning of it, at the time of injury, the time of in footnote of our brief. It's the commencement of entitlement to disability benefits, which is almost always going to be when disability itself commences. Petitioner has pointed out that there is an idiosyncratic set of cases in which, if a disability lasts more than days but fewer than , you're not circumstance, it would be day , but the employer who writes that check at day is going to know. That's -- that's the key. JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you can do it. You can say it's the time that the statute awards him the compensated for those first days. So, in that unusual MR. PALMORE: Okay. I think we address this Official JUSTICE BREYER: But it's the statute that's doing the awarding. MR. PALMORE: To make his -- I think MR. PALMORE: That's -- that's correct, compensation. That's the English language. Justice -- Justice Breyer. And I think that -- Petitioner has developed kind of a procedural work-around to the -- the problem created by his interpretation the statute, which is that he needs a That's contrary to the way this statute is supposed to work. The statute is supposed to encourage compensation order in every case to make the scheme make sense. To get compensation order, he needs a claim in every case. And as the colloquy before reflected, the way he can get a claim in every case, because in many cases claims are not filed today, is that the employer must threaten the disabled employee to cut off benefits if that employee doesn't file a claim, threaten to controvert liability when that employer has no good-faith basis for doing so. All to get the employee to file a claim that the claim -- employee doesn't think is necessary, to get a compensation order which serves no other purpose than to trigger this maximum rate provision. amicable agreement between employers and employees to there would be no penalty as long as the employer says I'm -- I'm contesting, but you say the attorney's fees, that's -- is that -- avoid administrative process and the gearing up of the administrative machinery wherever possible. And Petitioner's proffered solution to the problem of the absence of a compensation order in every Longshore Act as a workers' compensation scheme. to the problem of an employer protracting -- so he doesn't have to pay sooner; he can wait till later -- is both of which are generally applicable remedies that maximum or the statutory minimum. This -- Petitioner's solution using his reading of the statute to deal with employer delay is over-inclusive and under-inclusive. It's over-inclusive because it's going to responsibility by the employer, but there's been administrative delay, there's been a dispute. But it's also under-inclusive in that it only deals with those small number of cases that deal deal with cases in which there hasn't been delay by any apply to cases that don't implicate the statutory MR. PALMORE: Attorney's fees and interest, Official case is contrary to that of the entire thrust of the JUSTICE GINSBURG: And your answer to the --with the statutory maximum or minimum. We'll let Mr. Keisler speak for a bit. Mr. Keisler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER D. KEISLER ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE RESPONDENT MR. KEISLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Palmore. please the Court: I'd like to begin, if I may, by addressing Justice Scalia's and the Chief Justice's questions on whether the term "award" can bear the meaning that we ascribe to it and then explain why, since it can bear that meaning, this is the only sensible interpretation of the Act. use the term "award" to describe a benefit conferred by a statute. The dictionary definition is a benefit conferred. Your Honor, Justice Scalia used a formulation -- what if a statute awards a tax credit? Limbach began: An Ohio statute awards a tax credit to a certain producers of ethanol. that decision. It is --(Laughter.) Well, the Court's decision in New Energy Company v. First, it is not uncommon, Your Honor, to Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, I think even Your Honor was the author of Official you're referring to the time at which the person JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, I -- I agree with that. You can speak of the statute as awarding something. But when you use the phrase "newly awarded," you're not referring to the enactment of the statute; qualifies under the statute. And I don't know any usage of that sort, that a person -- well, you know, when my wife has a baby, I've been awarded money. You haven't been awarded money. MR. KEISLER: I think the party becomes newly awarded at the time the party becomes disabled, and, therefore, there is an amount due under the statute. And -- employs the term -- Longshore Act elsewhere, as Mr. Palmore -- they made the deduction? qualified for what the statute required them to do to get the tax credit, yes. And that is how it is used in (h)(), as Justice Kagan said. It's how it's used in JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's what you say. But I don't know -- I don't know any common usage that MR. KEISLER: At the time they became MR. KEISLER: But it is a usage within the JUSTICE BREYER: What about the -- the business was newly awarded the tax credit at the time Official it's used in . MR. KEISLER: That's correct. And that's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's not the way have to look at the context of the individual provision in which the word appears that you're construing to determine how the word is being used in that particular provision. . And section specifically provides Petitioner's definition of "award," a formal compensation order, but says it is only for purposes of this subsection. why this is a case like Robinson v. Shell Oil, in which the word "employer" was used throughout Title VII in different ways. And what the Court said is you then And here the most fundamental reason why it is an untenable construction of this Act to rely on the date of a compensation order to determine the applicable maximum rate is that then the Act would be silent as to the maximum rate in the vast majority of instances in which compensation is paid, because, as Mr. Palmore said, in the vast majority of instances no claim is filed. And, as Justice Sotomayor pointed out, when no claim is filed, no compensation order will ever be issued. And that's not an accident. That is a function of a very central feature of the Act's design Official and with a minimum of instances in which the And so, Petitioner's interpretation is that Petitioner's interpretation is entirely at odds with. The Act is designed to enable compensation to be calculated precisely and as early as possible so that the money can get into the employee's hands very quickly administrative machinery has to be invoked. That's why the norm is no compensation order. counter to that in at least two respects: It relies on practical problem is this? I understand the -- the amounts are here, but it's years, and apparently the employee was happy to wait years to get an award. Normally, if you're an employee and you're disabled, and the employer says, well, here's what we're going to give the existence of a compensation order, which in most instances won't and shouldn't issue, and it would maximize, rather than minimize, the number of instances in which someone has to go and get an order to force compensation orders out of the system to make Petitioner's interpretation work, even though everything is happening exactly as the Act says it should. The employer is voluntarily paying exactly the amount that the employee says is due, and there's no need to get the agency involved. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But how much of a Official MR. KEISLER: But if Your Honor thinks about the situation in which the employee is voluntarily there's a trend on national average wages, and I'm going you, and it's based on the maximum of the latest we have, you're not going to say: I'm going to wait; these wages are going to go up nationally, and I'm going to wait a year; maybe I'll wait years because I think to cash in on that; I'm going to be without money for the next years and I'm disabled, but -- I mean, that doesn't sound to me to be a plausible situation. receiving from the employer everything that the employee agrees is due, then the question is, in that circumstance where the employer is doing everything right, what can the employer do to force out of the maximum rate? And Petitioner's solution to that problem evidences the problem with his position. I don't know what the employers do, but usually in a they write at the end of the check, you know: This is in full satisfaction of any claims under the -- the whatever. situation like this, the employers have good lawyers and MR. KEISLER: But there is no compensation order until that employee files a claim. And under system a compensation order that will lock in the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no, I mean -- Official funds. The employer should say I will cut you off Petitioner's interpretation, there would therefore be no knowable maximum rate. And Petitioner's solution to that problem, on page of his reply brief, is to say that the employer should threaten a bad-faith cutoff of unless you file a claim. That's bad for everyone. It's bad for the employee who has access to payments delayed. It's bad for the employer who apparently is being told it must of "award" used as "entitlement." controvert liability in bad faith, because the employer doesn't in fact disagree that the employee is entitled to liability, or face a percent penalty for cutting off the employee without a basis for controverting liability. And it's bad for the agency who suddenly has all these claims filed. All in a situation in which everything is working exactly as the Act intends. MR. KEISLER: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you gave --MR. KEISLER: Oh, New Energy Company v. Limbach. It was a Commerce Clause case from, I think, JUSTICE SCALIA: Give me your example again MR. KEISLER: (h)(). JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. Not from the statute. Official And I think those energy producers -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That wasn't -- you gave MR. KEISLER: Robinson v. Shell oil? JUSTICE SCALIA: No, not a case. MR. KEISLER: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: Just an example you made up in which Your Honor began the opinion by saying, to describe the setup, an Ohio statute awards tax benefits to... and then described the category of energy producers who could take advantage of the tax benefit. another example. out of your fertile imagination which -- transcript. proceeding the way the Act intended. But the employer, in order to know what its maximum rate will be, in order not to be surprised years hence by a maximum rate that only then can be known, has to force a compensation (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which seemed to me MR. KEISLER: I think it's the employee who was receiving voluntary payments, and everything is pretty good. But I forgot it. I'll get -- MR. KEISLER: An example -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I'll get it from the order out of the system. And the only way Petitioner Official interpretation that relies on a mechanism that is so JUSTICE GINSBURG: About what percentage of MR. KEISLER: In , Congress was told the compensation cases involve the statutory maximum? says the employer can do that is by threatening a bad-faith cutoff of funds. Whether it happens frequently or infrequently, Mr. Chief Justice, I think an obviously counter to the way the statute is supposed to function is, by virtue of that, an extremely unlikely and unnatural interpretation of the statute. Because if you -- if your pay is less than the statutory maximum, this issue doesn't come up. that it would be about percent. My understanding is percent of cases today require application of the maximum rate. always go up? maximum as calculated by the Secretary of Labor has been higher than the preceding year. can go down.since then, it's grown so that I'm told that about CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Theoretically, it MR. KEISLER: Theoretically, it can. It CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does the maximum MR. KEISLER: Ever since , each year's Official never has. If the Court has no further questions. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Keisler, if I could just go back to this language. If -- if according to Justice Scalia's old opinion, the statute awards compensation at the time of disability, essentially what you would be saying is that an employee who becomes disabled in a certain year is awarded compensation at that time. Is that right? MR. KEISLER: That's right, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I -- I didn't say in that opinion that the -- the employer in -- in that -- or whoever it was that was entitled under the statute -- was "newly awarded" it. I agree the statute awards talking about an event at that time. And that's -- Justice Scalia. And that relates to the questions that Your Honor and Justice Breyer were asking about the relationship between the "currently receiving" clause and the final clause. I think the "currently receiving" MR. KEISLER: I think the function -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different usage. MR. KEISLER: I think the function of it, but when you say somebody is "newly awarded," you're "newly" in this statute is something different, clause, which relates to those with permanent total Official is about everybody else. alone get that annual bump-up. And so, that "currently receiving" clause is disability and death, is an adjunct to another provision of the Act, section (f), which provides for a COLA, a cost-of-living increase, every year for that narrow subset of the most disabled of employees. They and they written for that category to make sure that their bump-up isn't capped by a static maximum rate. The other part of the clause, "newly awarded compensation," Now, I think the use of the word "newly" there is just to distinguish it from the "currently receiving" clause, which is escalating year by year. And those newly awarded compensation, meaning at one awarded compensation are you then going to have your maximum rate fixed. agree -- whatever it's fixed at, whatever year, that stays the same for the duration of your collection of compensation. thank the Court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Gillelan, if I got that right, you have point, fixed in time -- only when you are "newly" And then -- and both Petitioner and we If the Court has no further questions, I Official REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOSHUA T. GILLELAN, II, ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER minutes remaining. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, let's assume an employer pays, continues to pay over a period of time, and the employee needs more money and goes in and says you owe me more money; I'm going to make a claim. The board says no, he doesn't owe you more money; he was paying the right amount. And so, you're not entitled to the you're asking for; you're only entitled to the , he was paying. years after the payments started, would the employer be liable for the higher average years later? employee's own wages at the time of the injury qualified for that, but yes. the answer is "yes"? employee from simply doing what I said? What stops an employee from kicking up his own maximum by -- whenever he chooses to do it, years and years later? MR. GILLELAN: Yes. Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what stops an JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming it does, that MR. GILLELAN: Well, I think in that Under your view, if that happened or MR. GILLELAN: Only, of course, if the Official If the claimant did not bring it forward It's not a denial, as it's characterized in the situation, the claimant hasn't triggered that award. In fact, the claimant has triggered the maximum that's in effect at the time of that award that only makes -- it's an award only of what the employer has been paying. Government's brief. But it is an award only of what of the employer has been paying. with that and the employer let it go for still further years, then even a subsequent year's maximum would be the actual -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we find any ambiguity in the statute, in the statutory language, would it then make more sense to adopt your meaning or the Government argues counsels in its favor? arguments is fallacious. They misdescribe the statute in their reasons why this is not a sensible provision. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume that -- MR. GILLELAN: Before we lose, that -- the other possible meanings of "newly awarded" have got to include what they say the test is. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Government's, given all of the factors that the MR. GILLELAN: I think each of those But even if there is an ambiguity -- Official The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial A Abbott : : above-entitled : : absence : absolutely : : advancing : advantage : agency : apparently : : appeals : appear : : : : : APPEARAN... : : : : agree :, : : : : : : appears : appendix : :, : applicable : aspects : Assistant : assume : : : : : : : Assuming : awarded : attempt : attorney's : :, :,, :,, :,, : : : : : :,,, :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : :,, :, : : :, :,,,, :, : : : : :, :,, : :,, :,,,, :,, :,, : :, : : : author : :, : automatically : : : : available : : application : : average : : : : : : : : applies : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : apply :,, : :, :, : : : : : arbitrary : argues : : argument : :,,, : : :, :,, : :, : : :, : : : : arguments : : : ascribe : aside : asked : asking : : : awards :, : :, : :, : :, awarding : : avoid : award : : :,, : :,,,, :,,,, :, :, :,, :,, :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, a.m : : : : : : :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, : baby : back : : : : : B based : : : bad-faith : : :, : : : bad :,,, b : : : : : : accept : Acceptance : : accepting : agreement access : agrees : accident : accurate : Ah : ahead : acknowledge AL : : acquired : Alito : : Act :,, : :, : alive : ALJ : : : ambiguity : : : : : : : :, : : : : : action : actual :, : :, : : : : : : amicable : amount : : : : : Act's : add : additional : : address : addressed : addressing : adjunct : adjustment : adjustments : : administrative :, : : :, : : adopt : advanced : amounts : : analogous : analogously : : analogy : analysis : annual : : : answer : :, : :, : : : : anybody : : anyway : ceiling : : bring : : bump-up :, central : certain : business : : : : : C: : :, basic : : : basis : : brief :,, : : : :, : : : : :, bear :, began : : : : : begins : behalf :,, : : : : : behavior : believe : beneficiaries : : : benefit : : : :, : benefits : : :, : : : : : : : better : birth : bit : : board : body : bother : bottom : : break : Breyer : : : :,, :,,, : :, : :,, : : :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, c : : : :, : : :,:, : :calculate :: :: :: :,calculated :: :calculating:capped :care :case :, : :, : : :: :: :,: :,:,,: ::,,: :: ::,cases : : : ::, : :, : :,,: :: :Official : compensation : : cited : claim :, :,, :, cash : categories : category : : : certainly : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,,, : :, : : : claimant : : : : : : : : : :,, claimants : claims : : : :,, : :, :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : : : :,,, :, :, : : : : : :,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,: :,:, : : :,: : :,,,:,,: : :,, :,,, :,,,:, :, :, : :,,:, : : :,:,,,commencement complete : : certificate : change :, changed : characterized : check : Chief :, : :, : :, : : : checkbook : checks : :, classes : clause :,,, : : : : : :, : : : :,, :,, clearly : COLA : collection : colloquy : : :, :, :,, come : : :, : : :, : : : :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : child :, commenced : : : commences : : Commerce : : complicated: compulsion: : : chooses : Christmas : Circuit's : circumstance conceded : conceding : commissioner : :, common : concerns : Company : conferred : : : : compensated confirm : Official Congress : : controvert : :, : : controverting : : : : delayed : : : delegate : : :, : :, demonstrated :, : : controverts : convince : correct :, cutting : cut :, : denial : deny : cutoff : : Department : :, : : consider : Costello : considerable : : : :, : : :, : : : : Congress's : consequence :, consequences : : : : considered : : : consistent : : consistently : construction : : construing : : contemplates : : : : :, : : : cost-of-living : counsel : : : : : : : : : : counsels : counter : : : court :, : : : : : : :, contemplated course : contend : contest : contesting : covered :, context : continue : Court's : :, covers : created : : continues : : : continuing : contradicted : contrary : : : : contrasts : control : controversy : creates : creating : credit :, :, credits : critical : : : : : current : currently : DD : : : :damages :: :,Dana : : date : : : :: ::day : : :days :,,: ::, : :dead : : deal :,,deals :death : : : : : : :,: ::, : :, : : :decision ::decreed :: :deduction :defies :definite :definitely : definition : : delay :, directs : disabilities : : disability : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : :,: :,:, : : disabled : :, : : :,: : : : : : : : disagree : : : discussing : dispute : depend : depends : deputy : :, describe : : described : : : : describing : design : designed : destroys : determinant : determination determinative distinctions determine : distinguish: : : : : develop : developed : dictionary : died : dies : : difference : : : different : : : :, differently :, : : : : difficult : difficulties : directly : : : : doing :,: :,: : doubt : due : : : : : : duration : D.C :,,: Ee : :, : earlier ::early : : Official :,,, essentially : : establish : :, established : : ET : ethanol : event : : : evidences : exactly :, : : : :, : example : : : : :, : :, : exceed : : Excuse : existence : experience :, explain : : explains : explicitly : : expressly : extremes : Fface :fact : : : ::factors :faith :fall : : : :fallacious :far : : favor : : feature :February :,Federal : : :,:feel :fees : : :fertile :fewer :figure ::figured :,figuring ::file : : : ::, : filed : : : :: :,:files : : :filing :,fill :final : find : : : finishes : first : : :, : :,, :, : : fiscal :,five : fixed :,: focus : follow : footnote : : force : : : forgot : formal :, :, : : : : formulation : forward : : foundation : four : : frequently : full : fully : function : : : : :, : : : :,fundamental funds : : : : further : : : future : : : GG :gamesmanship :gearing : General :generally ::,,, : : : :, :,, : entry : : : : escalating : employers : escalator : ESQ :,, : : : : : : : : :, employer's : employment : : employs : enable : enactment : encourage : everybody : : easily : effect :,, : : : either : : : : employee : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, :,, : : :,, : : : employee's : : : employees : : : : encouraged encourages : : energy : : :, English : entered : : : : :, : enterprise : : : entirely : employer : :,,, : : : : :, :,,, :, : entire : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,,, :,,, : : : :,, : : :, : :,, : :, :,, entitled : : : :, : : :, : : :, extraordinarily : : entitlement : : :, :,,, : :, extraordinary :, : : :, extremely : : : Official : : : : : : : : : : :, : : hands : happen : happened : happening : getting :, : : : :, : Gillelan : : : : goes : : happenstance happens : : : : : : : happy : harder : hear : : heard : help :, : :,, :, :, : :,, :,,,, : :, : going :, :,,, :,, :, : :, :, : : :,,, : : : :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : :,, hesitate : :, : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, :,, : : : :,, : : :, :,, goody : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : :,,, :, highlighted : : hinges : history : home : Honor : :,, : : :, : : : hey : higher : good-faith : gotten :, good : governed : government : : : : : : Ginsburg : :, :, Government's : :,, :,, : :, : : : give : : governs : grant :, gray :,, : : :, : : : : group : given : : groups : gives : : grown : giving : glad : go :, : :, : :, : H h :, : : guess : : Honor's :, hope : : hurt : hypothetical : I idea : : identical : identically : :, idiosyncratic : II : :, : : illustration imagination : : imagine : immediately : implicate : important : : :, impossible : : : inadequacies : incentive : include : income : incongruity : inconsistency inconsistent : : increase : : interchangeably : interest : interpretation :,, :, : : : :,, : :, interpreted : invoked : involve : involved : issue : : : : issued : : : issues : J January : :,, JOSEPH : : : JOSHUA : : :, : : induce : inflation : infrequently indicate : judge : indication : judgment : : individual : Justice : : : :,,, : :,,, :,,, : :,,,, : :, : :,, : :,, :,,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, :,, initially : injured : : : : : injury : instances : : :, : :, : : : : : intended : intends : Official : : : majority : means : : : : :, making : : : :, : :,,, : :, : : meant : law : : lawyers : leads : left : : : : :, : :, : Marginally : matter : : : : : legal : : measure : legislative : maximize : measured : let's : : maximum : measuring : mechanism : : : : level : levels : liability : : : :, : :,, liable : Limbach : : limited : line : lines : : little : lock : : : : : : long : : : longest : Longshore : : : : long-past : look :, : : loose :, lose : lot :, : : M :, : : : : merely : :,,, middle : :, :, minimize : : :, minimum : : :, : :, :,,, : :,, : minute :, : : : : :, : :, : missed : : :, money : : :, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : :,, minutes : misdescribe : mean : : morning : : : : motion : : :, movie : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :,,,, :, : :, N N :, : narrow : national : : nationally : naturally : necessary : need : :, : : needs : : : :, : neither :, : : meaning : : : : : : :, : :, : : meanings : : K Keisler : : Kagan : : KENNEDY : : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,, :,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, key : : : : kicking : kind : : : :,,, :,,, :,,,,, :, : :,,, : :,, :, : :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,, : :,,, :,,, :, : : :, Labor :, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, Justice's : know : : : : : :, :, : : : : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : larger : knowable : knowing : knowledge language : known : : : : : L : machinery : lasts : latest : Laughter : magic : : Official paying : : person : : :, : : : paid : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, payment : : : :,, : : :, payments : :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : : Palmore : : :,, :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : penalize : :,, :, : penalty : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : percent : people : pays : : permanently :, : : : permits : :, persuaded : PETER : : : Petitioner : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : Petitioner's : : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, phrase : : : : places : plausible : please : : : pocket : :,,: : : : : pointed : :, : : never : : : : : new : : : : : : newly : : Ohio : : oil : : okay :, : :, : : : :, : :, :,,, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, old : : ones : : :,, operate : : :, : :, opinion : : :, :, : opposed : :, oral : :,, : : : order :, : : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, :,, :, : :, news : Ninth : norm : normal : Normally : note : notice : : : :,,, notify : number : : : : : numbers : O O : : obliged : obviously : occurs : October : : odd : : odds : oh :, : : : : :, : : : : :, point : : paragraph : ordered : orders : part : : overrides : partial : over-inclusive : : partially : particular : owe : : :, percentage : : perfect : : period : : : : : PP : page : : : : : parties : parts : party :, passes : :,,, :, : pay : : permanent : points : portion : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : position : : : possible : :, : Official : R : : : :,,, :,, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : raise : random : rate : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : red : : :, : :, recognizes : refer : referred : referring : rates : read : : :, refers : : : : reflected : regulations : : regulatory : relates :, relationship : response : responsibility : : rest : result : : : : : resulted : revise : rewrite :, right : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : :, : : : : practical : : preceding : precisely : : : provided : provides : : : : :, : : precludes : providing : premised : present : provision : : presented : pretty : prior : : : : : private : : : problem : : :, : :, : problems : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : provisions : : :, : : : : purpose : purposes : :, : : : : procedural : proceeding : pursuant : put : : puts : p.m : Qprocess : producers : : :, proffered : progress : promptly : : : :, proper : proposition : protect : protracting : protraction : proves : provide : : : : : : qualified ::qualifies :question :: :: :: :questioning:questions :: :,:quickly ::quite :R : : :, : : : :, reading : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : realistic : really :, :, : reason : : : reasonable : reasons : : : REBUTTAL : : recalculate : receipt : receive : received : :, receiving : : : :, relevant : relies : : rely : remaining : remains : remedies : remedy : renders : reply : require : Roberts : : :, : : : :, :, :, :, : :,,: :,:, : : : : :,: : required : Roberts's : requires :, Robinson : reserve : respect : : : : respects : Respondent :, :, : : Respondents: route : rule : : run : runs : : SS : : satisfaction Official :, : sooner : sorry : : statutorily : separate : : : serious : : serves : Services : : set : : sets : settling : setup : seven : Shell : : shortly : shoveled : show : : : :, side :, : significant : silent : simple : simply : : : : : situated :, : sort : : Sotomayor : :, statutory : : : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : : :,,, :,, : : :, : : :,, :, sound : sources : speak : : special : : specific : specifically : specifics : stake : start : : : started : starts : States :, static : stays : stop : : :, : : stopping : stops :, street : string : studied : stupid :, :, submission : submit : submitted : : subsection : : :, : : subsequent : : : : saying : : Scalia's : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : says : : scheme :, : : : : Sea-Land : :, second : : see : : Secretary : :, :, :, : :,, : : : :, section :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : : : : Scalia :,, :, :, :,,,, : :, : sections : : :,, : : :, :, : :,, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, sentence :, : : : sensible : sensical : : : : :, statistics : :, : :,, : : statute : seek : : situation : seeking : sense :,, :,, : situations : :,,, slightly : :,,, slip : :,, slow : : : : :, small : snow : : : Solicitor : : : solution :, :,, : : : somebody : : : :,, : somewhat : soon : : : suffers : suggest : subset : :, : substantial :, : : :, suddenly : : : :,,, :, : : :, suggested : :, : suggests : :,,, : :, suppose : supposed : : :,, :, : : :, :,,, :, : : : :, : : Supreme :, sure : : statutes : Official surprised : survivor : survivors : : :, : : survivorship : system : : : : T T : :,, : : : take : : : : taken : takes : talking : : : : :, : :, : talks : : : tax : : : :, :, technical : tell : temporary :, : : tends : term : : : : : : :, : terms : : : test : text :, thank :, : :, : theirs : Theoretically :, thing :, :,, : : :, :, things : : :,, : : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, : :, today : told : : : think : : : :, : : : : :, : Title : :,,, : :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : thinking : thinks : third : thought : : total : : : : : :, : : : :,,: : : : : totally : tough : transcript : treat :,treated :,,trend : trigger : triggered :,trouble : true :, : : : : try : : threaten : : : : : threatening : three : : : : : thrust : till : : time :,, :,, : : : : trying : : turn : turning : turns : twice : two : : :, : : : : : two-thirds : typical : Uunambiguous:unclear :uncommon:understand :: : : : :: ::understanding: :,: :understood:vast :, view : : : : : : : views : VII : virtue : : : voluntarily : : :,: : :, : :, : : voluntary : : : : Wunder-inclusive wage :,,,:, :, : : :,:United :, universal : wages :,unnatural : unpaid : untenable : unusual : Upward : usage :,, waits :wait : : :, : : :,,waiting :: use : : walking :want : : : :: :, wanted :: : wants : : : : :, : Washington :: : uses : : usual : usually : Vv : : : : ::value :variation ::,,wasn't :way : : : :,:, : : :,: :: :: :,: :,: ways : : Wednesday : weeds : week : : :,,,, :, weekly : : : :, : : weeks : went : We'll : : we're : : : : : : : : : :, : : we've : : whichever : widows : wife : : wish : word : : : :, : : : :, : : words : : :, work : : : : : : worker : workers : : : working : works :, work-around : : world : wouldn't : : : : :,, : write : : :, : : writes : : writing : : written : :, : wrong : : : X x :, Y year :, : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, years : : : :, : :, :, : year's : : :,, : : $ $, : $, : :, $ : $ : $ : :,, :, : :, st : , : , : :, : Official : :, - : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, (a) :, a :, : : a : : : a : (e) :, : (f) : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : a :,, th : : : :, : : : : (c) : : : : : (d) : (d) : (d)() :, : : : : : (c) : : (d)() : : (d)() : (h)() : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : (b) : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : 