Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xMAYO COLLABORATIVE SERVICES, DBA :MAYO MEDICAL LABORATORIES, ET AL.,: Petitioners : v. : No. -PROMETHEUS LABORATORIES, INC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for Petitioners.DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae.RICHARD P. BRESS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGESTEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFDONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiaeORAL ARGUMENT OFRICHARD P. BRESS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSTEPHEN M. SHAPIRO, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Mayo CollaborativeServices v. Prometheus Laboratories. Mr. Shapiro. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: We're here today to urge the Court toreinstate the district court's decision, whichfaithfully applied this Court's precedents under section of the Patent Act. The problem with the Prometheuspatent is its broad pre-emption of a physicalphenomenon, which prevents others like Mayo Clinic fromoffering a better metabolite test with more accuratenumbers. And this is a huge practical problem forpatients. These thiopurine drugs are strong medicine.Too much of this can be fatal; too little can leave achronic lingering disease in the patient. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I didn'tthink that this patent covered the actual machine. Mayois free to develop a new machine. Official MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it -- what it can't dois use any number from up until infinity, and itbelieves that's the wrong number. And it can't have a-- a different standard for a legion of autoimmunediseases, and there are dozens and dozens of them.That's a broad field to pre-empt the natural phenomenon. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it -- it actuallyis much narrower than that. It's within a range, tworanges actually. And so, it has already changed onerange, and that's not the subject of the districtcourt's finding that the lower number it's proposing isinfringing. So, it's not as broad as you are stating. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you -- you see, YourHonor, we believe the correct number is to . Andthat's necessary to cure various autoimmune diseases.And Prometheus took the position that its patentpre-empts everything above , all the way up toinfinity, it said, for all autoimmune diseases, dozensand dozens of them. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it took thatposition, but the district court narrowed it to percent, to -- MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you know, actually itdidn't, Your Honor. You'll see in that opinion, there Officialare two rulings. One is the percent ruling, whichlowers the number; but it said and above all the wayto infinity. There's no upper limit on this. So, as a practical matter, there's no roomfor anybody else to offer a metabolite test. And whatthis means for patients is one opinion in the UnitedStates. If you have one of these life-threateningdiseases -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It can offer the test. MR. SHAPIRO: -- you get one opinion. Pardon me? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It can offer the test.It just can't recommend the dosage to the doctor. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it can't have a testthat has a different therapeutic range, because that's apre-emption. They take the position -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tests do two things:They measure something -- MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and therapeutic rangedoes something else. The tests can happen. The doctorgets a number. What the doctor does with that number isa different issue. MR. SHAPIRO: And -- and what -- whatPrometheus submitted and the court agreed is if you are Officialnotified, if you are aware of their range when you'redrawing blood, that's an infringement right then andthere, if -- if you're aware or warned by their number. So, any doctor in the United States thatdraws blood and is aware of this range of theirs ispre-empting. And the practical result is we haven'tbeen able to offer this competing test now for years. JUSTICE KENNEDY: When -- when theRespondent addresses this, will they take issue with theway you describe what has been pre-empted, or as youread their -- we'll ask them -- but as you read theirbrief, is this crystal-clear? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, you'll see,Justice Kennedy, in the district court, they argued forany number above . That's -- it's and above, iswhat it says. And they said there's no upper limit onthat. The district court found that. That was theirposition. It was accepted. JUSTICE KENNEDY: In thinking about what'spre-empted, I looked at the Diehr case involving therubber molding -- MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and the constantmonitoring. And if you could take an analogy from that,let's -- let's suppose that there was a system of Officialmeasurements that you take every half-hour whichconstantly monitor how a drug is being retained in thetissues, and that there is a protocol for the admissionof some two or three different drugs to get the balanceright. In other words, it's much more complicated. Is there some point at which that ispatentable, even though this pre-empts a -- a wholerange of different choices? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it may be patentable. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's hard for you toanswer -- you know, there's a million hypotheticals.But I'm just trying to -- MR. SHAPIRO: The key is the specificity. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- see what the process ishere. MR. SHAPIRO: If it leaves room for othersto have their own tests with different numbers anddifferent procedures so that it isn't just one test forthe whole country, then yes, if it's specific enough.The specificity is the key. What -- what the Court said in Bilski, ofcourse, is that you can't pre-empt a whole field, abroad field with -- with your -- your patent, which thisone does. And if you look at the diseases that arecovered -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I'm not comfortablewith that. I mean, it depends on how -- how broad itis? MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. If you -- if youpre-empt all the numbers up to infinity and allautoimmune diseases, that's a vast field. It's muchbigger than the field in Flook. JUSTICE SCALIA: What about up to ? Isthat okay? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, no. I -- I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: ? MR. SHAPIRO: No. I -- I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: ? MR. SHAPIRO: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, how are we supposedto apply that kind of a rule? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I think doctors have tohave freedom to make their own judgments about thesenatural phenomena. JUSTICE SCALIA: Above -- above or below? Which? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I -- no. I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It just seems to me nota -- not a patent rule that we could possibly apply. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, it's the rule I believe Officialadopted in Bilski and in Flook, that you can't wipe outa whole field so no one else can have a competing test.The result for the public is that these numbers would befrozen for years, and a very serious person couldn'tget a second opinion from Mayo Clinic, which usesdifferent numbers. That's why we think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't -- doesn't any --any medical patent rely on natural processes? I mean,even if you invent a new drug, what that new drug doesis -- is natural. It affects the -- the humanphysiognomy -- MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in a certain naturalway. MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it -- is it thereforeprecluded from patentability? MR. SHAPIRO: No, it's not. And, in fact,this drug was patented. JUSTICE SCALIA: What's different here? MR. SHAPIRO: The difference is thespecificity. If you invent a drug which has aparticular chemical formula, others can invent otherdrugs. There's room for competing drugs in the medicalworld. And you'll -- many, many patented drugs -- Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought your answer toJustice Scalia would be -- and please correct me -- thedifference is, is that what the Respondent is claimingis a -- a patent on the measurement of the result. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, it is a patent on ameasurement -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're giving adifferent answer. MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that's how I wouldhave answered the question. But that's obviously not -- MR. SHAPIRO: No, I -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- the right way to do it. MR. SHAPIRO: I think that's -- that'sone -- one part of it. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's another one ofyour arguments, but one of your arguments says you can'tpatent nature. MR. SHAPIRO: You can't patent nature. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. SHAPIRO: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: And that relates to thequestion that I asked. MR. SHAPIRO: But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And tell me why you can't Officialpatent nature, then? MR. SHAPIRO: Because -- because of the lawof nature doctrine that has existed for years inthis Court. Congress has never disagreed with that.Pieces of nature can't be monopolized. Neither canformulas. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Yes, but yourquestion -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nature always -- naturealways has a reaction to the drug. MR. SHAPIRO: Pardon me? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nature always has areaction to the drug. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. So, all doctors --that's part of the storehouse of information. Alldoctors can look at that reaction. They can calibrateit the way they see fit. They have different opinions.And it's important for all of us that they have thosedifferent opinions. We found that the numbers that theywere using were way off for skin disorders, dangerouslyhigh. is the wrong number. The correct number is to . Now, it's very important for patients tobe -- with life-threatening conditions, to be able toget that information. Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But then, howdo you -- that's -- I see that. I will spare you thereasons why I think the law of nature doctrine exists,because they are not relevant to my question. My question is I think it's hornbook lawthat the law of nature cannot be patented. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: It is also hornbook lawthat the application of a law of nature can be patented. MR. SHAPIRO: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, in thiscase, what I think the claim is, is that we are applyinga law of nature. Now, we read the words of applying it:Administer a drug, determine the level. And then ituses the word "wherein," which I'll ask them what thatmeans. But -- but -- so, they say those two words,administer the drug, determine the level, are theapplication of the law of nature that they found. Now, there's something odd about that inyour view -- MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- at least. And I want toknow what. MR. SHAPIRO: For us, the real oddity isthat this numerical calibration that they've given Officialextends up to infinity, and it precludes every otherblood test. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Suppose itdidn't. Suppose I discover that if I take aspirin,someone takes aspirin, I discover they have to takeaspirin for a headache, and, you know, I see an amazingthing: If you look at a person's little finger, and younotice the color, it shows the aspirin, you need alittle more; unless it's a different color, you need alittle less. Now, I've discovered a law of nature -- MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- and I may have spentmillions on that. And I can't patent that law ofnature, but I say I didn't; I said apply it. I saidlook at his little finger. MR. SHAPIRO: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay? Is that a goodpatent or isn't it? MR. SHAPIRO: No, it's -- it's not. JUSTICE BREYER: Why not? MR. SHAPIRO: It's not a good patentbecause -- JUSTICE BREYER: If you can tell me why not,I'll have an understanding of where you're coming from. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because you've -- you've Officialadded to a law of nature just -- just a simpleobservation of the man's little finger. JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Now, we're into theproblem. And that is the problem of how much you haveto add. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: If you look at the Court'scases, they seem to say Flook, one thing, and Diehr,another thing. And so, what is your view about how much hasto be added to make it an application of a law ofnature? And how would you put that in words? MR. SHAPIRO: There are several things thatit can't be. After Bilski, which reaffirmed what wassaid in Flook, a conventional step isn't sufficient,because that's just adding a law of nature to prior art,and prior art plus prior art equals nothing that ispatentable under the Flook decision. And also, the step that you add has tonarrow your pre-emption -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Does thatrender it nonpatentable because it's not novel? Is thatthe reason why it -- it renders it nonpatentable? MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what we're Officialtalking about here; we're not talking about novelty, arewe? MR. SHAPIRO: No, we're really not. Whatthe Court -- what the Court said in Bilski is that aconventional step plus a law of nature isn't sufficient,and what the Court explained in Flook is that the law ofnature is part of the common domain; it's part of priorart. So, if you're adding prior art to prior art, it'snothing under section . JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shapiro, on thatquestion and the question Justice Scalia just raised,the Government, you know, has taken the position thatyou're under the wrong section. It's not a question ofpatentability, but you've used the example of thefinger; you said it's obvious. So, why didn't you raisethe sections that the Government says would have beenthe appropriate ones on the novelty or anticipation ofprior art and obviousness? MR. SHAPIRO: That's a very importantquestion for the medical community. They need a robustsection standard because under and you couldpatent E equals MC squared. That's new. It'snonobvious. But you can't patent it under becauseit's a law of nature. And it's important to keep this -- this Officialcommon domain, the storehouse of information thatmedical researchers need to have access to -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's hard to resist thetemptation to peek into the obvious component or thenonobvious component and then go back and apply it to. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want us to disciplineourselves to talk just about in this. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, no, I think -- we havetwo arguments on this point. The first is both Flookand Bilski peeked, and -- and they looked at theconventional nature of the additional step, andthat's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But once you say"conventional nature," you're saying it's not novel.If -- if the step is not conventional, it's okay. Why? MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Because it's novel. MR. SHAPIRO: This -- this is the Court's analysis in both Flook and in Bilski. So, we relyon the latest decision, Bilski, which took exactly thatpeek. But the other part of our answer is you don'teven have to peek. If the step doesn't narrow thepre-emption of the natural phenomenon, if it's just an Officialincidental step that you need to use to observe thenatural phenomenon, which this blood test is, you can'tsee the natural phenomenon. JUSTICE BREYER: You are getting warmer,but -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: But the -- the words, look,"a simple conventional step." Hmmm. You see, whetherit's true in this case or not, discovering natural lawsis often a very expensive process. MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And there's lots ofinvestment to be protected. MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, sure. JUSTICE BREYER: But they can't, okay? So,now you're going to say, well, what do they have to addto that? And now we run into problems, because if youhave to just not look at the law of nature, don't lookat it when you decide whether it's novel, that not onlyruns into conflict with prior cases, but it doesn't makemuch sense because really the novel thing is often thelaw of nature. But you say you have to add something. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: What? MR. SHAPIRO: Our view -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: And now, that's -- what doyou have to add? And it can't be that you take the lawof nature out and look to whether the rest of it meetsthe patent criteria. It's -- it's pretty clear in thelaw, and I can give you reasons why, but forget thereasons. But, look, what do you want to say the restof it has to add up to? MR. SHAPIRO: In our view, the rest of ithas to add up to some step that limits the naturalphenomenon, so that you have a concrete, specific -- JUSTICE BREYER: You're going on alimitation thing. So, you're going to say reject allthe fancy hypotheticals I'll also spare you. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, in the Diehr -- in theDiehr -- JUSTICE BREYER: But it's pretty easy tothink of the same problem you have, you know, whichdoesn't have this infinity in it. MR. SHAPIRO: In the Diehr case -- JUSTICE BREYER: Which unfortunately we haveto deal with. MR. SHAPIRO: In the Diehr case, the naturalphenomenon was limited with steps that confined theinvention to a specific machine with doors opening and Officialclosing, temperature being monitored so a product wascured. It was a very specific, concrete invention. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I don't knowwhat -- you keep saying you have to limit the product. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you told me thatthere's a different range for the treatment of skindiseases. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, presumably, thereare different ranges for treatment of other diseases. MR. SHAPIRO: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, this patent has notlimited exploration in there. You're claiming it has.That's an issue that your adversary can speak to. Ithink they say no in their briefs. But the point is there's still a limit totheir range. You're claiming at one point they said itwas limitless, but if we disagree with that -- MR. SHAPIRO: Well, here's what -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- how do you answerJustice Breyer's question? MR. SHAPIRO: Here's what they say, jointappendix pages through , the second volume. Thisis their patent. This is what it covers. It covers Officialhepatitis, lupus, Hashimoto's disease, Graves' disease,Addison's disease, diabetes, arthritis. And they say iteven covers organ transplants. It covers heart, kidney,and liver transplants. So, it covers every autoimmunedisease, and there are dozens and dozens of them -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shapiro -- MR. SHAPIRO: -- and they do have differentnumbers. That's the key point. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, do we -- do we addup all of the diseases in the world, all the potentialdiseases, and pick a percentage that this covers withinthat range? MR. SHAPIRO: Well, this -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think Justice Breyeris asking you for something that doesn't involve that -- MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that involves somegreater answer to the issue of limitation. MR. SHAPIRO: I -- I think what the Courtdid in Flook and what it did in Bilski is ask if a broadfield is being pre-empted. This is broad numerically.It goes up to infinity. It covers dozens and dozens ofautoimmune diseases. JUSTICE SCALIA: What if -- what if you --what if they just split up the patent? They -- they got Officialone patent number for arthritis, another patent numberfor transplants, another patent number for each one ofthe autoimmune diseases you're talking about? MR. SHAPIRO: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Would each of them be okay,because it's -- MR. SHAPIRO: No, it wouldn't. That wouldbe LabCorp, where there was just one malady in thepatent; it was a vitamin deficiency with a naturalcorrelation. And Justice Breyer's opinion explainedthat -- that is too pre-emptive of the naturalphenomenon. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what my opinionlacked, frankly, and that's sometimes the virtue of adissent in such a case, it lacked -- and Novartis pointsthis out very well in their brief -- it lacked anexplanation as to why what I thought was a patent justsaid observe the correlation. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Why isn't that anapplication of the law of nature? And if you look toLabCorp's dissent to find an answer to that question,you're better than I, because I couldn't find it. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, if -- if observe the --that's another area of the breadth of this patent, Officialbecause there's no specific action the doctor has totake. If the doctor has been informed of their rangeand draws blood and thinks about it, that's -- thatis -- that is infringement. And a doctor here wasaccused of infringement, treble damages sought againstthis hospital in an injunction, because she thoughtabout this correlation, and she had completely differentnumbers. JUSTICE KAGAN: Is there -- Mr. Shapiro, isthere a patent that Prometheus could have written thatyou think would have met the test? MR. SHAPIRO: Certainly. They could havesaid when you reach , a real number, a specificnumber, you adjust the dosage by percent. That's atreatment patent. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, if they had added atreatment protocol, that would have been a completelydifferent case? MR. SHAPIRO: Yes, and -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And what makes it acompletely different case? MR. SHAPIRO: What makes it different isthat leaves room for Mayo Clinic to come up withdifferent numbers that it believes are more accurate andmore helpful for patients that are suffering from these Officiallife-threatening diseases. We shouldn't requireAmericans to get one opinion from Prometheus when theywant an opinion from Mayo Clinic. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I'm not sure Iunderstand that. You said a specific number. Butsuppose it uses ranges, but it also attaches treatmentdecisions to those ranges. MR. SHAPIRO: Well, that could be specificenough, again, then others could have a rival test that-- that used a different treatment protocol. You'd haveto look at that. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, if the idea -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then why -- then whydidn't you answer her first question that it was -- thatit was not patentable? I have the same -- MR. SHAPIRO: Oh, I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think I'm having thesame trouble as Justice Kagan. MR. SHAPIRO: I think it would bepatentable. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why can't you just go --the hypothetical was -- was one range, one result.Pardon me. One measurement, one result. Suppose thatjust continued over a range. And they said if it's ,then you have this; if it's , you have this. Official MR. SHAPIRO: Well, I don't think theycan -- they can wipe out the entire field so that otherscan't have rival tests that use different numbers. Theytried to do that, by the way. They have a total ofeight patents here which use different numbers. But youcan't pre-empt the whole field so others can't make anyuse of the natural phenomenon. JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question -- thequestion I'm asking is, in your response to me, is thedifference the -- the extent of the ranges, or is thedifference that there would be clear treatment decisionsattached to those ranges? MR. SHAPIRO: I think you'd need both.You'd have to look at it in practical terms. Is thereroom for somebody else to make use of this naturalcorrelation, so that they could come up with differentnumbers, different ranges, and different treatments?And if there's room left, then there is no pre-emptionof the natural phenomenon. That's a vastly differentcase, and that's what is missing here. I -- I do see mytime -- yes? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many patents of thistype are out there? MR. SHAPIRO: My view is there are only acouple of them. LabCorp is like this. This one is like Officialthis. The others that are referred to in this -- theseamicus briefs are vastly different. They're specificpatents with specific treatment protocols. And by theway, the Government admits this particular patent isinvalid because it just attaches a mental step to priorart. And there are only a couple of them to ourknowledge that would be affected by a decision in ourfavor. But a decision in our favor would protectthe storehouse of information that doctors really need.They have to be able to look at the body's reaction toinjections, pills, chemotherapy, radiation; anddifferent hospitals have to have different opinions tosafeguard the health of our people. So, we urge the Court to reverse, and Iwould reserve the balance of our time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. General Verrilli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: Each party in this case has got a validpoint. Mayo is correct that you can't get a patent by Officialtacking a mental step onto an utterly conventionalprocess for administering drugs and testing theireffects. But that is an issue under sections and of the Patent Act. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Shapiro just told us,when I asked him that question based on your -- yourbrief, that people need to know up front that it's --this is not a patentable subject matter; very importantthat it be and not and . So, how do youanswer his rejection of the adequacy of prior --anticipating prior art or obviousness? GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the answer,Justice Ginsburg, is that from the perspective of theUnited States and the PTO, it's exactly the opposite;that importing these -- taking -- as Justice Kennedysuggested, taking up the temptation to import a lookinto novelty and nonobviousness into the inquiry isgoing to be very destabilizing; that , as Bilskisaid, is a threshold eligibility test, and the questionis whether there is a process. Here there is a process. It's theadministration of a drug that changes the bodychemistry, and there's then a test to determine theextent of the change, and then there's an inference atend of the test. That's a process. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That -- in your testfor that -- I see on page of your brief you say: "aclassic patent-eligible process," "recites a series ofacts, performed in the physical world, that transformsthe subject of the process ... to achieve a usefulresult." So, I have a great idea. You take wood, youput it on a grate, you light it, and you've got heat.That is -- recites a series of acts performed in thephysical world that transforms the subject of theprocess, the wood, to achieve a useful result, which isheat. So, I can get a patent for that? GENERAL VERRILLI: No. It's not novel, and-- and it's obvious. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. No.Well, let me put it -- GENERAL VERRILLI: You can't get a patentfor it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's patent --that's patent- eligible. GENERAL VERRILLI: But that's our -- that'sour point, Mr. Chief Justice, that the -- that the rightway to look at this issue is under and under .And I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why is the question. GENERAL VERRILLI: Because -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Look, anything can betransformed into a process. Look at those real estateones, the -- I mean, you know, lawyers ones. I have away of making a great argument in the Supreme Court.You know, you could patent some of your arguments. (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: Most are pretty obvious. JUSTICE BREYER: Why not cut them off at thepass? That is, if you're really prepared to say -- ithas to do with process, not machines. In the thcentury, not many patent processes were granted. So,they're rather special because of the special problemthe Chief just noticed. So, why not -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, here's -- here's -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- cut them off at thepass, if you're prepared to say -- GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'll add a little bitto this because I am questioning what you say here inthe other direction. You say if you just look ateverything minus the law of nature, hmm, and that is aprocess that's otherwise known or obvious in light ofthe prior art, you can't patent it. That seems to memaybe it goes too far the other direction, because weknow that a lot of work goes into these laws of nature. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: But our position is alittle different. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I -- all right.So, there are both parts, but I'm more interested in -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, if I could --if I could, I do think that one has to think about if --what -- this seems like a straightforward case on thesefacts, but if one thinks about the principles that Mayois advocating and applying them in a different set ofcircumstances, I think you'll see the problems. Take, for example, nuclear stress tests thatcardiologists use. That's a process. The patient getson a treadmill. The heart rate gets elevated.Radioactive dye gets put into the body. It allows animage to be taken of the heart with an X-ray machine.That improves treatment. Now, the transformation thereis, as in this case, incidental to the process. It'snot the point of the process. But I don't think anyonewould suggest that that's not a patentable process, butunder Mayo's test, it's not a patentable process. Similarly, I think -- I'm sorry,Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going tosay, what is the great advantage you see of putting thiscritical question off until the , analysis, Officialrather than cutting it off at the beginning, , whichI understand your friend to say is very importantbecause you don't want people to have to pause terriblylong to see if this is something they can -- can do? GENERAL VERRILLI: As a practical matter, atthe PTO, Mr. Chief Justice, it doesn't make anydifference, because the PTO examiner gets a patentapplication and answers every question, , , ,, and makes a decision about all of them. So, it'snot going to lead to any benefit at the PTO. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- whatabout litigation? Is it -- it is easier to throwsomething out at the threshold level, isn't it, than tomove further down the line? GENERAL VERRILLI: Not -- not if one movesthe novelty and the obviousness inquiries from and into . You've just taken -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not so sure. GENERAL VERRILLI: -- the complexity of and and moved it into . JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're talking aboutsummary judgment. It seems to me, rough rule, thatsummary judgment would be much more -- much easier under than and . GENERAL VERRILLI: I think this case is a Officialpretty good illustration, Justice Kennedy, of why that'snot true. Think of -- if I may pick up on the questionJustice Scalia asked my friend, think of all the troublewe're having in this case figuring out what the standardis: How much pre-emption is too much? How do you evenfigure out the scope of pre-emption? What you'reactually doing here is multiplying a whole new set ofvery difficult, complex questions that you don't have toanswer if -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General, I read you inpart as saying don't worry, because if something strikesyou as wrong with this patent, we're going to catch itunder . And I guess I'm not sure why that's true.There was novelty here. There were some doctors whofigured out some new things, which was new ranges ofeffective drug treatment. And so, why do you thinkyou're going to catch this as a matter? If there isa problem here, it seems to me not the fact that therewas something new. There was something new. It'sthat -- it's something else. GENERAL VERRILLI: But there was no newprocess, Justice Kagan. There's exactly the sameprocess that already exists, with a new inference drawnat the end, and that's why you can capture this under. Official And I do think it's important to think aboutit in terms of the points Mr. Shapiro is making. Ifthis patent had involved -- instead of standard oldblood tests, had involved a breakthrough new test thatallowed one to measure metabolite levels in a way thatcould never have been done before, of course the personwho invented that could get this patent, even though itwould have the excluding effect that Mr. Shapiro hasidentified. Similarly, if the drug is a breakthroughdrug and a patentable drug, any use of the drug duringits patented period, including a use in a test likethis, would be an infringement under . JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the -- JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you about your -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: What about the discovery ofa new physical change in the body caused by an old drug?You -- you find that it affects another part of thehuman system. Is it -- is that discovery patentable? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think that's aharder question, but there are, for example -- and Ithink the Court was looking at some of this in theCaraco case on Monday -- these follow-on patents withrespect to pharmaceutical products, where you patent it Officialoriginally for one use, and then you can later patent itwhen you discover a different use. And, in fact,there's an entire regulatory system set up to deal withthat. So, I do think there are circumstances in whichthat can be patentable, yes. JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you about yourargument that the correlations that were discovered andthat are involved here are not natural phenomena becausethe thiopurine drugs are synthetic products of humaningenuity? I found that a little difficult tounderstand. Suppose someone discovers the level at whicha human pollutant that's present in the atmosphere, inthe air or the water, has an adverse effect on humanhealth. Is that not a natural phenomenon? GENERAL VERRILLI: The existence of apollutant in the air and its effect probably is anatural phenomenon, but the difference here is thatthere's a conversion of the natural body chemistry. Themetabolites wouldn't be in the body but for theadministration of these drugs. And I do think if one were to say thatthat's an unpatentable natural phenomenon -- and this iswhat I mean about the destabilizing risk of thinkingabout this as a issue rather than or -- Officialyou're going to call into question lots and lots,thousands in fact, of medical use patents where thepatent is administer a therapeutically effective dosageof this drug in order to treat this disease. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but this drug ispatentable because it's a -- it's a -- what is the thirdword? You know, it's a combination of nature. What'sthe -- it's a composition of matter. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Breyer, butthose patents are not on the composition of matter. JUSTICE BREYER: No, they don't have to be. GENERAL VERRILLI: Those are processpatents. JUSTICE BREYER: You'd say -- you would saythat where it's a new use there were somespecifications, and the specifications limited the areato over here, I think -- and tell me if I'm wrongbecause I'm really asking just a question. They limitit over here, you see. And now we have a new use, andwe're saying this composition of matter is being usedover here. So, aren't you getting a -- simply adifferent area where you're using a composition ofmatter. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but that's a usepatent. That's not a composition-of-matter patent Officialand -- JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't a processpatent. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it's a processpatent. JUSTICE BREYER: Is a process -- GENERAL VERRILLI: It is a process patent,and the problem would be if one says -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I'll thinkabout it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish yoursentence. GENERAL VERRILLI: If one says that it's --it's nonpatentable because all you're doing is patentingthe application of a law of nature, you're invalidatingall those process patents. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. Mr. Bress. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RICHARD P. BRESS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. BRESS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I'd like to start out, I think, with a --answering the question about what these patents cover Officialand what they don't. And I'm going to answer thatreally not because I think it has any relevance to the issue. I actually don't think it has any relevanceto . And I'll explain that it does perhaps haverelevance under or and why the differencematters, if I may. So, the district -- my friend is correctthat in the district court at the initial infringementstage, before the court decided validity of the patent,we argued that the right way to look at our numbers wasthat we were claiming that if a doctor correlated orassociated a number greater than with toxicity --that's what we were claiming. That would be within ourclaim. And if the doctor correlated under with notenough drug, well, we were claiming that as well. Now, the district court agreed with that andsaid that those were the ranges. But then it confusedthings a bit, and that's where we get to the percentplus or minus point. The court also said -- and by theway, I think this is a correct reading -- that when wesaid about , that means plus or minus percent of, and about plus or minus . And then the court held that there wasinfringement, but it held it for two different reasons.It said that -- that the patent for Mayo -- or the -- Officialsorry -- not the patent, the product Mayo had, which, bythe way, was awfully close -- it was to -- fellwithin the percent on the top side. It didn't lookat the bottom side for purposes of this decision. But was within percent of . And it also said itviolated it because is greater than . At the court of appeals, we argued that theright way to read the district court's opinion was thatyou had to actually do that comparison, that the ranges,the percents, mattered and that the doctor, in orderto infringe, would have to look at the result and say isthis or isn't this greater than , and compare it to, or . The court of appeals accepted that readingof it, and that reading wasn't disputed by Mayo and, onpage a of the court of appeals' opinion, the court ofappeals says has to be compared to a predeterminednumber. I think you could go either way on this. Ithink, frankly, the Court could go back to the districtcourt and look at that, perhaps. But the problem withthat is that there was no objection at the court ofappeals. And I think any objection to how the court ofappeals understood it is probably waived at this point. Now for why it doesn't matter. If there's a Officialproblem with the broad ranges here, in other words ifthere is a problem with the fact that we're saying over indicates toxicity, let's think about what is thatproblem. Suppose we're right. I mean, at this stage,the Court certainly can't presume we're wrong in that.So, let's suppose that we're right. If we're right,then we're simply claiming the fact that we found, thatafter you administer the drugs and determine themetabolite level, if it's over , it indicatestoxicity. JUSTICE ALITO: And that's a naturalphenomenon. MR. BRESS: It is a -- it's according to alaw of nature, and I will agree with that, Your Honor.The term "natural phenomenon" as this Court has used it,for instance, in Chakrabarty or in J.E.M., has referredto the difference between things that exist in naturewith the intervention of man and things that existwithout the intervention of man. So, for example,photosynthesis would be a process that is a naturalphenomenon. On the other hand, cross-breeding plants tocreate a new variety, that wasn't a natural phenomenon. JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but if photosynthesisis induced by a lamp inside a building, then it's not anatural phenomenon? Official MR. BRESS: If it -- I think you couldprobably get a patent. I think you could get a patent,Your Honor, on the use of a lamp to inducephotosynthesis, but you couldn't claim the underlyingprocess, is all I'm saying, of photosynthesis.According to this Court's -- JUSTICE BREYER: I thought of two examplesthat will try to get you to talk about the problemthat's really bothering me here, anyway. MR. BRESS: I'd love to, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Well. A patent for --we've discovered, at some expense, what counts as toolittle fertilizer and what counts as too much to makeplants grow, a certain kind of fertilizer, very common.Less than an quarter of an inch, forget it; more thanhalf an inch, you're going to burn the plant. Imaginethat. Law of nature, absolutely, about the chemicals inthe fertilizer. Patent: A method for determining whenthere's too little or too much fertilizer. Put somefertilizer in a field and measure how much there is,wherein less than a quarter of an inch is too little andwherein more than half an inch is too much. Second example. Einstein never lived, butat a vast expense, you invented E equals MC squared,okay, a method for measuring energy which is very useful Officialthat comes out of a cyclotron. Put some stuff in acyclotron, measure the stuff in and measure how much itcomes out, and keep -- wherein -- wherein the missingpart is -- think about -- wherein -- no, it says whereinthe missing part will be calculated as an amount ofenergy according to a formula E equals MC squared. Yes. If your patent is valid, why aren't the twoI just mentioned? MR. BRESS: Okay. JUSTICE BREYER: And if you -- if the two Ijust mentioned are valid, there is something wrong withthis picture. MR. BRESS: Okay, You Honor. I'll answerthem in turn, and then hopefully I'll get back to myrange and explain what the , problems are withthat for you all as well. The first patent you've discussed, which ishow best to use fertilizer essentially for plants.Patent-eligible subject matter, but clearly novel andnovel in a way that you could get rid of on summaryjudgment just as fast as you could get rid of it on .There's no advantage, in other words, to saying I'mgoing to label my summary judgment motion and importlack of novelty into that versus saying I'm going tolabel -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Where is -- where is lackof novelty? Nobody has these numbers before. Theyalways thought it was a quarter, an eighth of an inch,and -- it's huge novelty. MR. BRESS: Your Honor, the law, as you wellknow, recognizes that under section , if somethingwould have been obvious to someone with ordinary skillin the art -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, my point -- MR. BRESS: -- it would fall underobviousness. JUSTICE BREYER: Assume with me the eighthversus quarter of an inch, which is the law of naturepart, is not obvious. MR. BRESS: Your Honor, the first person whocame up , years ago with the best way to do -- touse fertilizer in a way that nobody had ever done beforewould presumably get it. If your question is at whatlevel of sort of microns you can draw the line betweenobviousness and novelty, those are -- there arequestions of fact embedded in that. JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. My question is,what has to be added to a law of nature to make it apatentable process? MR. BRESS: To make -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: And if you put too littlein the answer to that question, I believe I can takethings like E equals MC squared and make thempatentable. MR. BRESS: Okay. Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: And if you put too much in,you're going to wreck your own case. So, I'm veryinterested in hearing -- MR. BRESS: Your Honor, I will -- (Laughter.) MR. BRESS: I will try very hard not to doeither. Your Honor, this Court has looked at twodifferent ways to try to limit what are laws of nature,abstract ideas, et cetera. One way it has looked at isto say we need something physical; it has to be in theworld. In other words, you have to move things, you'vegot to transform them, you have to apply machinery tothem, that sort of thing. So, we just know off the batyou're not literally claiming just a principle in theair. So, in your example, if you used, you know,machines, implements, et cetera, to do it, at least we'dknow that much. I think the problem that Your Honor israising is more in the second stage, which is, okay, itisn't just a mere principle. I get that. But are we as Officiala practical matter pre-empting an abstract idea in sucha way that we are going to too greatly suppressfollow-on invention. And the classic example of that,Your Honor, is the Morse case, of course. In Morse, there were two different claimsthat were being discussed, actually eight differentclaims being discussed. But one of the claims had to dowith the actual invention of how you can make atelegraph work. And Morse described a working telegraphsystem, and he got a patent for that. And the second one that he tried to claimwas the use of electricity to write at a distance. Andthe reason he didn't get that one is that it wasexpressed at such a level -- high level of abstraction,that it would pre-empt many, many things that he hadnever invented and never thought of. In fact, theCourt's words were wonderful in that case: For aught wenow know, the Court said, somebody may come up withwonderful inventions in the future. And, of course, nowwe have the fax machine, e-mail, et cetera. That's the right way to think about it,which is, is the -- for the second step, which is, iswhat's being claimed at such a high level of generalitythat it's going to inhibit future innovation. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why couldn't someone come Officialup with the idea that at a level which is in the rangethat's within your patent, if at a certain level for acertain -- a person of a certain age, you administer anew drug, you have a new result? Why isn't that likethe fax machine? MR. BRESS: Your Honor, in that case, theycould get an improvement patent on it, first of all, noquestion about it, that they could apply for animprovement patent. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- MR. BRESS: They're building on it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- Petitioner is sayingthat if you think about that, it's an infringement. MR. BRESS: Well, there's a -- let meexplain why I think there's not a problem with that,Your Honor. If you looked at the process forvulcanizing rubber, which Firestone patented many, manyyears ago, that involved you heat India rubber to a hightemperature, you add sulfur and mineral salts, and thatway you cure rubber into a usable way of using it. Now, many years later in Diehr, this Courtlooked at a -- an improved process, if you will, formaking rubber which -- which involved continuousmeasurement and the use of the Arrhenius equation toknow when the rubber was cured. Now, there's no doubt Officialthat if somebody came out with a second one yearsafter Firestone had gotten the patent on -- onvulcanization, they would have had to pay patentroyalties for years before their second one wouldhave been free of patent royalties, right, because theywould have had to respect the patent that Firestone got. So, the simple fact, in other words, thatthere may be further improvements to what you've doneisn't where the Court has ever drawn the line. And I dothink that in conceptualizing where to draw theselines -- because at the edges they're indeterminate,they're elusive, and you're going to be somewhatarbitrary. This is judge-made law. I think that whatyou've got to look to is what you've done before. And if we take this case in the spectrum ofwhat this Court has looked at, where you've got Morse onone side, on that same side you've got Benson, which wassimply a formula for converting binary coded decimals topure binary, which the Court said you could use for aninfinite number of uses. It was way too broad. If you look at Bilski, a general way of -- ageneral -- the concept of hedging. Now, Bilski waslimited, admittedly, and this Court discussed it andsaid, well, they've tried to limit it with theconventional step of having the inputs determined by Officialrandom analysis techniques. I'd like to focus on thatfor a second, because the Court said that was notsignificant extra solution activity. It wasn't enoughto either render the process a physical one in the worldor to narrow its scope. Well, why is that? Becauserandom analysis techniques are themselves just anabstract idea. So, you were adding one abstract idea toanother one, and it's no wonder the Court found that itdidn't narrow it to a patentable scope. Now, on the other side of the line, we'vecases Tilghman. Now, if you look at Tilghman, Tilghmanwas a patent on the fact that if you use water at a highheat and high pressure, you can separate out from fatbodies the fatty acids, on the one hand, and theglycerin, on the other. And this Court approved a -- apatent process on that. Now, that's of course a naturallaw, Justice Alito, no question about it, in terms of isit a law of nature that makes you do that? Yes. But the Court was comforted in that case bythe fact that the patent wasn't trying to generallypatent -- monopolize the idea that water at highpressure and temperature is going to in general breakbonds of chemicals. And it wasn't trying to eithermonopolize the whole idea of how you can separate fatacids and glycerin from fat bodies. There are other Officialways, including the use of sulfuric acid. Let's place this case in the continuum.Now, we're not trying to patent the general broad ideathat you can use metabolite readings after you'veadministered a drug to determine what the likely -- whatthe best level of the next administration might be.That would be kind of like the Morse patent, and that'snot what we're doing. What we're talking about here is(a) a very specific class of drugs, the thiopurines,used for -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Bress, here's whatyou have not done. What you haven't done is say at acertain number, you should use a certain treatment; atanother number, you should use another treatment. So, Iguess the first question is, why didn't you file apatent like that? Because that clearly would have beenpatentable. Everybody agrees with that. MR. BRESS: I agree it would, Your Honor.Two responses if I may. JUSTICE KAGAN: And I think that thedifference people are noting or some people are notingis that this is not a treatment protocol. It's not atreatment regimen. All you have done is pointed out aset of facts that exist in the world, that exist in theworld, and are claiming protection for something that Officialanybody can try to make use of in any way. And you'resaying you have to pay us. MR. BRESS: Your Honor, I don't agree withthat description, but let me explain why. JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought you might not. (Laughter.) MR. BRESS: All right, Your Honor, first ofall, the -- most of the claims here have three steps.So, you've got an administering step which clearlycarries its own benefits with it. It's not -- it's notnovel, but it's certainly a process step and in and ofitself could be a process. We couple that withdetermining -- you determine the amount of metabolites,and the next step gives the doctor valuable informationin order to decide what to do next. Now, why didn't we say, if it's over ,you must decrease? Because that doesn't correspond withhow doctors practice medicine, Your Honor. So, forexample, you've got a patient for whom you've got aparticularly sharp outbreak of Crohn's disease. You maywell be willing to go above the normal level if yourother tests, your liver toxicities, your white bloodcell counts, et cetera, tell you that for this patientat this time, given that condition, I'm willing to risksome additional toxicity. Official On the lower end of the scale, you mighthave somebody under who seems to be improving. Theyseem to be moving towards remission. Why push it? Whyincrease? And this is not unusual. And that's one ofthe things I think I've got to stress here, is thenotion of a patent only in the end producing informationis old in this country. And, by the way, to produce theinformation you're always going to have a step at theend that is some kind of an algorithm. Might be a verysimple one but that takes the data, the raw data, andturns it into something useful. So, for example, in the th century, therewere patents on the use of electricity to locate veinsof -- of ore and valuable minerals in the ground. Now,that patent didn't say after you found it, you've got todig it out. And according to Mayo, that would have tobe the next step. But, of course, you might havereasons for digging it out or not digging it outdepending on your finances, depending how deep it is,depending on what kind of ore it is, et cetera. There were patents on how to navigate yourboat in the fog. It was a primitive sonar-based method.And it didn't tell you in the end, you must steer yourboat to X and go there. It just told you a likely wayto go. There was not -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: What about a process thatall the steps are -- it's a process to -- to generatesome useful information. MR. BRESS: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right? Fine. And theonly new thing about it is the useful information.Anything like that in history, any patent case that youcan -- that comes to mind that you say that was okay?Can you think of one? MR. BRESS: Actually, Your Honor, yes. JUSTICE BREYER: What? Good. That's what Iwould like to know. MR. BRESS: Certainly. For example, therewas a patent on the -- and I can talk about modern onestoo, of course, but there was a patent on how to findthe -- where there is a leak in a water main, and it wasusing vibration of the -- of the -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. That's not whatI'm thinking of. I'm thinking of a patent to finduseful information that chickens can only eat so muchchicken food. That nobody has ever known before, youknow. Okay. Now -- or something like that. But theytell you the useful information that's going to be foundright in the patent. In other words, we have a patentto discover some useful information, and here is the Officialuseful information, and now here's -- see, this is whattheir complaint is. MR. BRESS: I'm not sure that I'munderstanding, Your Honor, because the patent that tellsyou where to find the ore is telling you what you'regoing to find. JUSTICE BREYER: But you don't know whatyou're going to find because you don't know how much oreyou're going to find? Let's see. Okay. Let me thinkabout it. Thank you. MR. BRESS: Well -- and if we talk aboutmodern days, because I think it's helpful now to movethis forward, the Court has never suggested that there'san extra statutory limitation that prevents patents ondeveloping useful information, even if they have amental step at the end. And what would -- what do wehave today? We've got inventions out there that,through identification of biomarkers or measuring thebiomarkers, allow us to know which of particularcancer drugs is going to work for a particular patient. We've got patents on methods that allow usto identify the likely location and size of the nextearthquake in the San Andreas fault. We've got patentsthat allow us to determine where there is a crack andwhat type of crack in a nuclear reactor core. Official Now, according to Mayo, because all of thesepatents end with a mental step that producesinformation, they're no good. Or, perhaps, if you lookat them and say everything up to that algorithm at theend is old, you can't get a patent because you lacknovelty. Now, it may be to -- it may be in fact,depending on the particular invention, that you shouldlose for lack of novelty on one or other of those, orthat you should lose for lack -- for obviousness. But under , these are precisely thesorts -- JUSTICE BREYER: What's your view? What'syour view? MR. BRESS: Okay, Your Honor, I'm happy toaddress that, too. The answer is no, and here's why. JUSTICE BREYER: You should not lose it. MR. BRESS: You should not lose it, and thisis why -- and I'll use my case as a wonderful example. So, in our case, what existed before in theprior art, so to speak, was people knew that you couldadminister thiopurines for these particular diseases.And, by the way, they're not all diseases; just -- we dospecifically exclude in these patents, for example,host-versus-graft disease. We exclude leukemia, et Officialcetera. They're not in the asserted patents in thiscase. But, in any event, administration ofthiopurines to address certain diseases -- old in theart. Different methods for finding analytes in bloodcells such as high-pressure liquid chromatography -- oldin the art, no doubt. They were used together before we did them,but why were they used? They were used by people whowere trying to come up with what we came up with. Theyweren't doing it for fun. They were administering.They were determining in order to try to find a newtreatment method, a new way of calibrating the rightdose for each individual patient based on theirmetabolism, and help seriously ill patients. And the idea that we are not novel becausepeople took some of the same steps along the way toinvention that we actually succeeded in is wrong. And,in fact, this Court said so in American Wood-Paper,where it said that incomplete and unsuccessful attemptsto invent will not render not novel the successfulinventor. And, in Bell, the Court said the differencebetween those who -- those who did not get the patentsand Bell was only the difference between failure and Officialsuccess, and didn't say that because many of them hadused similar methods but had not understood thatcontinuous electrical lines as opposed to intermittentor pulsing electrical lines was going to be thedifference for a working telephone. Similar here. I don't think we ought tolose on novelty for that ground. But let's put that tothe side, because that's for remand, and it's somethingthat, you know, hopefully, I'll get a chance -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose somebody thinksyou're wrong, that the numbers you've come up with arewrong. And they want to develop better numbers thatwill -- will help the medical profession. Your patentexcludes them from doing that, right? MR. BRESS: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: No? MR. BRESS: And let's explain why not. JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. MR. BRESS: And I'll even take for purposesof this explanation my brother's example of over andunder , because I don't think it matters. So, you'vegot Dr. el-Azhary, who believes that the right ceilinglevel is . Okay? So, if she sees a patient andsays, I'm going to -- you know, I associate withtoxicity, that won't violate our patent in the least. OfficialOur patent says if you associate over with toxicity,that's within our range. If she associates withtoxicity, no violation. Now, getting more to the point, though, ifwe're totally wrong -- let's assume we're off baseand -- and this doesn't work at all. There's anotherpart of section that addresses that, and that'sutility. And, certainly, Mayo would be able to comeinto court and say that patent has no utility. It'scompletely wrong. In fact, it's killing patients. Andtry to invalidate us on that ground. Similarly, supposeat the very edges of the spectrums that we're claiming,the answer is obvious. The answer is not novel. Theycan seek to try to invalidate our patents on that basisas well. This -- these aren't problems. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to methat's your -- the problem with your whole approach isthat every time you're pressed on , your answer is tofall back to or or the utility part of . AndI'm just wondering why it's beneficial to essentiallyeliminate and say, oh, we'll catch everything lateron. MR. BRESS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice; I Officialappreciate the question. I -- I think that the answer is that whenthe problem is lack of novelty, when the problem isobviousness, the right place to go are the sections thatactually have very clear rules on how to apply those,and that the problem with taking a short cut in thatinstance is, essentially, the court would just imbue itsown notions or preconceived notions of what should bepatentable and pour it into it as opposed to followingthose rules. And, of course, if you're going to followthese rules, you might as well follow them under thatsection. Now, it doesn't completely leave bereft.This Court has said 's very broad, but it does havelimitations. And if you look at a case like Morse -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but just to -- MR. BRESS: -- I think it helps explain it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sorry to interrupt.Your friend's point is that if you don't do this -- ifyou don't give some more content, then the doctor isgoing to have to start worrying right from the get-goand then see, well, is there an exception that I mightbe able to rely on, as opposed to being able to sayright away this -- I don't have to worry about thispatent; I can treat the patient in this way. Official MR. BRESS: Well, Your Honor, again, if --if it's very clear that we're not novel. For example,if -- if the Government is correct here that facially welack novelty, it's no harder to proceed under toachieve that goal than it is under . If you're goingto proceed under , then we'll talk about principlesthat is for. So, -- I think the primary -- the twothings it's for -- it has to be a process in thephysical world, a hands-on process, and it can't be sobroad that it pre-empts all follow-on innovation. Thoseare the two things -- you know, this Court speaks sumsabout the statutory language, and it has to do somework. That's the work that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, it's novel? What'syour answer about why this is novel? MR. BRESS: Right. Your Honor, beforePrometheus -- actually, the inventors in this case inMontreal came up with this method, doctors had no way totailor for each individual based on their metabolism theright dosage of these powerful but potentially toxicdrugs. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Shapiro, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO Official ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. SHAPIRO: Justice Scalia asked thecritical question here: What if you think these numbersare wrong? What happens with patients around thecountry? Well, that's just what we concluded: Thesenumbers were wrong. They say you go up to , andabove , it's bad, it's harmful. We found that theright range was up to , and sometimes even above, to cure some of these very serious diseases. Andthat different opinion was blockaded by this trebledamages lawsuit and request for an injunction. So, the -- the wrong information is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: He says the solution tothat is -- your saying their patent is not useful. MR. SHAPIRO: That it's not useful -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be your defense. MR. SHAPIRO: It's important that be therobust test here. This is the only provision underwhich this Court has issued decision after decision for years protecting the public domain. It's not somerough gauge; it is the critical test defining what's inthe storehouse of information for medical researchers touse. And to reduce it to a dead letter here would bejust contrary to this Court's precedents and veryharmful to the medical community. This is very Officialimportant to -- to doctors around the country. Now, is this a natural process? Thequestion was raised. Of course, it's a natural process.These metabolites come from the liver. They don't comefrom a test tube. They don't come from a syringe. It'sjust like cholesterol. If I eat in a French restaurant,there's some human intervention there that gives me highcholesterol. And if I eat wild strawberries, there's nohuman intervention. But either way, the doctors get tolook at my cholesterol and hypothesize ranges that theythink are sensible. It's the very same phenomenon.Entirely natural. Now, this is a clean legal issue. Undersection , it's always been a legal issue. They saysection and are the most elusive questions inthe field of patent law. This is a -year-old lawsuitagainst a hospital; it's cost millions of dollars todefend. Two trips to this Court, two trips to theFederal Circuit. We're still litigating this trebledamages case. It should be terminated under thisCourt's precedents, as the district court did givingsummary judgment. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess my problem is,if we call this just simply an application of naturalphenomenon or of a natural process, why are treatment Officialpatents at all -- MR. SHAPIRO: Well, because -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- permissible, meaningif someone finds out that at level , it's bad, andtells doctors to stop, that's natural, too. MR. SHAPIRO: Yes. Well, I think that'sright. That's -- that is a second issue. But the firstissue here is the breadth of the pre-emption, whichprecludes anyone else in the country from saying, asJustice Scalia did, those numbers are wrong. Andpatients can't use those numbers safely or they won'tget cured of this disease. For years, the public isstuck with the erroneous information. Now, counsel suggests that it's narrowpre-emption because it doesn't cover host-versus-graftor leukemia. Those are not autoimmune diseases. Everyautoimmune disease is swept in here. And there aredozens and dozens of them. They have differentcharacteristics. You don't take a "one size fits all"approach to autoimmune disease. There are differentnumbers for different diseases. That's what Mayo is trying to do, to havesome personalized medicine for skin disorders. And theysaid that -- that is an infringement and we're entitledto treble damages and an injunction. Official Now, is this like the Morse case? Yes, itis like the Morse case. Prometheus is trying topre-empt diseases it never researched, and it's tryingto pre-empt numbers that differ from its numbersfundamentally. They have the number in their patentednumber. We thought the number should be . This isa very dangerous toxic drug. If you get the -- thewrong number set in concrete for years, that is ahuge problem for patients, and there are millions andmillions of patients suffering from autoimmune disease. So, we urge the Court to protect theresearch process here that's so fundamental to Americanhealth and to economy and the health care industry. We thank the Court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialanalysis :: :,analytes :Andreas :answer ::, :: :: ::, :: :: ::,,: :answered :answering :answers :anticipatinganticipationanybody ::::anyway :appeals :,:,,,APPEARAN...:appendix :application :: :: :: :applied :apply :,: :: ::applying :: :appreciate :approach :appropriate::Aable : :: ::,above-entitled: :absolutely ::abstract :: :,abstractionaccepted :::access :accurate ::accused :achieve :,:acid :acids :,Act : :action :activity :acts :,actual : :add :,:, ::, :: :added :,: :adding :: :Addison's :additional ::address :addresses :::adequacy :adjust :administer:, :: :administered::administering: ::administration: :: :admission :admits :admittedly:adopted :advantage ::adversary :adverse :advocating :age :ago : :agree :: :agreed ::agrees :Ah :air :,:AL :algorithm ::Alito : ::, :allow :,:allowed :allows :amazing :American ::Americans :amicus : ::,amount ::analogy ::argued :: :argument ::,,, :: : :: ::arguments:, ::Arrhenius :art :,,:,,,: :: :: :,arthritis ::asked :: : :asking :: :aspirin :,,asserted :associate :::associated :associates :assume ::atmosphere:attached :attaches ::attempts :aught :autoimmune ::, ::, ::,,::BB : : :back : :: :bad : :balance ::base :based :: :basis :bat :beginning :behalf :,,: : :: :believe :: :believes :: :Bell :,beneficial :benefit :benefits :Benson :bereft :best : ::better :: :bigger :Bilski : :: ::,,: ::,binary :,biomarkers:,bit : :blockaded :blood :, :: : :: :boat :,approved :arbitrary :area : :aware :,,awfully :a.m : : bodies :,body :: ::,body's :bonds :bothering :bottom :breadth ::break :breakthrough:,Bress : :Breyer's ::brief : :: :briefs :Breyer ::,,: :,:, ::,,:,, ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :,: :: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,:, ::, ::,,,: :,,: :,,:, ::,,,:, :,:, ::,Official:broad : :: : ::, :: :: :brother's :building ::burn :CC : :calculated :calibrate :calibratingcalibration::call : :cancer :capture :Caraco :cardiologists:care :carries :case : :: ::, ::, :: :,: :: ::, :: :: ::, :: :: :,:,cases : :catch :,::caused :ceiling :cell :cells :century ::certain :: :,,:, :certainly :: :: :cetera :,: :: :Chakrabarty:chance :change ::changed :changes :characteristics:chemical :chemicals :chemistry ::::chemotherapyChicago :chicken :chickens :Chief :,:, ::,,: :,:, ::,,:, :: ::choices :cholesterol ::,chromatograp...:chronic :Circuit :circumstances: :claim :: ::claimed :claiming ::, ::, :: ::claims :,,:class :classic : :clean :clear : :: :clearly :: :Clinic : :: :close :closing :coded :Collaborative: :color :,combination:come :: :,: :: :,,comes :,:comfortable :comforted :coming :common :: :community: :compare :compared :comparison:competing ::,complaint :completely ::, ::complex :complexity:complicated :component ::composition:,,,composition-o...:concept :conceptualizing:concluded :concrete :: :condition :conditions :confined :conflict :confused :Congress :constant :constantly :content :continued :continuous: :continuum :contrary :conventional: ::,,: ::conversion:converting:core : Officialcorrect ::, :: :,:correlated ::correlation:, ::correlations:correspond:cost :counsel :: ::,country :: : ::counts :,:couple :: :course : ::, :: :: :court :,:, :: :,: : ::, ::, :: ::,,,: :,:,,,:, :: :: ::,,,:,,,: :,: :,: ::, ::court's :,: :: :: :: :cover ::covered ::covers :,:,,,,crack :,create :criteria :critical ::,Crohn's :cross-breeding:crystal-clearcure : :::cured :: :curiae : ::cut :, :cutting :cyclotron :,DD :damages :: ::dangerous :dangerously:data :,days :DBA :dead :deal : :December :decide ::decided :decimals :decision :: ::, :: :,decisions ::decrease :deep :defend :defense :deficiency :defining :Department:depending:,,:depends :describe :described :description :destabilizing: :determine :: :: :: :determined:determining: ::develop ::developing:diabetes :Diehr : ::,,,:differ :difference :: :,: :: :: :,:different ::, :,:, :,: :,: :,: :,:,,: :,:,,,:,,:, :: :: :,: ::,,difficult ::dig :digging :,direction ::disagree :disagreed :discipline :discover :,: :discovered: ::discovering :discovers :discovery ::discussed ::, :disease ::,,, :: ::,,:diseases :,: : :: :,:,,: ::, :: :,:disorders ::disputed :dissent :,distance :district ::, :: :,,:, :doctor :,: : :,: :,: ::doctors ::, :: :: :,:doctrine ::doing : :: ::dollars :domain :: :DONALD :: :doors :dosage :: ::dose :doubt ::dozens :,,: :,,: :,Dr :draw ::drawing : drawn ::draws : :drug : :,:, :: :,: ::,,,: :,: :: :drugs : ::,,: :,: :: :dye :D.C :,,EE : :,: :: :earthquake:easier :,easy :eat : :,economy :edges ::::effect : :effective :effects :eight : :eighth :,Einstein :either :: :,:electrical :,electricity ::elevated :eligibility :Officialeligible :eliminate :elusive ::el-Azhary :embedded :energy ::entire : :Entirely :entitled :equals :: :: :equation :erroneous :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially :: :estate :et : :,: :: :event :Everybody:exactly :: :examiner :example :: :: :: :: :: :,: :examples :exception :exclude ::excludes :excluding :Excuse :exist :,:,existed ::existence :exists : :expense ::expensive :explain :: :: ::explained ::explanation: :exploration:expressed :extends :extent ::extra : :e-mail :Ffacially :fact : :: : :: :: ::, :: :facts : :failure :faithfully :fall : :fancy :far :fast :fat :,,fatal :fatty :fault :favor :,fax : :Federal :fell :fertilizer ::,,,: :field : :,:, : ::, ::figure :figured :figuring :file :finances :find :,: :,:,,,:finding ::finds :Fine :finger :,: :Finish :Firestone ::,first : :: :: :: ::fit :fits :Flook : ::,,: :,:focus :fog :follow :,following :follow-on :: :food :forget ::formula :: :formulas :forward :found :: :: :: :: :frankly ::free : :freedom :French :friend : ::friend's :front :frozen :fun :fundamental:fundamentallyfurther :::future :,GG :gauge :general ::, ::,,,:,,:, :,:, :: :: :,: :,:, :: ::generality :generally :generate :getting :: :get-go :Ginsburg : Official:,give : :given ::gives : :giving :glycerin :::go : ::, ::, ::goal :goes : ::going ::, :: ::, :: ::, ::, :: :: :,,: :,:, :good :,: ::gotten :Government:, ::granted :grate :Graves :great : ::greater :: :,greatly :ground :: :grow :guess : :: ::Hhalf :,half-hour :hand ::hands-on :happen :happens :happy :hard : :harder :::harmful :,Hashimoto's:headache :health :: :,hear :hearing :heart : ::heat :,: :hedging :held :,help : :helpful ::helps :hepatitis :high : :: ::,,:high-pressure:history :hmm :Hmmm :Honor :,: ::, ::, :hopefully ::,:, ::, ::,,: :: ::,:hornbook :,hospital ::hospitals :host-versus-gr...: :huge : ::human :: :,: :,hypothesizehypothetical::hypotheticals: :Iidea : :: : ::,,: :ideas :identification:identified :identify :ill :Illinois :illustration :image :Imagine :imbue :implementsimport :::important :: :,: : :: :importing :improved :improvementimprovements:improves :improving :inch :,,: :,incidental :including :::incomplete:increase :indeterminate:India :indicates :,individual ::induce :induced :industry :inference ::infinite :infinity :,: : :: :information:, :: ::, :,:,,:, ::, :informed :infringe :infringement: :,: :,: :infringing :ingenuity :inhibit :initial :injections :injunction :: :innovation: :inputs :inquiries :inquiry :inside :instance :interested :intermittent::::::interrupt :intervention:, ::invalid :invalidate :invalidatinginvent :,,invented :: :invention :: :,: :inventions ::inventor :inventors :investment:involve :involved :,: :,involves :involving : Officialknow : ::lawyers :lead :leak :leave : :leaves ::left :legal :,legion :letter :let's :,:, :: :,:leukemia ::level :,: :: ::,,:, :: ::levels :life-threatening: : :light : :limit : ::, :: :limitation :: :limitations:limited :: ::limitless :limits :line : :: :lines : ::lingering :liquid :literally :litigating :litigation :little : :,:, :: :: :,: :lived :liver : ::locate :location :long :look : ::, ::,,:, :: :: :: :,: ::,,:, :: ::looked :: :,:, :looking :lose :,,: :lot :lots : :,love :lower : :lowers :lupus :MM : :,: :machine :,: :: :machinery:machines :issue : :: :: :: ::, ::issued :Jjoint :JR : :judge-made::judgment :: :,:judgments :Justice : ::, :,:,,,:,,,:, :,:,,,: :,,: :,,:,,,:, ::, :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,:, ::, ::,,:,,,:,,,: ::,,,:,,,,: :,:, ::,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,: :,:,,:, :: :,:,,: :,:J.E.M :KKagan : ::, ::, ::, :: :keep : ::Kennedy :,:, :: :,,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,key :, :kidney :killing :kind : :: :,knew :: :: :: : ::, :: :,: :: :,:,, :: :knowledge :known ::LLabCorp ::LabCorp's:label :,Laboratories:, :lack : ::,, ::lacked :,:lamp : :language :latest :Laughter :: ::law : :,:,,,,:, ::, ::, :: :,: :: :: :,: ::, :laws : ::lawsuit : :main :making :: :malady :man :,man's :matter : :: :: :,:, :: ::mattered :matters ::Mayo :, ::, :: :: :: :,: :: :Mayo's :MC : :: :mean :, :: :: ::meaning :means : ::measure :: ::,measurement:, ::measurements:measuring: :medical : :: :: :: :,Officialmedicine :: :meets :mental :: ::mentioned ::mere :met :metabolism: :metabolite :: : ::metabolites: ::method :: :: :methods :: :microns :million :millions :: :,mind :mineral :minerals :minus ::,,minutes :missing :modern ::,:molding :Monday :monitor :monitored :monitoring :monopolize:,monopolized:Montreal :morning :Morse :,,: :: :,motion :move :: :moved :moves :moving :multiplying:NN :, :narrow :: :,:narrowed :narrower :natural : ::,,: :,,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,,,: ::,,,: :nature :,:,,,,,:,,,,:, ::, ::, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :,: :navigate :necessary :need :,: :: :: ::Neither :never : :: :,: :new : :,: :,:,,,: :,:, ::, ::,nonobvious: :nonobviousness:nonpatentable:, :normal :notice :noticed :notified :noting :,notion :notions :,Novartis :novel ::, :: ::, ::, ::,,novelty :,: :: ::,, :: : ::nuclear ::number :,,: :,,:, :: :,,:, :: :: :,:,,,numbers :: : :,: ::, :,: :: :,:, ::, ::numerical :numerically:OO : :objection ::observation:observe ::,obvious :: ::, :: :obviously :obviousness: :: :,: :odd :oddity :offer :,,:offering :oh :, :: ::okay : :: :: ::, :: :,: : Official:old :, :: :,once :ones : :: :opening :opinion : :: : :: :,:, :opinions :: :opposed ::,opposite :oral : :,,: ::order : :: :ordinary :ore :,:,organ :originally :ought :outbreak :PP : : :page : :::pages :Pardon :: :part : ::, :: ::, ::,particular :: :,:,particularly:parts :party :pass :,patent :,: : :: : :,:, ::,,:, ::, ::,,,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,: ::,, ::,,:,, :: ::,,,:, ::,, :,:, ::,,:,, :: :,:,,,: ::, :: :: :patentability: :patentable :,: :,: :,:, :: :: :: :patented :: :,: ::patenting :patents :,: ::,,:, :: :,: :,:, ::patent-eligible: :patient :: :,: :: :patients : :: :: :: ::,pause :pay : :peek :,,peeked :people :: ::, ::,percent : :: :,:,percentage:percents :performed ::period :permissible :person : :: :personalized:person's :perspective:Petitioner :Petitioners :: :, ::pharmaceutical:phenomena: :phenomenon: : ::, :: ::, ::, ::,,,:,photosynthesis:, ::physical ::, :: ::physiognomy:pick : :picture :Pieces :pills :place : :plant :plants :: :please : :: :plus : ::,,point : ::, :: :: :: :: :pointed :points :pollutant :::position :,: :: :possibly :potential :potentially:pour :powerful :practical :: : :: :practice :precedents :: :precisely :precluded :precludes :preconceivedpredetermined::::prepared :present :pressed :pressure ::presumably: :presume :pretty :,: :prevents ::pre-empt :: : :: :,pre-empted:, :pre-empting ::pre-emption: :: :: :,:,pre-emptive: pre-empts :product :,::products :profession :Prometheus :problems :public : :: :primary :primitive :principle :principles :::prior :,: :,,: :: :,: :probably :: :problem :,:, :: :: ::,, :: :: :,,: :: ::procedures :proceed :,process :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,,:, ::,,,,: :: :,:, :: :,:, :,: :processes ::produce :produces :producing ::, :: :: ::proposing :protect ::protected :protecting :protection :protocol :: ::protocols :provision :PTO : ::,:pulsing :pure :purposes ::push :put : :: :: ::, :putting :Qquarter :: :,question :: ::, ::,,: :: :,:, :: :Official: ::, ::, :: :: :: :questioning:questions :: :RR :radiation :Radioactive:raise :raised ::raising :random :,range :,:, :,: :,: ::, :: : :ranges : ::, ::, :: :: :rate :raw :reach :reaction ::, :reactor :read :,: ::reading ::,readings :reaffirmed:real : ::really :: :: :: :reason ::reasons ::, ::REBUTTAL: :recites :,recognizes :recommend:reduce :referred ::regimen :regulatory :reinstate :reject :rejection :relates :relevance :,:relevant :rely : ::remaining :remand :remission :render :: :renders :request :require :research :researched :researchers: :reserve :resist :respect ::Respondent: : :: :response :responses :rest :,,restaurant :result : :: :,:, ::retained :reverse :RICHARD :: :rid :,right : ::, ::, :: :: :: :,,: :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :risk : :rival : :ROBERTS :: :,: :: ::, ::, ::robust ::room : :: ::,rough ::royalties :,rubber ::,,,: Officialrule :,,:rules :,,ruling :rulings :run :runs :SS : :safeguard :safely :salts :San :saying :: :: :: :,: :: :says : :: :,: :: ::scale :Scalia :,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :,: :scope : ::second : :: ::, :: : :section ::,,: :: :,sections :: :see :, :: :: : :: :: :,: ::, :seek :sees :sense :sensible :sentence :separate ::series :,serious : :seriously :Services : :set : :: ::Shapiro : :: :,,:,, ::,,:, :,: :,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,: :,:, ::, ::sharp :short :shows :side :,:, ::significant :similar :,Similarly :: :simple : :: :simply :: ::size : :skill :skin : ::Solicitor :solution ::somebody :: :: :somewhat :sonar-based:sorry : :: ::sort : :sorts :SOTOMAYOR: :, ::,,:,,,: :,: :: :::steps : :: :stop :storehouse: :: :straightforwardstrawberries::stress : :strikes :strong :stuck :stuff :,subject :: :,:submitted ::,succeeded :success :successful :suffering :sufficient :::suggest :suggested :suggests :sulfur :sulfuric :summary :: :,:sums :suppose ::, :,: :,: :supposed :suppress :Supreme :,:sure : :sought :spare : :speak ::speaks :special :,specific ::, ::, :,:, :specifically:specifications:,specificity :: :spectrum :spectrums :spent :split :squared :: ::stage : ::standard :: ::start ::States :,,:: : :: :stating :statutory ::steer :step :,: :,: :,: :: :: :,: :,: :STEPHEN ::, : : :: :swept :synthetic :syringe :system :: ::TT :,tacking :tailor :take : :,: :, :: :: :: ::taken :: :takes : :talk : :: ::talking :,: ::techniques ::telegraph :,telephone :tell : :: :: :telling :tells : :temperature: ::temptation ::term :terminated:terms :: :terribly :test : :,:, :: : :: :: :,: :: :,:, :testing :tests :,: :: ::thank : ::, :: ::,theirs :therapeutic :::therapeuticallything : :: :: ::things :: :: :,:, :: :,think : ::,, :: :,: :: ::, ::,,:, :: :,:,,: :,: :,:, :: ::, :,: :,: ::, :: ::, :: :: : :: :,:, :: ::thinking :: :,thinks : :thiopurine :::: :third :thought :: :: :: ::thousands :three : :threshold ::throw :Tilghman ::,time : :: :tissues :today : :told : ::top :total :totally :toxic : :toxicities :toxicity ::, :: :,transform :thiopurines :treatmentsOfficialtransformation:transformed::transforms :transplants :: :treadmill :treat : :treatment :: :,:, :: :: :,:, :::treble :: ::tried : ::trips :,trouble :true : :::try : :: :: :,trying ::, :: ::,tube :turn :turns :two : :,: :: :: :,: :: :,:,type : :Uunderlying :understand :: :understanding: :understood: :unfortunately:United :,,: : :: :unpatentableunsuccessful::unusual :upper : :urge : ::usable :use : ::,,,: :,:, :,:, :: :: :: ::,,,: :: ::useful :,: ::,,,: :,:,uses : :: :utility :,:utterly :Vv : : valid : ::,:validity :valuable ::variety :various :vast : :vastly ::veins :Verrilli : ::,,: :,:, ::, :: :,:, :: ::,,:,,versus ::vibration :view :: :: ::,violate :violated :violation :virtue :vitamin :volume :vulcanization:vulcanizing:Wwaived :want : :: : ::warmer :warned :Washington :wasn't :: :,:water ::, :way : :: :: :,: :: :: :,:,,: :,: :,:, :: ::, ::, :: :ways : :Wednesday:weren't :we'll : :: :we're : :: :,: :,: :,,:,, :,: :,,: ::we've :: :,:white :wild :willing :,wipe : :wonder :wonderful :: :wondering:wood :,OfficialWood-Paper:word : :words : :, :- : :: : : : :,: :: :: :: ::work : :: ::,working ::world :: :,: ::, :worry ::worrying :wouldn't ::wreck :write :written :wrong : :: :: :: ::, :: :,: ::Xx :, :X-ray :Yyears : :: ::, :: :: : :, :: :,: ::,,:,,,: ::, :: ::,,,: :,:,,,: :'s : : :,: ::,,,:,,: :: :: :: ::,,,: :: :: : : :,: : : : : :, :: :,:,, :,:th : : : :: : : :,,: :: : : : : : :a : : :: : : : :, ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,: ::, : :,: : : : : : : :-year-old : : ::, : : :,, 