 The above-entitled matter came on for oral Petitioner v. Washington, D.C. Tuesday, January , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x STEVE A. FILARSKY, : : No. -: NICHOLAS B. DELIA. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor MICHAEL A. MCGILL, ESQ., Upland, California; for General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioner. Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. MCGILL, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ. NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S Ms. Millett. When a private attorney is temporarily MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next this morning in Case -, Filarsky v. Delia. please the Court: retained by the government to work in coordination with or under the direct supervision of government employees in fulfilling the government's business, in getting the government's work done, that attorney is entitled to the same immunity that a government employee performing that same function for that same government would receive. In this case, that is qualified immunity. That rule comports with the history and policy concerns that have animated this Court's section and immunity Ms. Millett, the rule you just stated? Is there any situation in which a private attorney engaged to assist a government office in the performance of a public function would lack qualified immunity? Or is it simply jurisprudence. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's across the board, Official MS. MILLETT: I think it -- it may well be the latter rule, the more broader one, but for these public service -- for example, if a State government wherever a government agency employs a private attorney to assist it in doing its work, that attorney will have qualified immunity? purposes, the Court only needs to decide the situation when they are working in coordination with or under direct supervision of government employees. And I want to clarify that answer because how one defines doing a appoints somebody to represent one of their police officers who's sued in a action, if there's five defendants, the attorney general can't represent them all; they will all commonly appoint people and will pay them -- some States will pay them from the -- from the State fisc. And so, they'll be paid by the government to perform a governmental function in that sense, but their allegiance there is to the individual employee, not to someone can be retained by the government in that sense, paid by the government in that sense. the government. The same with public defenders. So, there are certain situations where JUSTICE ALITO: Why does it matter whether the privately retained attorney works in close Official the case come out differently then? cooperation with government employees? Suppose in this case Mr. Filarsky had simply been hired to go off and perform this investigation and, at the end of the investigation, report the results to the town? Would MS. MILLETT: I don't think that would, but in this -- but I think it depends on what one means by coordination with or supervision. And with respect to attorneys, attorneys can never be an independent And that's why the whole -- the whole reason we should have this rule is understanding what immunity protects. It protects government decisionmaking, an area -- in an area of reasoned decisionmaking. argue that there is a built-in limitation because the question doesn't even come up unless there's state contractor in relationship to their client in the way the prison was in Richardson. Attorneys just can't be. They are always, in the sense of the rule that I'm using it, working for their client agency, their client government, and under its control and authority. And the decisions they make are the decisions of that client. action. So, there has to be close enough cooperation so governmental conduct, and its ability to maneuver with JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I -- I suppose you can Official MS. MILLETT: Right, because, certainly, the there the question just wouldn't even come up; am I there's state action. I had never thought that when a private attorney gives an opinion letter to a government agency or government entity at its request that there's any state action there at all. So, that question -- so, correct? I assume -- state action limitation both limits the operation of this rule. There's many times attorneys or others who work with the government will not implicate the state action rule. And that's sort of the irony of -- of this case, and I think it would not be uncommon in attorney cases. The only reason this was a tort, or an alleged tort, is because the government was involved, because governmental actors took his advice, conducted a search -- he didn't -- issued an order -- he didn't. And yet we have -- we're left in this is odd world where the only way this tort, constitutional tort lawsuit, can go forward is without the government. conduct, but this Court's immunity jurisprudence says we don't over-deter and we want to allow the government to operate within a realm of reasoned decisionmaking. And they need to operate within that realm, get reasoned Now, is about deterring governmental advice and make reasoned decisions, regardless of Official The need is for reasoned decisionmaking. whether the source of the advice is a temporarily or permanently retained attorney. And if you over-deter, which is what an action against the private attorney who is now charged with litigating and defending the government's allegedly unconstitutional conduct, standing all alone while all the government actors have walked away -- that turns section on its head. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your test -- and this is -- I think goes broader than the articulation of the test -- doesn't give this private attorney much assurance by itself. It's sort of a multifactor, is he coordinating, is he under the supervision, is he really doing public service? I mean, if the idea is to give him sufficient breathing room so he doesn't stop, and when, as in this case, he's threatened that we're going to sue you if you do this, he has to think, well, now, am I being supervised by the government? Am I them what -- it -- the test itself undermines the asserted purpose. First of all, the State law requirement -- the state action requirement that Justice Kennedy referred to will coordinating with the government? Or I -- am I telling MS. MILLETT: Well, two responses to that. Official But the second reason is, as I said, with up front require allegations by the plaintiffs that will discuss the coordinated -- presumably the coordinated action. There's going to have to be some level of coordination. respect to attorneys, I don't think this is going to be a hard question because they are forever agents and fiduciaries. They can never be the independent contractor that you had in Richardson. They are always answerable to and working for their governmental client. And when I say "supervision" here, I don't think the test here is -- is an on-hands, day-to-day looking over your shoulders. The government has to be able to get the advice of professionals and to trust them -- JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose -- suppose the government hires an attorney to do an independent investigation; it hires an outside attorney precisely because it does not want to be faced with allegations that it has manipulated the outcome of the investigation because its own conduct is at issue. So, they say you're going to be independent, hands-off; we're not going to interfere at all. But that would still in your -- in your submission satisfy the coordination requirement? MS. MILLETT: It -- it would in this sense, Official for the government and on behalf of the government. And it's not usually because we say the they're working for the government. The government is their client. They are not freewheeling independent contractors. And -- because there would be -- and I'm assuming here we're not talking like a Bivens appointment or something like that. But here -- because understand what happens in that situation. They're being appointed to investigate government writ large may have done something that would create a conflict. It may be an individual employee or something. That's where the conflict comes. But JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference between that and the prison situation? The private prison -- the guard in the private prison is performing a function that has been delegated to that or assumed by that entity pursuant to a contract. I don't understand exactly what the difference is. difference. The practical difference is that, in Richardson, it was a quite unique situation where the government really had washed its hands of the prison operation. It had put the day-to-day operation of the prison, the decisionmaking of the prison, how we treat MS. MILLETT: The difference is -- there's a practical difference and then a legal doctrinal Official So, the decisions that were being made there a control. It did not exercise the day-to-day the prisoners, entirely in the hands of a private contractor, subject only to what this Court said was very limited supervision, essentially in contract terms. But it had ceded that authority, and it did not exercise decisionmaking. And that's where we get into the doctrinal point. and that there were -- the lawsuit concerned, there wasn't a single governmental defendant named in that case. It was just the private -- the private guards that were at issue there. And the decisions that were made were the private company's decisions. is to protect what? The government's decisionmaking, the special concerns that arise when you are bringing lawsuits that are designed to regulate, limit, deter governmental decisionmaking. We have to protect that they've passed the buck, they've handed it off, then there's nothing to protect. what qualified immunity is out -- is out to protect. It area of reason. If the government's not making the decision, And so, this Court said there that's not JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that the case here? Official command that's contested here. So, that sort of puts your argument on its MS. MILLETT: I'm sorry? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It seems to me that there's enough evidence that the lawyer was the one who held the investigation; the people who attended the meeting between the lawyer, the Respondent, and the other personnel that were there were acceding to what he was doing. The chief -- he goes to the chief and he says: I want you to do this. And the chief is relying on him, not his own independent judgment, to issue the head because it appears that he was more the independent investigator -- couple of responses. First of all, no, that's nothing like Richardson. This was the government's to the team for his expertise, much like prosecutors might bring on a psychologist to evaluate a criminal defendant. Now, are the prosecutors going to sit there and say, you know, Psychologist, you should ask this question? Or are they going to defer to the medical MS. MILLETT: No --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- than he was the individual under the control of the agency. MS. MILLETT: Okay. Well, first of all -- a investigation. They initiated it. They brought him on Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This argument seems to MS. MILLETT: And I'd do that -- first of very question, and that is, when an attorney or any individual is working in close coordination or under the supervision of government officials in the performance of an essential function. expertise? That's a -- fall under what Justice Scalia termed a functional test, that he's serving just like any other government lawyer. If you were going to fit this case under the Richardson majority test, how would you do it? all, I keep -- I'm putting it right in -- in Richardson's language, which said it was reserving this situation. This -- there's no turnkey here. This is Mr. Filarsky being brought on to the team. counsel would not be covered. I mean, if you have, you administration is disinterested in this prosecution and you get independent counsel, the Attorney General says: I will not interfere with him. The President says: I will not interfere with him. Then him you can -- you know, a counsel appointed because -- to show that the And so, that makes clear that Richardson was deciding not that situation, the handed-off turnkey JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so, independent can sue without any immunity, right? Official eliminate supervision. MS. MILLETT: No. And that's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? He's not working in close coordination. He's not subject to supervision. The whole purpose of an independent counsel is to MS. MILLETT: Yes, but independent counsel is still sued in the name of the United States. Their client was the United States Government. That is whom -- that is the interest in which they worked. They were -- they had a client that they were answerable to. They were not freewheeling independent contractors; they were attorneys with a client. prison guards who were -- who were suable in under color of law? question; it did not answer it in that -- in that case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the whole issue would sued. think it's fair to assume when you're operating a prison, although I think to -- there's a reason this Richardson -- weren't they suable under as acting Court reserved it, because the question there is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Weren't the MS. MILLETT: This Court assumed that have been a nonissue if they -- if they couldn't be MS. MILLETT: This Court assumed it. I Official would also be under color of law. authority have? JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MS. MILLETT: -- was under color of law, certainly, the corporation -- whether the individuals who worked for the corporation JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you think the -- the two should go pari passu, as we say, that if you can be sued for acting under color of law, you ought to have the defenses that people who are acting with legal MS. MILLETT: Well, this Court's already crossed that bridge in cases like Wyatt, where, for example -- and it does because the State law requirement can sweep broadly in some situations. So, I don't think in a situation like Wyatt v. Cole, where you have private plaintiffs pursuing their private agenda and they simply invoke a State law, that that makes them integrated with the government in the way that an attorney is, and certainly the way Petitioner was here, that they're not part of the governmental team, and they're not making -- they weren't making decisions in the interest of the government. There was no governmental decisionmaking to protect there, and that's what -- the rationale this Court gave for denying qualified immunity in Wyatt. Official The key here is that this is -- you cannot CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lawyers are not intimidated in the situation we had here. protect governmental decisionmaking in this context without protecting the source of advice for that decisionmaking. supposed to be cowed by the exigencies of the situation. We're worried in qualified immunity with protecting governmental actors, to make sure they will feel comfortable doing the right thing rather than being Lawyers have that professional obligation in the first place. So, why does a lawyer need the -- the defense of qualified immunity? First of all, that rationale would mean no government lawyers get the protection either, because they have that exact same obligation of fealty, and we don't apply that rule. That hasn't even been questioned. And the reason we don't is we understand that this is a more -- subconscious pressures that would come with full-freight liability for governmental conduct to any angry third party even subconsciously interfering with the decisions of government lawyers temporarily or permanently MS. MILLETT: There are a couple of reasons. it's a more layered inquiry into timidity. First of all, we don't even want the Official full-time staff, and the cost of getting an attorney is all those things that qualified immunity wanted to protect against. retained. Secondly, we want the government to be able to get the advice, to be encouraged to get the advice. Section must support governments getting legal advice to counsel them in complying with the law that section enforces, but government will be deterred from obtaining legal advice if the cost of getting an attorney -- especially if you're a small town, municipality, county, you don't -- can't afford a Our decision -- reasonable decisionmaking that we thought was protected by qualified immunity is a jury is going to assess liability for a reasonable governmental decision. JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Millett, our cases have said that we're supposed to look not only to policy but also to history. Would you disagree with the premise that a person in your client's position historically would have had at most an actual malice -- a malice defense or a reasonable cause defense? Would a person have anything more than that?now on trial. And we have to be there as witnesses, and MS. MILLETT: They would have had the same Official MS. MILLETT: It -- it -- the Harlow JUSTICE KAGAN: But, in Wyatt, we said that that was a very different kind of immunity than the sort of good-faith defense that this Court in Harlow turned into qualified immunity, both as lawyers working -- Harlow immunity, and we said historically it provided no basis for giving Harlow immunity. immunity came from the same roots. Well, the -- what happened in Wyatt was we said we will turn that into protection for the government when we need to protect the special functioning of government. You had no need -- the Court had no need to do that in Wyatt because there was no governmental decisionmaking at stake there. Court recognized in Richardson -- answer is, yes, it would only have been a malice Is that your answer? MS. MILLETT: The -- the answer is that it is the same type of defense that this Court recognized in prior cases as supporting qualified immunity when defense, but that doesn't matter, notwithstanding Wyatt. needed to protect the decisions of the government. And But the -- the same type of defense -- this JUSTICE KAGAN: So, I take it that your Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Doesn't that suggest really MS. MILLETT: Not this case at all, because where -- where attorneys were provided a reasonable and good-faith, malice, and probable cause type of defense, which again is the type of -- the type of defense that gets turned into qualified immunity when needed to protect government's reasoned decisionmaking. Richardson itself recognized this -- that we don't have a historical test anymore, that really all we're looking to is policy considerations? you've got layers. You have layers of -- of history. You have the history recognized in Richardson for -- for lawyers who are working at the behest of the government, that specific history. You have the general history Ms. Millett. We'll hear from Ms. Saharsky first. MR. MCGILL: Oh. I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's all right. Ms. Saharsky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY If I could reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if they don't and may it please the Court: Petitioner may assert qualified immunity on the same terms as the fire department officials because he was working side-by-side with them and under their supervision on a personnel investigation. And this is really exactly the situation that the Court reserved and anticipated in Richardson, that when you have a situation where private and government workers work closely together and you deny qualified immunity to the private person, it would directly affect the ability of the government employees to do their jobs. work closely together at all and it's just this one fellow conducting the investigation, he wouldn't have which there's a very close working relationship -- he -- no -- qualified immunity. The closeness of the relationship is very apparent here, but as a general matter, it is MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- I'm wrong, or MS. SAHARSKY: He likely would have qualified immunity? MS. SAHARSKY: No. This is a situation in CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. No, Official our position that when people are doing the business of government, private people, can be sued under section or Bivens, there should be a presumption in favor of qualified immunity. And Richardson is not to the contrary because that is a fairly unique case in which the private prison was so removed from the day-to-day workings of government officials that it would not have furthered the purposes of qualified immunity to give qualified immunity to the folks in those situations. So, what we're talking about, like -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's just hard to imagine anything more imbued with state action than imprisoning someone. That's -- that's the problem I have in MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I mean, several members of the Court said that in Richardson. And the -- the Court's opinion really talked about the uniqueness of the situation there, that Tennessee was giving the day-to-day decisionmaking to the folks in that situation in the private prison, and only checking up. There was monitoring, you know, annually. It was really not much ongoing monitoring at all.doing something really out on the forefront in terms of thinking about the case. And the -- the Richardson Court, you know, Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we understand the important in the context there, where you don't have individuals who are working closely with government. The Court needed -- and the purposes of found that to be a unique situation, but it distinguished the situation that you have here, where you have people -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Wasn't Richardson really all about how market forces would make immunity unnecessary? And how is it that market forces play any different role in this case than they do in Richardson? Court's discussion of market forces to be really qualified immunity wouldn't be served in terms of deterrence and in ensuring good government the Court reassuring itself in those circumstances that there would still be private prison companies that would be willing to take on the business of government and would be able to do it, you know, consistent with the So, we don't understand the Court to have been setting out market forces as a test for qualified immunity, because, as your question seems to suggest, taken to its logical conclusion, any time a private decisionmaking. But the market forces discussion was Constitution. person is being hired by the government, you could say, Official unique situation in Richardson. And the Court -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think market forces MS. SAHARSKY: We do think that there's a difference in that the attorney in this situation has well, there's a market for the person, couldn't someone else fill those shoes, et cetera, et cetera. So, we think the Court's market forces decision was -- was fairly confined to what the Court itself described as a do operate differently here, or is it basically the same thing? private clients that that attorney can work for, whereas the private prison company really could only work for the government. But -- said its dominant business was giving advice to local government, local municipal government units. So -- MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. I mean, that was an important part of the firm's business, but Mr. Filarsky broad training and expertise in employment-related matters. So, there's certainly other work that could be done. But, you know, we thought the core of the Court's decision in Richardson was really focusing on the purposes of qualified immunity and whether they would be JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that in this case the -- the firm that the lawyer was associated with is trained as an employment lawyer and has, you know, Official (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, why does market JUSTICE SCALIA: You seem -- MS. SAHARSKY: The Court --JUSTICE SCALIA: You seem to assume or to furthered by giving them to the private prison and the private prison guards. acknowledge or to concede that market forces do not operate for government employment, that all government employees are doing it out of love, that -- force eliminate this defense for somebody who's an employee of a private company but not for somebody who's an employee of the government? didn't mean to suggest that we thought that the market forces inquiry was particularly relevant to the -- to answering the qualified immunity question. I'm just explaining that the way we read the Court's opinion in Richardson, which obviously the members of this Court are the experts on, is that the Court was looking to market forces to reassure itself after it determined that the purposes of qualified immunity just wouldn't be served by giving an organization that was so far removed from the day-to-day workings of government the MS. SAHARSKY: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia. I protection of qualified immunity. The Court just -- the Wyatt and in Richardson, which is, is it necessary to his own fiduciary obligations, it is certainly the case that when he was threatened during the conduct of this personnel investigation, that that is something that potentially could chill his behavior. market forces really was just something unique to that case. what the Court started with both in the decision in give qualified immunity here to make sure there's principled and fearless government decisionmaking? It's the business of government that's important. And in this case, although Petitioner is an attorney who has affects the ability of government to do their job. And I might give the Court -- breach of his duty as an attorney. MS. SAHARSKY: I'm saying -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And he would be subject to malpractice in that case. You -- seriously, I find this whole argument about market forces with respect to attorneys representing people odd because there's a And to the extent that he cabins the advice that he gave to the fire department officials, that JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that would be a Official And what we think is the most relevant is whole slew of unemployed lawyers who will be happy to Official MS. SAHARSKY: I'm saying that an attorney Court has extended qualified immunity to government attorneys who are in this position, either giving legal advice, like in the Burns case, or serving as prosecutors. And there's just no difference when he's operating in this case that would make him distinguishable from a government attorney. take on any government service they can. So, going back to the -- that's -- what I consider the central argument you're making, which is: Will it chill advice? And I'm not sure how it can, given the independent fiduciary duty that an attorney has to zealously guard his or her client's interest. is in a difficult position there, and it's the same position that a government attorney would be in, and the your question, the Court talked about, in terms of deterrence and chilling, making sure that there were talented candidates who wanted to take on the position of government. So, the Court has never said, you know, we're concerned about wiping out the market entirely. It said, you know, if there is a segment of the market that will not take on this business anymore, that's a fairly serious problem when we need to make sure that To answer another suggestion, I think, in the government of -- of business is done. Official And if I can just make -- give the Court You want him to make fearless decisions another example to, perhaps outside the context of this case, see how a private person being denied qualified immunity would affect government employees, consider a fire department that has some full-time fire department personnel and also some volunteer firefighters. When they're working together in fighting a fire, you don't want the volunteer firefighter thinking: Should I break down this door? I might face personal liability. because whether he breaks down the door or not is going to directly affect the ability of the other folks who are trying to go into those homes, trying to stop the fire, to do their jobs. court security. The United States Marshals Service sometimes uses private security guards, and we have direct supervision and control over them, but -- mean, the town, whatever, contracts, out-sources, whatever, but it's just run by volunteers. Is your answer the same? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what -- what if it's a percent purely volunteer fire department? I That would also be true in the context of I'm trying to get at your point about they're working with or coordinating with government Official MS. SAHARSKY: It's just difficult in the argument apply when there are no government employees employees. And your argument seems a little derivative. You're saying the whole point is to protect the government employees, and you have to have qualified immunity for the non-employee to do that. But does your around? fire department situation, even if there is an all-volunteer force, that there wouldn't be some type of direct supervision by the mayor, by the city council, et cetera. You know, that's -- particularly in the local government situation, those folks would tend to work fairly closely together. It is, in the case of deterrence and wanting fearless decisionmaking, a primary concern that we have about protecting government. But we need to protect the individuals to protect government. So, we do need to make sure that their decisions aren't chilled, that persons like Petitioner are willing to take on representation of this kind. And the Ninth Circuit's suggestion that no private person should be -- should get qualified immunity, even when they're doing the day-to-day business of government, is just one that can't be reconciled with this Court's decisions in Wyatt and Richardson. Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the Ninth Circuit found JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's another part of qualified immunity, and I know it's not teed up in this case, but why is it reasoned decisionmaking to recognize you can't enter a home without a warrant, but you can tell the occupant to bring out every item you want to see? It seems to me that that's not -- that there -- there's clearly established law to say that's wrong. that it wasn't clearly established law. I understand lines is that both the district court made a finding, on page of the Joint Appendix, and then the court of appeals made a finding in its opinion, and this was the reason that the court of appeals found it wasn't clearly established, was because there was no attendant threat in terms of employment consequences to Respondent in this case.that it's a fairly difficult Fourth Amendment question. But as you say, it wasn't teed up in this case. It wasn't -- there wasn't a petition on this question. It wasn't raised in the brief in opposition. You know, in light of the fact that the Ninth Circuit found it wasn't clearly established, it probably wouldn't make sense for the Court to address it. One thing I might point out along those JUSTICE KENNEDY: Another question that's Official answer? terms of whether he was asserting the authority of State law, it does seem fairly clear that he was asserting the authority of State law here. not teed up and I guess not presented -- I'm just curious to know about the history of the case. Was it argued that there was no state action here? Or is there -- and in your view, is that a very simple question to MS. SAHARSKY: In terms of the argument, Petitioner conceded throughout the litigation that he was a state actor. In the complaint, Respondent actually suggested he was an employee of the city. In and may it please the Court: basis of immunity at common law for somebody in Mr. Filarsky's situation, but the Petitioner has also not shown that the immunity's purposes also serve Mr. Filarsky's situation here. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. McGill. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL A. MCGILL I want to put those two issues aside. We'll ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. MCGILL: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, Petitioner has not demonstrated a historical Official performed; the close supervision and/or coordination JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what about your test? The test that the Petitioner proposes that this Court adopt is one that is very difficult to use. talk about that in a minute, but I want to address the issue that has been most -- discussed the most, which is the Petitioner's test. The test is simply whether the individual is temporarily retained in the -- in the functional equivalent of a government employee, considering three factors. The three factors are: one, the nature of the role with a government official -- What is your test? starts with looking at a historical basis of an immunity at common law and then from there works to the policy reasons. government unit. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose you have a lawyer who's a part-time employee. Does that matter? MR. MCGILL: A part-time employee of a -- JUSTICE ALITO: A part-time employee of a MR. MCGILL: Well, our test is Richardson. I think Richardson is the correct analysis. The Court MR. MCGILL: Well, he would be -- he would receive Harlow immunity. Official MR. MCGILL: Absolutely. JUSTICE ALITO: And isn't that often a very JUSTICE ALITO: So, the difference, your difference, is between an employee and an independent contractor? difficult determination under the law? MR. MCGILL: No, I don't -- I don't think so. Any time -- like in Mr. Filarsky's situation, Mr. Filarsky is a for-profit law firm. You know, he sells himself as a -- as an experienced professional in the field providing legal services to the city -- there are a lot of -- I think -- well, there are a lot of law firms. I think all law firms other than public interest firms are for-profit firms, and the attorneys are part-time employees of municipalities and other government units to perform various functions, part-time judges, part-time prosecutors. are integral to the judicial process. So, when you talk about a judge or a prosecutor, that's a -- that's a special function. That's sort of a different situation. But never has there been an immunity for an attorney just because they happen to be an attorney. JUSTICE ALITO: But there are a lot of -- MR. MCGILL: Well, the Court has made a distinction in its past decisions about functions that Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, now you're talking about history. But I want to know how we are -- how the There is no historical basis for that. Neither the Petitioner nor the Respondent nor the seven amici have found -- courts are to determine and why it should matter how a municipality sets this up. Suppose the town had hired Mr. Filarsky as a part-time town employee. So, he has a certain -- he has a -year contract or -month contract or something for a certain amount of money to perform services for a certain number of hours. You would say that he would be entitled to qualified immunity then. JUSTICE ALITO: Why? MR. MCGILL: Because he's a -- JUSTICE ALITO: Because he's an employee. They pass a resolution saying he's an employee of the MR. MCGILL: Well, they passed a resolution to hire him and his firm to provide those services on a temporary basis or a basis of months, but he still is an outside attorney, and he's probably got -- has other clients and has other interests involved. And the MR. MCGILL: No I would say that he would not be entitled to qualified immunity. town. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Year-long employment is not MR. MCGILL: Well, as I understood the as an employee of the city, then --employment? If I accepted a government job for only a situation is different. It's an entirely different system when you have a private law firm operating for profit contracting -- year, I'm not a government employee? I don't understand that. hypothetical, if -- if that individual is -- is working JUSTICE SCALIA: He's working as an employee. He's hired for year. It's a -year contract. Why -- why does that make him not an employee? Or is it the fact that he's a lawyer? And all lawyers have a certain independent responsibility. They can't do some things that government superiors might tell them to do, right? So, are you going to say all lawyers are -- are -- cannot plead qualified immunity? MR. MCGILL: Well, our position here in this case is that Mr. Filarsky was not necessarily acting in the role of an attorney. He was functioning as an internal affairs investigator. And it's doubtful that he would have maintained an attorney-client relationship with the city given that he was hired or retained to Official JUSTICE SCALIA: It makes it even easier JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they had employed functioning as a government investigator. MR. MCGILL: But if he has other clients and JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. MCGILL: Then he's not subject to the conduct a factfinding report. then. I -- I thought the attorney thing would help you, but if he's not even functioning as an attorney, he's he works for profit, then he operates in a different system. same system -- him for a year, exclusive employment, no other clients, you'd say that's a different case? than a year? fact, days. you're -- you're going to work for us and nobody else. You have no other clients. that's -- that's where you'd have to look at the policy (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay? And the deal was MR. MCGILL: If they employed him for longer JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I'm saying a year; in MR. MCGILL: Well, I think then that considerations. If you feel -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I understand that. come out the same way or not? MR. MCGILL: No, I don't think it does. If MR. MCGILL: If he's still -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that come out -- case JUSTICE SCALIA: Everybody takes a position to make money for profit. How many government employees work for free? How do you look at them? he's taking that position for that term, that -year period, to make money for profit, and the next year he's going to work for somebody else -- instance, trying to form a relationship with that JUSTICE SCALIA: No, he's not. He's not -- I mean, yes, he may be, I guess. But assume he's not. He's just a lawyer who's been hired for days to work for nobody but the -- but the government. And you still government. say that he has no -- no immunity in what he does. MR. MCGILL: He gets -- JUSTICE SCALIA: To investigate for the municipality and enter into a longer term contract. MR. MCGILL: Absolutely not. He gets no immunity in that situation. MR. MCGILL: But he may be, in that Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Two years, though? Three for immunity. It just wasn't there. For that function MR. MCGILL: No, because there's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Still not? MR. MCGILL: There is no historical basis MR. MCGILL: The longer you go -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- enters a contract for life with this -- with this government to investigate. years? I'm a lawyer who -- At that point, does he get the immunity? that -- that Mr. Filarsky was providing, there is no historical basis for it. And, typically, that would end the Court's question. That would end the inquiry. You only get to the policy considerations -- distinction between employees and independent contractors. Is that the distinction you're drawing or is, if you are a private actor, you're subject to a different set of rules. You're subject to the market pressures and the competition that are going to correct your behavior and are going to satisfy the same purposes cases --not? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But don't we have JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you were drawing a MR. MCGILL: Well, the distinction really Official JUSTICE BREYER: What would have happened if MR. MCGILL: As a historical basis, there MR. MCGILL: Well --JUSTICE BREYER: They did exactly the same thing, by the way; it was just that Lincoln had a better reputation. Every word was the same. that immunity provides. Abraham Lincoln today were there? And I gather what happened is they thought the local prosecutor is good, but Lincoln is better. So, we'll let Lincoln prosecute this case. Now, in your view, Abraham Lincoln would not have had immunity, but the local prosecutor would have. does not appear to be immunity for private prosecutors. However, this Court over the years has provided immunity for the judicial -- JUSTICE BREYER: But in your -- I'm asking you, in your opinion, when I write this opinion, is I could say not even Abraham Lincoln, when he acted as a public prosecutor brought in for the occasion? In your opinion, he should not have the immunity that Joe Jones, the local prosecutor, would have? MR. MCGILL: I -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just trying to get your opinion. Official MR. MCGILL: I think that that's a much JUSTICE BREYER: Is it because it's Abraham JUSTICE SCALIA: You should say section JUSTICE BREYER: But investigatory MR. MCGILL: What? JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to that one, right? MR. MCGILL: But I think it's a much closer call because he was engaged in a prosecutorial function, closer call -- Lincoln or -- didn't exist. That's your answer -- which this Court over the years -- functions -- they don't get immunity. So, if Lincoln had looked into it and said, you know, I've looked into this; I don't think we should prosecute. And what they said was use your judgment. MR. MCGILL: No. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, there are problems with both standards both ways. This is one of MR. MCGILL: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Imagine in this case the lawyer sat down with the other firemen, the supervisor and so forth, and they said -- not necessarily this event; they said we want to do X. And the lawyer said: the things that -- that is bothering me. Official Now, can a lawyer give that advice? Yes. So, what do we do about that? The lawyer is I have to tell you, it's unclear whether X is constitutional or not. Now, because it's unclear, I also have to tell you that if you do it, you will not be held personally liable. When he does, of course, he's subjecting himself to personal liability. Now, it's that conflict that is worrying me, among other things. being asked to give advice to the client. Under the canons of ethics, he ought to have their interest at heart, and in doing that, he's subjecting himself to what could be hundreds of thousands, millions of dollars worth of damages or whatever in suits for malpractice. dilemma? necessarily an immunity question; it's more of a liability question because it very well may be that -- assuming in the question is, since it's a close question, he has to worry about a court saying: You were wrong in saying it was legal. It was not legal. The matter was unclear, but it was not legal.Is there a way that we side with you out of that MR. MCGILL: I don't think that that's JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. What I'm At that point, he becomes subject to much Official damages. But, of course, the others do not, and he had to tell them go ahead with it. You understand my point. MR. MCGILL: I do. JUSTICE BREYER: So, what is the answer? MR. MCGILL: But -- but I think what -- what it is -- the difference there is that there you have an attorney just providing advice, which is different than what happened here, where you actually had the attorney engaged -- circumstances could be held liable for a constitutional violation for simply giving advice and he happens to be a private attorney working for profit, then he wouldn't have immunity. he puts them up to it.JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that may be, but what I'm trying to work out is what is your set of rules? If we don't say -- if we don't say you have immunity, and you agree that this is a bad dilemma at least in my hypothetical case, I'm trying to work out what set of rules you advocate in order to either say, well, that's too bad, the dilemma is there, we can't get around it, or something else. That's why I want your answer. JUSTICE BREYER: I change it slightly, and MR. MCGILL: If the attorney under those MR. MCGILL: Well -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Because I don't know why he CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, you can finish couldn't. I mean, you know, he says go do it. Or, in other words, my hypothetical -- okay, go ahead. MR. MCGILL: I think the answer's the same. If somehow under those circumstances the attorney could be held liable for giving that advice, and he's -- he's a private attorney, and he doesn't pass the Richardson test, then he would not be entitled to immunity. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your case --MR. MCGILL: So, there's no -- there's no -- your answer. is no historical basis of immunity just for giving legal advice. The Petitioner hasn't pointed this Court to any firmly rooted tradition of an immunity. highlights -- I think is a very good example of why the lawyer ought to have qualified immunity. I mean, this was a case where it looks like there's a lot of threatening and bullying going on. I mean, the -- the lawyer says -- you know, we're going to figure out a way to name you, Mr. Filarsky. You're issuing an illegal order. If you want to take that chance go right ahead. I'm sorry. MR. MCGILL: There's certainly no -- there CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your case Official developed. We want Filarsky to give what he -- do what naturally, or some lawyer in that situation, is going to think, wow, do I really want to run that risk? You might want to think -- take a minute to think about it. I mean, it seems exactly the kind of situation for which qualified immunity was -- was he thinks is the right thing in this situation. We don't want him to be worried about the fact that he might be sued. And you have a lawyer here saying, well, if you do that, I'm going to sue you. So, Filarsky immunity? that because Mr. Filarsky is a private individual, he doesn't need qualified immunity. You know, Richardson is decided in , but in , the Ninth Circuit issued its decision in Gonzalez v. Spencer. And in Gonzalez v. Spencer, the court held that private don't get immunity. So, the law in the land since -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's easy for a judge to say because they're absolutely immune, but for the lawyer who is sitting there and saying -- Isn't that exactly why we have qualified MR. MCGILL: No. And the reason for that is attorneys like Mr. Filarsky don't need immunity; they Official MR. MCGILL: But, for nearly a decade, the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MR. MCGILL: And that -- the fact that is, (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- saying I'm going to sue you, if you were -- well, you are a lawyer. And you're sitting in that situation. Isn't that going to enter into your mind? You say, well, sue all you want; I don't care; this is the right answer. law within the Ninth Circuit has been that private attorneys don't receive immunity. is that Mr. Filarsky knew going into that -- that investigation that he wouldn't have immunity for anything he -- he did. And it didn't deter him; it know? MR. MCGILL: Well, because he -- in the light of the threats that he received, he still went unconstitutional search. So, the policy purposes of, you know, wanting to prevent unwarranted timidity and deterring talented candidates from working for the government --forward with the -- what was deemed to be an didn't make him -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how do you CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he had -- he Official mean, I'm not quite sure that things went exactly as MR. MCGILL: Well, Mr. Filarsky said -- and issuing the order on behalf of the department. That's what he said. And then there was some -- some discussion back and forth between Mr. Delia's attorney and Mr. Filarsky, and that's what led to the formalization of -- of the order. had the chief issue the order, right? MR. MCGILL: Well, the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And then the chief later on says, well, he told me to issue the order. I they would if you had qualified immunity. this is what he said on the record; it's in the transcripts in the Joint Appendix -- is that he's there is a lot of bad, cowardly legal advice being given in the Ninth Circuit. cross-appeal on the clearly established law? Because then -- then you could concede, so, arguendo, he had qualified immunity, but the advice that he gave was (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't really know that, but you don't know the opposite, either, do you? MR. MCGILL: I don't. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't you JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I understand that Official MR. MCGILL: So, why did the Petitioner -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't you bring up that -- that issue? JUSTICE GINSBURG: No, but -- but whether it contrary to clearly established law. or the Respondent not cross-appeal? MR. MCGILL: I think it was -- that's sort of the law of the case, is that the Ninth Circuit found that there was a constitutional violation. So, we obviously didn't want to appeal that. was clearly established. In other words, what we had here was a recognition: We can't go into the house; we can't go into a house, private house, without a warrant. So -- in fact, Filarsky said something about I know a way -- a way to get around that; we just tell them to bring out the items. opinion and our position has been is that it -- the law was clearly established on that. Why the decision was sure. But -- JUSTICE ALITO: Are you saying it's clearly established that there isn't a difference between going in and looking for the insulation, et cetera, and telling him to bring it out? Is it clearly established made not to cross-appeal on that, I'm not -- I'm not MR. MCGILL: Right. I -- my personal Official MR. MCGILL: I -- I think it's pretty well known that the house is -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that the -- that as a condition of employment in a situation like this, the employee cannot be required to submit to a search? particularly -- MR. MCGILL: -- is -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, even as -- the reason it's an issue is because he says, look, I've got this stuff at my house. That's how his -- his defense is. I haven't used it; I've got the insulation there. So, you think it's still clearly established that it violates the Fourth Amendment for the city to say, okay, defense? certainly, Mr. Filarsky didn't have any reasonable suspicion to believe that Mr. Delia was lying or was being dishonest. He certainly didn't have probable cause. He had a hunch. And then that's what he said, I -- I -- he said it as -- at the -- during the interview that I -- I don't necessarily know that you're lying; I just -- I want to see if you are.well, show it to us if you want to use that as your So, you know, the investigation turned from MR. MCGILL: Yes, I do because it -- it -- Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McGill, back to I think that would be a different situation wanting to see whether Mr. Delia was off work on false pretenses into, well, I don't have anything there; so, let me just see if he's lying just for the sake of it. And that's when they ended up issuing that order. if perhaps you could argue that they had a reasonable suspicion or had some cause to search his house, but here they didn't. So, I think it is under those facts clearly established. immunity, what -- one thing I don't understand about our law here, you say there was no historic basis. And I have to concede that that's right. Seems to me that there's -- there was only a malice defense. But isn't that always true when it comes to a -- a private person? In other words, of course there's no historic basis for qualified immunity. This kind of immunity was developed in . It's sort of by definition there's no historic basis for this sort of immunity. So, to say that the historic basis matters is really to say that private people never get Harlow immunity. right. There was not qualified immunity at common law, but there was absolute immunity. And in -- there -- I MR. MCGILL: Well, I think that that's Official JUSTICE ALITO: But the Court's cases are a over and over that it's not going to create new absolute immunity in instances where there wasn't absolute immunity at common law; isn't that true? mean, I can't go back and think about all the different immunities that may or may not have existed, but I -- I do know that the Petitioner has the burden to bring forth a firmly rooted tradition. This Court has said immunities. mix of history and -- and policy. The Court has recognized both absolute immunity -- has recognized MR. MCGILL: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the rule about malice being -- being the criterion of liability, that applied not just to -- not just to private lawyers but to government lawyers as well, didn't it? good-faith defense applied -- immunity to government lawyers or expand the government immunity to -- for government lawyers so they can do anything so long as it's not malicious? JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if we're going to be historically faithful, we should deny any qualified MR. MCGILL: It did. That that -- that that MR. MCGILL: Well, that -- that's what this Court would have to do. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. MCGILL: It would have to basically JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. MCGILL: -- a defense. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, the devil with history, expand what was at common law -- right? Court having to expand that immunity that it expanded in Harlow to private individuals. And our position is that because a private individual like Mr. Filarsky is a market participant, the purposes of immunity aren't served. They just simply aren't needed. And I was mentioning earlier about -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- what about the argument that Filarsky makes, that if there were to be a proceeding against him, inevitably the witnesses would be the government employees? They would be the battalion chiefs, the fire chief. So, one of the reasons for the qualified immunity is you don't want to disturb government employees in the routine performance of their work. Certainly, in this case, there would be disruption, distraction of these government employees. MR. MCGILL: Well, there probably would be MR. MCGILL: Well, it would result in this some distraction. That would be inevitable, but it So, even though the immunity may kick in and government employer itself can still be liable under Monell. would be no different than the distraction that the government would face when a private attorney is sued for any number of claims, malpractice or, you know, some State law violation. the government is going to face based on just what is probably a small sliver of the big pie, which is, you know, litigation, is pretty speculative. And, of course, it doesn't answer the question that the -- the the individuals may get off or may not have to stand suit, it -- there are still occasions when the distraction is still going to exist. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if Filarsky was there, you know, hired to help the fire department with these -- and he did absolutely nothing? He just sits there and watches. The battalion chief says, I want to do this; I'm going to go get the stuff; you bring it all out. And he just -- he just sits there, doesn't see any reason to offer any legal advice or opinion. Could you still sue him under ?government is still going to be there. So, that Official And to say that the -- the distraction that MR. MCGILL: Well, I don't think he would be Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Really? He has an something illegal is going on. That's his job. And he qualified immunity. He would still be under the same Richardson test where there's no historical basis for it, and because he's the private individual working under -- you know, working for profit and subject to market pressures, he wouldn't -- liable, but I don't think under that situation, he would have participated in the -- obligation as a lawyer to speak up if he thinks doesn't -- he just sits there quietly? MR. MCGILL: No. I don't know that -- that he would be liable under section . But if he were, and he were a private lawyer, he would not have CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if he -- this for profits -- I -- the significance of that eludes me. Sometimes people act out of, you know, public service, and particularly in these sorts of situations, the town needs a lawyer, and he's helping out. What -- if he were purely a volunteer, it would be a different answer? MR. MCGILL: If he were purely a volunteer, it very well might be a different answer because some of those policy concerns that -- that Richardson talked about and discussed may not be present. So, you have to apply the test to the situation you have before you. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, well -- and percent his normal rate. what if he gives the city a discount? He's working for half -- half his fee because it's the city. He wants to help out, but he can't do it totally for free. So, it's MR. MCGILL: I don't know that percent makes a difference. And earlier, we were discussing that -- the -year or the -year and so forth, the length of the contract. I don't think that those things necessarily make a difference. The point is whether Mr. Filarsky was undertaking that representation or that role in a manner that made him subject to other regular market pressures. competing against other lawyers or other investigators performing that same function, then the point is there, you know, he isn't going to be as timid because he's going to want to do a good job. And the same policy concerns that are present for that government lawyer were to -- or a State were to abolish all the civil service rules and all the special rules and go back to employment at will for government employees. Would that -- would that take with it the whole qualified immunity JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose a municipality aren't there for him as a private individual. If he was performing a function and Official would qualified immunity still be needed? regime? MR. MCGILL: I don't think that it would. In other words, is the question whether or not, if we abolished the merit system or civil service system, I think if that were the question, that -- well, that's a tough question to answer. But it very well may not be because, you know, part of the decision in Richardson here was -- it was -- they are operating within a different system. Private versus public. And if you start to make the public system look more like a private system, then it very well may be that immunity won't be needed at all. pre-date the -- the institution of the civil service system. Everybody is subject to market forces. Every person who works is influenced by market forces to some degree; isn't that correct? but when you have a civil service system, a merit system, it's -- it is not as easy to correct behavior as it would be for, say, a private person. For, like, Mr. Filarsky, if he was not performing at -- at the level that the City of Rialto had hoped, he can be replaced immunities, at least some of the immunities, long JUSTICE ALITO: It seems strange because the MR. MCGILL: I think that that's correct, Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not true of most and quite easily. For a government employee, though, there are obviously the civil service protections, and it's not so easy to do that. So, that's -- lawyers. MR. MCGILL: Pardon me. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Most lawyers are not part of the civil service -- internal lawyers are not part of the civil service system. They're generally considered employees at will, at least most of the circuit courts have so held. whether -- subsections of lawyers within a government can be protection, but maybe it's not quite to the extent that more of the rank and file would have. appointees within the United States Department of policymakers and, as such, are not subject to civil service protections. Justice are not protected by civil service. So, should MR. MCGILL: I'm not familiar with JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That they're MR. MCGILL: Well, I -- I know that some represented. So, they very well may have some JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the political Official MR. MCGILL: No, because they would -- they JUSTICE ALITO: They're subject to market is, under Harlow, that they would receive it. they lack immunity? would get it under Harlow. They would have immunity under Harlow. forces, aren't they? MR. MCGILL: They very well may be, and it may be for me to say that maybe they shouldn't have an immunity or it's not needed. But at this point, the law JUSTICE SCALIA: What if I told you that all the lawyers at the Department of Justice are regarded as being employed at will and that all of them can be fired? them don't -- don't have any protection? be the same in that they very well may not need concerns underlying immunity aren't there. disappointing news for all those attorneys at Justice -- (Laughter.) MR. MCGILL: I just want to go back and talk qualified immunity because those pressures and those MR. MCGILL: Well, I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think the rest of MR. MCGILL: I think that the answer would JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow. That's going to be Official And a -- the lawyer is going to be able to In addition, as I understand it, the test is in close coordination and supervision. Those are highly into -- into full-blown litigation and discovery and so forth. So, that -- that test is problematic. about the Petitioner's test a little bit, too, because the Court had some concerns about it. And I share those same concerns, and that's that the test requires a factual analysis, you know, being temporarily retained factual questions that aren't going to bode well for early resolution of a case. plead around that test very easily and take the case going to be extended well beyond attorneys. The test results in anybody working for the government under, you means, is going to get immunity. So, that is well beyond attorneys, to anybody. Anybody who contracts with the government and meets that factual test is now going to have immunity. And that's something -- that's a huge step that this Court, you know, should not take, especially when there is no historical basis for it and the policy concerns are not present. know, close coordination or supervision, whatever that But even if you apply that test to Mr. Filarsky, under these facts, Mr. Filarsky would not Official MR. MCGILL: The concerns about there being temporarily retained. So, he doesn't even meet that determination of whether there is state action from the attorney's conduct? have immunity. He wasn't temporarily retained. He worked for the City of Rialto for years as -- as a business, for profit. He had many clients, and the City of Rialto was one of them. It wasn't that he was element of the Petitioner's test. Mr. Filarsky was not performing a -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are all of these -- are all of these objections applicable as well to the a factual -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. MCGILL: -- inquiry? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. MCGILL: I don't think so. I mean, as an attorney, I would have to certify in a pleading that -- the relationship between the person I'm suing and the information put forth in the pleading that would establish that, and I don't know that one could simply make up state action for purposes of pursuing a action.government. So, I think that there would have to be So, it -- it may be that there's a factual Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your -- your objection is not that he was investigating workplace inquiry, but I don't think it's as great or nearly as great as -- as the temporarily retained or close coordination components to the -- or the Petitioner's test. Mr. Filarsky was not performing a function that is uniquely governmental. Investigating workplace misconduct is not a governmental function, or it's not a prototypical governmental function. conduct; your objection is that he was ordering people to tell your client to bring out stuff that was in his house. you will. people basically either executing a search or in effect executing a search, that is a uniquely governmental MR. MCGILL: Executing a -- a formal search by the government is something -- that's a role that the government performs, but I wouldn't say that -- I wouldn't equate, you know, executing a search with what CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but telling MR. MCGILL: Correct. But it was under the -- the auspices of a -- a workplace investigation, if function. occurred here. Official Well, let me -- let me restate that, I JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but if -- if he did guess. What I mean to say is that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't want to say that. (Laughter.) MR. MCGILL: Mr. Filarsky -- the function, the role that he was performing was that of an internal affairs investigator. the same thing for a private company -- he could do the same thing for a private company, say, you know, you're going to get fired unless you substantiate your story by bringing the stuff out of your house. That wouldn't be a search -- an unlawful search; right? It could have happened in a private company. MR. MCGILL: It could, and -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. MCGILL: Yes, it very well could have. And that's my point, is that what Mr. Filarsky did in his role was not uniquely governmental. He wasn't JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there's very little that is uniquely governmental. I mean, my goodness, if we denied immunity to -- to all those acts that are not uniquely governmental, there would be very little performing that governmental function. immunity, I'm afraid. Official REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. MCGILL: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Millett, you have minutes remaining. MS. MILLETT: Thank you. Justice Breyer, your dilemma is -- sits at the crux of why qualified immunity is appropriate here because not only do you have the lawyer saying, well, you'll be all okay, but I'm going to be going down in this lawsuit; the lawyer's going to have a duty to inform his client that, in fact, this will lead to litigation. You will be protected in your personal capacity, but guess what, litigation is going to ensue. That can influence and deter both lawyers' willingness to work for the government at these cut rates or pro bono rates, their -- subconsciously, the advice they give, and it can make the government not want to act on the advice, which is precisely what we Richardson. The government was nowhere on the scene when the constitutional decisions being challenged -- they weren't even percipient witnesses in that Nothing like that was happening in want to protect. situation. Official you can't deny qualified immunity on that ground or completely different market from Richardson, where there's only one client for prisons, and that's the government. The second point I want to make is fiduciary duty doesn't change it other than it confirms that he's working in the interest of the government, but every agent has a fiduciary duty to their principal. And so, you'll have a sweeping decision on your hands. The market concerns, Justice Sotomayor -- the test is not whether a warm body could be found to fulfill this operation if he won't do it. This is a Here, the government is competing for the services. When it needs a skilled attorney, when it wants people of the caliber that the government service needs and deserves, it is competing. And right now, as the Chief Justice recognized, a lot of times, including for Mr. Filarsky, that's done at discount rates. decisions, then you're going to push that weight. And if the answer is, if you decide to take on this pro bono representation or cut your rates out of public duty and -- and a willingness to serve your government, guess what comes with it: You alone will be left holding the These folks -- this is already a marginal decision. And if you want to talk about market Official Section is supposed to deter clients. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the If the Court has no further questions. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, bag at the end of this for the governmental misconduct. governmental conduct. It is not supposed to deter the reasonable advice given by lawyers to governmental counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial A ability : : : : able : : : : abolish : abolished : above-entitled : : Abraham :, : : absolute : :,, absolutely : : : : acceding : accepted : acknowledge : act : : acted : acting : :, : action : : :,,, : : : : : :, : actor : : actors : : : acts : actual : addition : address : administration : : adopt : advice :, : : : :,,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : advocate : affairs : affect : : : : afford : afraid : agency : : : : agenda : agent : agents : agree : ahead : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :,,, : : : : : : : :, :, : : articulation : : answerable : aside : asked : answering : asking : answer's : anticipated : asserted :anybody : assert :asserting ::, :: anymore : assess :assist : :apparent : Assistant :appeal : appeals : : ALITO : : : :,, :,, : appear : :, : APPEARAN... : : : : : : appears : Appendix : : associated :assume :: ::assumed ::,assuming ::allegations : : alleged : allegedly : allegiance : allow : all-volunteer : Amendment : : amici : amicus : : : amount : analysis : : and/or : angry : animated : annually : answer : : assurance :attendant :applicable : applied :, attended :apply : : attorney :,: : appoint : appointed : : appointees : appointment : appoints : appropriate : area :, : argue : : argued : arguendo : argument : : :,,: :, ::, :,:, ::, :: :,:,,,:, :: :,:,,,:, :: ::attorneys :,: : :: :: :: :: ::,attorney's :attorney-client:auspices :authority :: ::,a.m : :BB :back : :: :: :bad :,:bag :balance :based :basically :: :basis : :: :,: :,: ::,,,: :battalion ::behalf :,,: : :: :: :behavior :: :behest :believe :better :,beyond :,big :bit :Bivens : :board :bode : Official body : bono : : canons : capacity : care : bothering : case :, :, breach : break : breaks : breathing : Breyer :, :, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : bridge : brief : bring : : :,, : : : : close : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, : :, client's : :,, : :, :, : :, :, : :, :, : :,, :, : : : chiefs : chill : : Cole : chilled : chilling : circuit :, closeness : closer :, closely :, : : :, color : : come :, : : :, : : : : : conceded : concern : concerned : : concerns : : : : : :,, : : conclusion : condition : conduct : : : : : : : : : : conducted : bringing : : broad : broader : cases : : Circuit's : circumstances : : : : : : : cause : : : : : broadly : brought : : : ceded : central : certain : :,, : certainly : buck : built-in : bullying : burden : Burns : business : : : certify : :, : :, : cetera :, : : : :, : : : :, : C C : : cabins : caliber : California : call :, candidates : : challenged : chance : change : : charged : checking : chief :, : :,, : city : : : :, : :, : :, civil : : :, : :,,, claims : clarify : clear : : : : :,,, : : : client :,, : : : :,, : : : : clients : : :, comes : : conducting : : : comfortable confined : confirms : command : conflict :, common : : : : : consequences : : commonly : companies : company : : :, : company's : competing competition : complaint : completely : complying : components : comports : concede : : : consider : : considerations : : : considered : considering : Constitution : constitutional : : : : : contested : context : : :,contract : : :, clearly :,, : :, consistent : : : : : contracting : contractor : : : : contractors : : : contracts : contrary : : : control : : : : :, : : :, :,, :, :, decided : deciding : :, : : :, decision : :, : : :, :,,, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :,, : :, : decisionmaking cooperation : courts : : : : coordinating coordinated : Court's : : : : : :, : : : : :, : coordination : : : :, : : : :, : core : corporation :, correct : : : :,, : covered : cowardly : cowed : create : : criminal : criterion : crossed : cross-appeal : :, crux : curiae : : Official deal : decade : decide : : denied : demonstrated : deny : : : : denying : department : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : depends : :, : : : : : : : : derivative : described : deserves : designed : deter : decisions : : : :, : : : :, : determination : : : :, determine : : : : determined : : : deemed : defendant : deterrence deterred : : defendants : defenders : defending : defense : : : : deterring : : developed : differently : : : difficult : : : : : dilemma : :, : direct : : : : directly : : disagree : disappointing discount : : : discovery : discuss : discussed : : discussing : discussion : : : dishonest : disinterested : disruption : distinction : :, : distinguishable cost :, council : counsel :, curious : : : :, : : : :, county : couple : : course : : : : court :, : : :, :,, : :, cut : : DD :damages ::days ::day-to-day :: : : : ::: : : devil : distraction distinguished :, : :,, :, : difference : :, : :,,, : : : : defenses : : :, defer : : : defines : :, definition : different : degree : : : :, :, doing :, : delegated : Delia : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Delia's : :, : : : district : disturb : doctrinal : :, : :,: Official dollars : dominant : door :, doubtful : drawing : : duty : : : :, : D.C :,, E E : :, earlier : : : : : :, : : : employment-r... : employs : encouraged : : :, : example : : : : exclusive : Excuse : executing : : :,, exercise :, exigencies : exist : : existed : expand : ended : enforces : engaged : : : ensue : ensuring : enter : : expanded : :, : early : easier : easily : : enters : easy : : entirely : : : : effect : entitled : either : : : : : element : eliminate : :, : entity : : equate : equivalent : especially : : eludes : employed : : : employee : : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : : employees : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : employer : employment : ESQ :,, :,,, essential : essentially : establish : established : :,, : :, :,, : : et :, : : ethics : evaluate : event : Everybody : : evidence : exact : exactly : familiar : far : favor : fealty : fearless : : : fee : feel : : fellow : fiduciaries : fiduciary : : :, field : fighting : figure : Filarsky : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : :, : : :, : : : :, : : :, : Filarsky's : : : file : fill : find : finding :, finish : fire : : :,,,, : : : fired : : firefighter : firefighters : firemen : firm : : : : firmly : : firms :, :, firm's : first : : : : :,, : fisc : fit : five : focusing : folks :,: : : force : : forces :,,:, : : :,: :,:, : forefront : forever : form : formal : formalization : forth : : : : : : forward : for-profit : : : found : : :, : : : Fourth : : free : : freewheeling: : front : fulfill : fulfilling : full-blown : experienced : expertise : : : experts : explaining extended : extent : : : : Fface : :, faced :fact : : : :: ::factfinding :factors :,facts : : factual :,: :,fair :fairly : : : :: :faithful :fall :false : full-freight : full-time : : function :, : : : : : : :, : :,, : : functional : : functioning : : :, functions : : : further : furthered : : G G : gather : general : : : : : generally : getting : :,, GINSBURG : : : : :, : give :, : :, : :, : : given : : : : gives : : giving : : : :, : : :, go : : : Official : : : : : : : hands : : holding : :,, : handed-off :,,, : :, home : :,,, homes : hands-off : :, : :, : happen : hoped : :,, : happened : hours : :,, : : :,,, happening :,, :,,, :, : : :, happy : : :, hard : : Harlow :,, :,, :,,, : huge : hunch : hundreds : hypothetical : : : house :, : :, : : : :, : : happens : : : : : : : :,, governmental : : : head : : hear : : : : :, : heart : : :, : : : :,, : :, help : : :, : :, : : : : held : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : goes : : going : :, :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, :,, : :, :, : Gonzalez : : good : : : : goodness : good-faith : : : government Iidea :illegal :imagine : ::imbued : immune :immunities :: :,immunity : :,, : : :: :: :,:, : :,,,, : :,:, : :, : :, : :,,: : : :,: ::, : :, : :, : : :,governments : government's :, : :, : : :,,, : :,, :,,, :,, :, great :, :,,, :,, : ground : : :,,, guard : : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,,, H half :, handed : guards : : : : : : : guess : : helping : highlights : highly : hire : hired : : : :,: : hires :, historic : :,,historical : : : : :,: : : : historically: : : history : : :,, :,, : : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,, : : : :, :,,,, :, : :, : : information : initiated : inquiry : : : : : instance : instances : institution : insulation : : integral : integrated : interest : : : : : : interests : interfere : immunity's : implicate : important : :, interfering : : imprisoning : including : independent : :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : individual : : : : : : : : : : individuals : : : : : inevitable : inevitably : influence : influenced : inform : : internal : : : interview : intimidated : investigate : : : investigating :, investigation :, :, :, : : : : : : investigator : : : : investigators investigatory : : invoke : involved : : Official irony : issue : : : : : :, : : issued : : issues : issuing : : : item : items : JJanuary :job : : : :jobs : : Joe : Joint : : Jones : judge : : judges : judgment : judicial : : : jurisprudence : : jury : Justice : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, :,,,, :,,, :,,,, : : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :, : :,,:,,,: :,:, : :,,,: :,:,,,:,,:, :, :, : : :,: KKAGAN : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, :,, : keep : :, : Kennedy : : : : :, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : knew : know : : : :, : : : : key : kick : kind : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : : :,: : : : known : Llack : : land :language :large :Laughter :: :: ::law : : :,,,,: :,:,,: :,:, : : :: :,: :,: :: :lawsuit :: :lawsuits :lawyer :,: ::, : : :: :,:, : : :, Official :, little : : :, local :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : means : : :,, medical : Marshals : meet : logical : long : : matter : : meeting : meets : longer : members : : : : mentioning : : : :,, : : : lawyers :, :, : : : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : lawyer's : layered : layers :, lead : led : left : : legal : : :, : : :, : : : : look : : : : : : : : : : : matters : : : : merit :, MICHAEL : looks : lot :,, : : : love : lying :, Millett : : : :,,, : : : : : : :,, : :,, : :, : :, :, : : :,, looked :, mayor : looking : McGill : : : : : :,, : : :,, :,, :,, :, : :,, :,,, : :,, : :, : :,, :, : millions : :,,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, mix : :,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, months : :,,, : :, morning : : :, multifactor : municipal : :,, municipalities : minutes : misconduct : Monell : money : mind : minute : monitoring :, : : : : malice :, :,: : M : length : letter : level : : liability : : : :, : majority : making : liable : : :, : : maintained : : : :, life : light : malicious : : limit : limitation : malpractice : : : : limited : limits : Lincoln :,, manipulated :,, manner : :, marginal : lines : market :,, litigating : :, : litigation : :, :, maneuver : : : : mean : : : : : :, : municipality: : : : NN :, : name : : named : naturally : nature : nearly : : necessarily: :: :: necessary : need : : : :,: : :, : : : needed : : :: :,: needs : : :,Neither :never : : : :: : new :news :NICHOLAS :NICOLE :: :Ninth : :, : : ::nonissue : non-employee:normal :notwithstandi... number : :: Official presumption:: : : presumably :: :, pie : : : place : : : :, : plaintiffs : : :, play : percent : pretenses :pretty : : prevent :percipient : plead : : pre-date :perform : primary :principal :principled :prior :: : : pleading : please : : : : point : : prison : : performance : : : performed : : : : : : :, : : : performing : : :, : : : :, : : pointed : police : performs : policy : period : : : permanently : : : : : : : : policymakers : : : : : : :, : political : position : person :, : personal : : : : personally : personnel : : : : : :,, : : :, : : potentially : :,,,: :,:, : : :,prisoners :prisons :private :,: : :, :, : :,,:, : : :,: :,:, : :, : : :: :: :: :,: ::, : :, : :, : :,,:,,O O : : objection : : objections : obligation : : : obligations : obtaining : obviously : : : occasion : occasions : occupant : occurred : odd : : offer : office : officers : official : officials : : : : Oh : okay : : : : : : : oral : :,, : : : order : : : :, :, : ordering : organization : ought : : : outcome : outside : : : out-sources : over-deter : : P P : page : : paid :, Pardon : pari : part : : : : : : participant : : ongoing : participated on-hands : operate :, particularly : : : : operates : : : operating : party : : : : : practical : operation : :, : persons : part-time : petition : :, : Petitioner : :, : :, :, pass : : : : : premise : opinion : passed : present : : : : : : : : : : :, passu : presented : :,, :, : PATRICIA : President : : : : :, : : pressures : problem :: : opposite : : : opposition privately :pro : : probable :: ::probably :precisely : pay :, people : : Petitioner's : : : : : problematic: : ::: Official : provides : problems : providing : proceeding : process : professional : : professionals : profit : : :, : : : profits : proposes : prosecute : prosecution : : prosecutor : :, :, prosecutorial : prosecutors : : psychologist :, public : : : : : : : :, : purely : :, purpose : : purposes : : : : : : : : : : pursuant : pursuing : : push : :, : put : : : : : protect :, puts : : :, : putting : : : :, : :,, : p.m : Q qualified : protected : : : protecting : : : protection : : : : : protections : : protects :, prototypical : provide : provided : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,, :,, :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reasoned : question : :,, : : : :, : : reasons : : : : :, reassure : : : : :, reassuring : : : :, REBUTTAL :, : :,, questioned : : receive : : : : : : received : recognition : recognize : recognized :, : : :, : reconciled : record : referred : regarded : regardless : regime : regular : regulate : relationship : :, : : : relevant : : relying : remaining : removed : : questions : : quietly : quite : : :, RR :raised :rank :rate :rates :,:,rationale ::read :really : : :, : :,,:, : : :: :: ::realm :,reason : : : :: :: :: :reasonable:,,represented : : representing : reputation : request : require : required : requirement :, : : requires : reserve : reserved : : reserving : resolution : : : respect : : : Respondent: : : : :, : : responses : responsibility: : rest : restate : result : results : : retained : :, : : : : : :, : Rialto : :,: : : : :,: : :, : :,, replaced : Richardson report : : represent : : representation : : Official : single : sit : sits :, : : sitting : : : : specific : speculative : Spencer : : : staff : stake : stand : situation : : :,, :, : standards : standing : :, :, : :, start : started : :, :, starts : :, : state :, : :, : : :,, : : : : : : situations : : : : : :,,, :, : : : :,,, : : :, stated : States :,, : : :, : : : skilled : slew : sliver : small : : Solicitor : somebody : step : STEVE : stop : : :, : story : : strange : sorry : : stuff : :, : : sort : : : : : : :, sorts : Sotomayor : :, : :, : :, : : source : : speak : special : : : : suable :, subconscious : subconsciously : : subject : : : : :, : : : : : : subjecting : : :, :, S : : : : : :, : : :, : : : Richardson's Saharsky : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : right : :, : security : : see : : : :, : segment : sells : sense :,, : : : serious : seriously : serve : : served : : : service : : : : : : :, : :, :,, : services : sake : sat : satisfy : : saying : : : : : :, : : : : : says : : :, : : : : : Scalia :, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :,, : : risk : ROBERTS : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : role : : : : : :, room : rooted : : roots : routine : rule :, : :, :, : : rules : :, : slightly : : set : : serving : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : :,, sets : :,,, setting : : :,, seven : :, : : :, share : shoes : :,, : shoulders : :, : show : :,, scene : search : : : : :, :, : : shown : side : side-by-side significance : : :, : second : : Secondly : : section : : run : : S :, : : : : : simple : simply : : : : : : submission : submit : submitted : : : suspicion : : subsections substantiate : : sue : : : :, : sued : : : : : : : sufficient : suggest : : : suggested : suggestion : : suing : suit : suits : superiors : supervised : supervision : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, supervisor : support : supporting : : : : suppose :, :, : : : supposed : : :, Supreme :, sure : : :,, : : sweep : sweeping : system : : : :, :,,, :, : T T :, take : : :,, : : : : :, : taken : takes : talented : : talk : : : : talked : : : talking : : : team : : : teed :, : tell : : :, : : : telling : : : temporarily : : : : : : : : temporary : tend : Tennessee : term :, termed : terms : : Official : : : : :, test :,, : :, : : :,,,, : : :, : :,,, :,, : : : Thank :, :,, :,, :, thing : : : : : : : :, : : thousands : threat : threatened : threatening : : threats : three :, time : : : : times : : timid : timidity : : today : told : : tort :,, : : tradition : totally : tough : town : : : :, : : things : : : : : : think : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, : : : :,, : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :,, :, : Tuesday : : : trained : training : transcripts : treat : trial : true : : trust : trying :,: : : :, : : thinking : : thinks : : third : thought : : :, : : turn : turned : : : turnkey : : turns : two : : : : type :, :,, : typically : Uunclear :,:uncommon : unconstitutio... : : underlying: undermines:understand :: : :, : : : : : :: understanding: understood :undertaking unemployed ::unique : : : : : uniquely :: :,:uniqueness:unit :United :,,: :,: ::units :: unlawful :unnecessary :unwarranted : Upland : use : : : uses : usually : V v : : : :, various : versus : view : : violates : violation : : : volunteer :, : :, volunteers : W walked : want : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, : : :, : : : : : :, : : wanted : : wanting : : : wants : : warm : warrant : : washed : Washington : :, wasn't : : :, :,,, : : : :, : watches : way : : :, : : : : : :, ways : weight : went : : weren't : : : : we'll : : : : we're : : : : : : : : : : : willing : : willingness : : wiping : witnesses : : : word : words : : : : work :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : worked : Official : : workers : working : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : workings : : workplace : :, works : : : : world : worried : : worry : worrying : worth : wouldn't : : : : : : : : : :, : wow : : writ : write : wrong : : : Wyatt :, : :, :, : : x :, : : X Y : -month : : year :, :,, : years :, : : : Year-long : Z zealously : : -year : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : -year : :, : : : : : : : :, 