Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x UNITED STATES, : :: No. - ANTOINE JONES : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: STEPHEN C. LECKAR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. STEPHEN C. LECKAR, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument (: a.m.) MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Jones. Mr. Dreeben. Since this Court's decision in Katz v. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER first this morning in Case -, United States v. United States, the Court has recognized a basic dichotomy under the Fourth Amendment. What a person seeks to preserve as private in the enclave of his own home or in a private letter or inside of his vehicle when he is traveling is a subject of Fourth Amendment protection. But what he reveals to the world, such as his movements in a car on a public roadway, is not. In Knotts v. United States, this Court surveillance of a vehicle traveling on the public roadways infringed no Fourth Amendment expectation of privacy. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Knotts, though, seems to me much more like traditional surveillance. applied that principle to hold that visual and beeper Official You're following the car, and the beeper just helps you follow it from a -- from a slightly greater distance. That was years ago. The technology is very different, and you get a lot more information from the GPS surveillance than you do from following a beeper. MR. DREEBEN: The technology is different, Mr. Chief Justice, but a crucial fact in Knotts that shows that this was not simply amplified visual surveillance is that the officers actually feared CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's a good example of the change in technology. That's a lot of work to follow the car. They've got to listen to the beeper; when they lose it, they've got to call in the helicopter. Here they just sit back in the station, and they -- they push a button whenever they want to find out where the car is. They look at data from a month and find out everywhere it's been in the past month. detection in Knotts as the car crossed from Minnesota to Wisconsin. The driver began to do certain U-turns and, the police broke off visual surveillance. They lost track of the car for a full hour. They only were able to discover it by having a beeper receiver in a helicopter that detected the beeps from the radio transmitter in the can of chloroform. That -- that seems to me dramatically different. Official MR. DREEBEN: But it doesn't expose JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under that MR. DREEBEN: Probably not, Justice Kennedy; States -- United States v. Karo -- specifically distinguished the possibility of following a car on a public roadways from determining the location of an object in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy. anything, Mr. Chief Justice, that isn't already exposed to public view for anyone who wanted to watch, and that was the crucial principle that the Court applied -- rationale, could you put a beeper surreptitiously on the man's overcoat or sport coat? and the reason is that this Court in Karo v. United device. It measures only streets and public elevators and public buildings. Kennedy, there is a serious question about whether the installation of such a device would implicate either a search or a seizure. But if it did not, the public movements of somebody do not implicate a seizure. point, you might just be aware that I have serious reservations that there wasn't -- that there -- about JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, no. This is a special MR. DREEBEN: In that event, Justice JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well -- and on that latter Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, I'd like to (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Happy to, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: I have to give a little violation of the Fourth Amendment because the Fourth Amendment says that the -- the people shall be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures. And wiretapping just picked up conversations. That's not persons, houses, papers, and effects. the way in which this beeper was installed. But you can get to that at -- at your convenience. get to it now. prologue to my question. When -- when wiretapping first came before this Court, we held that it was not a Later on, we reversed ourselves, and, as you mentioned, Katz established the new criterion, which is, is there an invasion of privacy? Does -- are you obtaining information that a person had a reasonable I don't think that was the original meaning of the Fourth Amendment. But, nonetheless, it's been around for so long, we're not going to overrule that. expectation to be kept private? I think that was wrong. However, it is one thing to add that privacy concept to the Fourth Amendment as it originally Official car on the car, that is unquestionably a trespass and existed, and it is quite something else to use that concept to narrow the Fourth Amendment from what it originally meant. And it seems to me that when that device is installed against the will of the owner of the thereby rendering the owner of the car not secure in his effects -- the car is one of his effects -- against an unreasonable search and seizure. It is attached to the car against his will, and it is a search because what it obtains is the location of that car from there forward. Now, why -- why isn't that correct? Do you deny that it's a trespass? trespass, but it was equally a technical trespass in the transferred to somebody that had -- and it had a radio transmitter -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the owner of the can at the time it was installed consented, and that is not this case. There is no consent by the owner of the property to which this device was affixed. In fact, it was done, as Justice Scalia indicated, surreptitiously. the owner of the can once he acquired it to have it contain a foreign item installed by the government. MR. DREEBEN: But there was no consent to MR. DREEBEN: It may be a technical United States v. Karo, when a can of ether was Official it -- MR. DREEBEN: Well, this Court thought that JUSTICE SCALIA: It may be a sneaky thing to JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's too bad. That no difference because the purpose of the Fourth Amendment is to protect privacy interests and meaningful interferences with possessory interests, not to cover all technical trespasses. And the case that I -- And -- doesn't make it a trespass. I mean -- do, but -- but every sneaky thing is not a trespass. MR. DREEBEN: Well, this Court thought that it was a technical trespass in Karo and said that made MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think the Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, the -- the privacy rationale doesn't expand it but narrows it in some respects. And I think the case that most clearly illustrates the distinction between trespass and Fourth Amendment protection is Oliver v. United States, the case that reaffirmed the open fields doctrine. In that case, there was absolutely no doubt that the police committed JUSTICE SCALIA: So, we've narrowed the Fourth Amendment? MR. DREEBEN: It changes it, Justice Scalia. Official by the Fourth Amendment. JUSTICE SCALIA: Undoubtedly, but the MR. DREEBEN: No, the rationale was that --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- it was not an a trespass under local law. They entered, they crossed fences, they ignored big "no trespassing" signs; and this Court held that the interests that are protected by trespass law are distinct from the interests protected rationale of that case was that it was not an unreasonable -- unreasonable search. Justice Scalia. The rationale of that case was that open fields are not among the things that are protected specifically focused on the distinction between trespass law and Fourth Amendment law. would also not be a search if you put a GPS device on all of our cars, monitored our movements for a month? You think you're entitled to do that under your theory? MR. DREEBEN: The Justices of this Court? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. (Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Under our theory and under MR. DREEBEN: -- there was no search, by the Fourth Amendment. And the Court was very CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think there Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your answer is MR. DREEBEN: Well, equally, Mr. Chief yes, you could tomorrow decide that you put a GPS device this Court's cases, the Justices of this Court when driving on public roadways have no greater expectation of -- on every one of our cars, follow us for a month; no problem under the Constitution? Justice, if the FBI wanted to, it could put a team of surveillance agents around the clock on any individual and follow that individual's movements as they went around on the public streets, and they would thereby gather -- of whether there's a technical trespass or not is potentially a ground for deciding this particular case, but it seems to me the heart of the problem that's presented by this case and will be presented by other pre-computer, pre-Internet age, much of the privacy -- I would say most of the privacy -- that people enjoyed was not the result of legal protections or constitutional protections; it was the result simply of the difficulty of traveling around and gathering up information. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that seems to get --to me to get to what's really involved here. The issue cases involving new technology is that in the Official public. If -- if this case is decided on the ground So, how do we deal with this? Do we just public streets without committing a technical trespass. But with computers, it's now so simple to amass an enormous amount of information about people that consists of things that could have been observed on the streets, information that was made available to the that there was a technical trespass, I don't have much doubt that in the near future, it will be possible -- I think it's possible now in many instances -- for law enforcement to monitor people's movements on -- on say, well, nothing is changed, so that all the information that people expose to the public is -- is fair game? There's no -- there's no search or seizure when that is -- when that is obtained because there isn't a reasonable expectation of privacy, but isn't there a real change in -- in this regard? MR. DREEBEN: I don't think, Justice Alito, that there's a particularly dramatic change in this case It is possible to envision broader advances in technology that would allow more public information to be amassed and put into computer systems. But I think that the remedy for that -- if this Court agrees with the principles in Knotts and Karo and applies them from what went on in the Karo and the Knotts cases. Official confronted in that case with Justice Stewart's view in to this case, the remedy is through legislation, just as when the Court held that amassing pen register data, all of the numbers that you dial on your telephone, the lengths of the times of the calls. The Court was dissent, that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a third party involved in the telephone -- in the pen register case. And, here, it's the police. Essentially, I think you answered the question that the government's position would mean that any of us could be monitored whenever we leave our homes. So, the only thing secure is the home. Is -- I mean, that is -- that is the end point of your argument, that an electronic device, as long as it's not used inside the house, is okay. monitoring somebody's movements in public. We're not talking about monitoring their conversations, their telephone calls, the interior of their cars, their Fourth Amendment protection that this Court has recognized. question that I think people are driving at, at least as private letters or packages. So, there are enclaves of MR. DREEBEN: Well, we're talking here about JUSTICE BREYER: What -- what is the I understand them and certainly share the concern, is Official And no one, or at least very rarely, sends monitoring and what happened in the past is memories are that if you win this case, then there is nothing to prevent the police or the government from monitoring hours a day the public movement of every citizen of the United States. And -- and the difference between the fallible; computers aren't. human beings to follow people hours a day. That occasionally happens. But with the machines, you can. So, if you win, you suddenly produce what sounds like from their brief. I understand they have an interest in perhaps dramatizing that, but -- but maybe overly. But it still sounds like it. futuristic scenario that's just been painted and is done more so in their briefs? MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, first of all, this is exactly the argument that was presented to the technology in that case seemed extraordinarily advanced, and there was a potential for it to be used. The Respondent -- And so, what protection is there, if any, once we accept your view of the case, from this slight Court in Knotts. If you go back to , the beeper JUSTICE BREYER: Of course, that's true. And they do have a limit. In this case, they say Knotts Official us, it's short of every journey in a month. involved a single journey, or let's say it involved four journeys. And let's say it involved four journeys in days. This involves every journey for a month. So, they say whatever the line is that's going to protect So, I'm not asking -- I'm saying I accept your point there. And what do you say is the limit? MR. DREEBEN: I first want to address the suggestion that you could draw a line somewhere between that uses the technique which is used sometimes, and I think it's used for example in the bribing the judge case, you know, with campaign contributions. You draw an outer limit, you say you can't go beyond that. We a month and a trip and have a workable standard for police officers to use. Police officers use a variety of investigative techniques which in the aggregate produce an enormous amount of information. Pen registers, trash pulls. They look at financial records. They conduct visual surveillance. And under a principle of law that says trip is okay but trips is not, there is absolutely no guidance for law enforcement in how they are --know within that, there is no standard. We'll leave it JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there is the same kind of guidance that you have in any case of this Court Official That's not necessarily desirable, but that for the lower courts to work out, and we'll review it over time. is a method this Court has sometimes used. MR. DREEBEN: Well, I -- JUSTICE BREYER: But even if it's wrong, I want to know, are you saying there is no limit or are you suggesting one? MR. DREEBEN: I'm suggesting that the Court do the same thing that it did in Knotts. This case does not involve -hour surveillance of every citizen of the United States. It involves following one suspected drug dealer as to whom there was very strong suspicion, for a period of time that actually is less than a month, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then you're -- you're moving away from your argument. Your argument is it doesn't depend how much suspicion you have; it doesn't depend on how urgent it is. Your argument is you can do it, period. You don't have to give any reason. It doesn't have to be limited in any way, right? Justice.because the beeper technology failed during -- MR. DREEBEN: That is correct, Mr. Chief CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, isn't the Official MR. DREEBEN: When you're talking about the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're talking normal way in these situations that we draw these limits how intrusive the search can be, how long it can be, is by having a magistrate spell it out in a warrant? movements of a car on a public roadway, which even Justice Breyer's question seems to concede could be monitored for a day or perhaps days, there is no Fourth Amendment search, unless --about the difference between seeing a little tile and seeing a mosaic. The one gives you information; the other doesn't. MR. DREEBEN: So does a pen register. So does a garbage pull. So does looking at everybody's this Court has held are not searches. And the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, this case started out with a warrant. There was a warrant, and the limits weren't followed. The warrant said days, do this in days, and the police took . They were supposed to do it in D.C. Instead, they did it in Maryland. So, the police could have gotten permission to conduct this search. In fact, they had received it. Now, I take it that the practice had been, because it's credit card statement for a month. All of those things Official warrants? MR. DREEBEN: In this case, there would not in the electronic surveillance manual, better get a warrant. Was there any problem about -- when this kind of surveillance is wanted by the government, to get a warrant? Were they encountering difficulty getting have been any difficulty getting a warrant, Justice Ginsburg. And the warrant authorized things beyond just monitoring the car. It authorized entering the car in order to install it, which wasn't necessary here. It also authorized monitoring the car in a location where there was a reasonable expectation of privacy. This case is only about monitoring a car on public streets. But I think it's very important to keep in surveillance is when the police have not yet acquired probable cause but have a situation that does call for monitoring. And I'd like to give an example. mosque by people who work at a small company, the bomb threat on an anonymous call will not provide even reasonable suspicion under this Court's decision in Florida v. J.L.mind that the -- the principal use of this kind of If the police get an anonymous phone call that a bomb threat is going to be carried out at a But you can hardly expect the FBI to ignore Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you get an a credible, detailed-sounding piece of information like that. Now, the -- anonymous tip that there's the same bomb in somebody's house, do you get a warrant or do -- do you just go in? MR. DREEBEN: You do neither, because without probable cause you cannot enter the house. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Well, why are you asking for a different rule in this situation? MR. DREEBEN: Because the -- the police in this situation have the traditional means available to investigate these sorts of tips. They could put teams of agents on all the individuals who are within the pool of suspicion and follow them /. And that would JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- you're now suggesting an answer to Justice Kennedy's question, which is it would be okay to take the computer chip, put it on somebody's overcoat, and follow every citizen everywhere they go indefinitely. So -- under your theory and the theory espoused in your brief, you could monitor and track every person through their cell phone, because today the smartphones emit signals that police can pick up and use to follow someone anywhere they go. Your theory is so long as the -- that all --raise -- Official MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I MR. DREEBEN: I think that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to track them, to that what is being monitored is the movement of person, of a person, they have no reasonable expectation that their possessions will not be used by you. That's really the bottom line -- invade their sense of integrity in their choices about who they want to see or use their things. That's really argument you're making. think that that goes considerably farther than our position in this case, because our position is not that the Court should overrule United States v. Karo and permit monitoring within a private residence. That is plus probable cause. And monitoring an individual through their clothing poses an extremely high likelihood that they will enter a place where they have a reasonable expectation of privacy. garages. It happened here. MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but a car that's parked in a garage does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy as to its location. Anyone can observe --off limits absent a warrant or exigent circumstances JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Cars get parked in a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Neither does the person. Official MR. DREEBEN: Once the -- once the effect is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what the difference between this and a general warrant is? I MR. DREEBEN: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A person goes home, and their overcoat gets hung on a hanger. What's the difference. in the house, under Karo there is an expectation of privacy that cannot be breached without a warrant, and we're not asking the Court to overrule that. mean -- MR. DREEBEN: A general warrant -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what motivated the Fourth Amendment historically was the disapproval, the general warrants that permitted police indiscriminately to investigate just on the basis of suspicion, not probable cause, and to invade every possession that the individual had in search of a crime. How is this surveillance where there's no probable cause, there's not even necessarily reasonable suspicion in -- MR. DREEBEN: A warrant authorizes -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- this kind of outrage, that our Founding Fathers experienced with different --MR. DREEBEN: A warrant authorizes a search. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if we -- I give you that, that it's in public. Does the reasonable out in their car, their car is traveling on public This authorizes the ability to track somebody's movements in a car on a public roadway, a subject as to which this Court said in Knotts that no individual has a reasonable expectation of privacy because when they go roads. Anyone can look. The police have no obligation to avert their eyes from anything that any member of the public -- expectation of privacy trump that fact? In other words, if we ask people, do you think it's -- it violates your right to privacy to have this kind of information acquired, and everybody says yes, is it a response that, reasonable expectation of privacy regardless of the fact that it takes place in public? place in public isn't inherently off limits to a reasonable expectation of privacy. That's essentially the holding of Katz. You go into a phone booth, you're in public; making your calls within the phone booth is subject to a reasonable expectation of privacy. no, that takes place in public, or is it simply the MR. DREEBEN: Well, something that takes But this Court, with full awareness of that holding, in Knotts and in Karo recognized that Official see that differently? surveillance of a vehicle traveling on the public roadways doesn't fit that description. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can see, though, can't you, that years ago if you asked people does it violate your privacy to be followed by a beeper, the police following you, you might get one answer, while today if you ask people does it violate your right to privacy to know that the police can have a record of every movement you made in the past month, they might MR. DREEBEN: They probably would also feel differently about being followed / by a team of FBI agents, who gain far more information than a GPS device produces. GPS only gives you the approximate location location traveled, the -- that -- that is what the GPS provides. It doesn't show you where the car stopped. show you who was -- someone up for speeding when you suspect something far worse but have no -- no probable cause. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the speed as well. MR. DREEBEN: The approximate speed, the It doesn't show you who was driving the car. It doesn't of the car as it drives on the roads -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: An easy way to pick MR. DREEBEN: Well, this Court held in Whren Official MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, it's not decision that, although the Fourth Amendment is not a v. United States that when the police have probable cause to stop someone for a traffic violation, they can do that. There are protections -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was -- that is when the police came upon the violator. But this is -- it's all in a computer. The police can say we want to find out more about X, so consult the database, see if there's an indication that he was ever speeding in the last days. very hard for police to follow somebody and find a traffic violation if they want to do that. But to answer in part Justice Breyer's earlier concern about limiting principles, this Court recognized in the Whren restriction on discriminatory or arbitrary or oppressive stops that are based on invidious characteristics, the Equal Protection Clause is. The First Amendment also stands as a protection. If this Court believes that universal practice of monitoring people through GPS, there are other constitutional principles that are available. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the Fourth Amendment protects us against unreasonable searches and seizures. there is an excessive chill created by an actual law or Official And if I were trying to explain to someone, here's the Fourth Amendment, the Fourth Amendment says -- or it has been interpreted to mean that if I'm on a public bus and the police want to feel my luggage, that's a violation; and yet, this kind of monitoring, installing the GPS and monitoring the person's movement whenever they are outside their house in the car, is not? I mean, it just -- something about it that -- just doesn't parse. MR. DREEBEN: I'm quite sure, Justice Ginsburg, that if you ask citizens whether the police could freely pick up their trash for a month and paw through it, looking for evidence of a crime, or keep a record of every telephone call that they made for the duration and the number that it went through, or conduct intense visual surveillance of them, that citizens would probably also find that to be, in the word that Respondents choose to use -- won't and probably couldn't physically. would a democratic society look like if a large number of people did think that the government was tracking their every movement over long periods of time. And once you reject that, you have to have a reason under the Fourth Amendment and a principle. And what I'm JUSTICE BREYER: But they won't -- they Start with the other end. Start -- what Official MR. DREEBEN: I think --JUSTICE BREYER: Do you see where I'm -- and MR. DREEBEN: All right. Justice Breyer, looking for is the reason and the principle that would reject that, but wouldn't also reject hours a day for days. that's what I'm listening very hard to find. two things on that. First of all, I think the line-drawing problems that the Court would create for itself would be intolerable, and better that the Court should address the so-called scenarios if they come to pass, rather than using this case as a vehicle for doing so. is limited only by the cost of the instrument, which frankly right now is so small that it wouldn't take that much of a budget, local budget, to place a GPS on every car in the nation. MR. DREEBEN: If the Court -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The GPS technology today MR. DREEBEN: Oh, I think that would be -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Almost every car has it Second, if the Court --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This case is not that vehicle. now. Official MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it would be JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't we have any virtually impossible to use the kinds of tracking devices that were used in this case on everyone because -- legislatures out there that can stop this stuff? MR. DREEBEN: I think that -- Justice Scalia, the legislature is a safeguard, and if the Court believes that there needs to be a Fourth Amendment test the judge of the reasonable suspicion? it's the courts at the back end if there are motions to suppress evidence. But fundamentally, just as in the pen register example and in the financial records example, if this Court concludes, consistent with its safeguard as well, we have urged as a fallback position that the Court adopt a reasonable suspicion standard which would allow the police to conduct surveillance of individuals in their movements on public roadways, which they can do visually in any event, and would allow the police to investigate leads and tips that arise under circumstances where there is not probable cause. earlier cases, that this is not a search, yet all MR. DREEBEN: As in most reasonable suspicion cases, it's the police at the front end and JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who would be under your Official If I may save the rest of my time for Mr. Leckar. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN C. LECKAR ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. LECKAR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Americans find it to be an omen of , Congress would stand ready to provide appropriate protection. rebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you. Your -- our questions have eaten into your rebuttal time. So, we'll give you the full time. and may it please the Court: I want to talk about the one issue that the United States didn't talk about, which is whether this narrow basis, a very narrow basis: What are the consequences when the police without a warrant install a GPS secretly on the car of any citizen of the United States, and they want to use the evidence gained that seizure. device? MR. LECKAR: I'm sorry, Your Honor? JUSTICE ALITO: What is the size of this is a seizure. This case can be resolved on a very way in a criminal trial? Our position is that's a JUSTICE ALITO: What is the size of this Official MR. LECKAR: In -- the record doesn't show MR. LECKAR: Well, a license plate, as I JUSTICE ALITO: And what if it was put on the license place? Would that be a technical trespass? device? in this case, but we know -- we learned last week, Justice Alito, from the NACDL that there's now a GPS on the market that weighs ounces and is the size of a credit card. Think how easy it would be for any law enforcement agent of the , in the United States to stick one of those on anybody's vehicle. Is that the property of the driver? understand it, is the property of the State, and driving is a privilege. But it's not a technical trespass in JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that right? I don't own my license plate? I didn't know that. How do you know that? paid for my license plate. it, but "Live Free or Die" was spelled on the license (Laughter.) JUSTICE KENNEDY: We don't need to get into (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you know that? I this particular case. Mr. Jones had the --plate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I didn't -- I didn't hear an answer to Justice Alito's question. What is (Laughter.) MR. LECKAR: What I'm saying, Justice Kennedy and Justice Scalia, is this: That the issue insofar as the seizure is concerned is, is it Antoine Jones had the right to control the use of his vehicle. The question is, was the interference a meaningful deprivation of his possessory interest? your position on the placement of the GPS device on the State-owned license plate? do it, Your Honor. It's a seizure. installation -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My understanding is correct that it's the State's license plate they require you to have. So, your trespass theory, it would seem, falls apart with respect to that particular scenario. MR. LECKAR: Well, first of all, Justice -- Chief Justice Roberts, my -- you would probably see the GPS, and in that case, you might have -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a -- MR. LECKAR: If -- I'm sorry. If the MR. LECKAR: They can't do it. They can't Official meaningful. Everybody agrees here that there is -- that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. It's the size Official MR. LECKAR: In that particular case, what use of that GPS -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, this is ridiculous. MR. LECKAR: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: And whether it's put of a credit card. You slip it behind the license plate. you have done is you have -- the installation of the GPS, it is a seizure. What makes it meaningful is the Look at -- you give the State permission to put the license plate -- to carry -- to have your car carry the State's license plate. You do not give anybody directly on the car or directly on something that the car is carrying doesn't seem to me to make any difference under your theory, which focused on the question of trespass, because it was attached to an effect owned by somebody else. This is an effect not theory anyway doesn't seem ridiculous to me. MR. LECKAR: That's correct. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, the trespass MR. LECKAR: But it's an effect, Your Honor. The Fourth Amendment protects effects. It protects difference. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought it made a permission to have your car carry a tracking device. owned by the individual. Official people. If you put it on somebody's briefcase, you put it on somebody's car, you have affected their possessory interest. Then the question becomes -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Leckar, I guess I'm not sure I quite understand the argument, because a trespass is accomplished no matter what you put on somebody's car or somebody's overcoat or what have you. You could put a nonworking device in somebody's car, and it would still be a trespass, but surely the same constitutional trespass to the constitutional problem? Kagan. As I said moments ago, what makes it meaningful, what makes it a meaningful deprivation of a -- of a look at reality. We follow what Silverman v. -- seizure. That doesn't make it a seizure. It makes it a search. there's a trespass for the purpose of obtaining information, which makes it a search. But I don't see how it's a seizure. A seizure -- you have to bring something within your control. You have to stop the MR. LECKAR: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you can say that possessory interest, is once the GPS gets activated. We problem is not raised. So, how do you get from the MR. LECKAR: As I -- thank you, Justice JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't make it a Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any case involving seizure of data floating in the air as opposed GPS. Antoine Jones had the right, Your Honor, to person or stop the vehicle. What has been seized when you -- when you slap a tracking device on a car? MR. LECKAR: What has been seized is Antoine's data. Data is seized that is created by the control the use of his vehicle. And what the government did was surreptitiously deprive him of the use of that -- to papers? MR. LECKAR: The closest case I could come, Your Honor, would be Silverman, where the Court called a Fourth Amendment violation where the spike mike just unless, in addition to a search, it is an unreasonable search. And since you already -- and the same is true of seizure, isn't it? everybody agrees it's at least a search. So, what do you care whether there's the -- and there's a case called Karo which says whether it's a trespass doesn't really matter. The question is the reasonableness of MR. LECKAR: That's right. JUSTICE BREYER: So, you already have --touched -- touched the ventilator unit. JUSTICE BREYER: It's not a violation Official MR. LECKAR: That's right. JUSTICE BREYER: And I think that's the it. And that's what I think -- I mean, you can argue trespass as much as you want, but I'll still have in mind is it reasonable. question we've been debating. And I would like to know from you -- what they are saying is that the parade of horribles we can worry with -- worry about when it comes up; the police have many, many people that they suspect of all kinds of things ranging from kidnappings of lost children to terrorism to all kinds of crimes. They're willing to go as far as reasonable suspicion in a pinch. And they say at least with that, you will avoid the scenario, and you will in fact than subjecting the person to really good knowledge of where he's going on the open highway. Now, I -- they probably put it better than I did, but I'd appreciate your views on that. Breyer, is something that the Court has adopted for limited intrusions. And I refer you to the United States v. Place. Every seconds of the day for days is by no person's lights a -- a limited intrusion. That said, what -- what happened here, society does not allow the police to do their work with doing no more MR. LECKAR: Reasonable suspicion, Justice Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why does it have to be MR. LECKAR: What happens is the police have JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose what they got human equation -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know got two things; we can put deputies on this route and watch this person, or we can have a device with a warrant. What difference does it make? view as reasonable the concept that the United States Government has the right to take a device that enables them to engage in pervasive, limitless, cost-free -- cost-free surveillance -- that completely replaces the that? cost-free? Suppose the police department says: We've the capacity with GPS to engage in grave abuse, grave abuse of individual and group liberties, Your Honor. is nothing more than what they would have had if they had deputies staked out along the route. That's all. They'd get the same from deputies. A constitutional Honor. Any placement of a GPS on anybody's car or this car -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, no. We're assuming that there's no initial trespass, which is a problem in violation? MR. LECKAR: Yes, if they use a GPS, Your Official MR. LECKAR: No, Your Honor. I'm not asking -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm fully aware of the MR. LECKAR: All right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're saying it's -- it's this case. the quantity and -- of the information seized and the time over which it's seized. And that's the proposition we're testing. And it seems to me what you're saying is that the police have to use the most inefficient methods. ministry of love, ministry of -- of peace problem. But this -- your argument, it seems to me, has no principled distinction from the case that I put. that. We're not asking to make the police less efficient than they were before GPS came into effect. We're simply saying that the use of GPS has grave potential -- grave threats of abuse to privacy; that neighbor is not going to use their car to track them. People have an -- under Rakas -- and I refer the Court to footnote in the Rakas case. Antoine Jones had control of that car. Control of that -- of the vehicle meant that he had a reasonable expectation that society people have an expectation, Justice Kennedy, that their MR. LECKAR: I think I can help you with Official on the car. Physical invasion of a possessory interest, Justice Ginsburg, is more significant. It has always been viewed by this Court as more invasive than mere video -- mere visual surveillance. And even with a camera, it depends on the type of the video camera. We're not saying that the is prepared to view as objectively reasonable. The government -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But he -- he wouldn't be protected against a surveillance camera that could get information. And is this really different in kind from the surveillance camera? MR. LECKAR: Yes. First of all, you have a physical invasion. That's Bond v. United States. You have an invasion of his possessory interest, placement police are prohibited from having individual video cameras or several video cameras to surveil people. What we're saying here is this device, this device that enables limitless, pervasive, indiscriminate -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But what is the difference really? I'm told -- maybe this is wrong, but I'm told that if somebody goes to London, almost every place that person goes there's a camera taking pictures, so that the police can put together snapshots of where everybody is all the time. So, why is this different from that? Official MR. LECKAR: It's pretty scary. I wouldn't JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it must be JUSTICE BREYER: And, in fact, those cameras (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, what is it, the the impression, to track the bomber who was going to blow up the airport in Glasgow and to stop him before he did. So, there are many people who will say that that kind of surveillance is worthwhile, and there are others like you who will say, no, that's a bad thing. But that isn't the issue exactly in front of us. want to live in London under those circumstances. unconstitutional if it's scary. scary provision of what article? in London actually enabled them, if you watched, I got What we have here is a physical -- wanted to know is why not. invasion of property. can read -- sorry, I just had that expression because I'm reading: "The existence of a physical trespass is only marginally relevant to the question of whether the JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, my goodness. Here, I I MR. LECKAR: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: And what Justice Kagan MR. LECKAR: Because you have a physical Official So, you can talk if you'd like. It's your hour. But I would really be very interested in hearing was essentially consented to. You took -- the package came in by virtue of somebody who was working for the government. So, the installation was not unlike this case -- was unlike this case, where it was surreptitious and directly engaged in by a government agent. Fourth Amendment has been violated, however, for an actual trespass is neither necessary nor sufficient to establish a constitutional violation." That's Karo. you on the assumption that the real issue here is whether this is reasonable. MR. LECKAR: It's not, Your Honor. This is not a Karo case. First of all, in Karo the installation JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're mixing -- you're mixing two things. You're the one that -- I thought your position was that the initial trespass is not important. That's the narrow way to decide the issue. You don't want us to do that. So, now we ask you about Karo, and you say, oh, well, there was a trespass. So, that's -- that's not -- that's not a responsive answer. MR. LECKAR: Well, but technology, as you observed, Justice Kennedy, is dramatically different Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's going to be with GPS than was present in Karo. dramatically different in the next step. There are now satellites that look down and can hone in on your home on a block in a neighborhood. I don't see that far in the future when those cameras are going to be able to show you the entire world and let you track somebody on the camera from place to place. MR. LECKAR: Well --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if -- give us a theory. Is that okay for the police to access those cameras and look at you moving from place to place? And if that's okay, then why is this not okay? What is your theory of your case? with respect to video camera, if they're targeting an individual -- this presents a grave question. It's a question that need not be resolved given this case. But if the Court wanted to address that question, once the individualized targeting for use of a pervasive network of cameras, and GPS is like a million cameras. That's the -- the New York Court of Appeals pointed that out, and this --police target somebody, they want to engage in MR. LECKAR: Our theory, Justice Sotomayor, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think there's about JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Leckar, your -- all of individualized suspicion like that, if a court wanted to satellites up there, but okay. but the equivalent of a camera tracking you every street corner you're on everywhere. Once you have deal with it, I believe you would have to have a warrant. this discussion -- you're going into it, but the questioning leads you into it -- it seems to me leaps over the difficult part of your case. The issue before us is not -- not in the abstract whether this police conduct is unreasonable. The unreasonableness requirement or the unreasonableness prohibition does not take effect unless there has been a search. And our cases have said that there's no search when -- when you are in public and where everything that you do is open to -- to the view of people. That's the hard question in the case, not whether this is unreasonable. That's not what the Fourth Amendment says, the police can't do anything that's unreasonable. They can do a lot of stuff that's unreasonable without violating the Fourth Amendment, and the -- the protection against that is the legislature.Official MR. LECKAR: All right. It's cameras, But you have to establish, if you're going MR. LECKAR: Because it is -- it is a MR. LECKAR: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Because there's no invasion of privacy. So, why is this an invasion of to go with Katz, that there has been an invasion of -- of privacy when all that -- all that this is showing is where the car is going on the public streets, where the police could have had round-the-clock surveillance on months, and that would not have violated anything, would it? privacy? complete robotic substitute. It's not a -- it's not a tail. And interestingly enough, Your Honor. The -hour surveillance for all of days. What you have here, Justice Scalia, is -- I'm going to refer to your dissent. day, there's no invasion of privacy for a hundred days. Now, it may be unreasonable police conduct, and we can handle that with laws. But if there's no invasion of privacy, no matter how many days you do it, there's no government only cited in its brief one instance of a JUSTICE SCALIA: A hundred times zero equals zero. If -- if there is no invasion of privacy for Official this individual for a whole month or for months or for invasion of privacy. MR. LECKAR: The question we have to answer JUSTICE SCALIA: So is a tail. So is a tail having an -- it makes you unable to get rid of an going to refer to your dissent along with Justice Breyer in Bond v. United States. A GPS in your car is like -- or anybody's car, is like -- without a warrant, is like uninvited stranger. That's what it is. Now, what -- when the police surveil -- surveil you for -- for a month. in this case, Justice Scalia, is this: A tail -- if they can -- if they want a tail, if they want to commit the resources, that's fine. But what a GPS does, it involves -- it allows the government to engage in machine robotically. Nobody is even involved monitoring it. The record in this case showed that many times the police officers just let -- let the machine go on. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, where would you draw the line? Suppose that the GPS was used only to track somebody's movements for day or for hours or for hours. Would that be all right? no circumstances should a GPS be allowed to be put on unlimited surveillance through a machine, through a Official MR. LECKAR: Justice Scalia, what -- I'm MR. LECKAR: Our position, Justice Alito, is somebody's car. But we recognize -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: Put aside -- put aside the MR. LECKAR: I'm not addressing it purely as trip, or perhaps when you use it exactly as a beeper, when you follow it, when you actually physically follow it. trespass question. a trespass. Our view is the -- the use of a GPS as a search in and of itself should be -- is -- should be viewed as unreasonable. But if the Court were uncomfortable with that, if the Court had concerns with that, we suggested in our brief some -- some possibilities: One day, one trip, one person per day or JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that sounds like a legislative line. But what is the difference between monitoring their movements on a GPS for hours? You would say that the latter -- your first argument is there's a problem with the latter but not with the former. But what would the reason for that be? invasion of privacy, Your Honor. what is the difference in terms of one's privacy whether you're followed by a police officer for hours and you don't see the officer or whether you're monitored by GPS following somebody for hours, let's say, and MR. LECKAR: Because it's an unreasonable JUSTICE ALITO: There's no more -- what -- Official taken out of the surveillance factor. Suppose we look forward years, and maybe years from now percent of the population will be for hours? MR. LECKAR: Because -- because what you have here is society does not expect that the police, the human element, would be taken out of -- would be JUSTICE ALITO: You know, I don't know what society expects, and I think it's changing. Technology is changing people's expectations of privacy. using social networking sites, and they will have on average friends, and they will have allowed their friends to monitor their location hours a day, days a year, through the use of their cell phones. Then MR. LECKAR: Well, the use of a cell phone, there are two ways of looking at it. As Justice Kennedy observed in Quon, cell phones are becoming so ubiquitous, there may be privacy interests. phone, that's a voluntary act. People nowadays understand that there are ways to monitor by way of a cell phone. -- what would the expectation of privacy be then? Our view is that currently the use of a cell But I started my oral argument with this basic precept, Justice Alito: This case does not Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that -- maybe that's a require us to decide those issues of emerging technology. It's a simple case at the core: Should the police be allowed surreptitiously to put these machines on people's cars and either -- call it a seizure, call it a search, call it a search and seizure in the words of Katz, or call it a Fourth Amendment violation. good way to decide the case. But I just wonder, would Mr. Jones or anybody else be really upset if they found that the police had sneaked up to their car and put an inert device the size of a credit card on the underside of the car? What would they say about that, other than the fact that the police are wasting money doing this? MR. LECKAR: If it were nothing more than a South of the Border, probably nothing, but this -- just a little wafer. They put it under the car. It does nothing. an enormous capacity. Look at the -- nothing, and you -- so you would go -- you would sue -- you would bring a trespass action.note, say, or even a bumper sticker like you get at MR. LECKAR: It's a little wafer that's got JUSTICE ALITO: No, but this one does JUSTICE ALITO: You don't even see it. It's MR. LECKAR: No, heavens, no, Your Honor. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But to ask Justice Alito's If it did nothing, first, it wouldn't be a Fourth Amendment problem. JUSTICE ALITO: So, what's you're concerned about is not this little thing that's put on your car. It's not this invasion of your property interest. It's the monitoring that takes place. MR. LECKAR: The monitoring makes it meaningful. Putting it on enables them to make --question in a different way, suppose that the police could do this without ever committing the trespass. Suppose that in the future all cars are going to have GPS tracking systems, and the police could essentially hack into such a system without committing the trespass. Would the constitutional issue we face be any different? MR. LECKAR: If, as I assume, that's because of manufacturers doing it, or because Congress has legislated it, Justice Kagan? Under either circumstance, people would know. They would know that their privacy rights had been taken away. Whether that would be possible to be -- to go through Congress, I seriously doubt, but people would know. In this particular case, Antoine Jones had no idea whatsoever that his possessory interest in that property was about to be deprived by the government in a Official Justice Alito, what happens here, GPS meaningful way to allow them to get information they couldn't have otherwise have gotten. produces unique data. When you and I drive down the street, we don't emit GPS data. What makes GPS data meaningful is the act -- is the use and placement of the GPS device, that was in this case, in this case, unconsented to by Antoine Jones, unknowingly. And the government knew that. That's why they went and did it surreptitiously, because they couldn't get it any other way. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Lots of communities have, including Washington, cameras on -- at intersections on stop lights. Suppose the police suspected someone of criminal activity, and they had a computer capacity to take pictures of all the intersections that he drove through at different times of day, and they checked his movements and his routes for days. Would that be lawful? allowable, Your Honor. I don't think -- permissible, Your Honor. First of all, you don't have an invasion of -- you don't have a physical intrusion, JUSTICE KENNEDY: You think it would be? MR. LECKAR: I think that would be MR. LECKAR: I think that would be Official me that -- it seems to me you have to answer my question MR. LECKAR: No, Your Honor. As I said there may be video cameras out in public space. The --but we don't have any -- society does not expect -- view it as reasonable to have the equivalent of a million video cameras following you everywhere you go. unlike this case. People nowadays -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have -- you have a targeted invasion. It's over a period of time. It's over a long -- it's over a wide space, and it seems to "yes" to be consistent with what you've said earlier. earlier, you can have an -- you can have an occasional video camera out there. People understand nowadays that accepted. But this is a horse of an entirely different color. This is a small device that enables the government to get information of a vast amount of -- with no -- tethered to no principle. MR. LECKAR: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What an unworkable rule tethered to no principle. A thousand video cameras may JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What an --MR. LECKAR: The camera is one site, one -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What an unworkable rule A few video cameras, people know. They've cropped -- they've cropped up, and they've been Official you couldn't realistically get, because of the vanishingly low cost, because of their pervasive nature, that you should get a warrant any time -- you must get a warrant any time you're going to attach a GPS to a citizen's effect or to a citizen's person. or may not be okay, depending on how large the city is? MR. LECKAR: No, Justice Sotomayor. I think the workable rule and the simplest rule that should be adopted is this: I think the Court should say to the law enforcement agency you came here looking for a rule; we're going to give you a rule. If you want to use GPS devices, get a warrant, absent exigent circumstances or another recognized exception to the Fourth Amendment; because of their capacity for -- to collect data that to Justice Scalia's question, which is you've got to determine that there has been a search first before you impose the warrant requirement. And it seems to me that your -- the warrant requirement applies only with So, while it might seem like a good idea to impose the requirement on this particular technological device, you CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that gets back respect to searches, right? MR. LECKAR: And seizures. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. And seizures. still have to establish that it's a search. as witness this case, every seconds of the day for know you're going to do that and you're a law enforcement agent, then you do what they did originally. You get a warrant. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, we pushed your police agents know -- this is the deliberative process. These devices aren't used for just quick one-off surveillance. They're used to track people over time, days. If you know you're going to do that and you know, Justice Roberts, that this device -- this device has an amazingly invasive power and capacity. If you -- we pushed your friend to the limits of his theory. Your theory, I take it, would apply if you're going to do it for minutes, right? Where's the car? You push a button; it's minutes. You say that's still a Fourth Amendment violation? don't talk to me about how long they're going to be doing it or all the information. We have to test the validity of your theory on the proposition that it violates the Fourth Amendment to do this for minutes. MR. LECKAR: Yes --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, then Official MR. LECKAR: But if you know, if you the MR. LECKAR: I -- I think it does, Your Official Honor, because of the -- society does not expect -- society views it as objectively reasonable not to expect -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have said that several times. How do we tell? I mean, I don't know what society expects. I suppose if you ask people do you think it's a violation of privacy for the police to do this for no reason for a month, maybe they'd come out one way. If you asked the people do you think the police have to have probable cause before they monitor for minutes the movements of somebody they think is going to set off a huge bomb, maybe you get a different answer. look to statutes in several jurisdictions. I think there are seven or eight that said this sort of practice should be prohibited. course, a legislature can take care of this, whether or not there is an invasion of privacy. And they can pick days out of the air. You can't do it for any more than days, or you can't do it to more than -- than people at a time. They can take care of all of that MR. LECKAR: You look to -- you look to the common law. You look to well-established case law. You JUSTICE SCALIA: Excellent. Yes. Of stuff. Official We can't do that in a decision under the --the kind of a problem that you should rely upon MR. LECKAR: That's the same -- that's the MR. LECKAR: We have -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't this precisely Court; give it to Congress. And what this Court there did, it held a Fourth Amendment violation so far as domestic security is concerned and gave Congress suggestions. In this particular case, I could probably give you reasons why not to go to Congress -- under the Fourth Amendment. legislatures to take care of? same -- same problem that the United States advanced before this Court in the United States v. District something, Justice Scalia. What happened was the United States has adopted a shifting position. They came to this Court, and they said we want a workable rule; give Circuit, which you should not do, or give us a workable rule. Now they've said in their brief, oh, let's take it to the legislature. They can't have it both ways. JUSTICE BREYER: Can you take it to Congress the other way? I mean, can you say that a general (Laughter.) MR. LECKAR: -- but let me suggest us a workable rule. You either overrule the D.C. Official MR. LECKAR: Justice Breyer, that was courts to issue special kinds of warrants, that that's a search of this kind is not constitutional under the Fourth Amendment, but should Congress pick out a subset thereof, say, the -- terrorism or where there is reasonable cause or like the FISA court or special different question which we could decide at a later time? That's a negative way of -- I mean, that way favors you in the result, but I've -- I've been looking for -- if there is a way of going to Congress to create the situations where they can do it, rather than the situations where they can't. exactly what Congress -- what happened when the foreign intelligence surveillance courts were created. You hit it right on the nail. All this Court has to do is decide the narrow question before it, which I've articulated several times. Congress's business if it's a -- if it's a purely intrastate operation. Congress can control police practices that don't violate the Fourth Amendment throughout the country? I mean, maybe interstate, interstate beepers and interstate tracking devices, yes, JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't see why it's any of but so long as you track within -- within the State Official MR. LECKAR: No, Your Honor. First of all, are not ignorant of the law, of what they know to be But other legislatures would follow isn't that okay? let me refer to Chief -- to Justice Frankfurter's comments a long time ago in Watts v. Indiana: Justices true as men and women. Congress. But what we have here -- what we have here is a live case of controversy in which Antoine Jones' control of his vehicle was usurped and his car was converted into an electronic GPS transceiver serving the government. be decided. One doesn't need to address technologies could venture down that road. We could discuss drone surveillance. We could discuss balloon surveillance and other types of surveillance. But we don't have to. It's a narrow -- was a warrant in this case. This is a puzzling aspect of the case to me, and maybe there -- it's irrelevant for present purposes. There was a warrant, and the two violations are violations of a statute and a rule, neither of which may carry an exclusionary rule sanction that aren't here before the Court today. You could; we So, that case is here, and it -- it needs to JUSTICE ALITO: There was a warrant -- there reasons -- MR. LECKAR: They had the choice. They JUSTICE ALITO: No, that's not my point. with them or an exclusionary rule penalty with them. violation of the Fourth Amendment. So, it's a little strange that we're deciding whether a warrantless search here would have been unconstitutional, when there was a warrant. could have easily -- they could have gone back to the district judge and said -- given the district judge The point is that the violation of the -day rule and the violation of the statutory prohibition on -- or maybe it's in the rule -- the prohibition on the judge in the District ordering the installation only in the District are not Fourth Amendment requirements. MR. LECKAR: No. That's correct, Your Honor, but what we have -- what we have here is a warrantless intrusion. When -- when the warrant --JUSTICE ALITO: It is not a warrantless effect. At the -- at the time the -- the GPS was placed, Justice Alito, there was no warrant. There's a intrusion; there was a warrant. MR. LECKAR: But the warrant was not in Official It's not clear at all that there was a case this Court decided in the -- Official didn't make it; we need a little more time; give us MR. LECKAR: They could -- they could that period of time. The -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think that's conceded by both sides, and that's accepted by both sides. The warrant expired. There was no warrant. The government certainly could have gone back and said, judge, we more days. conceivably have gone back there and explained to the district judge why they couldn't have installed it in JUSTICE ALITO: I think if you look at the lower court case law, you will find that a violation of the -day rule is not necessarily a violation of the Fourth Amendment. And --MR. LECKAR: I understand that. JUSTICE ALITO: -- it doesn't vitiate the warrant. The warrant doesn't necessarily dissolve or evaporate when the days expire. decision decided during the Prohibition era that specifically said that when a warrant expires, there is no warrant. When the -day rule in that case had expired, there's no warrant. We have a warrantless MR. LECKAR: Your --JUSTICE ALITO: Maybe those cases are wrong. MR. LECKAR: There's a Supreme Court Official the Court to affirm. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, advancing technology cuts in two directions. Technological CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. LECKAR: -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Dreeben, intrusion here. The government didn't have to do a warrantless intrusion. I ask -- minutes. advances can make the police more efficient at what they do through some of the examples that were discussed today: Cameras, airplanes, beepers, GPS. At the same time, technology and how it's used can change our expectations of privacy in the ways that Justice Alito was alluding to. Today perhaps GPS can be portrayed as a -type invasion, but as people use GPS in their lives and for other purposes, our expectations of privacy surrounding our location may also change. For seems too much to me. I mean, if you think about this, and you think about a little robotic device following you around hours a day anyplace you go that's not your home, reporting in all your movements to the that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, that -- that Official one can say that. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kagan, I think the every member of the society. It involves limited surveillance of somebody who was suspected of drug activity -- police, to investigative authorities, the notion that we don't have an expectation of privacy in that, the notion that we don't think that our privacy interests would be violated by this robotic device, I'm -- I'm not sure how Court should decide that case when it comes to it. This was my fundamental point: This case does not involve universal surveillance of every member of this Court or JUSTICE KENNEDY: You probably haven't had the opportunity to go into the cases. A hypothetical. Suppose exactly these facts, only the police aren't involved. A neighbor does it to another neighbor in order to see where that neighbor is going, and when he finds out, he tells his wife and other neighbors. Do you think that in most States, that would be an invasion MR. DREEBEN: I'm willing to assume that it might be, Justice Kennedy, but I don't think that this Court measures the metes and bounds of the Fourth Amendment by State law invasions of privacy. The Court of privacy? has -- Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: We measure it by JUSTICE KENNEDY: It found that there was no expectation of privacy. MR. DREEBEN: Correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I am asking you about this MR. DREEBEN: Yes, but in Greenwood, the Court dealt with a case where California had outlawed expectations of privacy under the Katz test if -- that may or may not be controlling. taking somebody's garbage, and this Court said that did not define an expectation of privacy for purposes of the Fourth Amendment -- case, whether there would be an expectation of privacy -- under tort law. MR. DREEBEN: No, I don't think so. And -- and the fact that something may be a tort for a private person doesn't mean that it's a problem for the police to do it. For example, in the Dow Chemical case, where the police used -- EPA in that case actually used cameras to surveil an industrial plant. There was a claim that it would have violated trade secret law for anybody else to do that. And the Court accepted that MR. DREEBEN: Oh -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- as a general matter Official In Knotts, the Court was very careful to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any idea of how many GPS devices are being used by Federal Government agencies and State law enforcement officials? and said tort law doesn't define the boundaries of the Fourth Amendment. reserve the possibility of -hour surveillance of every citizen in their persons and in their residences, saying we haven't seen that kind of abuse. If that kind of abuse comes up, the legislature is the best-equipped to deal with it, if in fact our society regards that as an unreasonable restriction on -- MR. DREEBEN: The Federal Government I can speak to, and it's in the low thousands annually. It's not a massive universal use of an investigative technique. The FBI requires that there be some reasonable basis for using GPS before it installs it. And as a result, this is a technique that basically supplements visual surveillance rather than supplanting directed at Respondent. The GPS allowed it to be more effective. As Justice Kennedy and, I think, Justice Scalia's hypotheticals illustrated, Respondent is essentially conceding that around-the-clock visual it all together. There was visual surveillance that was Official This Court said in Knotts that police unconstitutionality. The fact that GPS makes it more go out in our cars, our cars have driver's licenses that we carry. We have license plates on the car. These are for the purpose of identification -- surveillance through teams of agents would not have invaded any expectation of privacy. efficiency has never been equated with police efficient for the police to put a tail on somebody invades no additional expectation of privacy that they otherwise would have had. The technology doesn't make something private that was previously public. When we argue that there isn't a possessory interest in who puts some sort. probably be some sort of State law possessory interest -- Mr. Chief Justice, may I finish? But there is no described under the Katz case. This Court has said that trespass is neither necessary nor sufficient to create a Fourth Amendment violation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Dreeben, counsel. seizure for the very reason that Justice Breyer JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You don't seriously something on your car and who -- like a -- a sign of MR. DREEBEN: Oh, I think there would Official The case is submitted. (Whereupon at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial : arbitrary : argue : : : : : : :, : : : argument : :,, :, :, : : : : :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : around-the-cl... Americans : amount : : : amplified : annually : anonymous : article : articulated : : :, bad : : balloon : based : basic : : basically : basis : :, : becoming : beeper : : :,, : : : : : : beepers : A ability : able : : above-entitled : : absent : absolutely : : : agency : agent : : : agents : : : : : aggregate : ago : : : : agrees : : : air : : airplanes : airport : abstract : abuse :, : :, accept : : accepted : Alito : : : access : accomplished : acquired : : : act : : action : activated : activity : : actual : : aside :, asked : : beeps : asking : : began : : :, : answer : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, aspect : : : : :, answered : assume : : :, Antoine : : : : Alito's : : :, : : : : : : : : behalf :, :,, : : : beings : believe : assuming : believes : assumption : attach : attached : best-equipped : : : better : authorities : : : authorized : beyond : allow : Antoine's : :, : anybody : : : : allowable : anybody's : allowed : : : : : : add : addition : additional : address : : : : addressing : alluding : amass : adopt : amassed : adopted : amassing : : : advanced : amazingly : : allows : advances : : advancing : affirm : affixed : age : agencies : Amendment :,, :,,, : :,, :,, : : : :, : :, : apply : appreciate : appropriate : approximate :, :, authorizes anyplace : anyway : apart : Appeals : APPEARAN... :, : available : : : average : avert : applied : : avoid : applies : aware : : : big : block : blow : bomb :, : : bomber : Bond : : booth :, Border : awareness : bottom : a.m : : : : B back : : : : boundaries : bounds : breached : Breyer : :, : : : : : : : car : :, :,, : :,,, :, : :,,, : :,, :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :,, :,, : : : :, card : : : : care : : : : careful : carried : carry :,, : : carrying : cars : : : : : : :, case : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : Breyer's : : bribing : brief : : : : : briefcase : briefs : bring : : broader : broke : budget :, buildings : bumper : bus : business : button : : C C : :, : : California : call : : :, : :,,, called :, calls :, : camera :, :,, :, : :, cameras : : : :,,, : : :,,, : : campaign : capacity : Official :, : : : completely : computer : :, : children : : : chill : :, : chip : :, : chloroform : computers : : : choice : : :, :, : choices : choose : :, : Circuit : : :, :, : circumstance :, concede : conceded : conceding : conceivably : : : cases :, : :, : : : circumstances : : : : : cause : : cited : : :, citizen : : : : : : : : : : cell : : :,,, certain : certainly : : change : : city : claim : Clause : clear : :, : clearly : clock : : closest : clothing : changed : changes : changing :, coat : characteristics citizens :, conduct : citizen's : : : : : : concept : : concern : : : concerned : : : concerns : concludes : confronted : Congress : :, : :,,:,,,: Congress's: consent :,consented : : consequences considerably: consistent : comes : : : : checked : Chemical : :,,, :, : : :, Chief :,, :,, : :,, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : :, :,, :, : :, : : : : :,, collect : color : come : : : : comments : commit : committed : committing common : communities : company : complete : consists : : :, Constitution : : constitutional : : :, : : : Official determine : discussed : discussion : determining dissent : : : : device :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : devices : : : : : dissolve : distance : distinct : distinction : : : distinguished : district : :,,, : doctrine : doing : : : : : dial : dichotomy : domestic : doubt : : Die : difference : : : consult : contain : contributions : control : : : :, : : controlling : controversy : : :, :, : : : : :, : :,, : :, : : :, courts : : :, Court's : : : convenience : cover : conversations create : : : : : converted : created : core : : : credible : corner : correct : credit : : : : : :, : : : : crime : : crimes : criminal : : criterion : cropped : : :, : : : :,, : : : :, :, deal : : : dealer : dealt : debating : decide : : :, :, : decided : : : : deciding : : decision : : : : : define : : deliberative : democratic : deny : department : : cost : : cost-free :, : counsel : : : country : course : : court :, :,, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, different :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : differently :, difficult : difficulty : :, crossed : : crucial : : depend :, currently : depending : depends : cuts : deprivation D: : deprive : deprived : deputies : D :data : : :,, : :, : database :day :, : : :: ::, : : ::days : : :, directed : directions : Deputy : directly : described : : : description : disapproval desirable : detailed-soun... discover : : : detected : detection : discriminatory : discuss :, Dow : dramatic : dramatically : : : dramatizing : draw :, : : Dreeben : :, :,, : :,, :, :, :,,, : :,,: : : : : :,,:,,: :,:,,:,,,: : :,,: : :,,, Official :,, : :,, : : :, :, : :, drive : driver : : driver's : drives : driving : : : : drone : drove : drug : : duration : D.C :,, : : E E : :, earlier : : :, easily : easy : : eaten : effect : : :, : : : : effective : effects :, :, : efficiency : efficient : : : eight : either : : : : electronic : : : element : elevators : emerging : emit : : enabled : enables : : : : enclave : enclaves : encountering : enforcement : : : : : : engage :, : : engaged : enjoyed : enormous : : : enter : : entered : entering : entire : entirely : entitled : envision : EPA : Equal : equally : everybody : : : : everybody's : evidence : : : exactly : : : : : example : : : :, : examples : Excellent : exception : excessive : exclusionary : : exigent : : existed : existence : expand : expect : : : :, : equals : equated : equation : equivalent : expectation : : : : : : :,, : :, :,, :, : era : : :, espoused : : :, ESQ :, : expectations : :, essentially : : : : : establish : : : : :, : expects : : experienced : established : expire : ether : evaporate : expires : event : : explain : expired :, explained : expose : : exposed : expression extraordinarily : : first : : : : : : : : : : : : : : extremely : FISA : eyes : Fface :fact : : fit : floating : Florida : focused : : : :,: :: :: :factor :facts :failed :fair :fallback :fallible :falls :far :,: ::farther :Fathers :favors :FBI : : : :feared :Federal ::feel : : fences :fields : : financial ::find :,:, : : ::finds :fine :finish :follow :,:, : :,,: : :, : followed : :, : following :,: : : : : : footnote : foreign : : former : forward : : found : : Founding : four :,Fourth :,: :,:, : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :,: : : :, : : :,:, : Official :,,, : given : : gives : : Glasgow : go : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : high : highway : : hit : hold : : : : :, : :, historically :, : :,, :,, : :,, holding : : :, : : :,, :,, : : : : : home : : homes : hone : :, : Honor : : grave :, goes : : :, greater : : Greenwood fundamentally going : : : : : : : Frankfurter's : frankly : Free : freely : friend : friends :, front : full : : : : fully : fundamental : : : future : : futuristic : G G : gain : gained : game : garage : garages : garbage : : gather : gathering : general : :,, : : getting :, Ginsburg : : : :, : :, : : :, : give : : : : : :, : : identification : ignorant : ignore : ignored : illustrated : illustrates : implicate : important : : : impose :, impossible : impression : including : indefinitely : Indiana : indicated : indication : indiscriminate indiscriminat... : : individual : : : : : : : : : individualized : : individuals : : individual's : industrial : inefficient : inert : information : : : :,,,: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : horribles : horse : hour : : hours :, : :, :,, :, : house : :, : : houses :, huge : human : : : hundred : : hung : hypothetical hypotheticals : : I:idea : : : ground : : : : : :, :, group : :, : : :, :,,, : : : : Hguess : guidance : good : : : : goodness : gotten : : government : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, government's : GPS : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : hack :handle :hanger :happened :: :: :happens :: :Happy :hard : : :hear : : hearing :heart :heavens :held : : : : ::helicopter ::help : helps : Official infringed : inherently : initial : : inside : : insofar : install : : installation : : : :, : installed : : :, : installing : installs : instance : instances : instrument : integrity : intelligence : intense : interest : : :, :, : : :, interested : interestingly : interests :, :, : : interference interferences : : interior : interpreted : intersections :, interstate : :, intolerable : intrastate : intrusion : : :, :, intrusions : intrusive : invade : : invaded : invades : invasion : Jones : : : : : : : : : : journey :,, journeys :, judge : : :, : :, jurisdictions : : investigate : : : invidious : involve : invasions : invasive : investigative : : : :,, : :, :,,, Justice : : :, :, : : : : :,,,, : :, : : : : :,, : : :, :, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, : :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, :,, :, :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, irrelevant : issue : : : : :, : : : involved : : :,, : : involves : : : : issues : item : J involving : : : : Kennedy's kept : kidnappings : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :,, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :, : :, : : :, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, Knotts :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : kind : : kinds : : : : knew : : : : Justices : J.L : KKagan :,: ::, : :Karo :,: : : : :: :: :,,: :Katz : : : :: : : keep : : Kennedy :, :,, know :,: : : :,,: : : :,:,,: :,,:, : : knowledge : Llarge : : Laughter : : :,: : :law :,,, : : :, legislatures : long : : Official : : : : : : : look : : :, : : : : : :, : : meaning : meaningful : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : :, month :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, meant : : months :, :, : measure : means : looking : : : : : : morning : measures : mosaic : mosque : motions : motivated : memories : movement : : : : : lose : lost : : men : lot :, : mentioned : mere :, movements : Lots : love : metes : low : : method : lower : : methods : luggage : member : :, Leckar : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : lawful : laws : leads : : leaps : learned : leave : : :,,, :, : :,, :,,, :,, :,, :, : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, : :, : : : :, : :, :, : legal : legislated : legislation : legislative : legislature : : : : : lengths : letter : letters : let's :, : : liberties : license :, :,, :, : :, : licenses : lights : likelihood : limit : : : : limited : : :, : limiting : limitless : : limits :, : : : line :, : : : line-drawing : listen : listening : little : : :, : : : : live : : : lives : local : : location : : : : :, : : London : Mmachine ::,machines ::magistrate :making : : manual : manufacturers : man's : marginally : market : Maryland : massive : matter : : : : : : mean : : : : MICHAEL : :, : : mike : million : : mind : : ministry : : Minnesota : minutes : :, : : mixing :,moments : money : monitor : : :,: monitored : : : : : monitoring :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : moving : : NN :, : NACDL :nail :narrow ::, : : :narrowed :narrows :nation :nature :near :necessarily :: :,necessary :: :need : Official : : : officers : : :, : owned :, owner :,, needs : : officials : negative : oh : : neighbor : : : : : : :,, neighborhood : okay : neighbors : neither : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : network : Oliver : omen : networking once : : :, : : : : never : new : : : : nonworking : normal : note : notion :, November : nowadays : number : :, : numbers : O O : : object : objectively : : obligation : observe : observed : : : obtained : obtaining : : obtains : occasional : occasionally : officer :, one's : one-off : open : : : : operation : opportunity : opposed : oppressive : oral : :, : : : order : : ordering : original : originally : : : ounces : outer : outlawed : outrage : outside : overcoat : : : : overly : overrule : : : :, PP :package :packages :PAGE :paid :painted :papers :,:parade :parked :,parse :part : : particular :: :: :: :particularly:party :pass :paw :peace :pen :, : : :penalty :people :: :,: :: ::, : : :: :,: :: ::, : :, : :,,:people's :: :percent :period :, : : periods : permissible : permission : :, permit : permitted : person : : :,,, : placed : placement : : : : plant : plate :,:, : : :,,plates : : : :,, : please : : : : : : : : plus : point : : : :, : : persons :, pointed : police : : person's : : : pervasive : : : : Petitioner : : :, : : phone : : :, :,, phones :, physical :, :,, : physically : : pick : : : : : picked : pictures : : : : :, : : :,:, : : :, :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :,:, : : :,:, : : : : :,: :,: : :, : : :,:, : :,pool : populationpiece : pinch : place : : portrayed : : :,, : : : : poses : position : :, : Official : : : : : possession : possessions : possessory : : :, :, : :, possibilities : : possibility : possible :, : : potential : : potentially : power : practice : : : practices : precept : precisely : prepared : present : : presented : : : presents : preserve : pretty : prevent : previously : pre-computer pre-Internet : : principal : principle : : : : : :, principled : principles : :, privacy : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, :, private :, : : : : : privilege : probable : : : :, : : : : probably : : :, : : : : : : problem :, : :, : : : : :, : problems : process : produce : produces : : : prohibited : : prohibition : :, : prologue : property : :, : :, proposition : : protect : : :, : :, :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : : puts : protected :, Putting : : : puzzling : Q : :, provide : :, : protects : protection : : : : :, quantity : question : : : : :, protections : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, provides : provision : public :, :,,, : :, :,,, : : : : :,,,, quite : : :,, : : : : : : : questions : quick : questioning Quon : R : :, : : : R pull : pulls : purely : : purpose : : : purposes : : : push : : pushed :, put : : :, : : : radio : : raise : raised : Rakas :, ranging : rarely : rationale : : :,, read : reading : ready : reaffirmed : real : : realistically : reality : really : :, : : :, : : reason : : : : : : : reasonable : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : reasonableness reasons : : : rebuttal : :, : received : receiver : recognize : recognized : : : : : record : : : : records : : refer : : : : : regard : regardless : Official regards : register :, : : registers : reject : :, relevant : rely : remedy : : rendering : replaces : reporting : require : : requirement : :, : requirements : requires : reservations : reserve : residence : residences : resolved : : resources : respect : : : respects : Respondent : : : : :, Respondents : response : responsive : rest : restriction : : result :, : : reveals : reversed : review : rid : ridiculous : : right : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : S : : safeguard : : sanction : satellites : : save : saying : : : : : :, : : : says : : : : : : : rights : road : roads : : roadway : : : roadways : : : : : :,,,, :,, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,, : :, : Roberts :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, Scalia's : : :, :,, : :, : scary :,, scenario : : : : : secret : secretly : secure : : : security : see : :, : : : : : : : : : seeing :, seeks : seen : : signs : Silverman : : simple : : simplest : simply : : : : single : sit : site : sites : situation : :, situations : :, :, seizure :, size :, : : : : : slap : :, : slight : : : :,,, slightly : :, : : : seizures : : : : :, smartphones slip : small : sends : sense : serious :, seriously : : Scalia :, : seized :,, : snapshots : sneaked : sneaky :, social : society : : : :, : :,, : : Solicitor : somebody : : : : : : :, : : : : somebody's : :, : :,,,: :, robotic : : : robotically round-the-clock : : serving : set : seven : share : scenarios : search : : : :,, : :, : :, shifting : : :, short : :,, :, : :, : : : : : : : show :, showed : showing : shows : sides :, sign : signals : significant route :, routes : rule : : : :,, : :, : :, searches : : : :,, :, : SSecond : seconds : Official supposed : suppress : sounds :, STEPHEN : Supreme :, : : : : : : : : : :, : telephone :, : : tell : : tells : terms : terrorism : : : test : : testing : tethered : : thank :,: : : theory :,:,,: :,:,,:,,thereof : they'd : : thing : :, : : : : things : : : : : : : : : think :,:, : : :,: :,: : :, : : :,: :,: :,: : : sorry : : : : sort : : : sorts : Sotomayor : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : State's : : : State-owned : :, :, : :,, station : :,, statute : : :, :, : statutes : statutory : :, : step : : : : South : so-called : space :, speak : special : : : specifically : : : speed :, speeding : : spell : spelled : spike : sport : staked : stand : standard : : : stands : Start :, started : : State : : : : : : statement : States :,, :,, : : : Stewart's : stick : sticker : stop : : : : : : stopped : stops : strange : stranger : street : : streets : : :, : : strong : stuff : : : subject : :, subjecting : submitted : : subset : substitute : suddenly : sue : sufficient : : suggested : suggesting : : : suggestion : suggestions supplanting supplements : : : suppose :, : : :, : : : sure : : : : surely : surreptitious : surreptitiously : : : : : surrounding : surveil : :, : surveillance :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : :,, :, : :, : suspect : : : : suspicion : : : : :, :,, :, : system : systems : : TT :,tail : :, :, : take : : : :: :: :,:,,taken :,:takes :,: :talk :,: :talking :,:,target :targeted :targeting ::team : : teams ::technical :: :,: :,:,technique ::,techniques:technological: :technologies:suggest : suspected : technology :, Official : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : : third : thought :, : : thousand : thousands : threat :, threats : tile : time : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, : times : : : : : : : : :, told :, tomorrow : tort :, touched : : : track : : : : : : : : : : tracking : : : : : : : trade : traditional : uncomfortable unable : : traffic :, transceiver : unconsented : : unconstitutio... transferred : transmitter : unconstitutio... : : : trash : : traveled : traveling : : : : : : underside : understand : : : : : : : : : understanding trespass :, :, :,, : :,, Undoubtedly : :, :, : uninvited : :, : :,, : : : : :,, :, : :, : trespasses : trespassing : unique : unit : United :,, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, trip :, :, universal : trips : : : true : : unknowingly : trump : trying : Tuesday : two : : : : : : type : types : U ubiquitous : unlimited : unquestionably : : unreasonable : : :, : : :,,, : :, : unreasonable... :,unworkable tip : tips : : today : : trial : : :, upset : urged : urgent : use : :, violate :, viewed : : views : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, :,, : : : : uses : usurped : U-turns : Vv : :,, :, : : :: :: :: : : :validity :vanishingly:: violated : : : : violates : : violating : violation : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :,: violations : : violator : virtually : virtue : visual : : : : : : :,,visually : vitiate : voluntary : Wvariety :vast :vehicle :,: :,: : : wafer :,want : : : : : : : : : ::, : : :: :, : :ventilator :venture : video :, :, : :,,, : wanted : : view : : : : : : : : : :: :warrant :,:, : : :, : : : : : : : , : : :,, : : :, :,, : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, :,, :,,, :,, warrantless :,, : : warrants : : : Washington : :, : wasn't : : wasting : watch : : watched : Watts : way : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, ways :, : : week : weighs : well-established : went : : : : weren't : we'll : : : : we're : : : : : :, : :, : : we've : : : whatsoever Whren : : : wide : wife : willing : : win :, wiretapping : : Wisconsin : witness : women : wonder : word : words : : work : : : : workable : : :, : working : world : : worry :, worse : worthwhile : wouldn't : : : : : wrong : : : : X x :, : Y year : years : : :, York : Z Official zero :, : : : :, : :, : :, -day : :, - : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : -type : : : : : : :, : : : -hour : : : / : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : 