 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKANSAS, Plaintiff :: v. COLORADO. : No. , Orig. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -X Washington, D.C. Monday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN B. DRAPER, ESQ., Special Assistant Attorney General, Santa Fe, New Mexico; on behalf of the Plaintiff. DAVID W. ROBBINS, ESQ., Denver, Colorado; on behalf of the Defendant. JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc. --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC PAGE C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN B. DRAPER, ESQ. On behalf of the Plaintiff DAVID W. ROBBINS, ESQ. On behalf of the Defendant JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the United States REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN B. DRAPER, ESQ. On behalf of the Plaintiff th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argument now in No. Original, Kansas v. Colorado. Mr. Draper. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN B. DRAPER ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF MR. DRAPER: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you, and may it please the Court: Kansas would like to address three issues today. years of success of the Court's river masteron the Delaware River and years of success of theCourt's river master on the Pecos River demonstrate thewisdom of appointing a river master under appropriatecircumstances on a river like the Arkansas River, which isthe subject of this case. Secondly, the Court should affirm the neutralprinciple that prejudgment interest accrues on all damagesowing at the time interest begins to run. And third, a -year compliance period would beconsistent with the Court's prior rulings in this case andwould preserve an essential right of Kansas and itsfarmers under this -- this compact that would otherwise belost under the master's recommendation of a -yearaccounting period. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC With respect to this accounting period, I wouldnote that in both prior opinions in this case, this Courthas relied on the annual results of the Hydrologic­Institutional Model, which is the standard for compactcompliance in this case. In the first opinion in , this Courtdistinguished between monthly and -- and seasonal use ofthe model, deciding that monthly use was too frequent, butthat seasonal reliance on the model for determininguseability under article IV-D of the compact wasreasonable. When the case was back here in , this Courtreviewed the calculation of damages, which was done on ayearly basis. As you can imagine, the factors that gointo calculation of damages vary from year to year, and soit is crucial whether the depletions calculated by the H­I Model, as it's called, are accurate, sufficientlyaccurate, and reasonable to rely upon on an annual basis. JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Draper, correct me if I'mwrong. I -- I looked at these papers a while ago. Ithought they did it on a -year basis and they just movedit up each year, using a different years to calculatethe -- the relevant amounts in the th year. MR. DRAPER: That is correct, Your Honor. It is a moving accumulation of years of results. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE STEVENS: So they do use years offigures to determine what the relevant year's water wouldbe. MR. DRAPER: That's correct, Your Honor. Inother words, the -- the annual determination includes themost current year for which there is data and the previous years, adds all those up, nets out the pluses andminuses, and that determines whether in the year inquestion there is compliance with the compact. JUSTICE SCALIA: This will begin in , as I recall. Is that -­ MR. DRAPER: That is the special master's proposal, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And what I don't understand is even -- even if we agree with you that it should be doneannually, why -- why wouldn't you propose that it be doneannually using the previous years' experience that wenow have and then, you know, ultimately by , we canuse the previous years? I -- I don't understand why wehave to do it year by year and forego even years'benefit of -- of this methodology. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I couldn't agree withyou more in the sense that we should begin now with theaccounting so that you look each year at the results ofthis standard, which has been approved by the Court, for th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC compact compliance in that year only, and if -- if youaccumulate it -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: No. That -- that's -- I saidjust the opposite. I said I -- I don't know why we shouldbegin looking for this -- at this year only using thismethodology. Why shouldn't we average this methodologyover the previous years? MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, averages will tend tosmooth out the results and will hide the effects duringdry years, which is when the farmers in Kansas, who arethe beneficiaries that Kansas intended to benefit -- andboth parties realize that. They need this water -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your method -- yourmethod will over-emphasize the dry years. So either wayyou have a -- a imperfect situation. In your case, yearby year, and in a dry year, Colorado perhaps must over­compensate, and if you have, say, dry years in a row,then it's going to be -- work out to Colorado'sdisadvantage. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I believe the -- the result is the -- is the opposite. If I may explain. The model, the -- the Hydrologic-InstitutionalModel, has been made as unbiased as possible. The oneaspect in which we have identified a bias is that itfavors Colorado during dry years. It tends to th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC underestimate the depletions that would have to bereplaced by Colorado. JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's the method that you'reattacking, but if you were to do it year by year, wouldn'tit be just the reverse? MR. DRAPER: We don't believe that aspect of themodel would be any different if we're doing it year byyear. We'd simply be taking the results that arecalculated each year under either approach and use thosein that year so that if you have a dry year, you are -­are calculating in that year whether there is complianceand staying as close as possible to the true intent of thecompact, which is to provide water when the farmers needit. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you -- do you dispute what-- what the master found here, that the methodology ismore accurate on a -year average than it is year byyear? MR. DRAPER: No, Your Honor. The longer theperiod of time you take, the more the accumulated resultsof the model will match the measured -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: The actual year-by-year results. Right? MR. DRAPER: Yes, and I should point out that it's impossible to know what the right answer is. You can th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- you can measure the flows and the diversions in theriver and compare that to one of the runs of this model,but it's the difference between the two runs, onerepresenting the compact condition, which is supposed tobe met, and the other representing the situation with thewells operating. And it's the difference between thosetwo whose accuracy is in question. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but I -- I -­ MR. DRAPER: And no one knows what that is. JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that -- that themaster concluded that even as to a particular year, themodel will be more accurate if you use the average fromthe previous years than if you just applied the modelto a single year, that even as to the real results forthat single year, the model will be more accurate if youuse a -year average. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I don't understand itthat way. If you use years, you are adding to the mostrecent year results years of pluses and minuses that'sgoing to, in most case, mask what happened during thatnext previous year. You will be looking at a -yearaccumulation of ups and downs and not analyzing whathappened in -- in the year in question. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is part or all of the objectives of both the -- the decree and the -year model th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to conserve subsurface reservoirs? MR. DRAPER: Not -- not directly, Your Honor. It -- it does preserve that reservoir in fact becausedepletion of that reservoir affects the stream flows, andit's the stream flows that are compacted here and thathave up to now -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then -- well, then whyisn't -- if -- if that's so, why isn't it that Coloradoshouldn't get credit for the wet years in -- in -- on anaverage? You're concerned about the dry years. It seemsto me that Colorado should be given some credit for thewet years when the subterranean reservoirs are -- arereplenished. Or am I wrong -- am I wrong about that? MR. DRAPER: I think in general, Your Honor, youare -- are correct. The question about there are over­deliveries by Colorado, I believe is what you'readdressing, is there -- is there a way to give Coloradocredit for that. And there is a way. There is a -- a -­an account in John Martin Reservoir, which is milesabove the State line, for those deliveries. When they aredelivered there, if there is more delivered than isactually needed in that year to achieve compactcompliance, that can be retained there and, except for asmall effect of evaporation, is available to offsetdepletions in the following year. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I thought that the compactspecifically provided there shall be no allowance oraccumulation of credits or debits for or against eitherState. MR. DRAPER: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how does that comportwith what you just said? MR. DRAPER: Under those circumstances, thewater that would be delivered to this offset account inJohn Martin Reservoir is not a credit that's accountedunder the compact for that year. So it would not enterinto the compact accounting for that year. It would notconstitute a -- a credit, but it would be available as apractical matter to be used as a credit in the next yearfor current depletions. So there would be no carryover incompact accounting. JUSTICE SOUTER: I don't -- I don't understandthat statement. You say it would be available to be usedas a credit in a subsequent year. Do you really mean itwould be used as a credit, or do you mean it would simplybe there to be used? MR. DRAPER: I think your formulation, Your Honor, is -- is more correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: Okay. MR. DRAPER: It would be there to be used, and th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it would not be a credit for accounting purposes. Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if it's not a credit foraccounting purposes, then they're going to owe you just asmuch the next year even though -- even though you had morewater the previous year. MR. DRAPER: This is under the assumption, YourHonor, that they have already met their obligations in thecurrent year. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. DRAPER: And it will be available as apractical matter to meet their obligations in a subsequentyear and be accounted in that subsequent year. I would point out that this is very importantfor Kansas farmers that the -- the water be received when it is supposed to be delivered under the compact. Ifwater is -- is not delivered, as required, in one year, itcannot be recouped in a following year, certainly not years later, as would be possible under the specialmaster -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then why are you using a -year model at all? MR. DRAPER: It's not a -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me what you're -­what you're saying is forget the years. Just do itevery year. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DRAPER: That's what we are saying, YourHonor. And the model is inherently a yearly model. Itcalculates actually results on a monthly basis, and wehave used it -- and the Court has relied upon it -- on ayearly basis up to now. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why don't you do it on amonthly basis? Indeed, why don't you do it on a dailybasis? I mean, the master found that this model reallyworks if you -- if you stretch it out over years. You say year. Why don't you do it month by month? MR. DRAPER: Well, it -- it could be done thatway, and in fact, Your Honor, Colorado uses parts of thissame model in its own administration of groundwaterpumping, the same groundwater pumping for purposes ofprotecting Colorado surface water users, and it requiresreplacement of water on a monthly basis. So it is -- itis possible. But we believe with the yearly accumulation that-- that we have relied upon so far in this case and thatthe Court has relied upon specifically for damages, thatthat is an appropriate accounting period for thisparticular purpose. And that is -- that is our proposal. The proposal of Colorado is no, let's wait years before-- and -- and accumulate it with the other years beforewe require any replacement. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I would point out that the H-I Model, theHydrologic-Institutional Model, is the best tool availablefor this purpose. It was endorsed by Colorado after theCourt's first opinion in this case when it -- the Courtapproved using the model on a seasonal basis for theseasonal accounting of useability. At that time, Coloradogave up its own model in favor of the Hydrologic­Institutional Model, and as you can see from the master'sreport, there have been several significant improvements in the model since that time. I would also point out the correspondence -- theclose correspondence that exists between this case and thePecos River litigation in the 's. There you had acompact that like this compact did not specify anyspecific quantity of water in the compact itself, butindicated that there was to be no depletions beyond thedepletions that were occurring at the time of the compactwith a few small amendments that I could -- I couldmention. But the basic similarity of the compacts is thatthe status quo at the time of the compact was maintained. There was an inflow/outflow relationship that needed to beobserved and was required to be observed by the compact. It was expressed explicitly in the Pecos River compact bya reference to an inflow/outflow method. In this case, it th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was expressed implicitly in article IV-D of the compact. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The master found thatthe role of the river master in the Pecos case was quitedifferent than the role of the river master you want tohave appointed here. He found that the role of the rivermaster in the Pecos cases was really ministerial. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, we do not agree withthat. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You don't agree with what? MR. DRAPER: With the description of the PecosRiver master as being -- as having only ministerialduties, and I can explain why. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Please do. MR. DRAPER: Yes. if -- if you refer to theappendix of our -- our blue brief, on page A-, you willsee that the opening section of the Pecos River master'smanual sets out the inflow/outflow relationship that is tobe observed in complying with that compact. This is theform of an equation. You can see y equals and a -- and anumber there. In -- in our case, we have the -- theHydrologic-Institutional Model, which benefits fromseveral decades of increased sophistication in hydrologicanalysis to do the same job. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The Pecos master cansimply apply this formula, can he not, and get the resultsthat the compact requires? MR. DRAPER: He -- he is to apply the formula,Your Honor, but there's a great deal of judgment,professional, expert judgment that needs to be exercisedin order to apply it. For example, you have to separateflood flows from base flows. When you look at the -- atthe results of a -- of a gauge on a river, you can see howmuch water was in the river at particular times, but thishas to be separated into two different kinds of flows thatare treated differently under this compact. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Well, one of thereasons I'm curious is that I believe the Pecos master is an engineer. He's not a lawyer. MR. DRAPER: That's correct. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: He's also the cheapest master we've ever had. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: But it seems to methat the master you want appointed has got to be a lawyerand make legal decisions. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I don't believe so. I think our master would be just as cheap. (Laughter.) th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE SOUTER: What's the difference -­ JUSTICE BREYER: No. The question was whatabout the -­ JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what relation do youor -- yes -- working relation do you anticipate, if -- ifthe river master is appointed, between the river masterand the commission? Does he go first to the commissionand try to get agreement or -­ MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, no, he would notformally interact with the commission, just as the PecosRiver master does not formally interact with the PecosRiver commission. JUSTICE SOUTER: Well, what can -- what can theriver master do that the -- that the commission or authority can't do? I -- is the difference between thetwo of them -- call it a jurisdictional difference -- nil,but there is process difference in the sense that theriver master could say do this or don't do that, whereasyour -- your fear is that the authority is simply going tobe deadlocked because everything has to be doneunanimously? Is it a process difference? MR. DRAPER: It is a process difference, Your Honor. The -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But for that, you wouldn't be asking for a river master then. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DRAPER: Well, if there were anauthoritative way, such as a river master, by which theannual recurring exercise of judgment could beaccomplished, we would not need the river master. But Idon't -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: But aren't you bypassing whatCongress set up? You have this interstate compact andthis commission, which you're saying, well, it'sineffective because it has to -- there are three from eachState and it has to do everything unanimously. But whatabout the commission's authority to call in an -- anarbitrator when they are deadlocked? MR. DRAPER: That decision also requiresunanimity, Your Honor, and in the one case I'm aware of,Kansas' suggestion of doing an arbitration was rejected byColorado. It's -- but it's -- it takes unanimity to doanything under that compact administration, including thearbitration option. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're saying Congress -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Draper, could I ask youwhat is a matter of procedure? What is your understandingof -- of how one would go about challenging the rivermaster's decision if one disagreed with it? Do you go tothe special master? Do you come direct to this Court? MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, we have suggested that th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it be set up just as you have set up the Pecos Rivermaster. In other words, if there were an objection to thedetermination, the yearly determination, of the rivermaster, it would be reviewable by this Court. JUSTICE STEVENS: Directly. MR. DRAPER: Directly. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the special master wouldbe out. The special master would be out of the picture,as you describe it. You -- the special master would be finished. The river master would take over. Has there ever been -- has this Court everappointed a river master when the special master did notrecommend it? And as I understand both Delaware and thePecos River case, the special master recommended theappointment of a river master. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I believe in both ofthose cases, the -- the special master was recommendingthe appointment of a river master, but I would point outthat in setting out the criteria for appointing a rivermaster, the Court did not refer to that factor as -- asbeing part of the consideration. JUSTICE SCALIA: As I understand the system youpropose, the river master's decision would be appealableto us, and we would review it de novo. Is that right? MR. DRAPER: We're suggesting the same scope of th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC review as on the Pecos, which is clearly erroneous. This,however, is something that the Court could decide to dodifferently than the Pecos, but the clearly erroneousstandard comports with the -- the way masterrecommendations are handled in the district court underrule . JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm very loathe to depriveeither of the States of their -- their right to have thisCourt decide matters between them. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, this would not deprive either State of that right. And in fact -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it would if they can onlycome here and -- and overturn the river master if he'sclearly erroneous. That's a -- that's a very highstandard. MR. DRAPER: Well, there -- as I say, the Court -- the Court may set the review threshold as it sees fit. JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I had thought that yourproposal was de novo review. This is -- this is new tome, that -- that you want it clearly erroneous. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I would -- I would saythat we have -- we have mentioned the clearly erroneousreview standard because it was in the Pecos framework. Itis not essential to our proposal. A de novo review wouldbe perfectly fine with the State of Kansas. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the commission decidedto appoint an arbitrator. Would the special -- pardon me. Would the river master then proceed independently and we'dhave two different recommendations? MR. DRAPER: As under the Pecos, Your Honor, ifthe -- if the compact administration, as it's called inthe -- in the Arkansas Basin, is able to come to aresolution of an issue, then that would -- that would takecare of that issue. It would be -- not be necessary tohave the river master address that, and it would be anagreement of the States because it would either be anagreement because they had literally agreed before the -­or in the form of the Arkansas River CompactAdministration or that they had agreed to bindingarbitration and had settled it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then it would seem tome, procedurally at least, the river master would have ifnot the legal, at least the practical obligation to referthings first to the commission. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, the referral of mattersto the commission is why we're here in the first place. It cannot act without unanimity. The State of Colorado,the State in possession of this resource, can veto eachand every action of the compact administration. JUSTICE SCALIA: That was the deal. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC JUSTICE SOUTER: Your -- yes. Your State agreedto it. JUSTICE SCALIA: That was the deal they came to. Why should we kick it over? They came to thatarrangement, and it was approved by Congress, and now youcome back and tell us, oh, this is too cumbersome. Youshould -- you should appoint this river master to do anend run around it. I -- I -- it doesn't seem to me to befair. MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I don't believe thatthis is an end run any more than the enforcement of thecompact is an end run around the administrative body thatis set up in many of these compacts. Those are keep-in-touch type bodies. If they can agree on things, they arevery useful, and the Arkansas River Compact Administrationhas been useful in areas where there can be agreement. JUSTICE SOUTER: No, but you -- you agree thatthis is the -- the authority here is more than a keep-in-touch group. Your problem with it is -- is not that youneed something more than keep in touch, but that when youask them to do something more than keep in touch, theother State has a veto. And -- and that simply gets youto Justice Scalia's objection. That's the deal you made. MR. DRAPER: That is the -- that is the nub of our argument against reliance on the Arkansas River th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Compact Administration, that you can't look at it tosettle differences about the implementation of thisCourt's decree. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did the special -­ MR. DRAPER: That is a -­ JUSTICE GINSBURG: What did the special mastermean when he said he recognized the unanimous voteproblem, but he said, but the climate may be changing? The compact administration under the chairmanship of theUnited States representative may again be seen as the bestway to administer their compact and settle issues. Whatwas he talking about? MR. DRAPER: Your Honor, I think he was talkingabout the hope that he has that the States could work morecooperatively now, despite the fact that it was on thisriver between these two States that this Court was firstasked to resolve interstate river disputes between Statesin , and we are here today still in dispute over thisriver. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So there was nothing tangible behind his -­ MR. DRAPER: Nothing tangible, Your Honor. We -- perhaps he was thinking of the settlementthat we have achieved on the Republican River. That casestarted, was accepted by this Court. After rulings by th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court, it became possible to settle that case. Ithas now been settled. And the States involved in thatlitigation were Kansas, Nebraska, and Colorado. It waspossible in that -- in that context. It has provenimpossible in this context. And we can expect disputes to go on, as theyhave over the last century, if we do not have an impartialexpert authority to resolve disputes between States thatare going to come up every year. Every year there arequestions. How do you take the data this year and put itinto the H-I Model? While many of those issues have beensettled, because different forms of replacement and otherdifferent circumstances arise, you have those every year. And if you follow the lead that the Pecos Rivercases of this Court give us, there is also the possibilityto address the improvement of the tool for implementingthe agreement of the States, and that is improving theHydrologic-Institutional Model on occasion, as we haveseen the master do over the course of this litigation. That is allowed under the Pecos River Decree, and wesubmit that it should be allowed under this decree aswell. And that is when the master would be exercising themost judgment in our opinion. I would conclude by saying that a -- a river master is needed on the Arkansas to deal impartially and th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC expertly with annual questions that must be resolved toimplement the H-I Model, and that a -year complianceperiod will implement the intentions of the drafters ofthe compact and the needs of Kansas farmers and isconsistent with the yearly reliance that this Court hasalready placed on the H-I Model. I'll reserve the rest of my time for rebuttal ifthere are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Very well, Mr. Draper. Mr. Robbins, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID W. ROBBINS ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT MR. ROBBINS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: I think I will begin by discussing the river master since that's where Mr. Draper left off. I want to make it clear, first of all, that Idisagree with the assertion that the Pecos River Compactand the Arkansas River Compact are similar in the way theyoperate. The Pecos River Compact did, in fact,specifically state that it was -- it intended to hold thelevel of -- of depletion of the system by man'sdevelopment to the condition. The Arkansas RiverCompact, to the contrary, begins the -- the limitationclause by saying it is not intended to impede or prevent th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC future beneficial development of the Arkansas Basin,provided that the waters of the Arkansas River are notmaterially depleted in useable quantity for existing usefor the uses. So the -- the Arkansas compact contemplatedthat there would be a -- a more flexible effort at usingthe water of the river by water users in both States,protecting the existing uses in both States from thatfuture development. Now, this -- this Court has appointed a rivermaster in two circumstances. In both circumstances, aspointed out by Justice Ginsburg, the -- the special masterrecommended that because of the specific circumstances ofthe case, that in fact a river master was appropriate. That was on the Delaware River and the Pecos River. Inall other cases that deal with this issue where requestshave been made by -- by States without river -- without aspecial master's recommendation, the Court has declined toappoint a river master. There's a very good reason, Ithink, behind that. Colorado alone is the party denying interstatecompacts in two equitable apportionment decrees. If everytime a State is dissatisfied with its neighbor, isdissatisfied with how a compact operates, it is able tocome to this Court and say, please appoint a river master,we're just having trouble with our neighbor, you'll become th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the water management -- the super water management agencyfor the country. You have river masters if you -- it'stotally up to -- to your discretion. But if you were tofollow this line of thinking, you end up supervising waterdistribution across the west and part of the east. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the disputes are going tocome up here eventually anyway if the States areintransigent. Ultimately it will be a dispute about theapplication of the compact and it will come back here anyway, won't it? MR. ROBBINS: Justice Scalia, that is absolutelycorrect, but the difference is where compacts havemechanisms within them that are designed to work out thesedifferences, I think it is in the Court's interest -- and Colorado's position is and the special master's positionwas it was in the Court's interest -- to refer thesematters back to those compact administrations. You -- JUSTICE O'CONNOR: Counsel, do you think it'sany more likely today than in the past that the two Stateswill be able to work out their continued disagreements? MR. ROBBINS: Justice O'Connor, I agreecompletely with the special master. The State of Coloradohas proposed, as referred to in his ruling, that bindingarbitration be used and has committed itself toparticipate in that. To the extent there -- there have th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC been past conflicts, Colorado has said let's get thembehind us. Let's return to the compact, congressionallysanctioned method for resolving our differences, and let'sproceed down the road. We will -- JUSTICE SOUTER: But -- but Colorado still hasthe veto in any given case on whether an arbitrator willbe appointed. Is that right? MR. ROBBINS: That is -- under the compact,that's correct. JUSTICE SOUTER: Yes, yes. MR. ROBBINS: And so -- but -- but Colorado hasmade a -- a very clear commitment to the special masterand does so to this Court that if arbitration is proposed,Colorado would participate. We do not as a State find itvery acceptable to spend the time, money, and effort tolitigate these issues. After all, we have farmers. Kansas has farmers. We need to get back to getting thewater equitably resolved through the compact mechanism. That is our proposal. It was -­ JUSTICE BREYER: So is it right then that -­let's imagine the special river master's name is Mr.Smith, and unlike me, he knows about this stuff. And hethen -- you -- Kansas wants Mr. Smith to decide a certainnumber of issues. Call them issues on page , whateverthey are. And as far as you're concerned, your client th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would say I'm happy to have Mr. Smith. Just don't callhim a river master. Call him an arbitrator. So you'resaying that when Kansas says they would do it exceptthere's a problem of getting unanimity, you say the onlyproblem is that you won't agree. MR. ROBBINS: At the present time, that's theposture -­ JUSTICE BREYER: Now, they're the obstacle tounanimity. So the keys are in their own pocket if they want Mr. Smith. That's your view. MR. ROBBINS: Our view is if they want toarbitrate pursuant to the compact, the keys are in their-- in their pocket. We do not believe -- JUSTICE BREYER: So the problem can't be one of unanimity because your side agrees. I mean, you heardwhat he said. So I'm -- I'm trying to see -­ MR. ROBBINS: Our side agrees, Your -- JusticeBreyer, with -- with the concept that this matter shouldbe returned to the compact administration to resolve thedifferences in that forum. JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and in that forum, you will agree to binding arbitration. MR. ROBBINS: In that forum, we will agree to binding arbitration. JUSTICE SCALIA: Binding arbitration will -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC will mercifully keep this stuff off of our desk, won't it? MR. ROBBINS: Yes, it will. (Laughter.) MR. ROBBINS: I want -- I want to make it veryclear to the Court that the State of Colorado, differentthan the situation in the Pecos River, acted veryaggressively to ensure that it promptly came intocompliance with the -- with the determination that in factdepletions were occurring, impermissible depletions wereoccurring to the Arkansas River. Within years, theState of Colorado's legislature had passed the appropriatelegislation. The State engineer had passed rules andregulations, implemented them, and enforced them. TheState had authorized millions of dollars in loans for the acquisition of replacement water, and -- and the State ofColorado -- your -- your ruling was in . By , itappears that the State of Colorado was in compliance withthe compact. That is a significant and very difficulteffort on the part of the legislature, the Governor, theattorney general, and the State engineer. We do not believe that this is anything like thePecos River. Your master in this case has not said to youthese parties are -- are torn, will not get together, andyou need to have a master, a river master, appointed. Inthis instance, the State of Colorado took the exact th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC opposite approach. They did everything they could toreduce the pumping of the wells sufficiently to allowColorado to meet the terms of the compact, and that is animportant fact you need to glean from the special master'sreport. Now, the -- the other -- the only other point Iwant to make on this is that the -- the -- it's -- it'svery important, in deciding whether or not a river masteris the appropriate course of action to determine -- and I-- I mentioned this earlier -- whether or not the Courtwants to be in a supervisory position. I happen to agreethat the States are entitled to seek redress of theirconcerns before this Court, and as you said in -- inOklahoma v. New Mexico, you have a serious obligation toadjudicate disputes between the States where there areactual and existing controversies. And -- and the factthat you would have a river master would not eliminate thepotential for those controversies. In our view, the onlyway that you can get this matter off of your plate andinto the position that Congress recognized and -- anddirected is to follow the special master's recommendationnumber . I'd now like to turn, if I may, to the issue of the accuracy of the model. JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask you a question, th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because you may not bother to talk about it otherwise,about punitive damages? Your opponent didn't seem tothink it very important, but I have this question. Is ityour view that the other State waived its claim to thepunitive damages from back either by not arguing ittoday or by submitting the different set of figures at thetime the -- the issue was before the master the last timearound? MR. ROBBINS: Justice Stevens, in response toyour question, we believe that in fact the issue ofprejudgment interest, or punitive damages, is law of thecase in this matter. The special master set out a formulaby which he proposed how the damages should be calculated. Kansas argued for actual value of money, a rather rigidtheory of compensation, and the special master chose infact a balancing of the equities approach. He suggestedthat the appropriate means to calculate those -- thatprejudgment interest on the -- the nominal damages -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Did he -- did he make thatsuggestion or did the other -- did Kansas make thatsuggestion? MR. ROBBINS: The special master ruled on how he believed the damages should be calculated. JUSTICE STEVENS: In this time around or in the preceding -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROBBINS: In the preceding time around. Andwhat he said was that the damages from to shouldbe -- should -- should receive a inflationary increase toreflect the inflationary tendencies, but that they shouldnot be dealt with under prejudgment interest. In otherwords, it shouldn't be compounded through prejudgmentinterest. Only the damages from forward should becompounded using prejudgment interest. Kansas did not except to that methodology. Kansas excepted to the fact that he didn't give themprejudgment interest on the damages from forward. Inthe opinion that you authored for the Court, you acceptedthe master's methodology, and you did one thing and onlyone. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, the master's methodology really wasn't at issue. MR. ROBBINS: The master's -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: The only issue before us, as Iremember it, was the date from which the prejudgmentinterest would run. MR. ROBBINS: That's -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: That's -- that's all that was argued. And it seemed to me that if it had been a fixed sum rather than an -- a changing amount as years went by, th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that clearly we would have -- the interest would have runon the existing liability. But it's an unusual casebecause the damages are changing as time goes by. MR. ROBBINS: It is and I agree with you,Justice Stevens. It is an unusual case. But the -- thecritical element here is that the master was looking foran equitable way to arrive at a damage sum. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, except that, as I readhis report, he was simply interpreting our opinion, best he could, on the second go-round. MR. ROBBINS: This -- this go-round? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. ROBBINS: That's correct, Justice Kennedy. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and I think that's what's before us here. It -- it seems to me that yourbest argument for no interest post ' on the pre-'damages is to say, well, it's uncertain, it's hard tocompute, but that doesn't quite work because this Court -­and of course, the special master -- allowed damages -­the interest on post-' damages even though those areequally difficult to compute. MR. ROBBINS: It isn't the -- if I may, Justice Kennedy, it isn't the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So I'm -- I'm saying it seems to me that's your best argument, but there's a flaw in th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there. MR. ROBBINS: I understand. The -- but the -- in our view the State ofKansas was obligated to take an exception if it disagreedwith the methodology used by the special master andadopted in Justice Stevens' opinion by this Court. Therewas a sum of damage that was calculated by that andreported to the Court: $ million. By moving the yearforward from to , you automatically then reduce, by some degree, the amount of that damage calculation. JUSTICE STEVENS: No, but did we -- your -- yourview is that we entirely eliminated any interest on thatpast damage. MR. ROBBINS: Prejudgment -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: Pre-. MR. ROBBINS: The -- the special master'smethodology, Justice Stevens, was that the damages in histhird report from to should not, under abalancing of the equities, bear prejudgment interest atany point in time. They should only be advanced forinflation, which was a proposal Colorado made becauseColorado believed that it -- the changing a damage toa -- to a , or at that time a , dollar value wasonly fair and reasonable. We opposed the concept ofgiving prejudgment interest because it would -- it would th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be -- it's as if -- if this were a commercial context, wewould have been able to identify that there was a damagegoing on and the theory in your prejudgment cases is wecould have put the money in the bank -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we rejected that as topost-' damages. MR. ROBBINS: You agreed that prejudgmentinterest, Justice Kennedy, should be applied to post-'damages, not to pre-' damages. JUSTICE STEVENS: Well, but our opinion didn'tsay it was just post-' damages. Our -- our opiniondidn't -- didn't answer the question, and -- and thereason, of course, is we didn't actually think about itbecause nobody even -- nobody argued it at that time. MR. ROBBINS: Our view was that -- that -- ourview is, Justice Stevens, that an exception needed to betaken if the master's methodology was under challenge. JUSTICE STEVENS: So in a way you really are arguing waiver I think. MR. ROBBINS: We are arguing law of the case. Yes, we are. JUSTICE STEVENS: Which is consistent with his failure to argue it today. MR. ROBBINS: That's -- that is our position, Your Honor. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I would like to, if -- if I may, move off ofprejudgment interest. I would like to talk, while I stillhave a few minutes, a little bit about this model and the-year average. JUSTICE SOUTER: Can you give -- I'm -- I'm notsure I understand the dispute. Can you give me in -- in-- without using up all of your time, a -- basically asimple example to illustrate the difference between thetwo contending methodological positions? MR. ROBBINS: Yes, I can, Justice Souter. Under the -- the master's formulation, which isagreed to by Colorado, the damages which occur in eachyear, through , are -- are computed at -- in -­as nominal damages in the year in which they occur. Theyare then expanded by the -- by an inflationary formulawhich allows the dollar in to be calculated in a dollar. In and to the present, any damages thatoccur are advanced both for inflation, but then they arealso awarded a prejudgment interest, which is compounded. In other words, if inflation is or percent through theperiod on a long-term average, but -- but investments areat or percent -- JUSTICE SOUTER: I got you. MR. ROBBINS: -- those damages advance. th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Colorado's -- Kansas' view is that commencing in-- in , all of the damages from to the presentshould receive prejudgment interest. The difference thenbecomes, if you use the master's methodology, the -- thecurrent amount of money in dollars which Coloradowould owe Kansas is approximately $ million. If you usethe Kansas methodology -- and this is the impact ofprejudgment interest -- it would be $ million. Underthe original formulation that was presented to the Court,the value under the master's formulation, which did notcharge prejudgment interest on the ' to ' dollars,both States agreed that that would have been $ million. So from Colorado's perspective, having succeeded in our -­in our exception that the year should be instead of, we in fact, under the Kansas theory, lose some$-some million in the proposition, which we don'tbelieve is what the Court intended. Let me -- let me turn very quickly to the model, if I may. The -- the issue here is not Colorado'sobligation to deliver water to -- to the river system. Colorado has both senior surface water rights and theState of Kansas that it has obligations to protect. Remember, the compact envisions that this subsequentdevelopment can't injure water users in either Kansas or th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Colorado. As a result, Colorado must ensure that on amonthly basis, water is placed into the river sodepletions are -- are compensated for in the system asthey occur. The problem here is not that process. Theproblem here is a model that is inaccurate. Beginning inyour first report, you quoted with favor the specialmaster's comments about this model in dealing with thewinter water storage program, which was an issue which youagreed should be dismissed several years ago. Youindicated that depletions shown were well within the rangeof error and it could not be told if it was an impact oran error that the model was describing. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Counsel, your time is runningshort. This is very important. I think you misunderstoodJustice Souter's question. He asked you to give us anexample of the Kansas versus Colorado approach as to the-year model. You answered him about the interest. Could you -­ MR. ROBBINS: I'm so sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- could you tell us really -­ MR. ROBBINS: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Give us an example of the difference between the two. MR. ROBBINS: Yes. The difference between the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC two is this. We believe that the model over a long periodof time, as it's developer, Mr. Durbin, said, isreasonably accurate. We -- we agree with that, and we arewilling to use it like that. But that means you have touse -- look at it over extended periods of time. Our viewis that you simply look at the model, which is predictingover-deliveries and under-deliveries, predicting them. They don't have any relationship to what Colorado isreally putting into the system. They are predictions. And in some years where you -- where you look back and youknow from the gauges the model is over-predicting asignificant amount, you -- you want to be -- and you knowin a subsequent year it's going to under-predict, you wantto allow that to smooth out so that you are, in fact, getting close to what's really going on. It is not aneffort to carry dry-year depletions into wet years or viceversa. It is, in fact, an effort to allow the model'sinherent inaccuracies to play out so that you get a moreaccurate result in each th year. JUSTICE SOUTER: Why doesn't -- why isn't theresult that you -- of -- of your position that you wouldget a more accurate set of predictions if all you weremaking was a -year calculation, but you will not get amore accurate set of predictions with respect to any oneyear? And in fact, it is with respect to any one year th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that's important under the compact. In other words, they-- they plan every year, not every years. So why doesa -year accuracy help you in solving the practicalproblem you have on a year-to-year basis? MR. ROBBINS: As proposed by the special master,the model is not used every year -- or every th year. It's used every year. If you're looking at -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: I know. But it's used on thebasis of -year figures which will not be accurateparticularly with respect to any given year even thoughthey would be -- they would be accurate if you were onlyinterested in a calculation every years. MR. ROBBINS: You are making -­ JUSTICE SOUTER: Does it -- can -- can you -­can you get a better prediction on a year-to-year basis iswhat I'm saying. MR. ROBBINS: You get a better prediction on ayear-to-year basis. A -- a better prediction if you'relooking at the model over years versus looking at themodel just running it in a given year. Colorado does notwant to be in a position, Justice Souter, where we areaccused of violating the compact because there is aninaccuracy in the tool that is being used. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you -­ MR. ROBBINS: It -­ th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Robbins. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. MR. ROBBINS: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Mr. Feldman, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMAN ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES MR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: It's the position of the United States that -­that we agree with Colorado and with the special masterthat a river master should not be appointed in this case. The compact between the States of Kansas andColorado sets up a commission that is responsible forimplementing the obligations in that compact, which has todo with Colorado's obligations to deliver a certain amountof water to Kansas. The commission is also charged withinvestigating violations of the compact, and the compactincludes a dispute resolution mechanism of submission tobinding arbitration if the -- the States agree to that. The -- the commission also certainly could use otherdispute resolution mechanisms and certainly would have theauthority to do if it wanted to. The States have agreed to that. Congress has enacted it into law, and this Court should permit the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC parties to use that mechanism to resolve any disputes thatmight arise in the future rather than putting a rivermaster in place under the authority of this Court. Now, the Court has -- itself has frequentlystated that consensual resolution of disputes of this sortis preferable to litigation. As the special masterpointed out, in the two river basins just north of theArkansas River, the Republican River and the Platte River,the parties recently, after having a dispute, includingthese very same two States in one of them, have come to aconsensual resolution of the dispute that they had. And Ithink that does show, as the special master pointed out,that these -- the States can -- in fact, the disputes inthose cases also had to do with groundwater and the effect of well pumping, among other things. As the specialmaster pointed out, I think that shows that the States canuse a consensual mechanism to come to a resolution, andthis Court ought to continue its often-stated preferencefor consensual rather than litigative type of solutions toproblems of this sort. If the Court were to appoint a river master inthis case, then I think the question would arise in anyfuture case in which you have two States that haveconflicting interests with regard to an ongoing activity,as what happened with river compacts, equitable th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC apportionments, and in other areas, whenever there's aninherently conflicting interest, the Court would have anappeal that it should appoint a master to oversee a decreeor judgment. And I think rather than -- that -- thatwould be directly contrary to the Court's other statementin the area, which is not only that the Court prefers andthat it's far preferable to have consensual resolutions,but also that the Court does not favor appointing agentsor functionaries to carry out its decrees. JUSTICE SCALIA: So I guess we made a mistakewith respect to the Pecos River and what was the otherone? Delaware? MR. FELDMAN: Yes. The Pecos River -- I mean,there were a couple of differences, in addition to theones that Mr. Robbins pointed out. One difference is thatnot only the special master, but the parties in the PecosRiver case -- neither party objected to the appointment ofa river master or even to the more extraordinary step ofclothing the master with authority to make determinationsthat would be reviewable only under a clearly erroneousstandard. In this case, there is a party that objects toit. And I would -- I think there's anotherdifference that's important that the Court ought to keepin mind. At the time the Pecos River master was th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appointed, Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (e), whichthe Court has said that the Federal rules provide a guidefor this Court's original cases, rule (e) provided thatfindings of fact by a master appointed by a district courtshall be reviewed under a clearly erroneous standard, andthe Court, indeed, used that mechanism for the -- itprovided that the river master in that case would bereviewed under that standard. As of , rule -- it's now rule (g) -­provides that masters appointed by district courts saidtheir findings shall be reviewable only under a de novostandard unless the parties agree otherwise. Therefore,at the present time -- and again, following the Court'srule . that says that the Federal Rules of CivilProcedure should be guides -- and I think they are auseful guide -- the appropriate course here, if the Courtwere to appoint a river master, would be to appoint onewhose findings will be reviewable de novo. But that itself raises problems because if thefindings of the river master are reviewable de novo, it'sreally just a continuation of the current litigation andit doesn't really advance things any. The parties willsubmit the evidence to the river master. He'll make hisdeterminations, and then they'll come to the Court. That's really more what the special master does at the th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC current time. So I think that under all of thosecircumstances, both the Court's preference for aconsensual resolution of disputes, its disfavoring ofappointments of agents to carry out its decrees, theCourt's recognition that it's the Court's obligation todecide cases of this sort and it can't -- it's not theobligation of other parties to do that, and the commissionthat Congress has put into place specifically to deal withthis kind of problem, and with a specific recognition thatthere could be disputes and a provision for a disputeresolution, I think that the Court should not appoint ariver master in this case. As far as the prejudgment interest issue, it'sthe position of the United States also that the specialmaster and Colorado are correct, and prejudgment interestshould not be awarded. I think it's a familiar principlein -- to this Court in litigation that if a party -- whenthe time comes to make objections, a party has to make allof its objections if it wants the Court to hear them. In this case, the special master came up with arecommendation in his third report about how to -- whatshould happen with prejudgment interest, under which theearly years -- the -- the amount of the damages in thoseearly years would never be subject to prejudgment th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interest. Now, Kansas objected to that and said we shouldmove the year back to . We should get prejudgmentinterest on everything back to year one. But they nevermade the objection that if you -- if the Court disagreeswith that, which it did, that the method that the masterhad used to deal with the prejudgment interest as of was incorrect. That was the time that Kansas should havebrought it to the Court and Kansas didn't do that. JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're arguing they'vewaived the -- your argument is they waived the objectionbasically. MR. FELDMAN: Yes. I think -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: I don't think you used theword waiver in your brief, and I don't think that Coloradodid either. But I guess that's the essence of yourargument. MR. FELDMAN: I -- I actually think it's acombination of two things. On the one hand, what theCourt actually said in its opinion was that the specialmaster had awarded damages only insofar as necessary tosatisfy the demands of equity, something to that effect. JUSTICE STEVENS: Would you not agree that if itwas a one-shot injury, not an ongoing injury, that thenormal reading would be the injury -- the interest should th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC run on the laws? MR. FELDMAN: I think in the normal contractcase that doesn't have the kinds of equities that thiscase had, that is the current rule, that prejudgmentinterest would run. But this kind of case involvesdamages that go back -odd years. It could have been -­ JUSTICE STEVENS: And it involves continuing,ongoing -­ MR. FELDMAN: And they're -- they're ongoingthat are different in amount in every year, that it's notmerely that Colorado was violating the compact as of ,although it probably didn't know it at that time, but thatKansas didn't bring a suit until and the fact, Ithink, that Colorado has always agreed to pay -- to adjustthe damages for inflation. So, in essence, Kansas isgetting a portion of what the prejudgment interest wouldnormally cover for those early years. I think if allthat's put together, I think the Court's conclusion thatthe master's conclusion was just the amount that equitydictates was correct, and that if Kansas didn't like that,it should -­ JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Feldman, the Governmenttakes no position on this -year versus -yearcomputation? MR. FELDMAN: No, the Government doesn't have a th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC position on that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Too hard for you? (Laughter.) MR. FELDMAN: That issue involves theparticularities of this case and the Government doesn'treally have a particular interest in how that getsresolved. If there's no further questions, that concludesthe argument. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Feldman. Mr. Draper, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN B. DRAPERON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF MR. DRAPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: I want to state that we do not believe that wewaived our position on the interest calculation as wasjust suggested in the -- in the last colloquy. The reasonthat we didn't do that is because we filed an exceptionlast time against every respect in which the specialmaster was not recommending full interest. And it turnedout that the Court chose the -- the test that we now have,which is a relatively easy test to apply. It has certainincentives that grow out of it that make sense. And we th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC believe that we sufficiently excepted to that. If look atour brief from that exception, the one in -- in support ofour exceptions, in particular -- particularly to page ,footnote , we specifically addressed the issue that the-- the master was not allowing any interest in that through period. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: You're talking aboutthe brief in the earlier case. MR. DRAPER: In the earlier case, to the third report of the special master. I would -- also, on the other points that were raised, you need to be -- JUSTICE SCALIA: This is a lot of moneyinvolved, and -- and you certainly didn't argue it here. I don't recall that point being argued. And with all thatmoney being involved, I would have thought it would havebeen argued. MR. DRAPER: Well, we were -- we were arguingthe larger issues on interest, but we were asking thatinterest not be denied to us during that ' through period. That was very clear from our briefs, and wespecifically singled out that part of it in that footnote. So I don't believe it's appropriate that -- to concludethat we have waived that argument. And I would point out also that the only reason th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that it was done that way -- and the calculations of theparties did -- did in connection with that review -- isbecause the special master required it. There is no otherreason that we did it. We did not volunteer to do it thatway. We did not like doing it that way. The master saidthat's the way it's going to be in my recommendation. Howmuch would that amount to? We did not agree in any way tothat part of the calculation. I would also point out that with respect to theamounts involved, that you need to be careful. Theamounts cited by Mr. Robbins are not from the same year. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Draper. MR. DRAPER: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, NW, Suite , Inc.--FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 