Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Tuesday, February , Petitioners - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x TAMMY FORET FREEMAN, ET VIR., : : No. - : QUICKEN LOANS, INC. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor THOMAS M. HEFFERON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners. KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners. Respondent. The above-entitled matter came on for oral v. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioners THOMAS M. HEFFERON, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ. ANN O'CONNELL, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL, ESQ. please the Court: For decades, the agency Congress charged Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. RUSSELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Russell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Freeman v. Quicken with administering the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act has construed that statute as prohibiting a lender from accepting a charge for a real estate settlement charge directly from a consumer or indirectly through another service provider, and whether it shares that fee with another provider or keeps it all for itself. the agency in charge, am I right in thinking that HUD and its successor -- they don't have any suit-commencement authority? service it didn't provide, whether it accepts that JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, when you say That interpretation is eminently reasonable and is entitled to deference. And in fact --Loans. MR. RUSSELL: HUD does have authority to Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: For injunctive relief? MR. RUSSELL: For injunctive relief. That's correct. And that agency has long construed the MR. RUSSELL: All unearned fees, whether JUSTICE SCALIA: Reaching all? I didn't understand you. You said it too fast. As reaching bring suits for injunctive relief for violations of (b), and -- if that answers your question. language of this provision as reaching all unearned fees whether divided or not, and that interpretation of the language we think is eminently reasonable. all -- something fees, whether permitted -- split -- be a side issue, but I don't see how this is a fee for service. I mean, I thought points is simply a way of rate later. It isn't supposed to be for any service; it's simply a question of -- of a loan term, how much you borrow and what the interest rate is. MR. RUSSELL: Whether split or not. JUSTICE BREYER: How does this – just -- may MR. RUSSELL: Well, you're right. I do think it's a side issue because the courts below didn't JUSTICE SCALIA: Unearned fees whether provided or not. paying more money up front and getting a lower interest Official JUSTICE BREYER: So, what are we supposed to But to answer your question, Congress decide that, and Quicken didn't -- do -- decide theoretically, in the context of a case that does not involve paying a fee for a service that doesn't exist, whether you can pay for a service that doesn't exist? MR. RUSSELL: I think you can take it on the same assumption that the court of appeals did, that the fee was unearned, and decide the question presented. amended the statute specifically to overrule the Sixth Circuit's decision in Graham, which held that loan discount fees were not covered by the statute, in that case involving a kickback. I know Quicken argues that that case involved origination fees. We don't think that's correct. But this is -- this is an issue you could have an entire case about. JUSTICE BREYER: How? MR. RUSSELL: And -- but --JUSTICE BREYER: What's -- what's the argument on the other side? A point is a way of paying more money, i.e., borrowing less. Since you pay more, that means you borrow less. And so, your interest rate is lower because you’ve borrowed less. Now, what's the argument on the other side? Official MR. RUSSELL: The argument is Congress Now, you can have debates -- and we will mean for a loan discount fee to be unearned. But for present purposes, the circuit split arose here in the much more common circumstance, when there are unearned fees for appraisals and courier fees, and -- and that's what the lower court decided on the basis of. And it did so -- specifically defined the term "real estate settlement service" to include the origination of the loan, which includes but is not limited to the funding of the loan. And it did that in order to encompass kickbacks, at the very least, involving loan discount points, which was what is at issue in Graham. have in this case eventually debates about what does it the lower court could have been wrong for either one of two reasons, we don't have to decide which of the two we -- we're precluded from considering, right? just as well to say that the question presented here decides the case as it would be to say that the question raised by Justice Breyer decides the case, right? JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose if -- if MR. RUSSELL: No, I don't think you're precluded from considering -- I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it’s -- it would be Official MR. RUSSELL: There are several reasons. One is the lower courts did not address this question. And so, if I could turn to that, if you look provision of the statute that Congress amended to deal MR. RUSSELL: Right. I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And is there any reason to put the one before the other? Quicken hasn't briefed it to any extent. Quicken doesn't ask you to decide it on the base of that question. We haven't briefed it. It's a complicated question that involves interpretation of another specifically with this problem. And it wouldn't solve -- it wouldn't resolve the circuit conflict that the Court granted cert to decide. at the language of the statute, which is reproduced on page a of the -- the blue brief, in the words of the statute, a lender who charges an unearned fee, accepts, within the meaning of the statute, a portion, split, or percentage, i.e., percent, of a charge that was made service other than for services actually performed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- your argument that "percentage" can include percent is certainly true as a matter of logic. But in the phrase "portion, split, or percentage," I think the more natural reading for the rendering of a covered real estate settlement Official MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think "portion" is the of "percentage" is something less than percent. In other words, you're apportioning or you're splitting the fee with somebody else. MR. RUSSELL: Well, I think --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You could have -- "portion" I suppose could still mean a full portion; "split" probably not. But, I mean, the more natural reading is surely a division. word that best fits this situation. And Congress has used the phrase "portion" in other state -- in other statutes to prohibit, for example, a public official from converting to personal use any portion of the funds entrusted to him -- split, or percentage," it seems to me the natural JUSTICE SCALIA: It could mean that, but it need not mean that. It could mean either that or just -- just part and not whole; and which of the two it means is often decided by the other words with which it's associated. I mean, if you have a phrase that says, you know, "tacks, nails, and" -- what? "Tacks, nails, and wooden pegs," it's clear that "nails" doesn't mean toenails; it -- it means a fastener. And so, also here, when it says "portion, reading is that portion or percentage means not, as it Official MR. RUSSELL: Well, I would -- I would say something, I think the ordinary understanding is that could mean, the whole, but rather just a portion. two things about that. One is that when you have a statute that forbids somebody from taking any portion of prohibits them from taking the whole of the thing. The embezzlement statutes are an example of that. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what we have. We have -- we have a statute that says you shall not MR. RUSSELL: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay? MR. RUSSELL: And so, the canon, though, I don't think, is a canon that says when you have related certainly have something in common. They're all the measure of something, but the canon doesn't say that you read them to all mean the same measure of something, which would run headlong, I think, into the canon reason -- one objection to your idea that, well, this covers partial, so it must cover percent, is that it's a very different issue if you're talking about partial and percent. If you're talking about against construing statutes to have surplusage. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the -- one take any portion or split. words, you give them all the same meaning. They Official MR. RUSSELL: Well, you still have to In this case, for example, you get a whole bunch of things from Quicken Loans, including the loan partial, you have a classic case of a -- a kickback. But if you suddenly say percent of an unearned fee, that's a much more difficult question to decide. and all this other stuff, and it's kind of hard to single out, well, this part is unearned but this part is earned; it's kind of a whole package. When you have a portion or split, it's an entirely different issue. it's a more -- it's a narrower issue when you're talking about a portion. Let's say the kickback goes to the appraiser. Maybe you can decide in that case whether appraisal at all. When the alleged unearned fee goes to the whole loan company, it's a little harder to say which part was unearned and which parts might have been decide, when you're talking about a kickback, whether the person who received the kickback has done anything to earn their portion of it. And so, I don't think you avoid the question of what does it mean for a fee to be unearned entirely. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but there --the loan company really had anything to do with the earned. Official courier services, flood certifications -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. How does that work? MR. RUSSELL: But -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's just -- it's the way these loans work, right? I mean, it's the same thing whether you pay percent and no points or percent and points. You know, which one of those is earned or unearned, it's kind of hard to sort it out. MR. RUSSELL: It's certainly harder to sort out with respect to loan discount fees. But the run of the mine cases here involve things like appraisals, The bank says to Mr. Smith we are going to charge you $ for a courier service. And then they don't. So, there it is on the bill. And Mr. Smith, really knowing he didn't get the courier service, pays the $. All right? Why isn't Mr. Smith guilty, on your interpretation? innocent consumer is guilty of a crime. is the last words of the -- of this provision, which creates a safe harbor for people who give or accept JUSTICE BREYER: Why not? MR. RUSSELL: -- and what protect consumers I mean, on your interpretation, every MR. RUSSELL: No. That -- that is not the case -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: So, you -- I don't understand that. It's my fault. But wouldn't -- it says that if she doesn't get the appraisal, but she has to pay for it, then why isn't she -- why hasn't -- why doesn't she fall within the statute? charges for services actually performed. And the critical word here is "for." What a consumer is paying "for" is what she has been charged "for." JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. RUSSELL: If she has been charged for an appraisal, what she is giving the charge for is for the appraisal. If the appraisal wasn't performed, that shows she didn't get what she paid for, but it doesn't change what she was paying "for." Now -- the appraisal. interpretation -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. RUSSELL: And I think that latter MR. RUSSELL: I think that there are two ways you can construe what it means to pay a charge for. One is what it is you actually got -- JUSTICE BREYER: What you got was nothing. MR. RUSSELL: -- which was nothing. The other is what you are actually charged for, which was JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Official MR. RUSSELL: -- is the proper one. It's --MR. RUSSELL: Because she didn't pay for JUSTICE BREYER: Then why is the bank MR. RUSSELL: Because I think it's JUSTICE BREYER: Why hasn't the consumer I think it's the most natural -- violated? services other than -- she didn't pay for services other than services actually performed. What she paid for -- liable? saying when the bank writes down, "pay $ for the courier service," the bank is charging for the courier MR. RUSSELL: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: When the consumer pays for the courier service which he sees there, the consumer is not paying for the courier service. He is paying for different, depending on whether you're looking from the perspective of accepting or receiving, what the charge is for. So, for example, if you were to go to your mechanic and you were charged for an oil change but you didn't get one, it would be perfectly natural for you to say I was charged for and I paid for an oil change. JUSTICE BREYER: I see. So, this -- you're service. the nothing. Official MR. RUSSELL: No, I think the consumer is MR. RUSSELL: Because it's not a violation JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they're -- but the JUSTICE BREYER: Why? MR. RUSSELL: -- to pay for a service she's paying for an appraisal. She's not paying for nothing. paying a charge for the -- for the courier service. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Then why doesn't he fall within the -- within the statute? of the statute -- actually performed. And that's what she is paying for; purchaser is the giver, and the statute reads, "No person shall give and no person shall accept." The would be the consumer, the customer. MR. RUSSELL: Correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But -- so, the person who gives is -- is not answerable under your reading of this MR. RUSSELL: Correct, because what she is giving the charge for is what she has been charged for. She was charged for an appraisal. She's giving the charge for an appraisal, and that doesn't violate the acceptor is the loan company. The person who is giving (b)? statute. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Give me an example of where MR. RUSSELL: I think in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you deprived it of all effect? actually performed within the meaning of the statute, that would violate the provision. the language "give" would have an effect. MR. RUSSELL: No. In a traditional kickback situation, where Quicken, for example, kicked back some of the fee to a real estate agent for nothing, for the referral of the business, which isn't for a service JUSTICE GINSBURG: But then we have Quicken as the giver and the person who receives the referral or kickback as the receiver. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Russell, there's one puzzling aspect of -- of your interpretation. It would be a rather large thing for Congress to say we're going to cover overcharges, as I believe HUD says is -- counts; and yet, in the -- in the purposes of the Act on page of the appendix, it says nothing about provision does double duty. It is designed and written broadly to encompass both traditional kickback situations and unearned fee provisions. overcharges, nothing about payment for a service not MR. RUSSELL: That's correct. This Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that is -- that is MR. RUSSELL: That is one of HUD's interpretations, although it's an interpretation about what it means for something to be unearned, not having anything to do with whether split fees are covered or not. received in the -- in the four -- "it is the purpose of the Act to," and then there are four things listed, and none of those say to stop charges for services that weren't performed. MR. RUSSELL: That's true. First, just to clarify, we don't -- we're not arguing that it covers overcharges in the sense of excessive charges. HUD's interpretation? essentially the issuance of a -- of a price schedule by HUD, and anything above these prices is an overcharge and hence falls under -- under this provision. That's immense. we know that that enumeration is not comprehensive. There are other things in the statute that are not included. And the general purpose of the statute -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But nothing as big as this, if you accept HUD's interpretation of this, which is But to answer your more specific question, MR. RUSSELL: It would be immense, but this MR. RUSSELL: Certainly you can, and, in MR. RUSSELL: But as -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We can't at one time -- at Court doesn't have to accept that view in order to accept HUD's point of view. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but if we don't, then we reject deference to HUD, which you want us to -- to one and the same time, give deference to HUD and yet disagree with what HUD says. it wanted, bottom line, but if it breaks it down into categories and it doesn't do something that's actually attributable to one of those categories, then there's a violation? fact, Your Honor did in Smith v. City of Jackson, where you held that a provision of a regulation recognizing disparate impact was entitled to deference, but a provision saying what you had to prove to show a disparate impact violation wasn't. And here similarly -- I mean, particularly the overcharge part of the interpretation is not even in the regulations. It's in the policy statement. It's a subsequent -- JUSTICE ALITO: But do you think this is just a labeling statute? Quicken could charge whatever Official apply. MR. RUSSELL: I think Congress -- yes. I Official Mr. Russell. If I could reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Ms. O'Connell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, mean, it is -- labels are important, because Congress didn't say you simply have to disclose the bottom line; it said you have to give an itemized list. And requiring that those identified line items actually represent services that were actually rendered is a completely reasonable supplement to the disclosure requirement. two separate actions, giving an unearned fee and accepting one. Sometimes the statute will be violated when an unearned fee is collected from the consumer and then shared between two service providers. But the statute is also violated when a service provider collects an unearned fee directly from the consumer and retains the entire fee for itself. AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING PETITIONERS MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the Court: The plain terms of section (b) prohibit JUSTICE BREYER: The consumer doesn't Official MS. O'CONNELL: It's -- we agree with the JUSTICE BREYER: Well, can you tell me where in the briefs? I have to read this about six times to MS. O'CONNELL: I don’t-- JUSTICE BREYER: Where in the briefs does it violate it in those circumstances because? Petitioners' interpretation of this -- get this one in my head. explain to me why in your situation the bank would be violating it, but the consumer wouldn't, since it says "no person shall give" as well as "no person shall receive"? think this is in the briefs. It's -- MS. O'CONNELL: Well, it is -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, we have a statute that looks like a kickback statute, and the reason it looks like a kickback statute is it refers both to the person giving and to the persons receiving, and it seems to make them equally liable. isn't in the briefs, it -- maybe I'm off on a track here, but it seems to me a pretty obvious question. Now, you want to apply it to a situation where I don't think you want to hold consumers liable. MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, I don't JUSTICE BREYER: Well, my goodness. If it Official consumers for the payment of unearned fees. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, you mean it's all MS. O'CONNELL: I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- on your reading of it. MS. O'CONNELL: The explanation is And so, I think you have to explain to me why this statute doesn't -- encompassed in HUD's policy statement. Footnote of the policy statement, which is in the appendix to the Petitioners' brief at a, says that HUD would be unlikely to bring an enforcement action against prosecutorial discretion? In other words, if you happen to be a consumer you just have to rely on the goodwill of the prosecutor; is that the idea? because the consumer does not make the payment for -- does not pay a fee for the payment of unearned fees. A consumer --more than just prosecutorial discretion. What HUD is explaining -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Have we said in some of our cases, oh, don't worry, this is within the MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, I think it's JUSTICE BREYER: What more? MS. O'CONNELL: What HUD is explaining is that the reason why it would not prosecute a consumer is Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does HUD have expertise in MS. O'CONNELL: HUD is -- has an expertise in -- in determining what is earned and unearned and what the practices are in the real estate industry for charging consumers fees that haven't been earned by the service providers. What HUD is saying in the policy --discretion. This is HUD's interpretation of the statute discretion of the prosecutor, close enough for government work? MS. O'CONNELL: No, no. Justice Kennedy, I don't -- I don't think that this is just prosecutorial laid out in a policy statement saying it doesn't think consumers violate the statute because they're -- interpreting criminal statutes? JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but I assume that HUD's interpretation of a criminal statute like ours must give the defendant the benefit of the doubt so that if there's any ambiguity -- I mean, that's our standard rule. If there's a genuine ambiguity, you -- you find for the interpretation that favors the defendant. And this here -- I think this is at the very least ambiguous. And you are telling me -- well, I guess you're right. I guess HUD is favoring what would be the defendant in this case. MS. O'CONNELL: If -- yes, it -- it's saying Official JUSTICE BREYER: But can you -- I don't want that it doesn't think that a consumer violates the statute because the consumer doesn't pay the fee other than for services actually performed. to take all your time on this because to me the more important problem was the problem of the difference between a kickback statute, which we could understand as well within HUD's expertise and normal and of course very good reason for doing it. But a price control statute, where we have the Federal agency deciding whether the prices are accurate for each service that is rendered or whether some percentage or all of it represents service for nothing -- that's a rather big novelty in American life. That is, we have it, but they are usually Federal agencies that have a system set up for determining proper prices and so forth. inadvertently Congress brought in the second under the guise of the first without a big fuss being raised and a MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, I think the important -- important point here is that this is not an overcharge case; this is an unearned fee case. Overcharges are included in the policy statement, but there is a basis in the statute to differentiate So, it's hard for me to believe that sort of big debate and so forth. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I'm not sure. It MS. O'CONNELL: At some point, under anybody's interpretation, there does have to be a between overcharges and unearned fees, and HUD has long taken the position that undivided unearned fees, a fee for which no service is performed, violates section (b). seems to me that even under the Respondent's view of the statute, you have to inquire into reasonableness to see if the fee was earned. determination of whether something was earned. But there is a statutory basis to distinguish between an unearned fee and an overcharge in that the service has to be -- the fee has to be other than for services know, if -- if I charge you an exorbitant amount for cutting down a tree, you know, ,, $,, and then I present my bill, you would say that I have not earned evaluate --it simply because it's exorbitant? There --I don't think you have to MS. O'CONNELL: JUSTICE SCALIA: No. Justice --Under the Respondent's actually performed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait a minute. If -- you MS. O'CONNELL: JUSTICE SCALIA: Official under -- under anybody's interpretation. MS. O'CONNELL: Under the statute, if it's for -- if the fee is for -- other than for services interpretation, I don't think have you to evaluate the reasonableness of the fee in order to decide whether it was earned or not. actually performed, which -- we think the loan discount fee in this case was a charge other than for a service actually performed. There was no corresponding reduction in the interest rate. That is an unearned fee JUSTICE KAGAN: It looks to me as though you have an additional statutory problem. You have two sets of verbs in this statute. One is the "give and accept" set of verbs, and then the other is the "charge made or received." So, it seems to me that what the statute is -- is thinking about is that first, that there is a charge made or received, and that charge is, of course, the charge that the consumer pays to the provider. And then there's another transaction. And that transaction is the "give or accept" transaction, and that transaction occurs between two service providers. So, one set of verbs refers to the consumer-provider relationship; the other set of verbs refers to the provider-provider relationship. MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Kagan, we agree that Official It also does cover fees that are split JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you -- you are now overcharges are reached by the statute. You say not giver and acceptor. So, once the charge is received and accepting, but it doesn't have to involve two service providers under the plain language of the statute. that -- that is one scenario covered by (b). We don't think it's the only scenario covered by the statute. Under our interpretation and Petitioners' interpretation, there doesn't have to be both a culpable from the consumer and accepted by the service provider, that is also a violation of the statute. between two service providers, as you say, the giving splitting HUD's position. HUD's position says overcharges, but only a fee when no service is performed. So, why couldn't the customers have said there is a fee for the service performed, that's the reasonable fee; and the rest of it is a charge for a distinction between an overcharge and a fee for services that are not performed? MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Ginsburg, in this case, we don't think that the Court has to -- has to say service not performed? I mean, can you really maintain that Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does that mean? you pay two points and you will get a rate of percent. And MS. O'CONNELL: Right. Our understanding is procured nothing for the Petitioners. It was a anything about overcharges and whether those are covered by the statute. The fee in this case was a loan discount fee, which is generally paid to procure a reduction in the interest rate of the loan, and it completely unearned fee. It was other than for services actually performed. In other words, the rate that was offered -- they said you're saying that even if they didn't pay the two points, they would still get a rate of percent? that when -- the Petitioners in this case got a quote particular interest rate with no mention of points. When it came time to pay the settlement charges, they were charged a loan discount fee, charged points to procure that particular interest rate. That -- that's something that would have to be figured out on remand, whether there actually should have been a -- a charge or whether those points were included in the -- any knowledgeable person who applies for a loan, who for their mortgage loan from Quicken over the phone at a JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know anybody who --doesn't ask whether there are any points? I mean, it's Official I mean, that -- I don't think that the mere fact that the interest rate was percent means that you MR. O'CONNELL: Justice Scalia --JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if she didn't want the points, she should have -- when it came to the closing, say what are these points for? The percent is what you agreed to. And they would have said, well, that percent is the -- is the rate we give when we charge points. standard mortgage practice. And somebody who says I'm going to get percent? Yes. Eight percent with or without points? can't charge points and that any charging of points is -- is a charge for a service not performed. The service performed is giving you an percent rate. intended to do is to protect consumers, who often are not sophisticated on what they're doing in securing a residential mortgage loan and to make sure that they understand what the charges are, and also to ensure that they receive the charges -- the services for which they pay at closing. problem. The problem is, look, you are saying this is a MS. O'CONNELL: What -- what RESPA is JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but that's the payment for a service that wasn't given. I think I Official MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Breyer, this case might say that this is just a lower interest -- a higher interest rate than they -- than they expected. Somebody might say you didn't get the courier service at all. Others might say you got service but not the gold-plated service, and the gold plate was nothing. You see, that's what happens when you get into a price control statute rather than a kickback statute. And that is our concern here, I think at least mine. Ms. O'Connell. please the Court: comes here under the assumption that this was an unearned fee. If that's something the Court is concerned about, it's something -- it could still decide the question presented, and then the -- the lower courts could figure that out on remand, whether this was earned or not. stepping into the middle of a primarily local market CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Hefferon. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS M. HEFFERON ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. HEFFERON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it In passing RESPA in , Congress was Official First, its major reform was to standardize and increase disclosure of charges, including requiring controlled by State law. The statute shows that, in doing so, Congress tread carefully. It did primarily two things in the area of settlement charges. a written estimate of charges to be given to people weeks before the closing. That, in fact, was done here. Second, as RESPA's finding and purposes section tells us, Congress found that some consumers needed particular protection from a particular market failure. And I'm quoting from section in the first page of the blue brief. Quote: "unnecessarily high settlement charges caused by certain abusive practices that have developed in some areas of the country." right about subsection (b) and its meaning, what does it do that subsection (a) does not do? Congress identified those as kickbacks and referral fees. But in , Congress went no farther. It rejected proposals for direct price regulation which had been proposed in both House and Senate. Congress did recognize more legislation might be necessary and that price controls might be advisable. And so, it sent HUD out to do a study and report back. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hefferon, if you are MR. HEFFERON: It -- it does two things. Official didn't make any reference to an agreement? First of all, with respect to the transactions that relate to charges actually paid at the closing, it eliminates the need to prove an agreement. All it -- all it says is that there will be a violation if you follow the money and the money ends up in the hands -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if that's the case, I mean, why would Congress have done something that says (a) pursuant to an agreement, (b) not pursuant to an agreement? Why wouldn't it just have one provision that MR. HEFFERON: Because (a) covers an entire universe of things which appear, in many instances, away from the closing table. For example, an agreement between an attorney and a developer that the attorney says I will do all the title work on the raw land for this development if you later on send me the closings when you build on the land and sell the particular parcels. then any relationship between two people in the settlement service business would be presumptively a kickback. And so, you had to have that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, (a) -- the so-called kickback in (a) is not for services not If there was no agreement requirement, agreement for referral, if that did not appear in (a), Official MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. Congress has compensable as part of real estate business. finder's fee. So, you know, under (a) a finder's fee is -- actually performed. The referral -- the referral is certainly a service performed to the lender. There's -- there's nothing -- what should I say -- unethical about getting a fee for a referral. It's -- it's called a is made unlawful, right? decided that that is not something that should be JUSTICE SCALIA: And under (b), something quite different, and that is giving money to somebody who performs no service at all is made unlawful. And for that, you don't need an agreement, right? reading, as I understand it, the words "portion, split, or percentage" means an amount less than the whole? service provider gives percent to the other side, as opposed to a -- an amount less than the whole? MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what happens if a need to prove one. I think all parties here -- MR. HEFFERON: We don't believe that it is covered by section (b). In most -- in section (b). MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. You don't JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, under your Official referral. everything, percent, they're just not liable under (b)? In most instances, it would probably be provable as a kickback under (a) since, in normal circumstance, one doesn't give all of one's fee away unless there's something else going on, typically in this instance a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that -- does that make much sense that if you give one meaning -- if you stay consistent with your meaning, what you're saying is a situation where the service provider gives away percent, they -- if they keep percent, they're liable. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there -- Judge Higginbotham, in his dissent, said there is a big difference between unearned fees and overcharge fees. He said unearned fees, in their simplest form, is no service whatsoever. Overcharges are some service but an excessive value. MR. HEFFERON: That -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If they give away MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. Again, Congress was trying to take a measured step here because it was for the first time stepping into this local market. Congress left State law remedies alone. And in fact, the preemption provision -- Official What's wrong with that definition? Why is MR. HEFFERON: If the Court would find that "portion, split, or percentage" covers percent, then JUSTICE SCALIA: Is this percent thing -- is this a real problem that Congress was addressing? Do you know of any percent kickbacks or percent payments to somebody else for services not performed as opposed to just keeping part and giving the rest? that definition unworkable in terms of limiting and defining this statute? we would agree with Judge Higginbotham that it would -- that a -- liability would not go any further than a situation where the person performed no services whatsoever for a fee. for its not being addressed, that it's not a real problem? MR. HEFFERON: In fact -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that enough reason MR. HEFFERON: And, Justice Scalia, there's no indication that we are aware of in the legislative history that such a thing was happening. What Congress -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think not? How about with subsidiaries? Wasn't it common practice -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why isn't it a potential common practice that they're getting MR. HEFFERON: Again, there's no isn't it common practice that subsidiaries are often receiving parts of the payments because then they become -- they come out of the gross income of the major parent? MR. HEFFERON: It's -- it is a -- it is a common arrangement if those subsidiaries are rendering services in connection with the real estate settlement service. percent of something they didn't do? indication -- MR. HEFFERON: There's no indication in the legislative history that that type of conduct was going on, and Congress was specifically identifying kickbacks and referral fees, which it referred to, for example, as rebates and commissions, unearned commissions. And the type of conduct which Congress meant to address was set forth in this statute and in the legislative history. And it, of course, deputized HUD to do a study to see if more needed to be done. It recognized that full payments may implicate the issue of rate setting and JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If they're rendering --if they're already rendering services? Official that's one thing -- "and Unearned Fees"? What -- how do MR. HEFFERON: Well, Congress made the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why is the statute that perhaps that's something that should be done, but it wasn't going to be done at this point. labeled, titled, "Prohibition Against Kickbacks" -- you -- what does "unearned fees" refer to in the title of ? decision at the time, as Justice Scalia pointed out, could be an earned kickback. that -- that a fee for a referral is -- is not properly earned. And the -- the definition for the entire section, the title, is "Kickbacks and Unearned Fees." That refers to the entire section, (a) and (b). All agree that (b) frequently is -- is implicated if there is a kickback. So, it can't be that the first word applies only to (a) and the second word only to (b). CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you think there MR. HEFFERON: There could be -- there could be an earned kickback if Congress was willing to accept the principle that it's okay to earn money for a referral. That -- Congress rejected it, rejected the principle that it's okay to get a -- to pay a kickback. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If it's okay to get JUSTICE SCALIA: It made the decision that a kickback. Official MR. HEFFERON: Well, it's -- let me be MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, if your reading money for a referral, what type of kickback is not okay? clear. Congress made the policy decision it is not okay to pay a kickback or any money in order to get a pure referral and, therefore, said that in section (a) and section (b) it is not proper to do that. finder's fee in this area, although in all other areas is perfectly okay, but a finder's fee in this area is a of the language is not plain, if there is two ways to read this statute, give me your best reason for why the notice and -- through notice; but outside of that, why isn't this a HUD interpretation that the statute tells us HUD can do, an interpretation of the statute? We can argue about whether it's an interpretation of regulation X or not, but why wouldn't it be entitled to deference? interpretation of the statute. We agree with that. And HUD is given the authority -- now the bureau, previously HUD, is given authority to interpret the statute. policy statement should not be given deference. I know you said because it didn't go through MR. HEFFERON: It certainly is an only touches very briefly and very generally on the policy statement should not be due special deference for several reasons. First of all, it's incomplete. It purports to be an interpretation of this statute, and it language. All the words that we have all spent a lot of time working on in this case -- HUD says very little about that. And it is -- also it doesn't --Circuit had said a lot different, and HUD came back -- and invited HUD to do something, and HUD came back and said you read it that way; we think this is a better reading. think that that's true, that -- we defer to agencies, not because we think that agencies do statutory interpretation in exactly the way courts do. We actually defer to agencies because we think they provide something different, not because they're the best parser of statutory language, but because when they see treat the subject with the kind of depth that you would expect or that this Court would want in terms of -- What more do we need from an agency? MR. HEFFERON: Because it -- it did not JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Hefferon, I don't Official In this instance, there's not a -- the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the Seventh ambiguity, they're able to import policy judgments into Official MR. HEFFERON: What the agency did on that they would like to construe it, it would address the didn't say that the interpretation was going to address it. Furthermore, it didn't deal with the fact that its interpretation also was going to sweep in price control and what effect that would be. that ambiguity. And that seems to me exactly what the agency did here. point is it simply said that if one construes it the way concern that Congress had for unnecessarily high settlement charges. It provided no empirical or experiential explanation for why that was the case. Didn't say that this type of practice was going on; to defer to it. construing a criminal statute, a statute providing for constrained to apply the rule of lenity and to assume that if there is ambiguity, it should be interpreted in favor of the defendant? In other words, the agency did not -- did not do the types of things that would cause this Court MR. HEFFERON: Yes, Your Honor, because the -- this is a criminal statute, and it is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In essence -- JUSTICE SCALIA: When an agency is criminal penalties, do you think the agency is Official ambiguous, and then you get to the -- the policy the regulation, which is the strongest argument I think on the other side. It's a strong argument. Have you --has anybody looked at that notice-and-comment proceeding? Have you looked at it? particularly difficult, it seems -- it seems to us, to give the policy statement deference because in order to get to the policy statement, you have to assume the statute's ambiguous and then assume the regulation's statement. It would be appropriate for this Court to impress upon the agency to be quite clear and to be quite solicitous of defendants' rights to make sure that it doesn't interpret this statute broader than what -- they go into this point, a point about -- the point being this is a kickback statute? It isn't an promulgating a regulation that makes it a crime, a Federal crime, to overcharge, which is what the regulation says, is outside the scope of the statute. Now, did someone make that argument? If so, I'd like to be able to read it, and I'd like to be able JUSTICE BREYER: Well, in , they promulgated MR. HEFFERON: We absolutely have, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If you have, do overcharge price regulation statute. Therefore, to see what the agency said in response. regulatory history around this section, which is in regulation X, is actually quite interesting and quite favorable to -- to the reading the Fifth Circuit gave to the statute. The regulation does appear in a and a of the blue brief. discussion whatsoever that suggested that HUD was going to actually legislate or regulate about the statute. It merely -- at the time it was proposed, the regulation was going to be to recite section (b), and that's it. It referred to the section as being a fee-splitting section. it -- I just --three additional sentences added in this part of the regulation. There was no explanation for those three sentences, with the exception of HUD's general comment that it made other changes in this part of this regulation in order to address what services -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm sorry. May When the final rule was issued, there were JUSTICE BREYER: So, you would say -- is Official MR. HEFFERON: Justice Breyer, the When it was proposed, there was no MR. HEFFERON: Sure. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- correct you on that? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not in the policy required"? It says that explicitly. MR. HEFFERON: It says that in the policy MR. HEFFERON: In the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In -- in . I Didn't HUD in that preamble say explicitly, "The Secretary, charged by statute with interpreting RESPA, interprets (b) to mean that two persons are not statement. That's correct. statement; in the preamble to regulation X. thought that was the final rulemaking you were talking about, because it didn't do rulemaking with respect to the policy statement. JUSTICE BREYER: Is this a fair statement in your view -- and we'll hear theirs on rebuttal -- that in respect to the regulation, there is a sentence regulation is entitled "No split of charges other than for actual services." And so, we read the regulation and believe HUD at the time read the regulation as, again, merely repeating the idea that this was -- this section was a limited section consistent with Congress's --MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. The which says, "A charge by a person for which ... nominal Official that extent, a price regulation statute. Is it fair to say that notice of such a MR. HEFFERON: Absolutely correct, going to be put into the regulation. And as this Court noted in Long Island Care at Home -- JUSTICE BREYER: Was comment received in services are performed ... is an unearned fee and violates this section"? All right? I've ellipsed part. All right. Now, it says that. And that later on is taken as being: This statute is a -- to regulation was not given? Justice Breyer. Notice was not given that that was respect to that? indication in the final rule when it discussed comments that that issue was commented upon. about to tell us what we said in Long Island Home. MR. HEFFERON: In Long Island Care at Home, the Court merely repeated in particular statements made in Chevron and Mead that, among other things, a regulation cannot get deference unless it -- if it is procedurally defective. And in this instance -- and it talked about the fact that a circumstance sometimes MR. HEFFERON: I don't know whether -- I don't know comment was received or not. There was no CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What -- you were you Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I'm not sure. And, in this instance, that's precisely what interpretations through rules. It said it could give rules, pass rules and regulations, and give interpretations. So, what's the procedural defect in it just giving an interpretation? arises when a notice of proposed rule doesn't give the public a notice that there's going to be something happening; so, there's no -- there's no comments given on a particular subject. occurred, which is one reason why regulation X should not get special deference from this Court. Congress didn't say that HUD could only give how much deference to give the agency when it gives the interpretation. the -- whether the policy -- whether the statute is whether one gives Chevron deference. figure out is what's the deficiency in the policy statement that's independent of the ambiguity you rely MR. HEFFERON: Well, there's not a procedural defect. The issue is really a question of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We go back to whether ambiguous or not. MR. HEFFERON: Correct, as well as if it is, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what I'm trying to Official MR. HEFFERON: What it is, is it is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it says it's longstanding for it. upon. incomplete; it doesn't give a -- an effective statutory analysis. It doesn't really give any effective policy analysis. It is also inaccurate in that it attempts to recount that this is a -- a reading which is of long standing, when we believe -- and we cite in the -- in the red brief, we believe it's not. MR. HEFFERON: It attempts to explain why it is a finding -- a ruling of long standing, and we point out examples in the red brief where it isn't a finding of -- an interpretation of long standing. MR. HEFFERON: I believe that that was -- I believe that that was a factor that the Court looked at in Long Island Care at Home. But the -- the question for the Court in this instance is, should it give this aside the notice-and-comment point, which I think is at least ambiguous, which of our cases stands for the proposition that whether or not we give Chevron deference depends on the thoroughness with which the agency addressed an issue, rather than simply an announcement of its interpretation? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which -- putting Official give either the policy statement or the rule Chevron deference, you lose. Is that right? MR. HEFFERON: If the Court also then finds MR. HEFFERON: On the policy statement? JUSTICE SCALIA: No, on -- the case. If we policy statement deference? If it doesn't qualify for Chevron deference, then the question is, does it have the power to persuade? Part of the power to persuade is its thoroughness; as Skidmore itself says, the detail in which it addresses things, how it addresses arguments on the other side, and what it says about those arguments. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you concede that if we give it Chevron deference, you lose? that it's deserving of Chevron deference, that's that? correct. And it -- it would be quite an odd result for MR. HEFFERON: Oh, sure. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't give deference to interpretations that are beyond the limits of what the language will bear, do we? correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Ah. You want to talk to MR. HEFFERON: That -- that's absolutely this Court to find that the policy statement effected Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I'm a little court gets involved in determining whether fees, some kind of price control direct rate regulation regime when that was specifically rejected by Congress in . confused. Under your interpretation or theirs, the services were rendered. I mean, it's not as if your interpretation is going to keep the court out of that business. To be able to find a kickback, the court has to determine whether services were rendered or not. So, what's the difference in that inquiry when it involves a kickback and when it involves a -- a single provider? In a kickback situation, the court has to decide whether there was actually a service rendered that entitled the person to a percentage or not, difference between deciding that question and deciding that the -- the one individual provided a service? MR. HEFFERON: We agree that in each instance, the court would have to make a factual determination. But it comes back to what Congress intended in . It specifically identified that it was attempting to address certain abusive practices that had arisen in some areas. correct? MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's the Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it listed, as MR. HEFFERON: That's with respect to settlement service providers. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could you complete your Justice Ginsburg said, unearned fees. Why would it matter to Congress? Give me a reason that it would matter to Congress whether the unearned fee was by one person in a dual relationship or a single person alone? The issue was unearned fees, rendering -- charging for a service you didn't render. That's what the whole kickback idea was about, correct? earlier answer? I was just waiting for your point, and it never came. MR. HEFFERON: On the question of whether or not to provide Chevron -- actually provide deference, if Chevron was applicable? If Chevron's applicable to the policy statement, the policy statement does not deserve Chevron deference because it is an irrational reading of the statute. The statute does not cover the kinds of direct regulation that the policy statement suggests that it covers. right that we never get to Chevron deference here because the statute is plain on its face, and there's no ambiguity for the -- the agency to think or do anything JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hefferon, you might be Official So, then, what's your argument for why there about. But let's just assume that there is ambiguity on the statute, and the question is whether to provide this interpretation with Chevron deference. should be no Chevron deference to this interpretation, given that the statute under which this interpretation was promulgated refers identically to regulations and interpretations as something that HUD gets to do? MR. HEFFERON: Well, the statute does give HUD interpretive authority, but in this instance, what it is doing -- in fact, it's not quite clear what words it is interpreting in a way, trying -- trying to interpret the words and any vague aspects of the words -- is not a gap-filling situation that we're Congress reasonably in this statute, as well as in the Truth in Lending Act, provided that the agency would have interpretive authority. A lot of what this agency was going to be doing with respect to this statute is filling a lot of gaps. It's going to create the special information booklet. It's going to create these forms that I've referred to. interpretive authority regarding the statute it's JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't any agency have talking about. implementing? Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it at all increased when it's specifically conferred? MR. HEFFERON: Well, certainly, most agencies would think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Does it have to be MR. HEFFERON: I don't believe it has to be MR. HEFFERON: That's correct -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is there agency that doesn't? specifically conferred? specifically conferred. MR. HEFFERON: I don't believe the Court's precedents suggest that it's increased if Congress has gone the next step to actually say you have the for purposes of -- of deference, is what is the question? The question that HUD sometimes -- if HUD is deciding what form should go on the form, then that's interstitial lawmaking, and that's certainly something that might get more deference than if the question is interpreting the legal effect of these words that appear in (b). It is not -- it's not a definition; they're not purporting to apply a definition; they're not filling a gap. authority to interpret the statute. The question is, And so, this is -- this is not where you Official through the interpretative -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. JUSTICE KAGAN: Now that's just a way of saying would look towards a Chevron deference. But Congress is not expecting that -- that HUD would -- after it has decided not to allow direct regulation of charges, that HUD would nonetheless try to do it through the back door that there's no ambiguity here. But I was suggesting that if there is ambiguity here, I -- at least I have not found a reason not to give HUD deference in this situation. I mean, you say they didn't do a very good job. But we don't usually grade agencies like that, and say, well, you didn't do a very good job; so, you're not entitled to Chevron deference. interpretations all the time. question of what the Congress intended, whether --that HUD's addressing is interpreting the legal --basically giving a legal interpretation of the statute. It doesn't really purport to give a policy interpretation of the statute because it simply refers to – it is a passing reference. whether they intended HUD to be giving the JUSTICE SCALIA: We give deference to legal MR. HEFFERON: But it is a -- it is -- the MR. HEFFERON: The nature of the question Official case? MR. HEFFERON: HUD issued the policy JUSTICE SCALIA: I have no idea. What -- interpretation or filling a gap, or whether it was simply giving guidance. It -- I'm supposed to psychoanalyze Congress in every Chevron statement as a guidance document. JUSTICE BREYER: That's -- no, no. That's a good question, and your problem is different people feel complaints about consumers having to pay referral fees, where that's just one person taking advantage of another person's business. I would -- I think it would be relevant. And then if you've looked at all this, which you could tell me you haven't -- I will try to -- but what do you find? differently about the answer. So, the -- which is why from my perspective --- and perhaps you're only answering a question for me and no one else has it --but I would be pretty interested to know whether when you looked at the legislative history of this, what you discovered was a lot of complaints about consumers paying for things they didn't get, period. Which favors HUD's interpretation. Or whether you see a whole long list of MR. HEFFERON: Your Honor, you actually Official and House Report both described that in great detail. areas of the country. This was not meant to be a panacea. State law remedies stayed in place. And, in fact, if you look at most of the court of appeals cases that give rise to these -- this circuit split, they all also bring a claim under State law, whether it's fraud or contract or unjust enrichment. don't find either. What you find is complaints about providers doing things between each other and a recognition that, ultimately, the consumers perhaps unknowingly are being harmed by that. The Senate Report We're talking about rebates, commissions, unearned commissions, and kickbacks and referral fees. That's what Congress identified in as the "certain abusive practices" that had arisen in some not irrational for Congress to have decided, when it was taking a step into this area for the first time, to actually legislate an important area, but not go all the way, and instead leave other remedies in place. And that's what the proper reading of this statute should be. That's the reading the Fifth Circuit gave it as well. That only drives the point home that it's JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you give a complete answer to the question what does (b) cover that (a) does Official proving a contract, and not -- is there anything else? MR. HEFFERON: Thank you, Justice Ginsburg. the first place, why it was proposed; and that would be an unearned commission. Title insurance companies at the time would enter into commission agreements with agents where the agent would get percent of the title premium; in exchange, the agent would do the title work. In a situation -- if the title agent in fact not? So, one suggestion that's made is, well, you didn't -- if all this statute has to do -- do with is kickbacks, then all you need is (a), and there's no necessity for (b). You said one thing is contract, Actually, I didn't give a complete answer now that I recall. It does cover -- the best example is the classic reason why the -- this section was put in, in So, that situation would be covered, but most situations, as I think all parties agree, this didn't do the title work, it would be receiving an unearned fee, that is, part of the title insurance commission, for no work. And that, however, would not normally be covered under (a) because the agreement, the underlying agreement to give the commission was not to refer business; it was actually to do some of the title work. statute is -- is typically a kickback. It just simply Official MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Even though there's no removes the agreement requirement. JUSTICE SCALIA: And under -- under (b), there doesn't have to be an agreement to pay -- under (b) there doesn't have to be an agreement to pay the title company for no work. It's just if it's a -- if it's a refinancing and the title company did the same title search, you know, years ago, it says, heck, I'm not going to do it again, but it still gets the percent, right? agreement to pay it for no work. Circuit's interpretation are all supportive of our view, that is, that the language, the structure, the context, and the history of this statute all show that it is important, but it's limited; and it does not address direct charges made by lenders. And the Fifth Circuit back to Justice Scalia's question? If a -- if a bank has an appraisal fee from the past and decides I don't need a new one, but still charges you for an appraisal MR. HEFFERON: That's correct. So, in sum, the elements of the Fifth had it right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Could you go fee, would that violate the statute? Official MR. HEFFERON: If the -- I think the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or if the bank charged JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. So, going back it would not violate the statute, again, because the MR. HEFFERON: If -- if the bank arranged --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If it had one already? MR. HEFFERON: If the bank arranged for a question was in the context of the title agent doing the title work. If an appraiser was charging -- was charging the consumer directly and not doing the work, statute requires two providers. you for a title search that it did? title searcher to do title work, and then the bank charged the consumer, and then it split the charge with the title searcher -- State law, I assume --to Justice Scalia's question, if the provider decides I'm going to use what I had before, I'm not going to redo the work, but still charges you a second time, they're not liable under your reading of the statute? JUSTICE SCALIA: They'd be liable under MR. HEFFERON: State law. That's --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- for fraud, wouldn't MR. HEFFERON: Not under (b) and perhaps under -- Official MR. HEFFERON: I would assume so. That's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Russell, you REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KEVIN K. RUSSELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. HEFFERON: If there are no other they. correct. questions, thank you. have minutes. MR. RUSSELL: Thank you. Justice Breyer, you had asked why Congress would engage in a statute that gets at overcharges and unusual, and I agree it's unusual. That's a reason to read this statute not to do that, to only get at truly unearned fees, which are the equivalent of fraudulent fees, which the law does forbid pervasively. In this JUSTICE BREYER: Once you say that, you're -- you're outside the reg. I mean, when you read the reg and the policy statement, it's pretty clear what they are thinking of. has a rate regulation kind of thing, which is very case, Congress --MR. RUSSELL: No, to be -- Official correct. MR. RUSSELL: No, I don't think that's JUSTICE BREYER: No? MR. RUSSELL: I think that there was a JUSTICE BREYER: And the policy statement is even clearer. What they are thinking of is overcharges, period. two-step analysis. The first step is they decided that split fees are not the only thing that the statute gets at. And then -- but this -- an unsplit fee still has to be unearned, and they had a separate interpretation of what it means for a fee to be unearned. MR. RUSSELL: It's towards the end where they enumerate the different kinds of unearned fees. -- it's on ,. And what they're explaining is that, and they're talking about a third situation, and they say one settlement service provider charges a fee to a consumer where no work is done, or the fee exceeds the reasonable value of the services performed by that JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where do you get -- MR. RUSSELL: At any rate --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that in the policy statement? The difference between unearned and --JUSTICE BREYER: It's right here. It's on Official MR. RUSSELL: I'm not -- I'm not disagreeing with you about that. They list four different -- or MR. RUSSELL: That's correct. They are -- JUSTICE BREYER: And so, if it exceeds the provider. reasonable value of the services performed by that provider, you have to say what is the reasonable value of the services performed by that provider. And that involves the agency in the job of deciding what's a fair or just price for this particular service. three or four different kinds of charges that could be unearned. You don't have to agree with them with respect to each of those things, about -- an agency interpretation which is other than what it says, where what they're trying to do is to change the nature of the statute from a kickback statute into a statute that protects consumers across the board from MR. RUSSELL: Well, I would -- JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's where I'm sort of interested in what the legislative history said, et cetera, et cetera. It's much more complicated than I thought coming in. I have to look at a lot of things. JUSTICE BREYER: No, but what I'm doing there, you see, is now I'm trying to make sense out of paying for things they don't get. Official MR. RUSSELL: Sure. What Congress said its purpose was, was to get at abusive practices that unnecessarily increase the costs of settlement. What -- the legislative history was focused on kickbacks, but there were examples in the HUD/VA report, at page of that report, and in the Washington Post articles about markups that are a form of undivided, unearned fee. Congress knew -- subsequent to the passage of this statute, HUD has frequently found and reported to Congress incidents of unearned fees, including those involving loan discount fees. And the States -- States have filed a brief in this case telling you that there is a pervasive problem with settlement closings included padded charges for things that were never performed. With respect to the agency's interpretation, I would point you particularly to this rulemaking, where the agency withdrew an exemption for certain payments between consumers and providers for the use of a particular kind of computer service. That exemption would have been unnecessary had HUD thought, as Quicken does, that the statute only regulates transactions between providers. And in withdrawing that exemption, HUD explained in quite a lot of detail that it rejected Official mean, the purpose of this kind of APA/Chevron stuff is to prevent agencies, seeing the supreme importance of their own mission, taking a statute, running with it and in particular transforming into a criminal law something that really wasn't much there. specifically that -- the split fee requirement. And so, I don't think there's any question that they've grappled with this question and that they've explained why they think that split fees aren't covered. The question ultimately is whether that's a reasonable conclusion in light of the language of this statute -- JUSTICE BREYER: And then part of that is -- you might want to say something about the other part. I notice than the Court found sufficient in Long Island Care at Home, which is they -- they told the public this provision is at issue; we're going to issue an MR. RUSSELL: They gave the public more Now, procedure is important in that. And that's why I'm very interested in whether -- whether they gave notice to the public: Dear public, we are thinking that this is far more than a kickback statute. MR. RUSSELL: They gave --JUSTICE BREYER: We would like to hear what you think about that. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the respect to the case law that said that only splits are interpretation about it. And they ultimately did. In Long Island Care, they did the opposite of what they had proposed to do, and this Court said that was enough. In this case, and even in , they received comments with required, and they said we disagree. counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial analysis :, :, :areas : : avoid :aware :a.m : :: : argue : argues : arguing :argument ::,,, :: :, :: :: :,: ::arguments :arisen :::arises :arose :arranged :arrangement:::Bb : :: :: :,: :: :,back : ::, :: :: :bank : ::, :: :,:,base :basically :basis : ::bear :behalf :,,: : :: :believe :: :: :,:, ::benefit :best : :: :better :beyond :big : ::, :bill : :blue : ::board :booklet :borrow ::: agency :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : agency's : agent : : :, : agents : ago : agree : : : : : : : : : agreed : agreement : ANN : : announcement : : : answer : : : : : : answerable : answering : answers : anybody : anybody's : : : APA/Chevron : appeals : : appear :, :,,, :, : :, : APPEARAN... :,, agreements : Ah : ALITO : alleged : allow : ambiguity : apply : : applies : : : : :, : : : :, ambiguous : :, : : amended : : A able : : : : above-entitled : : absolutely : : : abusive : : : : accept : : : :, : : : accepted : accepting : : : : acceptor : accepts : : : accurate : Act : : : : action : actions : actual : added : additional : : address : : :, : : : addressed : : addresses :, addressing : : administering : advantage : advisable : agencies : :,, : : : : : : appendix : articles :aside :asked :aspect :aspects :applicable : Assistant :associated :assume :: :,: ::: : : apportioning assumption :: appraisal : :,,,, :,, :, appraisals : : attemptingattempts :attorney :::::American : appraiser : attributableamicus : : :: : amount : :, appropriate : area : :, authority :: :,:,, Official concerned : conclusion : closing :, conduct : collected : collects : come : : :, closings : : : borrowed : Care :, borrowing : : : bottom : : :, : clearer : : :, close : : :, charges : : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :, : comes : : : : carefully : case : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : :,,, breaks : Breyer : : :, : :, : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : :, cases : : Chevron : : : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,,, commission : :, :, :, :,, : :, : : : :, commented : : : :, categories : charging : : : : : : commissions coming : comment : comments : :,,, cause : caused : cert : certain : : : : certainly : : : : : : :, : cetera :, change : :, : changes : charge :, :, : : Chevron's : Chief :, : common : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, :, : companies : :, : company : : circuit : : : : :, : compensable : : :, Circuit's : : : circumstance : : : complaints :, : complete : conferred :, : : conflict : confused : Congress : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : Congress's : connection : considering :, consistent : constrained : : construe : construed : : : : consumer : : : :,, :, : :, : bring : : certifications brief : : : : :, : briefed :, briefly : briefs :,, : : broader : broadly : brought : build : bunch : bureau : business : : : : : : C C : : called : canon :, :, : : cite : : : circumstances completely : : : : :, : :, : : : :, City : claim : :,, clarify : :, : classic : : computer : :,, clear : : : : charged : concede : concern : comprehensive : : : : : :,, complicated : construes : construing : : :,,, court :, :, : : :, : Official : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, : :,,, : : : courts : : : : Court's : cover : : decades : decide :,, : :, :,, : : : decided : : : : : : decides :, : : deciding : discretion : described : deserve : : :, deserving : discussed : designed : discussion : detail : : disparate : : determination : : determine : determining : : : : dissent : distinction : distinguish : divided : :, : developed : division : : developer : document : development decision : : :, defect :, defective : defendant : : : : : covered : : : :, : : :, defer :, : defendants : : : difference : : :, : doing : : : :, : :, : don’t : door : :, : different : double : : : : :, doubt : drives : : : dual : :, due : duty : D.C :,, differentiate differently : consumers : : : :, : : :, : : : consumer-pro... : context : : : contract : :, control : : : : controlled : controls : converting : correct : : : costs : counsel : : : : : : : country : : counts : courier : :,, :,,, : : course : : : : : : :, : covers : : deference : :,, : : :,, : : :, creates : crime : :, : : :, :, : : : corresponding criminal :, create :, : :,, :, : : : :,, : :,, difficult : :,, :,, :, : : :, :, direct : : : : : directly : : : disagree : : deficiency : defined : defining : : :,, : critical : culpable : curiae : : : customer : definition :, disagreeing : customers : cutting : : :, disclose : disclosure : Department D D : deal : : Dear : debate : debates :, : depending : depends : deprived : depth : deputized : : discount : :, : : :,: discovered : : EE : :, earlier : earn ::earned :,: :,:,,: ::,, effect :, : :effected :effective :, Eight :either : : : :elements : eliminates : ellipsed : embezzlement eminently : : : empirical : encompass : eventually : exactly : : example : : : : :, : : : examples : encompassed exceeds : : : : : ends : enforcement : engage : enrichment : ensure : enter : entire : : : :, entirely :, entitled : : : : : : entrusted : enumerate enumeration : : equally : equivalent : ESQ :,, :,,, essence : essentially : estate :, : : : : : : estimate : et : :, evaluate : : exception : excessive : : exchange : exemption :,, exist :, exorbitant :, expect : expected : expecting : experiential : expertise : : : explain : : : explained : : explaining :, : explanation : : : explicitly :, extent : : F face : fact : : : : : : : : : : : Official factor : factual : failure : fair : : : fall : : falls : far : farther : fast : fastener : fault : favor : favorable : favoring : favors : : February : Federal : : : :, : : :, :, : : : fee-splitting : Fifth : : :, figure : : figured : filed : filling : : : final : : : find : : : : : :, finder's :, :, finding : :, finds : first : : : : :, : : : : : : : fee : : : : : : : :,, :, : :,, : :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, : :,, : : : :, : : : :, Footnote : forbid : :,,, forbids : : : FORET : form : fits : flood : focused : follow : feel : fees :,,, :, : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : forms : forth :, : found : : : : four :, :, fraud : : fraudulent : Freeman : : frequently : : front : full : : funding : funds : further : Furthermore : fuss : G G : gap : : gaps : gap-filling : general : : : generally : : genuine : getting : : : Ginsburg : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, give : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :,,, : :, :, : :, : : :, Official : :, gross : :, guess :, :,,, :, given : : guidance :, held : : guilty :, Higginbotham guise : : : identically : identified : : : : identifying immense : : : impact :, implementing : implicate : implicated : import : importance : important : :,, : : : impress : inaccurate : inadvertently : incidents : include : : included : : : : includes : including : : : income : incomplete : increase : : : increased : independent : : indication : :, : indirectly : individual : industry : information : injunctive :, : innocent : inquire : inquiry : instance : : : : : : : instances : insurance : : : intended : : :,interest :,: : : :, : :,interested : : : interesting : interpret : : : : interpretation: : : :, : : :,: : : :,: : :, :, :,,,:, : : :,:, : : :,,:, : : : : : : : interpretations: :,: : Hhands :happen :happening: :happens ::harbor :hard : : harder :::harmed :head :headlong :hear : : :heck :Hefferon :: :,: :,: :,:, : : :,: :,: :,:,,:, : : ::, : :, : :, : : :,: :,:, : : :,: ::,,,:, : : : :, : high : : higher : history : :, : : : : : hold : home :, : : : : Honor : : : : House : : HUD :, : : :,, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : HUD's :, : : : :, : :, : : : HUD/VA : Iidea : : : :::,, :, : : giver : : : gives : : : :, giving : :,, : : : : : : : :, : go : : : : : : : : goes :, going : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :,, : gold : gold-plated : good : : : : goodness : goodwill : government : grade : Graham : : granted : grappled : great : Official interpretative : : interpreted : interpreting : : : : : interpretive :,, interprets : interstitial : invited : involve : : involved : : : involves : :, : involving : : : irrational : : Island :, : : : : issuance : issue :, : : : :, : : : : : :, issued : : itemized : items : it’s : i.e : : J Jackson : job :, : Judge : : judgments : know : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, : L K : :, : : : : knowing : knowledgeable K : :, : : Kagan :, : : : : : keep : : keeping : keeps : Kennedy : : : : : :, : : : large : labeled : labeling : labels : laid : land :, language :, Justice : : :, :,, : :,, :,, : : :, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, :, :, : :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, :,,, KEVIN : : Laughter : law : : : :, kickback : :, : :, : :,,, : : : :, :,, : : : :, lawmaking :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :,, :, :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : kickbacks : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : kinds : : : :,, : :, :, knew : lenders : Lending : lenity : let's : : liability : liable : : legislation : legislative : :, : : : lender : : : : : : : leave : left : legal : kicked : kind :, : :,, legislate : : : : : :, :, life : light : limited : : : limiting : limits : line : :, list : : : listed : : little : : : loan : : :,,, : :, : : : :,,, : : : loans : : : : local : : logic : long : : :,, :,,, : : : longstanding : look : : : : : looked :, : :, looking : looks :, : lose :, lot :, : : : : : lower : : :, : Official :, M M : : : : :, morning : mortgage : :, Nokay : : page : : : : : :,, :,, once : : paid : : one's : opposed : : : : maintain : major : : N :, : market : : : markups : matter : : : opposite : panacea : nails :,, parcels : narrower : oral : :,, parent : natural : : parser : : :, part : :, nature : : : : order : : :,, : payments : :, : pays : : : pegs : penalties : people : : : : percent :,: :, : :,:, : :,,,,: :,: :,:, : : : percentage : :, :, : : : : : perfectly : : performed : :, : : : : : : : :,:,,, : :,:, :, : ::, : performs :period :: permitted ::,,,: :,: :: :: :, : : : : :, : : : :, partial :, : particular : : :, : : : : : : particularly : : : parties : : parts : : pass : passage : passing : : pay :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : payment : paying : : person ::, : Mead : mean : : : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : meaning : : : : :, : necessary : necessity : need : : :, : : : needed : never :, : : new : nominal : normal : : normally : : : : : ordinary : origination : : outside : : : overcharge : : : : : : :, overcharges :, : : : :, : : : : means : : noted : : overrule : :, : : : : : meant : notice :, :, :, :, notice-and-co... O'Connell : : : : :, measure :, novelty : : :, measured : :, : mechanic : :,, mention : :,, mere : : :, merely : : :, : : : : middle : :, : mine : : : minute : Pminutes : mission : money : : OO : : objection :obvious :occurred :occurs :odd :offered :official : oh :,:P : package : padded : :, : oil :, portion :, probably : procedure : : :, Procedures : : proceeding practices : : : : : : procure :, procured : preamble :, prohibit : precedents : : personal : persons : : person's : perspective : : persuade :, pervasive : pervasively : : : :, :,,,, :, :, : :, : : : position : : :, Post : potential : Petitioners : power :, :, :, : : : practice : : : : :, : phone : phrase : : place :, : : plain : : : : plate : please : : : point : : : precisely : precluded : : preemption : premium : present : : presumptively presented : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : pointed : pretty : points : : :, : : : :,,, prevent : : :,, previously :,, policy : : : :, :, : :, :, :, : :,, prices : :, : :,,, :,, :, : Official principle : : : provable : prove : : : provide : : :, : problem : :, : :, : provided : : : : : : : procedural :, procedurally : provider : : : : : : : : : : :,, providers : : : :, : : : :, provider-prov... proving : provision : : : :, : :, : : : provisions : psychoanalyze : prohibiting : Prohibition : providing : prohibits : promulgated : : promulgating : proper : : : : : properly : proposals : public : : proposed : :,,, purchaser : :, : pure : : : proposition purport : purporting : prosecute : : : putting : puzzling : Qqualify :question :, :, :, :,, :, : :: :: :: :: :,:, : : :,: : :, :, : questions : Quicken : : :, :, : :,: :: quite : : : :,: :: quote : : quoting :RR :raised ::rate :,: : : :,,,: :,: :: :: :raw :reached :reaching :,price : : prosecutor : : prosecutorial :, : : :, : : : : : protect : : purports : purpose :, : : purposes : : : : primarily : protection : pursuant :, protects : put : : Official : : receiver : read : : receives : : : : :, receiving : :, : : : : : : regulations : : : regulation's : recite : recognition : regulatory : recognize : recognized reject : rejected : : : requires : requiring : : reserve : residential : resolve : RESPA : : : recognizing : : recount : red :, redo : reduction : : :, : RESPA's : : respect : relate : related : relationship :, : : relevant : : :, : : : : : : Respondent : : : refer : : relief :,, reference : : rely : : Respondent's remainder : remand : :, reason : : referral :, rulemaking :, : rules :, : ruling : run : : running : Russell : : : :,,, : :,, : :, : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :, SS : : safe : saying :: :,: :: :: says :, : : :: :,: :: :: :,,: ::,, : : :,: : Scalia :,:, : reading : : : : : : : : : : : :, : reads : real :, : : : : : :, : really : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reasonable : : : : : :, : reasonableness : : reasonably : rebates : : : rebuttal : : : recall : receive : : received : : :, : :, reasons : : regarding : report : : : :,, : : :, :, : : referred : : : refers : : remedies : :, removes : render : rendered : : :, : :, : rendering : : : :,, : refinancing : reform : reg :, repeated : repeating : regime : regulate : regulates : regulation : represents :, :, reported : represent : : : : :,,, reproduced :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : : requirement : : required : : : response : rest : : result : retains : right : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : rights : rise : ROBERTS : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : rule : : : : : : Official States :,, : : :, statute : : : :, :, :, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : :,, :,,,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : so-called : special : : : specific : specifically : : : : :, :, : : spent : split :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, splits : splitting : : standard : standardize : : : standing :, stands : state : : : :, :, statement : : :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, :, : Scalia's : : scenario :, schedule : scope : search : : searcher : : second : : : : Secretary : section : : :, :, : : :, :,,, :, : : securing : see : : : : : : : : : seeing : sees : sell : Senate : : send : sense : : : sent : sentence : sentences : separate : : : shared : shares : show : : shows : : side :, :, : : : : : : : : : : single : : : situation : : :, : : : : : :, : service :, :, :, similarly : : : : : :, simplest : simply :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : :, :, : : :,, :,, : :, :, : : : services : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : Solicitor : solicitous : solve : somebody : : : : : : sophisticated : six : Sixth : Skidmore : Smith :, situations : set : : :, : : sets : setting : settlement : : : : : :, : : : : : :, Seventh : sorry : : sort :, : : SOTOMAYOR :, : :, : :, : : : statutes : : : : statute's : statutory : : :, : :, : : : : :,, :,,, : :, :, : stayed : :, : : :, step : : : : stay : statements : stepping : : Official stop : strong : strongest : structure : study : : stuff : : subject : : submitted : : subsection :, subsequent : : subsidiaries : :, successor : suddenly : sufficient : suggest : suggested : suggesting : suggestion : suggests : suits : suit-commenc... : sum : supplement : supporting : : : supportive : suppose : : supposed : : : supreme :, : sure : : : : : : : surely : surplusage : sweep : system : TT :,table :tacks :,take : : : :taken : : talk :talked :talking :,:, : : ::TAMMY :tell : : telling :::tells : : term : : terms :: :thank :: ::,, : theirs ::theoretically :They'd :thing : : : :,: :: :things : : : :,:, : : : : : : :, : : think :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : thoroughness : : thought : : : : three :, : time :, : : : : : : : : : : : : times : title : : : :, :,,, : :,, :,,,, : titled : toenails : told : touches : track : thinking : : : : : third : THOMAS : Tuesday : traditional : : : : transaction :,,, transactions : : transforming tread : treat : tree : true : : unearned :,: : : : : : :,,,: : : :,: :,: : :,, : : : :, : :,, : :,, : :, : :,,,: :,: :, unethical : :, truly : Truth : try : : trying : United :,,: : : turn : two :, : unjust : unknowinglyuniverse : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : two-step : type :, : : types : typically : : Uultimately :: :underlying:understand :: : : : understanding : : undivided : unlawful : : : unnecessarily: : : unnecessary: unsplit : unusual : : unworkable use : : : : usually : : Vv : : : vague :value :: :,verbs :, Official a : :, : :,,, (b) : : : - : : : : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : : : a : : a : : (b) : : : :, : :, : : : : : : willing : withdrawing : withdrew : wooden : word : : :, words : : : : : : : : : : :,, : work :, : : :,,, :, :, :, : working : worry : wouldn't : : : , : : : : : : : : : : : : : writes : : written : (a) : : wrong : : (b) : : : : : : : : : : : : x :, : X Y years : you’ve : $ $ :, : $, : : :, : : : : : a : : , : : : :, view :, : : : violate : : : : : : violated : :, violates : : : violating : violation : :, : : violations : VIR : W Wait : waiting : want : : : : : : : : wanted : Washington : :,, : wasn't : : : : : : way : : : :, : : : : ways : : weeks : went : weren't : we'll : : we're : : : : : : whatsoever 