Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCAROL HOWES, WARDEN, : Petitioner : v. : No. -RANDALL LEE FIELDS :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : p.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioner.GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.ELIZABETH L. JACOBS, ESQ., Detroit, Michigan; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEJOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFGINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the PetitionerORAL ARGUMENT OFELIZABETH L. JACOBS, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: p.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Howes v. Fields. Mr. Bursch. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: This case raises two issues: The first iswhether the right against self-incrimination requiresthat a prisoner always be Mirandized before beinginterviewed in isolation about conduct that occurredoutside the prison. The second is an AEDPA question,whether this Court in Mathis clearly established such aper se rule. For three reasons, the answer to bothquestions is no. First, for nearly years this Court hasdeclined to adopt any new per se rule that alwaysrequires a Miranda warning, instead considering all thecircumstances. Lower court -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't you think being incustody itself is a circumstance? MR. BURSCH: Sure, it's a circumstance thatgoes into the all-the-circumstances mix, but -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's all this"all-circumstances missed"? I thought that our case lawwas fairly clear that all circumstances is a test forvoluntariness. I thought the issue has always beenunder Miranda: Is the person free to go or not? MR. BURSCH: That's correct. We agree thatthe test -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, since when have weimported of the language of voluntariness into theMiranda test? And should we be creating yet anothertest? MR. BURSCH: Justice Sotomayor, there aretwo separate tests. And I go back just to last term inthe J.D.B. case. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, go to the test offreedom to leave. MR. BURSCH: Yes. If -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're taken from yourcell and locked into a room -- and let's change thefacts -- MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and locked in a roomand said: Talk to me; tell me. You have to tell mewhat happened. Is that person free to go. Official MR. BURSCH: It would be much moredifficult, but the test would be whether a reasonableperson in the prisoner's position felt that they werefree to go back to their cell in accord with reasonable,ordinary prison procedures. And that would be the testthat's consistent with J.D.B. and, I submit, with everyMiranda case that this Court has issued in the last years. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, whatmakes this case different? He's taken from a -- exceptbeing told that he could leave. If he had been takenfrom his cell, removed from the prison, his normalsetting, taken by armed guards to another building and,with guards at the door, sat down and told talk to usabout this incident, why would he think he was free toleave? There is one fact I'm taking out of it. MR. BURSCH: Well, there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is that he wastold he was free to go. MR. BURSCH: Right. There are a number ofcircumstances that kind of culminate in what I considerto be the two most important. Some of the backgroundcircumstances: He was in a room that was not locked.It was a conference room, not an interrogation room witha bright light. He was not shackled. He was not Officialthreatened. He was not physically harmed in any way.The two big ones are, one, that when he started tobecome belligerent, the guards told him that if youdon't want to cooperate, then you'll have to go back toyour cell; you'll have to leave. And that's the exactopposite of Miranda custody, where -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There -- as I see therecord, he claims twice he said, I don't want to talk toyou. And when he asked to leave at the end, it took minutes, and they continued the questioning. Doesn'tthat counter the rest of what you're saying? MR. BURSCH: They are two factors that gointo the mix, and I'll discuss each one in turn. Whenhe says, I don't want to talk anymore, then he went onand kept talking. And you have to consider, well, whydid he keep talking? Well, the record shows, I think afair reading of it anyway, that he was trying to explainto the officers this timeline that he kept talkingabout. At the end, when it was a -minute delay,there is no contention that that was anyhow inconsistentwith reasonable prison procedures. And the fact that itcould have been minutes, it could have been seconds, it could have been an hour, depending onprocedures, demonstrates why a per se rule doesn't make Officialsense. We should look at all the circumstances. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why is a per se rulenecessarily what is being argued here? For one thing,he had no choice but to go with the police, right? MR. BURSCH: That's correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, it's different fromsome cases where the prisoner initiates theconversation. MR. BURSCH: That is a little bit different,but the key facts here are, one, at the beginning, thequestioning officers say, you're free to stop this andgo back to your cell. Then in the middle, he getsbelligerent, and they say, if you don't want tocooperate, you have to leave; you have to go back toyour cell. Which is, I submit, the opposite of Mirandacustody. And then when he finally invokes his rightto go back to his cell, it's immediately honored with,of course, the -minute delay due to prison procedures.And so, from beginning to end, a reasonable person inhis position could have believed they were free toreturn. And that's all that Miranda requires. In fact, we have a trial court finding onthat, on three of them: One, that he was told he wasfree to go; second, that he understood he was free to Officialgo; and, third, that he was free to go. And that's allI -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it doesn't make anydifference that they -- they took him from his cell, hewas under compulsion to leave with them and interrogatedduring the hours when prisoners are ordinarily sleeping? MR. BURSCH: Again, I would submit those areall circumstances that should go into thisall-the-circumstances consideration. You know, therewere also other things that militated in favor of thetrial court findings, such as the explicit instructionthat he was free to leave; that he would have to go backif he didn't cooperate; that they did honor his requestto leave, once made. So, these are all the things thatthe court should look at. And you can imagine a number of othersituations, maybe with facts different than these, wherea per se rule would be wholly inappropriate. You know,what if they had invited him to come down and he had thechoice at the beginning? What if someone was stationedoutside the door and took him immediately as soon as hesaid, I'm ready to go back? It just demonstrates thatthis isn't the place for a per se rule; that we shouldjust follow the same Miranda test that has been appliedfor years, and that's all the circumstances. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: General, when you say that,I took sometimes your brief and the U.S. Government'sbrief to be saying something more, which is that it'snot all the circumstances; it's all the circumstancesminus circumstances that are attendant upon normalprison living. So, are you still arguing that, or are youreally arguing an all-the-circumstances test? MR. BURSCH: We're not taking quite thatstrong a position. We're arguing all the circumstances.And the analogy that I would draw is just like in theJ.D.B. case last term, that you would consider not onlythe age of the suspect, but also the school environment.So, I'm not saying the prison environment is taken outof the equation; just that it's not dispositive in andof itself, just like this Court held in Shatzer. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, a court can stillthink -- when it's doing an all-the-circumstancesinquiry, it can still factor in something like, youknow, it just -- it was going to take him an hour to getback to his cell. That's still something that the courtcan consider along with everything else. Is that right? MR. BURSCH: Not only can, but should.Absolutely. And, you know, one of the benefits of having Officiala per se -- I'm sorry -- of having anall-the-circumstances rule, rather than a per se rule,is that it encourages truthful, voluntary confessions.And this Court has repeatedly recognized that suchconfessions are an unmitigated social good. That'ssomething that we want. And you can imagine, again,that there are a variety of non-prison contexts where itwould certainly be easier to have a per se rule. Youcould have done that in J.D.B. You know, it's so coercive to take an-year-old child to the principal's office with anofficer and question him, that per se there's alwaysgoing to be some child version of the Miranda rule. Butwe don't do that. Or if you had someone in the hospitaland they were in such a position that they werephysically unable to leave. We don't have a hospitalMiranda rule. There shouldn't be one in prisons,either. We should just take all the circumstances intoaccount. And I think really the lesson of Shatzer isthat we start, Justice Kagan, right where you did, thatjust simply being in prison, being interrogated -- I'msorry -- being in jail alone is not enough. But it'sgoing to become one factor that we consider in thislarger test. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, which way doyou think that factor cuts? MR. BURSCH: In this particular situation? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. BURSCH: I think it cuts in our favor,as the trial court found, and the courts should defer tothat for all the reasons I just stated: That he was notthreatened, not physically harmed; he was in aconference room; door wasn't locked. Of course, the bigtwo: That when he got belligerent they told him, if youdon't want to cooperate, you have to leave. The exactopposite of Miranda custody when you say, if you don'tcooperate, you will not be permitted to leave. And alsothat when he made the request to go, it was honoredwithin the amount of time that they would have expectedper prison policy. So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Except when they say youhave to leave, one way to interpret that or to analyzethat might be to say: You're in custody no matter. MR. BURSCH: Justice Kennedy, I don't thinkthat's the case because -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And when you say you haveto leave, that's almost coercion -- coercive of them tosay, because he doesn't want to have to go back to thecell. Official MR. BURSCH: I don't think that's the casebecause, under Shatzer, there's nothing Mirandacustodial about simply being in his cell. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. MR. BURSCH: And if he wants to stay awayfrom his cell, as it appears to here because he wastrying to explain himself, you know, that's one of thosefactors that militates against a finding of -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I think it makes yourcase weaker, not stronger, that statement. MR. BURSCH: I think it makes it stronger,because in the typical Miranda case you would say tosomeone, if you don't cooperate, we are going to keepyou here as long as it takes. And here they were sayingjust the opposite. And the message they sent wasconsistent with the instructions they gave him at thebeginning -- if you tell us that you want to leave,we'll honor that request -- and consistent with whatactually happened at the end. He said, I want to goback, and they honored that request. And I think one of the other factors thatyou put in the mix here is that we were dealing withoutside officers, not inside prison officers. Theseoutside officers did not have the ability to impact hisday-to-day prison life the way someone inside the prison would.Official Now, one other point I want to make about inand out of prison is this artificial line that the SixthCircuit drew to cabin its per se rule. They said thatif the conduct takes place outside the prison, per seyou get Miranda; if the conduct that they're questioningtalking about was inside the prison walls, we're notgoing to do that. And the Sixth Circuit was forced tomake that policy decision because, otherwise, prisonadministration becomes very difficult. But under this Court's precedent and underthe Fifth Amendment itself, there is nothing that wouldsuggest that there should be a distinction in theMiranda analysis as to the locus of the conduct that isbeing questioned about. And it's possible to have a very seriousin-prison crime, a murder of another inmate, and a verynominal outside crime, petty theft, and, yet, the SixthCircuit would give pure Miranda protection to that pettytheft questioning and no protection at all to the personwho murdered someone inside the prison walls. And thatjust demonstrates where the Sixth Circuit rule starts tofall apart. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Chief asked you, inhis question, which way does it cut? Meaning you seem Officialto be advocating a rule that says merely because he's inprison is irrelevant, standing alone. I think youradversary is saying you can't take out the fact thatthis person's liberty is restrained from the equation. So, going back to my hypothetical, if you'reforced to leave the prison, as this gentleman was, andput in another room, what presumption should you startwith? Shouldn't the presumption be that if you'reforced to go to another place, that you are in custody? MR. BURSCH: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I'mgoing to start with the premise. We are not advocatingthat the prison conditions fall out of the equationentirely. They are simply part of the mix that youconsider, just like you would consider the schoolenvironment or the hospital environment or a customsenvironment. With respect to being taken out to anotherbuilding, so long as a reasonable person in his positionwould have felt free to go back, that's ultimately thedispositive inquiry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- what would makesomeone who is forced to go somewhere think that they'refree to go back, absent being told? MR. BURSCH: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But let's -- what would Officialmake any reasonable prisoner who can't move without anescort believe that they're always free to go back? MR. BURSCH: Well, there are -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Once they're forced togo from point A to point B. MR. BURSCH: Right. There are three factorshere, and I'll quibble just a little bit with theassumption that he was somehow forced to go. It's truethey didn't ask him if he wanted to go, but there's alsono contention that he resisted going and they made himgo anyway. What he said is: "I didn't know where wewere going.... I felt like I was in a safe environmentso I didn't object." And then once he got to the room -- here arethe three that I think are the most critical facts:That he was told right at the beginning, just tell us;we'll take you back to your cell when you want to dothat. Second, when he got belligerent they said,if you don't want to cooperate, you'll go back to yourcell. And, third, when he asked to go back to his cell,that request was honored within the context of thetypical prison administration. And it's very possible that in his everydayprison life, he could be taken over next door for a Officialmedical exam, he could be taken over next door for avisitor if that was county policy. So, there's nothinginherent about the walk into the next building thatmeans per se he has to be Mirandized. Again, it's justone factor that should go into the mix, just like thisCourt has always done in Miranda cases. Unless the Court has any further questions,I'll reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. BURSCH: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Anders. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MS. ANDERS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: The Sixth Circuit has imposed a per se rulethat whenever a prison inmate is isolated forquestioning about conduct that occurred outside theprison, that inmate is in custody for Miranda purposes,regardless of the circumstances of the interrogation.But in the prison context, as in any other, thetraditional Miranda custody tests should apply, and thequestion should be whether, in light of all of thecircumstances, a reasonable person in the suspect's Officialposition would have felt free to terminate the interviewand leave. That is so for three reasons: The first isthat the Court reaffirmed, in Maryland v. Shatzer, thatrestraints on a suspect's freedom of movement are anecessary but not sufficient condition for Mirandacustody. In other words, a reasonable suspect whosefreedom of movement is restrained may nonetheless feelthat he is free to terminate the questioning. Second, there are, in fact, many situationsin which a reasonable inmate isolated for questioningwould feel free to terminate the interrogation despitebeing subject to background prison restrictions. And, third, the Sixth Circuit's per se rulehere requires Miranda warnings to be given in situationsin which the concerns about custodial interrogation thatdrove Miranda are simply not present. That holdingimpairs the important truth-seeking function ofinvestigations by requiring the suppression of voluntaryconfessions made in noncustodial situations. JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose the policeman hadsaid: I'm taking you away with me for minutes,period. Takes him away, puts him in a place, asks himquestions for minutes. All right? Does he have toMirandize him? Official MS. ANDERS: You have to look to thetotality of the circumstances in that -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, those are the totality. MS. ANDERS: -- in that case. JUSTICE BREYER: I just gave you thetotality. MS. ANDERS: In that situation, the inmatemay not be in custody, because Shatzer established thatsimply being in prison and subject to normal prison -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. I'm taking youto a special room, and in this special room, I'm goingto ask you questions for minutes. MS. ANDERS: You would look to -- JUSTICE BREYER: There's no othercircumstance. That's it. Everything else is the sameas here, except he added those words. Now what? MS. ANDERS: I think he may not be incustody, because -- JUSTICE BREYER: Not in custody. MS. ANDERS: -- again, you have to -- JUSTICE BREYER: He's only going to be therefor minutes. MS. ANDERS: You look to what the reasonableinmate in that situation would feel -- JUSTICE BREYER: He would have thought he could leave after minutes.Official MS. ANDERS: You would look to what thereasonable inmate would feel, and in that situation, youwould look to his experience with the prison, you wouldlook to the circumstances of the questioning, whetherthey are accusatorial, whether they are pleasant -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MS. ANDERS: -- the location of the room. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, outside -- we walkoutside, there's a policeman in the street, and he saysto someone who's a suspect: Come with me; I'm takingyou to jail; I'm going to ask you questions for minutes. He takes him to a barred room; he can't getout for minutes. He has to Mirandize him? MS. ANDERS: You may have to in thatsituation, Justice -- JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference? MS. ANDERS: The difference is that theperson who is on the street -- their baseline is thatthey are -- they have complete free will, they havefreedom of movement. But when you look at the prisonsituation, the ultimate question is whether thereasonable inmate would feel free to terminate thequestioning, and one situation you look to indetermining that are the physical restraints on that Officialperson. And when you look at the restraints, you haveto take into account the fact that the prisoner has abaseline, which is that he has some restrictions on hismovement. That's what the Court said in Shatzer. And so, when you look at the totality of thecircumstances, you consider the restraints and theprisoner's baseline, but you also consider everythingelse that happens during the questioning. And so, therecould be many situations in which the questioning willgo in a manner that tells the reasonable inmate thathe's free to leave. So, for instance, the most clearexample is when someone is actually told that they canleave. But there could be many other examples as well. JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ask you a differentsort of question, Ms. Anders? Putting aside what theSixth Circuit did here, if you look back at the initialState court opinion, do you read the State court -- doyou think the State court is fairly read, could theSixth Circuit have fairly read it, as establishing itsown per se rule, which was the per se rule we rejectedin Mathis? In other words, that the State supreme courtrequired some kind of nexus between the prison custodyand the interrogation? MS. ANDERS: I think it's -- I think it's --the State court opinions are somewhat unclear. There Officialare some statements that could be taken to beinconsistent with Mathis, but immediately after thosestatements, the State court said, well, it's not enoughalone for custody that someone is incarcerated on aconviction that's unrelated to their questioning, and welook to the fact that the inmate was told that he wasfree to leave, and he actually felt free to leave. So, I think the best reading of the Statecourts' opinions is that they did go through thetotality of the circumstances, and they did concludethat Respondent reasonably felt that he was free toleave in this interview. But, more importantly, I think the SixthCircuit went much further than that and imposed a per serule that says no matter what the questioners do, nomatter what a prisoner is told, no matter how free hefeels to leave, that person always has to be Mirandized.And that extends Miranda way beyond its initialconcerns. Voluntary confessions, this Court hasrecognized, are an unmitigated good. So, any timesomeone confesses voluntarily in a noncustodialsituation, the Sixth Circuit's rule, applied to prisons,would say that that person 's confession has to besuppressed, even though it was given in a situation that Officialdoesn't implicate Miranda's concerns at all. And I think the Sixth Circuit's rule reallyarose from two assumptions. One was that isolationalone is sufficient to create custody in allcircumstances. And that can't be the case, because weknow that an inmate can be told that he can leave, hecan be given an initial choice before he comes along forquestioning, he can be interrogated in isolation purelybecause he's waiting to be treated in an infirmary.There are any number of situations, I think, where aninmate could be isolated for questioning, but he wouldstill feel free to leave. And going to Justice Sotomayor's questionabout whether someone in prison necessarily feelscoerced, I think that the Court in Shatzer establishedthat background restrictions incident to beingincarcerated are not in themselves sufficient to createMiranda custody. So, in other words, they don't createsuch a huge coercive impact that nobody would feel freeto terminate questioning. So, I think accepting the proposition thatsomeone in prison is always coerced would lead to a perse rule that says no matter how non-accusatorial, nomatter how noncoercive that situation is, that personwould always be in custody. So --Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you're going backto confusing coercion issues with custody issues, and Idon't know that you have really answered JusticeBreyer's question. Someone's picked off the street andtold you have to go into this room, and questions areasked. Wouldn't we assume that that person is incustody? MS. ANDERS: I think in either situation,you have to look to the totality of the circumstances.And so, we know that restraints alone -- the restraintsof prison aren't enough alone. And so, when youconsider the restraints -- when you consider the factthat a prisoner is told he has to go into a room, youwould look not only to that fact, but you'd also look toeverything that happens in the questioning. But then when you go back to consider thefact that the prisoner was told that he has to come tothe room, you would -- you would look to whether it's anormal prison policy that prisoners always have to beescorted places. And so, that would help the courtdetermine whether -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but he didn'tchoose to go to that room. He was placed in that room.What makes him think that if -- if his jailers are Officialwalking him somewhere, that he's free to leave? MS. ANDERS: Well, I think two points: Oneis that -- the fact that he is asked to -- the fact thathe is told he has to go to this room is not the onlycircumstance of the interrogation. So, certainly, whathappens in the questioning can lead a reasonableprisoner to believe that he's free to go, even thoughhe's been told he has to go to the questioning. So, if he is told he can leave, if itbecomes clear from experience, if there's a prisonpolicy saying that inmates can always leave, if he seesthat he can summon the guards -- all of thosecircumstances have to be taken into account in additionto the fact that he was told initially that he has to gowith the guard. And the second thing -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: If he were out and thepolice officer said, come along with us, he could sayno. But here he didn't -- he didn't have that choice. MS. ANDERS: That's right. He didn't havethat initial choice. But once he got into thequestioning, I think this case is a good example of whatcan happen where the inmate here was told that he couldend the questioning. And so, the ultimate question forMiranda custody is whether the reasonable person wouldfeel free to terminate the interrogation. Official And so, in considering all of thecircumstances, one circumstance would be that the inmatewas told he has to come to the questioning, but anothercircumstance would be that he was then told once he gotthere that he could end the questioning. And so, there are -- there are other factorslike that that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it -- is the timerelevant, that this was done -- they took him away at: in the evening and kept him for hours? MS. ANDERS: I think that would be arelevant factor here, too, as would the fact that thedoor was partially open, that the -- the questioning wasnot threatening, there were only two officers. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they -- that didn'tdo him any good, because he couldn't get back to hiscell without being escorted there. MS. ANDERS: That's correct. That -- thatis a -- that's a background restraint of incarceration,and in looking at whether that particular restraint madethe inmate feel that he couldn't terminate thequestioning, you would look both to the fact that --that, as he himself said, it's common sense that inmateshave to be escorted to and from places in the prison.And also -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I wonderwhy you just agreed that the hours would be apertinent circumstance. It strikes me that that wouldbe a pertinent circumstance on overall voluntariness,perhaps, but once you're told you can leave whenever youwant, I don't see why it matters at all how long he'skept there. MS. ANDERS: I think that's exactly right,that -- that, certainly -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, it's not arelevant circumstance on the custody question. MS. ANDERS: It is a circumstance within thetotality of the circumstances here, but it -- it's --any kind of effect that it had on making the inmate feelthat he couldn't terminate the question was entirelyoffset by the fact that he was told that he could leavemultiple times. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Now Ms. Jacobs. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELIZABETH L. JACOBS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. JACOBS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I want to address the issue of whethersomeone is free to leave. Recently, there have been Officialseveral cases, and Cervantes is one, and I can'tremember whether it was Alvardo -- Alvarado or J.D.B.,where the courts have said that in a prison setting thestatement that you're free to leave has lesssignificance than if you're in a -- in the free world. So, I would suggest that when you look atthis, that that particular issue, or that particularstatement, should not be given the same weight in prisonas out. And one of the reasons I suggest is because ifa prisoner is told he's free to leave and he's incustody and we know he's in custody because he's inprison, he really under these facts does not have thecapability of getting up and leaving. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it certainly -- itcertainly doesn't mean he can leave the prison, right? MS. JACOBS: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's clear, but -- butisn't that the only difference? It, certainly, at aminimum, means that he can leave this interrogation. MS. JACOBS: Prisoners -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But what could it possiblymean if it didn't mean you could leave this room whereyou're now being questioned? MS. JACOBS: Let me answer that question bypointing out that in -- I think it's Georgison and OfficialCervantes, where there is a button, and the prisoner hasthe ability to go and press the button and call his ownjailers. In this case, the prisoner had to rely onthe sheriff's deputies that were interrogating in orderto effectuate his freedom. And, in fact, he's testifiedthat he said he wanted to -- that -- I think he saidthat he didn't want to answer any questions, or hewanted to leave, and we don't hear any more about it --about that. Why not? Because at that point, no oneallowed him to leave because the officers hadn't gottenthe answers they wanted. JUSTICE ALITO: What is the rule that youwant us to adopt? MS. JACOBS: The rule I want you to adopt isthe rule in Mathis. And it seems that it has alreadybeen adopted, but I think that based on what the -- JUSTICE ALITO: So, everybody in prison isin custody -- MS. JACOBS: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: -- at all times. MS. JACOBS: What -- what Mathis -- JUSTICE ALITO: So, if you want to questionanybody in prison about anything -- MS. JACOBS: No. Official JUSTICE ALITO: -- you have to give aMiranda warning. MS. JACOBS: And I don't think that's whatMathis said. I think Mathis was very specific, that apolice officer coming from the outside to the inside totalk about a crime occurring on the outside must be --give a Miranda warning. JUSTICE ALITO: What sense does that make?Why is one more in custody depending on the subject thatthe police want to question the person about? MS. JACOBS: And in certain circumstances, Iagree with you, that in fact, this Court should holdthat when the correction officers are investigating acrime within the prison, then -- and they remove theprisoner and they isolate him, take him out of thegeneral population, that this Court should then holdMiranda is applicable. But when it's voluntary -- JUSTICE ALITO: So, whenever they --whenever a prisoner is isolated and questioned about acrime, no matter where it occurs, a Miranda warning hasto be given? MS. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: About a possible crime? MS. JACOBS: Yes. I mean -- there doesn'tseem to me to be possible crimes. They always turn out to be crimes.Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how is that consistentwith the totality of the circumstances test that we'vealways insisted upon in Miranda cases? MS. JACOBS: Well, Miranda -- not all the --there are bright-line rules attached to Miranda, so thatMiranda itself is a bright-line rule. So, to state abright-line rule I don't think is outside the purview ofMiranda -- of Miranda law. And it's easier for theofficers to apply; it's easier for the courts to apply;and there would be more consistency. But, Justice Alito, I want to make sure thatyou understand that I think if it's on-the-scenequestioning about a crime occurring on prison, that Idon't think you have to give Miranda rights; that ifit's voluntary, if the officer -- if the defendant comesup to an officer and starts chatting away and startsmentioning a crime, that's voluntary. And that'sconsistent with Miranda. I don't think you really haveto break new ground -- JUSTICE ALITO: So, if a prisoner is stabbedin the yard and there are prisoners in the yard atthe time and the prison guards want to questioneverybody to see what they saw, they all have to begiven Miranda warnings? Official MS. JACOBS: Well, that's an interestingfact situation, because some of those people are justwitnesses, and they are not necessarily suspects. And aguard might be able to say: Well, the people that werein this narrow area, they're possible suspects. They'regoing to get -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. No, no, that'snot the way Miranda works. Miranda suppresses astatement that is adverse to the person who wasquestioned. And the police doesn't know when theadverse statement's going to come. So, you're runningaway from the hypothetical. It just doesn't work. MS. JACOBS: I -- I'm sorry, but I hadthought that what Miranda also said is if -- if it's awitness and you know -- you believe that it's a witnessand that you're not asking questions that are going toincriminate them, that then you don't have to giveMiranda. Once the point it becomes -- thank you. JUSTICE ALITO: Well -- MS. JACOBS: Once the point it becomesincriminating, then you give the Miranda rights. JUSTICE ALITO: If it's a witness in theoutside world, the witness is unlikely to be in custody. MS. JACOBS: I understand, but I thoughtyour hypothetical had to do with being stabbed in the Officialyard. JUSTICE ALITO: It does. MS. JACOBS: Okay. JUSTICE ALITO: So, these -- all thesepeople in your view are in custody, and they all arebeing asked questions that may incriminate them -- MS. JACOBS: If they -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- and they don't have to begiven Miranda warnings unless they're suspects. MS. JACOBS: If they are removed from thegeneral population, if they're taken by a correctionsofficer to a cell where they're going to beinterrogated -- they are isolated; it's incommunicado;they're being interrogated by officers; they knowthey're officers -- that's a Miranda situation. JUSTICE ALITO: And when will that notoccur? In my hypothetical of the stabbing in the yard,you mean that you think the guards are going to say:Okay, all you guys stay here; now we're all -- we'regoing to question each of you individually witheverybody else, the other prisoners present. MS. JACOBS: I think it -- I think at thatpoint, they're going to put the people that were in theyard back in their cells, and then they're going to takethem out. Official JUSTICE ALITO: And then they'll beisolated. MS. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: So, they all will getMiranda warnings. MS. JACOBS: So, they will get Miranda.You're -- you know. And I understand the Court'sconcern that you might lose -- you might lose evidence,but Miranda is going to protect us from falseconfessions, which is even a greater cost to societythan -- than having to give the Miranda rights. JUSTICE KAGAN: And where do you get thisfocus on isolation from? I mean, it's never mentionedin Mathis. You said let's go back to Mathis, but that'snot a part of Mathis, is it? MS. JACOBS: It's -- well, I've got twoanswers for that: One, it's -- it's the basis ofMiranda, that when you isolate someone, when you talk tothem incommunicado, that that's -- there are compellingpressures that only Miranda rights will dispel, such as-- and let me get -- answer one other question. Tellingsomeone that they've got the freedom to leave is not asubstitute for Miranda. But now let me go back to Mathis. InMathis, the Court said he was in a cell. So, I draw Officialthat -- the inference that he was isolated, that he's ina cell, he's got agents with him, and that that'sisolation. He's not in a prison library -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that there wasno discussion of the "in custody" point in Mathis. Itwas assumed that they were in custody, and the issue waswhether he could be questioned about a crime other thanthe one for which he was being held. MS. JACOBS: I read Mathis as to say that hewas in custody for the -- for the question of the crime.The police officers came in; they have him in a cell;it's a police-dominated atmosphere and that they'requestioning about a crime that occurred outside theprison. To me, that's Miranda. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, JusticeGinsburg is quite right. That -- that was not the issuein Mathis. The argument in Mathis was: We'requestioning him about something else; so, we don't haveto give him Miranda warnings. And that's the questionthat the Court decided. I don't think it had anydiscussion about whether -- there was certainly not theargument of whether he was in custody or not. Theargument was this is a different crime; so, we don'thave to give you Miranda. And the Court rejected that. So how does Officialthat clearly establish the law on which the court reliedin this case? MS. JACOBS: In Mathis, because he was -- Iguess it was the lower court thought that because he wasnot in custody on the crime with which they were goingto ask questions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MS. JACOBS: -- that, therefore, you didn'thave to give him Miranda. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MS. JACOBS: But I think what the SupremeCourt was implying is that it doesn't matter what --what you're in -- in prison for; you are in custody atthat point that you're in the cell with these officers. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you know whereexactly in Mathis? It's only -- MS. JACOBS: I'm saying -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- about five pageslong. Can you show me where they have that discussionabout custody, as opposed to a discussion about whatcrime is being discussed? MS. JACOBS: What I'm saying is that it'simplied by Mathis. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly. MS. JACOBS: You can infer it from Mathis. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly. It'simplied. Inferred. How -- MS. JACOBS: But that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that clearlyestablished law? MS. JACOBS: Yes. I think it is clearlyestablished law. It does not break any new ground forus to apply it. It does not break any new ground. Ithink Mathis is a very limited case. The holdingapplies to police officers only, not to correctionsofficers, and I think that it does stand for theprinciple that if you're in custody, and they're talkingto you about -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you agree -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree thatthis is not -- what you want to derive from Mathis isnot part of the holding of Mathis? MS. JACOBS: I think it's a rational --well, I think it's a rational extension. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an extension. MS. JACOBS: But that doesn't necessarilymean that it's new law. It's -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were goingback to Miranda itself, which says in custody orotherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any Officialsignificant way. MS. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So -- and I think yourepeated the phrase from -- from Miranda that what theCourt was aiming at was incommunicado interrogation ofan individual in a police-dominated atmosphere. Thequestion is whether the Court has modified what Mirandasaid in -- in that regard. MS. JACOBS: Which court? This Court or theSixth Circuit? JUSTICE GINSBURG: This Court, this Court,because this Court now seems to assume that it must bein custody and not -- not otherwise deprived of action,that being in custody is essential. MS. JACOBS: I -- I read that as still beingthe law, that there are the two clauses; one is you'reunder arrest, and the other is your freedom of movementis restricted such that a reasonable person would thinkthat you were not -- that you were not free to leave. I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg; have I answeredyour question? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, I think you did. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure youanswered mine from before. MS. JACOBS: I'm sorry. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you thinkthat your argument or the decision of the court belowwas implicit in or an extension of Mathis? Mathis saysyou don't -- you're not free of Miranda just becauseit's a different crime. How does that answer the issuebefore the Sixth Circuit in this case? MS. JACOBS: I think that when -- when theSixth Circuit is analyzing the State court decision,they're looking at the State court decision, and thatdecision says if there's no nexus between what you'rebeing questioned about and what you're in custody for,then you don't have to give Miranda. So, I think the Sixth Circuit found that tobe contrary to the language in Mathis. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought whatwe've been arguing about is not the nexus issue, butinstead whether, in light of the circumstances or underan absolute rule, there's custody. MS. JACOBS: I think we're arguing about twothings. I think the Court is going to have to decidetwo things, and one is whether the Sixth Circuit'sdecision about whether the State court's decision wascontrary to clearly established law. I think that's onedecision. And the other decision is whether there'sgoing to be this per se rule about whether if you're -- Officialwhether you're in custody or not and under whatcircumstances there might be a per se rule. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And what is theclearly established law set forth in our cases thatanswers that latter question? MS. JACOBS: Whether -- if there's a per serule? There is not a clearly established law. Therecould be -- under a rational extension issue, but it's alittle more attenuated. But I don't think that I --that there -- that the Respondent would lose on thatissue. He would still win because the Sixth Circuit'sdecision is not wrong; the State court's decision wascontrary to the clearly established law of Mathis. JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ask you this? Supposeyou have this situation: The police officers go to aprison. The -- a prisoner is brought to an interviewroom, and the police officers are there with theprisoner in the interview room. And they say to him:We're investigating allegations that you committed childabuse. Now, you're free to leave if you want to, andwe'll see that you go back to your cell right away. Hesays, no, no, I want to explain this; I welcome thisopportunity to speak to you. Do they have to give him Miranda warnings. MS. JACOBS: I think they do because I think Officialthat telling him that he is free to go is not asubstitute for Miranda. It does not protect the FifthAmendment right, and I think we look to Dickerson, whichsaid that, even though section said that you had toinform defendants of certain rights, it didn't cover allof the Miranda rights. And they said you had tocover -- it doesn't necessarily have to be in the samelanguage, but you have to cover those rights. I think what the Petitioner wants you toadopt is a -- is a rule that says telling someonethey're free to go is a substitute for Miranda. And itisn't. It does not protect the Fifth Amendment right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, their question --the question is, is the person entitled to Mirandawarnings? And the argument has been that they're notentitled to Miranda warnings unless you're in custody.They say: You want to have a per se rule for incustody; that is, if you're taken out of your cell andput in another place under police guard and questioned. MS. JACOBS: That's correct. They've takenhim from his normal routine. They've exercised controlover him. They've moved him to another location where-- I'm assuming from Justice Alito's hypothetical thathe's isolated from the general prison population. Andthey're starting to tell him they're going to question Officialhim about child sexual abuse charges. I don't see howyou can't -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, they said: We'd liketo talk to you about it, but you don't have to talk tous; you're free to go. And he says immediately: No,no, there's a misunderstanding here; I want to explainthis; I am glad you came and asked me about this; Idon't want to go back to my cell. And you say that's coercive. MS. JACOBS: I'm -- I think you're nowdescribing him as being much nicer than I had assumed hewas the first time around. If the officer is not beingconfrontational, I think maybe that's one thing that hasto be considered. I would think that you have to givehim Miranda rights. Let me just go over a few issues that Iwanted to make sure got mentioned. The Sixth Circuitdecision -- I got kind of, I think, carried away in mybrief. The Sixth Circuit decision very clearly rests onthe contrary clause. On page a of the Petitioner'sappendix, they state what their -- they state what theirdecision is going to be, that is, this is contrary toclearly established Supreme Court law. Then they dofour more pages to page a in which they talk about whythe State court decision was contrary. And it's only Officialafter they say that -- they give their reasoning; theystate their rule -- that they say: But if there's anydoubt, then let's look at Shatzer, which was not clearlyestablished law at the time of this case. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I -- since we'retalking about the Sixth Circuit decision, what it saysis -- this is on page a. "The central holding ofMathis is that a Miranda warning is required whenever anincarcerated individual is isolated from the generalprison population and interrogated, i.e., questioned ina manner likely to lead self-incrimination about conductoccurring outside of the prison." Is that correct -- MS. JACOBS: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- description ofMathis? MS. JACOBS: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought Mathisrejected the argument that it depends on whether thecrime is the one that you're in prison for or somethingelse. MS. JACOBS: I'm sorry. I thought that thatwas what you said at the end. I apologize. I thinkthat this Sixth Circuit decision makes it very clearthat they are talking about crimes occurring outside theprison, that they've drawn that kind of dichotomy. So --Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- the firstpart, "a Miranda warning is required whenever anincarcerated individual is isolated from the generalprison population" -- okay -- "and interrogated"; i.e.,questioned in a manner or whatever. Now, does thataddress all of the issues? Is that -- where in Mathisis the discussion about whenever an incarceratedindividual is isolated from the general prisonpopulation? MS. JACOBS: I thought that it was betweena, page a and page a. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. Where inMathis? MS. JACOBS: This was the question that wetalked about before -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MS. JACOBS: -- and what I'm saying is thatI believe that it's -- that they're implying that andthat we're inferring that and that it might not be aclearly stated principle, that it's from outside theprison, but that it certainly foreshadows -- that it's-- that that rule is foreshadowed. So, it's not a newrule, but -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the argument were OfficialMiranda was not required because this -- this concerns adifferent crime than what you're in prison for here. Iunderstand the idea that -- under AEDPA, that Mathis isclearly established law. The issue here, however, asthe Sixth Circuit put it, is a warning is requiredwhenever an incarcerated individual is isolated from thegeneral prison population. And I just don't see thatanywhere in Mathis. MS. JACOBS: I again say that this is whatone infers from Mathis. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MS. JACOBS: That's the general principle. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what you infer is therule that incarceration constitutes custody. MS. JACOBS: No. Custody is when theprisoner is isolated, incommunicado, outside the generalprison population, and he's being asked questions by alaw enforcement officer designed to -- that are designedto incriminate him. I think it's the traditional -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that is -- MS. JACOBS: I think it's thetraditional Miranda -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that is Shatzer, andShatzer was careful to say we've never decided thatissue. Official MS. JACOBS: I think what Shatzer wassaying -- and I know it's hard for me to tell you whatShatzer was saying since you decided Shatzer. But Ithink that Shatzer seems to be aimed at correctionofficials, that whether correction officials -- I thinkShatzer is saying we never decided the whole issue. AndI think that Mathis decided -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it states in broaderterms. It says we've never decided whetherincarceration constitutes custody for Miranda purposesand, indeed, have explicitly declined to address theissue. MS. JACOBS: But I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It talks about Bradley,which was definitely where the issue was. MS. JACOBS: I think that Shatzer wasreferring to the whole umbrella of -- of people thatwould come into the prison, including people that wouldbe in the prison and want to talk to -- to prisoners.So, I think Shatzer was talking about not just policeofficers but correction officials. I think Mathisclears up -- police officers, you come in, you're goingto talk about something else, you're going tointerrogate -- Miranda. Shatzer finishes this line of cases by Officialsaying it applies to -- it will apply to correctionofficials as long as you take the gentleman out of thegeneral prison population and isolate him. JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Jacobs, wouldn't it befair to say -- it seems to be me that Shatzer -- excuseme. Mathis must have found that Mr. Mathis -- the Courtin Mathis must have found that Mr. Mathis was incustody. That would be a fair inference for Mathis. MS. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: But we have no idea why theCourt thought that Mr. Mathis was in custody. Thatwasn't at issue in the case. The Court doesn't talkabout any of the surrounding factual circumstances.There might have been a thousand things we don't knowabout that led everybody to assume that was -- ledeverybody to assume that Mr. Mathis was in custody, notthe particular things that the Sixth Circuit mentioned. MS. JACOBS: I think that Mathis doesmention factors that went into the decision aboutwhether he was in custody. They talk about him being ina cell, not in the prison law library, you know, not inthe conference room, not in a visitor's room -- being ina cell with the officers and he's being interrogated. I think that they very clearly are sayingthat this -- I think it establishes this principle that OfficialMathis -- that my case, that Howes v. Fields applies. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't the best youcan say, not that Mathis found but perhaps that Mathisapparently assumed that he was in custody, because thereis no discussion of it? There's no discussion of the custody. MS. JACOBS: I agree. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, they give you afactual recital. He was in his cell and all that. MS. JACOBS: I just don't think -- I don'tdoubt that they thought that Mathis was in custody,which is why they were talking about Miranda to beginwith. He's in a cell. JUSTICE KAGAN: But we don't know why theythought Mathis was in custody. It just wasn't an issuein the case. Everybody had assumed it. MS. JACOBS: And it's not dicta. As far asI can tell, it becomes part of the clearly establishedlaw. It was a court -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's dicta? Dictais something that's said that's not necessary to theholding. MS. JACOBS: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We don't haveanything that's said about it here. Official MS. JACOBS: But I -- my argument, JusticeRoberts, is that saying that he's in a cell and thathe's being questioned by officers, that that is -- andhe's being questioned about a crime, that that iscustody and that, from that, there is a principle. I would just like to close by saying againthat I would ask you to reject the -- the Petitioner'sproposition that saying someone is free to leave is asubstitute for Miranda warnings, that my client was veryclearly in custody, that in fact -- and I think this isan interesting part of this case -- in a sense, custodyhad been transferred, that he really was no longer inthe custody of the jail but that he had been -- once hewent through the J door, was turned over to thesheriff's deputies, and the other guards left, thatcustody had then been transferred. So, I think he'sclearly in custody, and I think that's one of the thingsthat this Court must look for or include in a per serule, whether -- who is holding this man in custody? Further, the fact that he was told that hecould leave is not significant on the facts of thiscase. The fact that the officers -- and I think JusticeKennedy made this point -- that the officers wereyelling at him. They're the ones that have control overhim. He does not have the control. The fact that he Officialwas missing his medication shows that he did not thinkthat he had the power to change his situation. JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's no indicationthat he told -- that he told the -- MS. JACOBS: No, I agree there isn't. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- officers that heneeded medication. MS. JACOBS: No, I agree that there isn't.But I think that this is one of the things that -- thatwas playing on his mind. And although I understand thatthis is an objective test and not a subjective test, Ithink that that lends credibility to his testimony atthe hearing. Harrington -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Ohio court -- or the-- I'm sorry. The court below had its own -- seeminglyhad its own absolute rule -- MS. JACOBS: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that if you're toldyou're free to go, that that breaks the chain ofcustody, whatever that might mean. Assuming -- and theSixth Circuit said if you are removed from the prisonand questioned, you absolutely must be given warnings.Is there a middle ground, and what would that middleground be? And what would be -- how would that middleground affect the outcome of this case? Official MS. JACOBS: I don't believe that telling aprisoner that he's free -- that he's free to leave is asubstitute for Miranda. I think you have to get back towhat Miranda was trying to protect. It's trying toprotect Fifth Amendment rights, and telling him he'sfree to leave does not do that. So that that's notenough, and that shouldn't be part of the equation, nota significant part of the equation. Harrington -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you -- youmentioned several times, we were talking about Mathis,that, you know, they mentioned he was in -- in a cell,right? I've just been skimming it quickly. I don't seewhere that's mentioned. Do you know offhand? MS. JACOBS: No, I don't, but I really --really did read this case. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I -- MS. JACOBS: And I'm sure that it said hewas in a cell. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I did, too. And --well, I'll look at it again. I'm sure -- MS. JACOBS: Please. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure it's there.All I see is noting that he was in prison serving aState sentence, but -- MS. JACOBS: But it doesn't -- it should be Officialtalking about the officers, the agents in the cell withhim. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Let me -- MS. JACOBS: Just in -- as a final comment,I just want to say Harrington v. Richter requires afinding before a writ can issue of an extrememalfunction in the justice system, that certainly wherea State court has decided a constitutional issue on a --on a Supreme Court law and ignores Supreme Court law,that we really do have an extreme malfunction of thejudicial system. This Court should affirm the decisionof the Sixth Circuit and send Mr. Fields back to LenaweeCounty for a new trial. If there are no other questions, I'll cedethe remainder of my time to the Court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Bursch, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. BURSCH: I think the hypotheticals todaydemonstrate how quickly the logic of the Sixth Circuit'snew per se rule falls apart when you test it with otherfacts. Even in the Sixth Circuit's view, you wouldalready make exceptions to that new per se rule if itwas in-prison conduct or if it was prison guards as Officialopposed to outside guards. In response to questioningtoday, Mr. Fields' counsel admits that there must be anexception if you have a button that you can press to getout, like in Mr. Ellison's situation, the First Circuitcase that Justice Souter wrote. She admitted that ifyou're in a circle of proximity or not in a circle ofproximity, that that would make a difference. No per serule. That if the situation isn't confrontational, thatyou need to have an exception for that, or if theprisoner initiates questioning. And you can imagine many other hypotheticalsthat would similarly create exceptions to what issupposedly a per se rule. And -- and ultimately whatthis comes down to is Justice Alito's question: If he'sunder no pressure at all, the prisoner welcomes thequestioning -- and I would submit that a fair reading ofthe record here shows exactly that -- that even then itwould be required. And that is a particularly strangerule when what we're talking about is not aconstitutional, mandated protection but a prophylaxis,something that's supposed to protect a constitutionalright, and where the protection isn't necessary, norshould there be a per se rule. Counsel also concedes that there isn'tanything in Mathis that clearly establishes the rule Officialthat the Sixth Circuit applied. Maybe it's anextension; maybe it's implied. I think it's difficultto find either one of those. So, at a bare minimum,this requires reversal under the AEDPA standard. I do want to emphasize that the SixthCircuit's per se test does have societal costs. Itimpedes prison administration, and it eliminatespotential for voluntary truthful confessions that we allwant. Finally, the test that we advocate for isnot our own per se test, that simply saying you're freeto leave is not the be-all, end-all, because it'spossible that officers could say you're free to leave,while doing something else nonverbally that indicatesyou are not free to leave. That's why the totality ofcircumstances test makes the most sense. And we urge you to go past the AEDPAquestion and actually rule on the merits, because wethink that would be good guidance for the lower courtsand for law enforcement officials. And the test that wewould propose is that a Miranda warning is not requiredwhen a reasonable person in the prisoner's positionwould have felt free to go back to his cell in accordwith ordinary reasonable prison procedures. That'sexactly what happened here. We respectfully request that you reverse.Official Unless there are any further questions, I'llcede my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aability : :able :above-entitled::absent :absolute :absolutely :::abuse : :accepting :accord : :account : ::accusatorial :action: :added:addition:address : ::administration: : :admits :admitted:adopt : :,:adopted:adversary :adverse :,advocate :advocating :,AEDPA : ::,affect :affirm :age :agents : :agree : ::, : ::agreed:aimed:aiming :Alito :,,,:,,, :: :,:,,, :,: :Alito's : :allegations :allowed:all-circumstances:all-the-circumsta...: : :,:Alvarado :Alvardo :Amendment ::, :amicus : ::amount :analogy :analysis :analyze :analyzing :Anders : ::,, :,:,,,,:,,, :: : :,:, :,answer: :: : :answered::,answers :: :anybody :anymore :anyway : :apart : :apologize :apparently :APPEARANCES:OfficialOfficialPage appears :appendix :applicable :applied: :applies : :::apply : :: : :area :argued:arguing :,,:,argument : :,:, :, :: :,,: : :: : :armed:arose :arrest :artificial :aside :asked: :: : :: : :asking :asks :Assistant :assume : ::,assumed: ::,assuming ::assumption:assumptions :atmosphere ::attached:attendant :attenuated:BB :back : : ::,, :,: : ::,, :,:, ::, :: :,: : :: : :background :: : :balance :bare :barred:based:baseline : ::basis :beginning :,: : :behalf :,,:,,, :: : :believe : :: : :believed:belligerent : :: :benefits :best : :beyond :be-all :big : :bit : :Bradley :break : :,breaks :BREYER ::,,,,:, :,,Breyer's :brief:, :bright :bright-line :,,broader:brought :building : ::Bursch: :,:,,, :,:, :,,: :, : :: :,,:,, :,:, : ::,button:, :CC : :cabin :call :capability :careful :CAROL :carried:case :, :,:, : ::,, :: : :: : :: : :,:, :: : :,cases : : :: : :cede : :cell : :, ::,, :: : :,:,, :: : :: : :: : :: :, ::, :: cells :central :certain : :certainly : :: :,,: : :Cervantes : :chain :change : :charges :chatting :Chief:, :,: :,,:,,,: :,,:, :,,: : :: : :,: :,,: : :,:, :,:, :,:child :, ::choice : : ::,choose :circle :,Circuit :,,,: :,: : :,: :,:, : :: : ::Circuit's :: : :: :,:circumstance :: : ::, :,,:circumstances :: :, : :: :,,,: :,: : :: : :: : :: : :: : :claims :clause :clauses :clear : :: : :clearly : ::, : ::, :,: : :: : :: :clears :client :close :coerced:,coercion: :coercive :: : :come : :: : :: :,comes : ::coming :comment :committed:common:compelling :complete :compulsion:concedes :concern :concerns :: : :conclude :condition:conditions :conduct : :,: : ::conference :: :confesses :confession :confessions :,: : ::confrontational: :confusing :consider: ::, ::, :,:,,consideration:considered:considering ::consistency :consistent : :: :,constitutes ::constitutional ::,contention::context : :contexts :continued:contrary :,: :,,control : ::conversation:conviction:cooperate : :: :,: :correction::,, :corrections ::cost :costs :counsel : :: : ::, :counter:county : :course : :court :, :,:, : ::, :,,: : :,: : :,:,,,:, :: : :: : :: :,,:,,,,,: :,,,:, :,: : ::, :,,:,courts : :: : :court's : :: :cover:,,create :,,:creating :credibility :crime :, ::,, :: :,,: :, :: : :OfficialPage correct : :crimes : :: : ::critical :culminate :curiae : ::custodial : :custody : :: :, ::, : ::, :: :,,:, : ::, :: : ::,,, ::, :,:, :,: :,:, ::,,, ::,, :,:,,,,:customs :cut :cuts :,DD : : : :day-to-day :dealing :decide :decided: ::,,, :decision : :,:,,,,: :,:,,,:, ::declined: :defendant :defendants : OfficialPage defer:definitely :delay : :demonstrate :demonstrates :: :Department :depending : :depends :deprived::deputies : :derive :describing :description:designed:,despite :determine :determining :Detroit :dichotomy :Dickerson :dicta :,,difference : :: : :different : :,: : :: :difficult : ::discuss :discussed:discussion :,:, : ::dispel :dispositive ::distinction:doing : :door: : :: : ::doubt : :draw: :drawn :drew:drove :due :D.C :,EE : :,easier: :,effect :effectuate :either: ::eliminates :ELIZABETH :: :Ellison's :emphasize :encourages :end-all :enforcement ::entirely : :entitled:,environment :: :,,:equation: :: :,escort :escorted::,ESQ :,, ::,,essential :establish:established:: : :,: :,,: : ::establishes ::establishing :evening :everybody :: : :: :everyday :evidence :exact : :exactly : :: : ::exam :example ::examples :exception :,exceptions ::excuse :exercised:expected:experience ::explain : :: :explicit :explicitly :extends :extension :,: : :extreme :,Ffact : : :: : :: :,,:,, :,: : :: :,,:factor: :: : :factors : :,: : :facts : : :: : ::factual : :fair: :,:fairly : :,fall : :falls :false :far:favor: :feel :, ::, :,: : :feels : :felt : : :: :, :Fields : : :: :Fifth: :,:final :finally : :find :finding : ::findings :finishes :first:, :: : :five :focus :follow:forced: :,: :,foreshadowed:foreshadows :forth:found : ::, :four :free :, :,: :,,,:, :,: :,,:, ::,,, :: :,,: :,,: : ::, : :: :,,:,,,freedom: :,: : :: :function:further: :: :GG :general :, :: : :: :, ::, :gentleman: :Georgison :getting :GINGER : ::Ginsburg :, :: :, :: : ::,, ::,give : :,: :,: :,: : :: : :given: :: : :: : :glad:go :,,, :: :, :, :,, :,,:, :,: :,,: :,,,:,, :: : :,:, :,,: : :: :,:, :,,: :,goes :going : :,: : :,:, :,: : ::,, ::,,,: : ::, :: :,good : :: : :gotten:Government's :greater:ground : :,:,,guard : ::guards :, :: : :: : :guess :guidance :guys :Hhappen:happened:: :harmed: :Harrington:: :hear : :hearing :held : :help :hold :,holding : :: : ::honor: :honored: :: :hospital :,:hour : :hours : : :Howes : : :huge :hypothetical ::, ::hypotheticals ::Iidea : :ignores :imagine : ::immediately :: : :impact : :impairs :impedes :implicate :implicit :implied: ::implying :happens : :::hard :important ::OfficialPage importantly :imported:imposed::inappropriate :incarcerated:: : :,:incarceration:: :incident : :include :including :incommunicado: : ::inconsistent ::incriminate :: :incriminating :indicates :indication:individual : ::, :individually :infer: :inference : :Inferred:inferring :infers :infirmary :inform :inherent :initial : :: :initially :initiates : :inmate : :: : :: :,: : :,: :,:inmates : :inquiry : :inside :, :: :insisted:instance :instruction:instructions :interesting ::interpret:interrogate :interrogated:: : :: : ::interrogating :interrogation:: :,: :,: :interview: ::,interviewed:investigating ::investigations :invited:invokes :in-prison:irrelevant :isolate : :::isolated: :: : :: : :: :, ::isolation: :,: :issue : : ::, :,:, :,:,, :: :,issued:issues : :,: :i.e : :JJ : :, :: :Jacobs : ::,, ::, :,:, :,:, : ::,, :,:, :,,: :,,,:, :,,: :,,,:, :,: : ::, :,: :,,: :,,:,, :,:, : ::, :,,:, :jail : ::jailers : :JOHN : :,: :judicial :justice : :,,:,,,,,:, : :,: :, ::,,,,:, : ::, : ::, ::,,,, : :, ::, :: : ::, ::,LL : : :language : :::, :,,: : ::,, ::, :,,: :,,:,,,:,,, ::, :,: :,,,:,, :,: :,,:, :,,:,, ::,,,:, :,:, : ::, :,:, :,:, :,:, :,,:, :,:,,, ::,, :,: :, :J.D.B : : :: :KKagan:, :: : :: :,:keep: :Kennedy :,: :, ::,, :: :kept :, ::key :kind : :Lansing :larger:law: : ::,, :: :,,: : :,: : :,:lead : ::leave : :,:, : :,: : ::,, :: : ::, :,,: :, ::, :,,:,,,,:, :: : :: :, ::,leaving :led:,LEE :left :Lenawee :lends :lesson :let's : :OfficialPage life : :light : ::limited:line : :little : : :living :location: :locked:, ::locus :logic :long : :: : :longer:look : : ::, :,,:, :,,: :,,: : :: : ::looking : :lose :, :lower: ::Mmaking :malfunction:,man:mandated:manner: ::Maryland :Mathis : :: :, :: :,,:, :,,: :,,: :,,:,, ::,, :,:,, :,:,,,,,,: :,,,: : :matter: ::,, :: : ::matters :mean:,,: : :: :Meaning :means : :medical :medication:,mention:mentioned:: : ::,mentioning :merely :merits :message :Michigan:,middle : ::,militated:militates :mind :mine :minimum : :minus :minutes :,:, :,:,, :Miranda : :: : : :: : :,: :, ::, :,: :,,: : ::,,, ::,,,,,,: :,,,: :, ::,,,,: :,,: : :,:, : ::,,,: : ::, :,: : :,:Miranda's :Mirandize ::Mirandized:: :missed:missing :misunderstanding:mix : : :: :modified:move :moved:movement :,: : :multiple :murder:murdered:NN :, :narrow:nearly :necessarily :: : ::necessary :: :need:needed:never: ::,: : :know:, :,: : :: :liberty :library : : OfficialPage new: : ::, ::,,nexus : ::nicer:nominal :noncoercive :noncustodial :nonverbally :non-accusatorial::non-prison:normal : : :: :noting :number: ::OO : :object :objective :occur :occurred: ::occurring :: :,occurs :October:offhand :office :officer: :: :,: : :officers : ::,, :: : ::, :: :,:, :,: :,,: : :officials :,,: :offset :Ohio :okay : :,: : :once : :,: : ::, :ones : :on-the-scene :open:opinion:opinions : :opportunity :opposed: :opposite : :: :oral : :,, :: :order:ordinarily :ordinary : :outcome :outside : ::, :,: :, :: : :: :,: : :overall :PP :page : :,: :,pages : :part : :: : :: :,partially :particular:: :, :particularly :people :, :: :,period:permitted:person :, :: : :: : ::, :: : :: : ::person's :pertinent :,Petitioner:,,:,, : :: :Petitioner's ::petty :,phrase :physical :physically : ::picked:place : : :: :placed:places : :playing :pleasant :please : :: :point : :,: :,: : ::pointing :points :police : ::, :: : :: : ::policeman::police-dominated: :policy : :: : :population:: : ::, :,:position: :: : :: :possible :: :,: :possibly :potential :power:precedent :premise :present : :press : :pressure :pressures :presumption:,principal's :principle :: : ::prison: :,: : :,: : ::, :,,:, :,,:, :,: : :,:, ::, :,: : :,:, :,: :,:, :: : ::,, :,: :,,:, :,: : ::,prisoner: :: : ::, :: :, :: : :: : ::,prisoners : :: : ::prisoner's : ::prisons : :procedures : :: : :prophylaxis :propose :proposition::protect : :,:, :protection:,:,proximity :,pure :purely :purposes ::purview:put : : :: :puts :Putting :p.m: : :Qquestion: :: : :: : :: :, OfficialPage : : :: : ::, :,: :,,: : :questioned:: : :: : :: : :,:questioners :questioning :: :, ::, :,:, : ::, ::,,, ::,, ::, :,:questions : :: : :: : :: : :: :quibble :quickly : :quite : :RR :raises :RANDALL :rational :,:read :,,: : :reading : ::ready :reaffirmed:really : : :: : :: :,:reasonable :,: : :: : :,: :,: :,: :,reasonably :reasoning :reasons : :: :REBUTTAL ::recital :recognized::record :, :referring :regard :regardless :reject :rejected:: :relevant :,:relied:rely :remainder:remaining :remember:remove :removed: ::repeated:repeatedly :request : ::, ::required: :: :, ::requires :,: : ::requiring :reserve :resisted:respect :respectfully :Respondent :: : ::response :rest :restrained: :restraint :,restraints :: :, ::,restricted:restrictions :: :rests :return :reversal :reverse :Richter:right : :, :: : :: : :,: : ::, :: :,: :,: : ::rights : ::, :,,: :Roberts : :,:, :,,: :,,:, :,,: : :: : :,: :,,: : :,:, : ::,, :: :room:, ::, : :: :,:, :,,:, :: :,:,routine :rule :, : ::, :,,:, :,: : ::, :,:, :,: :, :: :, :: : :: : :: :,:,,,,:rules :running :Ss : : :safe :sat :saw:saying : :,: : ::, ::,, :,:,, :says : : :: : ::, :: : ::SCALIA :,:school : :se :, : ::, :,,: :, :: : :: : :: :, :: :,:,, :,second : :: : :seconds :section :see : : :: : ::,seemingly :sees :self-incrimination: :send :sense : : :: :sent :sentence :separate :serious :serving :set :setting : :sexual :shackled:Shatzer: :: : :: : ::, :,,:,,,,:sheriff's : :show:shows : ::significance :significant :: : OfficialPage similarly :simply : :: : ::situation: :: :,,: :,: : :: : ::,situations ::,, ::Sixth:,,,: : :: :,: : :,:, ::, :,: : ::,, :,skimming :sleeping :social :societal :society :Solicitor:,Someone's :somewhat :soon :sorry :, ::, ::sort :Sotomayor: ::,,,,:, : ::,, ::, :,Sotomayor's :Souter:speak :special :,specific :stabbed: :stabbing :stand :standard :standing :start : :,started:starting :starts : ::state :,,:, :,: :,,: :,,: : :stated: :statement ::, :statements :,statement's :states :,, :: :stationed:stay : :stop :strange :street :, :strikes :strong :stronger:,subject : :subjective :submit : : :::submitted:,substitute ::, : :sufficient : :::suggest : :summon:supporting : :Suppose :::supposed:supposedly :suppressed:suppresses :suppression:supreme :,: : ::,sure : :: : ::,surrounding :suspect : ::suspects :, :suspect's : :system:,TT :,take : :,: : :: : :taken: :,: : :: : :: : ::takes : :: :talk : : :,: : :,: :,:,talked:talking :,,: : :,: : :: :talks :tell :, :: : ::telling : :,:,tells :term : :terminate :,,: : :: :terms :test :,,,,:, : :: : :: : ::,,,testified:testimony :tests : :thank : :,: : :: :theft :,thing : ::: :,: :think : : :: : :,: :,,,:, :: :,,:, :,,: :, :: : :: :, :: :,,,:,, :: :,,,: :,,:,,,,: :,,:, :,,: : :: :,,,:,,,:,, ::,,,:,, :: :,third : ::thought :, ::, : :: : :: : ::,thousand :threatened: :threatening :three : : :: :time : :: : :: : ::timeline :times : :today : :told :,, :: : :: : :: : :,: :,,,: :, :: : ::,,totality :,,: : :: : :traditional ::,transferred:treated:trial : : :::things :, :: OfficialPage -minute : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : :: :-year-old :true :truthful : :truth-seeking :trying : ::,Tuesday :turn : :turned:twice :two : : ::, : :: : :: :,typical : :Uultimate :ultimately :::umbrella :unable :unclear:understand :: : ::understood:United:,, :unmitigated:::unrelated:urge :U.S :Vv : : : ::variety :version :view: :visitor:visitor's :voluntarily :voluntariness :,::voluntary :: : ::, :Wwaiting :walk : :walking :walls :,want :,, :we're :, ::, :: : :: :we've : :: :wholly :win :witness :,,:witnesses :wonder:words : :: :work :works :world : :wouldn't : :writ :wrong :wrote :x :,XYyard :, ::,years : : :yelling :: : :: :a : ::,- : :a : : : :, :,:, :,:: :,:, ::, :,:,,,: :,: :,: :, :: :,wanted: :,: :wants : :WARDEN :warning : :,: : :: :warnings :: : :: : :: : :Washington:,wasn't : ::way : :,: : :: :weaker:weight :welcome :welcomes :went : :: :we'll : : : 