Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xTALK AMERICA, INC., : Petitioner : No. - v. :MICHIGAN BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY, :DBA AT&T MICHIGAN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xand- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xORJIAKOR ISIOGU, ET AL., : Petitioners : No. - v. :MICHIGAN BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY, :DBA AT&T MICHIGAN :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ., Solicitor General, Lansing, Michigan; on behalf of Petitioners. OfficialERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners.SCOTT H. ANGSTREICH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondents. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEJOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFERIC D. MILLER, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFSCOTT H. ANGSTREICH, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN J. BURSCH, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext this morning in Case -, Talk America v.Michigan Bell, and the consolidated case. Mr. Bursch. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. BURSCH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Interconnection is the lifeblood of localphone competition. That is why, in section (c)() ofthe Telecommunications Act, Congress guaranteed thatcompetitors would have interconnection at the locationand at the method of their choosing and at TELRIC ratesirregardless of market impairment. The question in thiscase is whether that (c)() obligation encompassesthe tens of thousands of existing entrance facilitiesthat even today are interconnecting competitive andincumbent networks. And the answer -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you get -- you get(c)() at TELRIC rates? MR. BURSCH: Yes, you do, Your Honor. Youget (c)() and (c)() at TELRIC rates. And so, the answer to the question presented Officialis yes, for three reasons: First, because the FCC saysso. And, as the expert agency charged with interpretingand implementing the Act, that conclusion is entitled todeference. Second, the FCC's conclusion is consistentwith the plain text of the statute and the implementingregulations. And, third, the FCC's conclusion isconsistent with the policies embodied in the Act,because the practical result of affirming the SixthCircuit opinion in this case is that a competitivecarrier, like Sprint for example, will be forced toeither charge its customers more for interconnection orlay tens of thousands of duplicate entrance facilitycables, and those are precisely what the Act weredesigned to prevent. I'd like to start with the Sixth Circuitopinion -- and, specifically, this is at page a of theTalk America cert petition appendix -- because this goesto the heart of AT&T's position and the Sixth Circuit'sconclusion with respect to the orange plugs and cordsanalogy. You'll recall that the Sixth Circuit said thiswas like a situation where a homeowner had a plug intheir garage and a long orange cord extending out to apark, which the court called the entrance facility, and Officialthen the competitive carrier would be that person in thepark. On page a of the petition appendix infootnote , about halfway down, this is the key flaw inthe Sixth Circuit's reasoning: The Sixth Circuit says,"If you, as the homeowner" -- that's the -- I'm sorry,that's the incumbent -- "had said that they may pluginto the surge protector, then the big orange extensioncord is just an 'entrance facility.' But, if you hadsaid they must plug into the big orange extension cord,then the big orange extension cord becomes the'interconnection facility' and, consequently, the parkgoers" -- the competitors -- "may plug into it." The problem with this is that the SixthCircuit was wrong in that the incumbent doesn't get tochoose where the point of connection is. The statuteand the regulations and the FCC make clear it's thecompetitor that gets to choose. So, if the competitorchooses the end of the extension cord where it connectsto the CLEC network in the park, then even the SixthCircuit agrees with us and the Seventh, Eighth, andNinth Circuits that the entrance facility is theinterconnection facility. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have just one smallquestion on that. MR. BURSCH: Yes.Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose that there are twocompetitors and each of them wants to connect, but eachof them wants to connect at a different point and in adifferent way. Must the incumbent accommodate both ifthey're technically feasible? MR. BURSCH: Justice Kennedy, the answer isyes. The statute gives the competitive carrier theopportunity to choose the point and the method, all atTELRIC rates. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Doesn't it say somethingabout feasible? It -- it doesn't -- it doesn't givefree choice entirely. It says -- what are the words?That the -- the interconnection doesn't have to be putjust anyplace if it's not feasible or it's undue expenseor something to that effect. MR. BURSCH: Justice Ginsburg, the statuteand the regulations make clear that it must betechnically feasible, but there is an almostirrebuttable presumption that when there are alreadyfacilities in place performing that function, that istechnically feasible. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you -- you want theincumbent here to -- to build the -- the orange cord andextend it to wherever you have your switching equipment. OfficialAnd what they say is, no, you -- you bring yourswitching equipment here; we'll -- we'll allow you toconnect at, you know, the end of our facilities; but, byGod, you -- you make -- you make your own connectionto -- to the switches. Now -- now, moreover, you're -- you'remaking them -- you'll pay them for the orange cord, butonly at TELRIC rates, which are not realistic. Now, why-- why are they wrong and you're right, especially whenyou have legislation, the purpose of which was toencourage the independent building of new facilities? Imean, it's clear that the Act wanted these new entrantswhere -- where possible to build new facilities, and notsimply to glom on to the extant facilities of theincumbents. MR. BURSCH: Three responses to thatargument, Your Honor. First, this case is aboutexisting facilities, not about facilities to be built,although there's a lot of talk about that. This isn't ahead-on challenge to the statute or the regulations.The procedural posture is that this was AT&T trying toget out of arbitration agreements that it had forexisting entrance facilities. And so, that's theposture of our case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but the logic of your Officialcase, as you described it, would also require AT&T tobuild out the orange cord. MR. BURSCH: Right. And -- and twoadditional points, Your Honor, on that. First, they saythis is a large obligation because we're talking aboutmiles and miles. That is not the position that AT&Ttook with the FCC when they were commenting on the TRRO.At page a of the Michigan blue brief, in footnote of the TRRO, the FCC acknowledges AT&T's statement thatentrance facilities involve very short distances. Inaddition, we have the FCC's regulation and the LocalCompetition Order, paragraph -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, excuse me. MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Extant entrance facilitiesI assume they were referring to. MR. BURSCH: Yes. I believe that's correct,yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. Well -- MR. BURSCH: They're very short distances. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. But if you ask fora longer distance, they would presumably have to buildit. MR. BURSCH: Well, not necessarily -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And charge you TELRIC rates.Official MR. BURSCH: Right, because the FCC haspromulgated in -- in , the meet-point obligation,which is another way that you can have interconnection.And that demonstrates two things: First, that sometimesAT&T as the incumbent is required to build outfacilities, that it's not just a passive obligation. But, in addition, when they're talking aboutmeet point, they say that it's up to State commissionsto decide the appropriate and reasonable distance. So, even if we were presented with thecase -- not this case, but a different case -- whereyou're talking about what's the appropriate length ofthe facilities, the FCC has already acknowledged therecould be some reasonable limits on that. And the most important fundamental point,the fourth point on this, is that Congress already in(c)() said you're going to have interconnection withoutregard to market impairment, and so we're not going tolook at the availability of other entrance facilities inthe market. If a competitor asks to have this locationand this method and it's technically feasible, they doget the TELRIC rates. And the competitive carriers would takeissue with the presumption that TELRIC rates are -- are Officialunfair. You know, the regulations do contemplate thatthey're going to recover not only their cost but areasonable profit. And we can disagree about thecongressional wisdom of requiring rates like that, butin the Verizon case, this Court definitively put to bedthe question of the reasonableness of the TELRIC rates. JUSTICE BREYER: Where would I read this?As I read the statute, the statute says the cheap systemhere is where they provide -- they have a duty toprovide the incumbent interconnection, okay? Thatrequires some physical stuff. MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. And they have to --they -- you have to -- you're not charged a lot forthat; there's a limit on what they can charge you forthe interconnection. MR. BURSCH: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, somebody is going tohave to decide whether if Pacific Tel and Tel is beingtried to forced to connect with Maine, you know, theyhave to pay for a wire across country to get theinterconnection or not. That seems unreasonable.Across the street, maybe they do. My candidate would normally be the FCC orsome regulator decides that kind of thing, and it's up Officialto them to say whether this is or is not what's neededfor interconnection. That would be an intuitive accountI would have, without having read the statute in depth. So, now what do I read to find out how thisworks? What is it that distinguishes something that isridiculous, like my California example, from somethingthat makes a lot of sense, like they're next door andhave to make feet of wire. MR. BURSCH: Justice Breyer, if you look atparagraph of the Local Competition Order, whichappears at page a of the Michigan blue brief -- JUSTICE BREYER: Michigan blue -- MR. BURSCH: At least that's where itbegins. If you flip over to -- to page a, this is thesecond page of the paragraph. JUSTICE BREYER: Where -- where -- a,okay. MR. BURSCH: Very good. About halfway down the -- that paragraphthere, it says: "Regarding the distance from anincumbent LEC's premises that an incumbent should berequired to build out facilities for meet-pointarrangements" -- so, again, this is in the meet-pointcontext -- "we believe that the parties and Statecommissions are in a better position than the commission Officialto determine the appropriate distance that wouldconstitute the required reasonable accommodation forinterconnection." So, again -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, it's up to theState commission. MR. BURSCH: Exactly. JUSTICE BREYER: This is the FCC speaking? MR. BURSCH: The FCC is speaking -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. And the Statecommission says -- they say it's up to the Statecommission. And the State commission here said? MR. BURSCH: Well, here, the Statecommission didn't say anything, because we're talkingabout existing facilities. There's no one requesting anew entrance facility to be built, for example, fromLansing to Detroit. That's not this case. This case isabout the existing facilities. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Bursch, the -- the keyto your case is -- is that an entrance facility isinterconnection, right? MR. BURSCH: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: You have to equate thosetwo -- those two terms. MR. BURSCH: I do. JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you rely upon to Officialequate them? Because the -- as I read the regulations,they -- they use them as separate terms. MR. BURSCH: Regulation . defines"interconnection" as the mutual -- or, I'm sorry -- asthe linking of two networks for the mutual exchange oftraffic. There is no dispute that an entrance facilityphysically links a competitive network with an incumbentnetwork; thus, when that entrance facility is used forthe mutual exchange of traffic, it is providinginterconnection. And that's exactly what the FCC hasconcluded. JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't -- doesn't theinterconnection -- doesn't it have to be part of theinternal system of the incumbent carrier? MR. BURSCH: It has to be part of theirnetwork. But in the TRRO, the FCC made clear repeatedlythat entrance facilities constructed by incumbents arepart of their network. And so, there's really nodispute that it can be part of the network. And so -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say that this is alink, and your -- the opposition says that it's a --that it's transport. Is that correct? MR. BURSCH: It is transport. Bydefinition, interconnection has to include transportbecause it involves the mutual exchange of traffic from one to another.Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- but the regsays interconnection does not include transport. MR. BURSCH: Well, we address that point atlength in our reply brief, because AT&T advances thatargument, and it's really a fundamental misconception ormisunderstanding of the regulation. . -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have -- I've got it infront of me. It says, "This term does not includetransport." But you -- you say it does? MR. BURSCH: Yes. Well, the entrancefacilities do include transport. All interconnectionfacilities -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, I'm talking about -- MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- interconnection. MR. BURSCH: Right. What . -- I assumethat's what you're looking at. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. BURSCH: That -- that goes to a term ofart or a phrase of art, "transport and termination oftraffic." And as the FCC made clear in its regulation., which is at page a of the red brief, whatthey're really distinguishing there are the two types ofcharges. You have (c)() interconnection charges and Officialyou have (b)() transport and termination of trafficcharges. And those are two separate concepts. The interconnection charge runs from thecompetitive network to the incumbent network. Thetransport and termination of traffic charge runs fromthe point of interconnection to the incumbent's endcustomer, and that's very clear. The Ninth Circuitspecifically acknowledged that point in note of thePacific Bell case. But common sense tells you that hasto be right because under AT&T's view, the way theyinterpret ., there would be no interconnectionobligation because there's always going to be transport,a mutual exchange of traffic when interconnection isinvolved. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that right or -- JUSTICE BREYER: Do you read -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a mutualexchange of traffic when you're talking aboutbackhauling? MR. BURSCH: No, there is not, and we don'ttake that position. The mutual exchange is when acompetitive customer talks to an incumbent customer orvice versa. Everything else we can call backhauling,and that's not what's at issue when we're talking about(c)(). Official JUSTICE BREYER: Can I go back to myquestion? Because I haven't gotten an answer. MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: You see, I would think --you said, well, this is an existing facility. MR. BURSCH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: But my intuition would bethat makes no difference whatsoever. You could havesome kind of mechanism that connects two companies.Now, half of it is a simple wire and half of it is bellsand whistles. And so, we have to decide which part isthe part that's necessary for the interconnection andwhich part is some kind of -- well, I don't know, extrabells and whistles, and therefore, since it's not animpairment kind of problem, they have to pay full pricefor it. That, again, seems like the kind of job thatCongress would leave up to a commission, but I guess Iwant you to tell me: Who's to decide that kind ofthing, and how do we decide it? MR. BURSCH: Are you talking about thedistance, or what the bells and whistles are-- JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what it is.Often, these things are not distance. Often, aconnection is all kinds of complex things, you know? OfficialAnd some are necessary and some aren't. But I can --can't you imagine with me the same kind of Californiaproblem arising, but it just arises in -- in kind,rather than in distance? MR. BURSCH: Well, as far as -- JUSTICE BREYER: My -- if I'm so far offbase you can't get the question, forget it. MR. BURSCH: No, not at all, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I might not be ableto get an answer. MR. BURSCH: I think it's a very goodquestion. And really -- JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to thinkit's that. MR. BURSCH: I'll take it in two parts. Youknow, again, with respect to distance, in the meet-pointcontext, the FCC has already delegated in LCO paragraph appropriate and reasonable distances. With respect to the bells and whistles, it'sreally not that complicated. You've got a cable.That's your entrance facility, you know, typically afiberoptic cable. And there's going to be a conduitthat it needs to run through. There might be, you know,risers or spacers with little twisty ties or somethingsimilar to that, zip cords, that will allow the cable to Officialbe run into a building and up a wall and connect intothe appropriate place. But to the extent those areinterconnection facilities, those are necessarily partof the (c)() obligation. And unless there are any further questions,I'll reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. BURSCH: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Miller. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: There are a lot of statements by the FCC atissue in this case, but I'd like to focus on twostatements by the commission in its published regulationand orders that, taken together, resolve the questionpresented here. And the first is the commission'sdetermination in CFR .(e), which appears at pagea of Michigan's brief, that it is the competitor, notthe incumbent, that gets to select the point at whichinterconnection takes place. Specifically, that regulation says that ifan incumbent wants to deny a request for Officialinterconnection, it has -- at a particular point, it hasthe burden of proving that interconnection at that pointwould be technically infeasible. And that undercuts akey premise of the decision below, which was that aslong as the incumbent provides interconnection at sometechnically feasible point that it has selected, thenit's discharged its obligation, and if the competitordoesn't like it, that's just too bad. They can buildtheir own facility if they want to interconnectsomewhere else. That's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, underlying thatquestion is an issue that I think Justices Ginsburg andScalia were asking. Technically feasible is differentfrom economically ridiculous or economically burdensome.How does that, "economically burdensome" -- does it getconsidered by anyone so that -- because one couldimagine, as Justice Breyer said, that a competitor couldcome in and say, now, build me the Taj Mahal as anentrance facility or as an interconnection facility.So, is there anyone controlling for that latter issue? MR. MILLER: In terms of the definition of"technical feasibility" -- that's a defined term insection . of the regulations, and it does not includeeconomic considerations. Nonetheless, as the commission explained Officialwhen it adopted those regulations in at paragraph of the Local Competition Order, competitors have anincentive to ask for an economically efficient means ofinterconnection because they have to pay for it. Imean, the -- they don't pay as much as AT&T wouldlike -- because they're paying TELRIC rates -- but theydo still have to pay for interconnection, so they haveincentive to ask for a reasonable method of it. And what's at issue in this case, to get tothe second part of your question, is not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's why it's onlytechnically feasible, because the economic burden is --is not on the company. It has to provide it at theplace if it's technically feasible, but it doesn't payfor it. MR. MILLER: That -- that's right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Miller, youbegan by saying there were two regulations that disposedof the case. You got one. What's the second? MR. MILLER: The -- the second is thecommission's determination in the Triennial ReviewRemand Order in response to the D.C. Circuit's remand ofits previous order, that entrance facilities are,indeed, part of the incumbent's network because thestatutory obligation, of course, is to allow Officialinterconnection at any technically feasible point withinthe incumbent carrier's network. JUSTICE BREYER: Where do I find that? MR. MILLER: That's in paragraph of theTriennial Review Remand Order, which appears at page aof Michigan's brief. And in the preceding paragraph,the commission traced the history of its definition ofthe dedicated transport network elements in the LocalCompetition Order, its revision of that in the TriennialReview Order, in which it had said that the facilitiesare not part of the network. The D.C. Circuit thenvacated that. JUSTICE SCALIA: What section are youreferring to? On page a? Which one is it? MR. MILLER: Well, I've -- I've just goneback to the previous two pages, but it -- a isparagraph , where the court says, "In response" --excuse me -- where the commission says, "In response tothe court's remand" -- that's the D.C. Circuit's remandin the USTA case -- "we reinstate the Local CompetitionOrder of dedicated" -- "Order definition of dedicatedtransport." And that was a definition of a networkelement that included entrance facilities. So, what thecommission was saying there by its reference back tothat definition -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you do not need toprovide unbundled access under (c)() to entrancefacilities, right? MR. MILLER: That -- that's correct, and thecourt of appeals, I think, perceived a contradictionbetween saying that this isn't something to which youhave to provide unbundled access under (c)(), but it issomething that has to be made available forinterconnection under (c)(). And there is no contradiction there becausethese are separate, independent statutory obligations,and what's particularly significant about the differencebetween the two statutes -- statutes is that (c)() hasan impairment test. You only have to make availablethose network elements without which the competitorwould be impaired in its provision of service. (C)() does not have an impairment test, andthat's because Congress recognized that interconnectionis absolutely fundamental to any effective telephonecompetition. JUSTICE BREYER: So, what's thedefinition difference between entrance facility andinterconnection facility? How do we know which iswhich? MR. MILLER: If you're referring to the -- Officialwhat the -- in the way the commission used those termsin the -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, I'm not. I want toknow what's the difference. Tell me in English what thedifference is. MR. MILLER: An entrance facility -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. I mean, how do weknow which is which? We see some big lines and stuff init; how do we know which is which? MR. MILLER: The -- an entrance facility, asthe commission explained in the TRRO, is just the linkbetween the incumbent's office and the competitor'soffice. And an interconnection facility is anything --any part of the network that's being used forinterconnection. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a genus and -- and theentrance facility is the species -- MR. MILLER: It can be. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in your estimation? MR. MILLER: It -- it can be when it is usedfor interconnection. It could also sometimes be usedfor other things, but we're talking about the situationwhere the competitor wishes to use the entrance facilityfor interconnection. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Could you run that by me again?Official MR. MILLER: The -- the entrance facility isjust the link between the two offices -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. MR. MILLER: -- the incumbent and thecompetitor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Got it. MR. MILLER: That can be used for a coupleof different purposes, but one of the purposes for whichit can be used is interconnection. And when it is beingused for that purpose, it is appropriately described asa -- as an interconnection facility. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Miller, would you,before you sit down, explain what is the Government'sposition when an agency is asked to file a brief? TheSixth Circuit asked -- invited the FCC to file a brief,it did, and then the Sixth Circuit disagreed. And therewas some suggestion that when an agency files a briefhere in this Court, as opposed to a court of appeals, itdeserves more weight. MR. MILLER: We -- we agree with the viewexpressed by Judge Sutton in his dissenting opinionbelow, that there really is no reason to distinguishbetween amicus briefs, particularly those filed at theinvitation of a court, in the court of appeals, from Officialthose -- filed here. In this case, of course, thequestion of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But there may be a -- areason to give less weight to briefs in this Court,different from the briefs filed with a court of appeals.And you've taken a different position here on -- on theissue of whether, when backhauling is included, it'spart of the -- it's -- it's part of the interconnectionfacility? MR. MILLER: No. JUSTICE SCALIA: I do not think you madethat distinction below about, you know, oh, it is partwhere there is back -- where there is not backhauling,but where there is, it isn't. MR. MILLER: I think our briefs in -- in thetwo cases are consistent. Our brief here provides moredetail in explaining the commission's orders, but inboth cases, we have taken the view, as the commissionhas consistently taken the view since the TRRO, thatentrance facilities don't have to be made available asunbundled elements for purposes of back haul, but theydo have to be made available when the incumbent seeks touse them for interconnection. And I think this isprecisely the sort of case where -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. They have to be as Officialunbundled elements? I thought they never had to be -- MR. MILLER: No, they -- they -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- made available asunbundled elements. That's (c)(). MR. MILLER: That's right. Then they are -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Your argument here is thatonly have to be made available under (c)()? MR. MILLER: Exactly. JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is not unbundled? MR. MILLER: Right. And it's only forpurposes of -- of interconnection. And I think this isprecisely the sort of case where deference under Auer isappropriate, given that you have a highly complexstatute regulating a very complex, dynamic industry, andso the commission's regulations involve not only theexercise of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You certainly encourage usto throw up our hands. There's no doubt about it. (Laughter.) MR. MILLER: I -- another way of saying thatwould be that it's appropriate to recognize thecommission's not only policy-making discretion buttechnical expertise in the industry that's beingregulated. And certainly the commission has tried to beas clear as it can in its regulations, but this is an Officialarea where some level of imprecision is probablyinevitable. And I think that's why it's appropriate todefer to -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I don't know why --why it's so hard. I mean, I got out my orange cord, andI -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I -- I wasn't sure ofif -- if it was a transport or link. That -- that's myconcern. MR. MILLER: Well, I guess I would say maybewe need to put the difference between interconnectionand transport in concrete terms. It would be theinterconnection charge which is at TELRIC rates under(d)(). There would be a flat fee for setting it upand then a flat monthly fee just for having the linkthere. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, continue. MR. MILLER: Thank you. And that'sindependent of usage. Then, separately, each time a call is made,there is a charge under (d)() for the transport andtermination of the call. And that goes both ways. So,when the competitor's customer calls the ILEC, thecustomer -- the competitor pays the ILEC for terminating the call and vice versa.Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Miller. Mr. Angstreich. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT H. ANGSTREICH ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. ANGSTREICH: Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court: In this case, the agency is trying to use anamicus brief to interpret a few sentences in orders fromyears ago to create a new legal rule without ever goingthrough a process that would result in judicial review.In fact, in the Triennial Review Orders, where theagency supposedly announced this new obligation, itassured incumbents like AT&T that it was not alteringits interpretation of the statutory interconnectionduty. And the Government correctly concedes here thatbefore those orders, the Government had neverinterpreted the statutory interconnection duty torequire companies like AT&T to sell a fiberoptic cableat TELRIC rates. Yes -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I know you'resaying that, but everybody's arguing about what the --what the TRO and the TRRO say or don't say. But I gobehind that and I go -- I think the Government's entire Officialargument is not based even on those. It's based on theLCO regulations themselves. They've cited two, which is. and .. They're not relying on those TROs intheir back and forth there; they're relying on theregulation. MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, Your Honor, Iactually read their brief differently, and I note thatin the Sixth Circuit, they didn't rely on anyregulations at all. The argument was entirely based onparagraph . But going to the regulations, at the sametime they promulgated those rules, the government diddefine interconnection to exclude transport, and whenthey defended that exclusion -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how do you addresstheir point that there are two different charges atissue? MR. ANGSTREICH: There are -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That one -- thatinterconnection by definition includes transport. It'shard for me to think of how it doesn't because they'vegot to travel from one place to another, so -- MR. ANGSTREICH: Your Honor, when the FCCexplained this to the Eighth Circuit, what it said isthere are really three things going on. One is (c)(), Officialis the duty to interconnect at a point, not to provide awhole host of facilities that get you to the point, butliterally the duty to interconnect at a specific pointin the world; selected by the competitor to be sure, butthat only tells you where interconnection occurs.That's the point. The commission then said: Okay, then thereare other obligations in the statute. One of them is insection (b)(), and that's what obligates theincumbent to accept telephone calls that are sent tothat point and to send telephone calls through thatpoint to the competitor. And then, there's the third thing, and thisis directly from the government's brief to the EighthCircuit, where they explain that section (c)() -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The Sixth Circuit? MR. ANGSTREICH: The Eighth Circuit. Wecite this at -- from , this is the contemporaneousview of the agency at the time it promulgated theinterconnection regulations. It's defending thoseregulations against a challenge that they are toonarrow. And what the agency says to the Eighth Circuit,which then deferred to this interpretation, is ifsection (c)(), interconnection, included routing andtransmission, (c)() would overlap with other sections Officialthat, one, describe a duty to route and transmittraffic, telephone calls; and, two, a duty to leasefacilities that will be used for routing andtransmission. Footnote: Those duties are (b)() and(c)(). To the extent there is a duty to lease thefacilities, the fiberoptic cables that competitors aregoing to use to get to the interconnection point oftheir choice, that duty has to arise, the commission issaying here, only under section (c)(). And we know it doesn't arise under thatsection because these aren't things that are bottleneckelements. These aren't things that competitors can'tget themselves. Competitors are interconnecting today.Wireless carriers, other competitors, everyone in theState of Ohio has since not been paying TELRICrates, and as the amicus brief showed, there has been nodetriment to competition. Interconnection is occurring. And so, what the Government is trying to dohere is impose this leasing obligation under theinterconnection duty in a way that never gave AT&T andother incumbents any opportunity to challenge it. Theynever explain how it squares with the text and structureof the statute, with their prior statements, or whythere's any policy basis for interpreting what theyclaim is an ambiguous statute to require TELRIC pricing Officialfor things that are not bottleneck elements. Back in the Local Competition Order, JusticeSotomayor, when they adopted the TELRIC methodology,they recognized -- this is in paragraph --interconnection services -- that's what they called itback then -- are bottlenecks, not things thatcompetitors can build themselves or buy from thirdparties in the marketplace, as the agency has found isthe case since . They never -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, now you're readinglimitation into the statute. All the statute says isyou're obligated to provide interconnection services.It doesn't say how or limit it only to things that arenot bottlenecks or things that are bottlenecks. It justsays you're obligated to do X. And that's what theagency's saying. MR. ANGSTREICH: I understand this, YourHonor. But if the agency had ever done that throughnotice and comment with a rule and published it in theFederal Register -- which they concede that before they hadn't done that as to entrance facilities -- andthey claim they had no occasion to address thequestion -- and then in we get a single sentence ina paragraph of an order where there was no notice theywere considering interconnection duties, no publication Officialof a new regulation, no publication -- nothing thatwould have, you know, told AT&T and other incumbents youshould seek judicial review of this if you think it'swrong. And now we're being told years later thatwhen they said "facilities" in that paragraph, theymeant entrance facilities. And we're being told yearslater when they said "interconnection facilities," thatthey meant entrance facilities, even though when theywere asked that question by the Sixth Circuit they saidwe didn't define that term. And Mr. Miller might wantto say they've just said a little bit more now, butthey've said something radically different. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- in that regard, inall of these years, are -- you mean to tell me there isno other incumbent that has provided interconnectionservices at an entrance facility and charged TELRICrates? MR. ANGSTREICH: Prior to and ,when there was an unbundling rule in place -- and thecommission had always recognized when it establishedthat unbundling rule in that competitors would useunbundled transport facilities to connect to incumbentswitches, so to connect to those interconnection points.And, sure, prior to when the unbundling rule was in Officialplace, competitors would lease these facilities and payTELRIC rates and use them to get to the interconnectionpoint, but there was never during that time anystatement that even if there was no impairment, section(c)() would require the exact same thing to get tothe interconnection point. JUSTICE SCALIA: What happened to theunbundling rule? MR. ANGSTREICH: It got -- it was gotten ridof. It doesn't exist anymore. So, now AT&T has saidthose things you used to buy under the unbundling rules,we don't have to sell them to you at TELRIC ratesanymore. We have a tariff. We've always had a tariff.We'll sell them to you at just and reasonable ratesunder the tariff. You can build them yourself, ascompetitors and wireless carriers are doing. You canbuy them from the third parties that build them andadvertise their offering of them. But what you can't do is say all of a suddenthat the interconnection duty had always required theexact same thing as the unbundling duty, at least notwithout going through a rulemaking where you lay outyour policy grounds. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why was the unbundling ruleabandoned? Official MR. ANGSTREICH: It was abandoned becausethe record evidence showed unambiguously thatcompetitors don't need these things from incumbents. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a bottleneck? MR. ANGSTREICH: It's not in any way, shape,or form a bottleneck. And I guess that gets to thesecond point I'd make, which is that, again -- and Idon't think they rely on the regulations, JusticeSotomayor, and they've never -- and the Governmentconcedes in footnote that the regulations themselvesdon't get them to where they want to go. They needthese statements they made in and . And evenif you credit their new position that when they saidfacilities and interconnection facilities, that was justan imprecise way of saying entrance facilities, thosestatements don't get you to the rule that they'reendorsing. What the agency actually said is thatcompetitors will have access to these facilities -- andlet's pretend that means entrance facilities for thetime being -- will have access to entrance facilities atcost-based rates to the extent that they require them tointerconnect, and that's paragraph of the TriennialReview Order and -- remand order, and they said the samething, although they used the word "need," not "require."Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is (c)(). MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, I think the point iswhat they -- this is why we think the right reading ofthose statements is that the facilities they'rereferring to are things they actually do require andneed, which are the things inside AT&T buildings thatthey can't replicate, that it's strange for them to havesaid you're going to get these facilities you require,but to have meant something that they don't in factrequire. But even if you want to read, again,facilities and interconnection facilities to meanentrance facilities, the rule that they're endorsing --and, you know, Michigan now wants, if it's in the groundwe have to provide it; if we'd have to build it, wedon't have to provide it. It's the first time we'veheard of that in the scope of this litigation. TheGovernment seems to only be willing to -- to talk aboutthose few facilities that had been gotten under the old,now-gone unbundling rules, but that's not thedistinction that the commission drew when it said thisthing that's supposedly imposing an obligation on AT&Tand other companies. It limited it to those things thatcompetitors require. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's -- that's(c)(). MR. ANGSTREICH: But that's what -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: (C)() says you just --you have to. It imposes an affirmative obligation toprovide interconnection -- an interconnection. MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, it imposes anobligation, Your Honor, to provide interconnection at apoint -- it's at a point within our network. JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. That's yourpoint, I thought. I thought it is precisely your pointthat it is (c)() rather than (c)(). MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, that's -- my pointis, yes, if there is a facilities leasing obligation, ithas to exist under (c)(). That's absolutely right,Justice Scalia, that -- we think that's the rightreading of the statute, we think that's what the FCCtold the Eighth Circuit, we think it's what the FCC saidin the Local Competition Order. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't -- what I --there's no way for you all to go to the FCC and decidewhat part of this thing is -- or any State regulator,what part of it is -- part of what's necessary tofacilitate interconnection and what part of it is reallyproviding the work primarily of the -- simply transporting services?Official MR. ANGSTREICH: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: What part is doingsomething else? MR. ANGSTREICH: There's really nodispute -- JUSTICE BREYER: There's no way to do that? MR. ANGSTREICH: No. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, so a judge has tosay, on the basis of what, on the basis -- the judge hasto say on the basis of the statute, which just uses theword "interconnection"? MR. ANGSTREICH: The Michigan commissiondecided that the FCC in that paragraph created thisobligation. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. But the -- the -- MR. ANGSTREICH: That's wrong. JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I -- I thoughtit was conceded that -- that none of this is -- isnecessary under (c)(). I thought that's what theEighth Circuit said and which is why they eliminated theunbundling obligation under (c)(). MR. ANGSTREICH: That's -- that's absolutelyright, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, it is accepted by both Officialsides, I think, that this is not necessary. MR. ANGSTREICH: That's right, and becauseit's not necessary, you can't read, as the governmenttries to, belatedly, years after the fact, thosestatements in their orders from and , those fewstatements in these matching orders -- JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't help becauseit's a network element if it's in (), and what this is,is something that's going to be needed to -- tointerconnect. If it's -- if it's in -- if it's in thefirst one. And I don't know which is which, and Igather that sometimes it would be tough. And whatcourts use to do with the ICC when they got into thiskind of situation is a doctrine called primaryjurisdiction, and they'd ask them for a brief. Allright? So, if that's what we've done hypothetically, wehave the brief. MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: Now, why don't we have tofollow the brief? MR. ANGSTREICH: Because the brief heredoesn't do what a decision on a primary jurisdictionreferral would do, which is square what the agency isdoing with the text and structure of the statute withprior statements that contradict -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you agree that it has tobe needed to interconnect? MR. ANGSTREICH: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The whole problem here isit doesn't have to be needed to interconnect. MR. ANGSTREICH: Our -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It has to be needed under(c)(), but under (c)(), it's -- it's up to the -- tothe new company to say I want to interconnect here; and-- and the incumbent cannot say, oh, no, you -- youdon't have interconnect here; you can interconnectsomewhere else. MR. ANGSTREICH: That -- Your Honor, that'sabsolutely right, Justice Scalia. They get to pick apoint. The point has to be within our network. Rule. identifies a series of illustrative points, allof which exist inside AT&T buildings. And that's whatthey've done. They've picked a point -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But wait a minute. Does-- don't the regulations now and the commission's TRO,et cetera, say that an entrance facility is within yournetwork? You haven't challenged that. MR. ANGSTREICH: We do disagree. I mean, atthe time of the Triennial Review Order, they said it wasoutside of our network. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it's now they -- MR. ANGSTREICH: That's when they alsosupposedly adopted this rule. So, somehow, this rulethey've adopted has to coexist with the notion thatthese things are outside of our network. But in or out,I think it's important to recognize they're notclaiming -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If they're in yournetwork -- MR. ANGSTREICH: Pardon me. I think -- ifyou have the Network Engineers' brief, figure on page, I think it does a very good job of illustrating whatit is we're talking about. JUSTICE SCALIA: Like orange wires and such? (Laughter.) MR. ANGSTREICH: They draw them in black,but yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: In black? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Figure . MR. ANGSTREICH: Figure on page . Whatthe competitors in this case and Michigan have long saidis that the competitor has picked as its point ofinterconnection a point inside the box on the rightlabeled Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier Central Office.And then they need some fiberoptic cable to bridge the Officialgap to that interconnection point. That's how JudgeSutton understood it in dissent. That's how JudgeBatchelder understood it in the majority. And all the interconnection duty talksabout, all any of the interconnection regulations talkabout, is letting the competitors pick that point. Howthey get to the point is up to them. JUSTICE BREYER: That's not what the statutesays. The statute says the carriers have a duty toprovide interconnection. MR. ANGSTREICH: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, in carrying out a dutyto provide, you say that's just picking a point.Somebody could equally well say, no, it's a duty toprovide means to get to the point. Now, either of thoseseem equally consistent with the language. MR. ANGSTREICH: Your Honor, there's morelanguage that I think forecloses those interpretations.It's not just the duty to provide interconnection. It'sthe duty to provide interconnection for the competitor'sfacilities and equipment -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. ANGSTREICH: -- at a point within theincumbent's network. Nothing in that statutory languagesays that the duty is to provide the competitor with the facilities and equipment --Official JUSTICE BREYER: No, it doesn't say that,but it doesn't say the opposite. And, therefore, youmight have an agency reasonably deciding that to provide-- to fulfill that duty, you must provide equipmentreasonably necessary to allow the competitor to connect.That's equally sensible. MR. ANGSTREICH: And, Justice Breyer, youmight have an agency that did that. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. ANGSTREICH: We don't have an agencythat did that. JUSTICE BREYER: Apparently, you have anagency that never really said one way or the other. MR. ANGSTREICH: And that means thatMichigan was wrong when it thought that the agency hadsaid it, and the Sixth Circuit was right when it agreed. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it used to say theother. You -- you contend it used to say the other, andit has never, by proper means, gainsaid its priorposition. MR. ANGSTREICH: That's correct, JusticeScalia. JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see what theother -- I didn't hear anything that said they said the Officialother. They've said when you have wires and you'reusing the wires for communication, then they don't falloutside this; that's true. But if you're using them forinterconnection, and they're necessary to use forinterconnection, maybe it does fall inside this. Idon't -- MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, Justice Breyer,again, we point you to their definition of"interconnection" where they excluded transport frominterconnection and explained to the Eighth Circuit's --you know -- JUSTICE BREYER: Excluded -- they excludedtransport -- all transport to the point ofinterconnection, where you could not provide thefacility to interconnect unless you had the transport?Is that what they did? MR. ANGSTREICH: What they said is -- JUSTICE BREYER: Did they do that? Yes orno? I bet the answer is no. MR. ANGSTREICH: What they -- I -- YourHonor, I just -- I don't think you're describing it inthe way that consists -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. ANGSTREICH: -- comports with thelanguage of the Act. Official What they said is a duty to lease facilitiesthat will be used for routing and transmission oftelephone calls to the point, that's (c)(). That's notpart of the interconnection duty. When they contrasted,in their Local Competition Order, paragraph , theysaid what interconnection does is it lets the competitorpick the place where they're going to drop the trafficoff. But it is section (c)() that lets the competitorsay: I'd prefer to use incumbent facilities at TELRICrates to get to that point. They have made that very distinction. Butwhat they're trying to do through their amicus briefhere is to turn (c)() into a facilities leasingprovision. Now, again, we don't think this Court needsto say that they could never have promulgated a rulewith reasons that would get you there, but they've neverdone it. If they had done it, we would have had theopportunity to seek judicial review. They would havehad to explain themselves. We've never had thatopportunity. When they've said -- put, you know -- Ithink it's important, when they put out these sentencesin the Triennial Review Order and Triennial ReviewRemand Order that supposedly told us of this new Officialobligation, they never asked for notice about this, eventhough, in their notice of proposed rulemaking, theysaid, should we get rid of entrance facilities under(c)()? They didn't say, and if we do, what would thatmean for (c)()? They didn't ask the question. JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought they said,moreover, that they were not amending (c)(),specifically. MR. ANGSTREICH: That's exactly right. Inthe orders themselves, they assured AT&T and others thatthey weren't changing anything with regard to (c)(). JUSTICE BREYER: But there are -- there arecases, I think, in primary jurisdiction where what adistrict court has done, anyway, is to hold the casewhile the ICC went and had a proceeding. And I'm surethat hasn't been used in a long time. MR. ANGSTREICH: No, that is still used,Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: It is? MR. ANGSTREICH: But I'd point -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, maybe this is thecase for it. MR. ANGSTREICH: Well, I don't thinkthere's -- and I'd point to this Court's decision byJustice Ginsburg in Northwest Airlines v. Kent, U.S. Official, where this Court said: Nobody has asked us toinvoke the doctrine of primary jurisdiction; we're notgoing to do it; instead, we will adopt an interpretationof the statute that will suffice for the purposes athand. And as the Court later recognized in Brand X,that leaves it open to the agency, in a rulemaking, toactually do the work that, as Justice Scalia noted, theagency has never done here. And so. It's -- rather than imposingsomething through a combination of amicus briefs andstatements that don't actually set forth the rule thatthe agency is trying to defend here, we'd have a realrulemaking -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- MR. ANGSTREICH: -- and a chance -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the problem I'mhaving is that you tell me on the one hand that upuntil, what, , you were always paying the cost plusprofit rates, the TELRIC's rates, for interconnection ata -- at an entrance facility. MR. ANGSTREICH: That's not quite right,Justice Sotomayor. Up until , companies like TalkAmerica were allowed to get both the actual physicallinking at TELRIC rates and the transport facility atTELRIC rates, but under two separate statutory Officialprovisions. They were getting the transport facilityunder (c)(); that's gone away. They were getting thelinking under (c)(). Now, there were other companies likewireless carriers. They were getting the linking atTELRIC rates under (c)(), but they were paying fullfreight for the transport, because they have never beenallowed to get unbundled network elements. So, thisnotion that there's going to be a price increase towireless carriers is a fiction. But what -- so, competitors were doing twothings under two provisions. One of those has goneaway. And it was only after it went away that anybodyraised this notion that maybe that transport facilityhad always been required under (c)() also. But that'snothing the commission has ever done in a rulemaking. It never did that in the proper way in theTriennial Review Order or the Triennial Review RemandOrder. As Justice Scalia noted, it assured AT&T andother incumbents that it wasn't changing the law. Whenit published things in the Federal Register, which iswhere it's supposed to publish substantive rules, itidentified specifically the elimination of entrancefacilities as unbundled network elements, and said not aword about any continued duty to provide them under section --Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it did in itsfootnotes. It said -- that's what the whole dispute isabout, which is we're not changing the obligation toprovide interconnection services. So, it said itclearly. MR. ANGSTREICH: It -- it said it -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Its view -- MR. ANGSTREICH: -- but then the question,Justice Sotomayor, is: Well, what was that obligation?And the government concedes in footnote that prior tomaking those statements, it had never interpreted thatobligation to include the duty to lease that transportfacility. It claims the question never came up because,while it was an unbundled element, it didn't matter. Now, I think it's quite telling that whileit was an unbundled element and we were having yearsof litigation about what the right standard is for anunbundled element, nobody even thought to say: By theway, all of this litigation is beside the point withrespect to the use of these facilities when we attachthem to an interconnection point. JUSTICE SCALIA: The Eighth Circuit'sdecision would have been unnecessary and the revision ofthe rule? Official MR. ANGSTREICH: Exactly, Justice Scalia.It's very strange that no -- I mean -- and I think fromthe fact that nobody thought to say it comes to what weview has happened, is that this is a rear-guard effortto preserve TELRIC pricing for things that thecommission has said should no longer be available asTELRIC -- at TELRIC pricing. JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe the commission didn'tlike the Eighth Circuit's decision. MR. ANGSTREICH: I -- I think it's probablya fair statement that the commission does not like thedecisions vacating its unbundling rules, butnonetheless, that's what happened, and the new rules getrid of this element. Again, what the Michigan commission foundwas that the FCC had specifically determined that thereis a leasing obligation under (c)(). That neverhappened. The Sixth Circuit was right about that.There is no leasing obligation that the commission hasever established. I think, Justice Breyer, to go back to yourquestion, whether they could do it is a separatequestion. I don't think they could. I think we have anincredibly good chance to prevail if they were to everpromulgate such a rule, but they never did it. They Officialsaid things directly to the contrary. JUSTICE BREYER: It all didn't matterbecause, in fact, they got the TELRIC rates under (c)()until they changed the impairment part? MR. ANGSTREICH: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: So, who cared? And nowafter that, they care. MR. ANGSTREICH: Right, they care. JUSTICE BREYER: And now -- now -- now theother side cares, of course. And so, now -- now we'refaced with a situation where they're just putting thisin the brief for the first time, but they can't base iton anything the commission actually did? MR. ANGSTREICH: That's exactly right. Andif the commission had actually -- JUSTICE BREYER: Amd I'm glad it's rightbecause I don't know what I'm talking about. (Laughter.) MR. ANGSTREICH: I'm glad -- I'm glad we'reat least agreeing with each other, Justice Breyer.But -- and I think that really is the key administrativelaw point here, is that if the agency in the TriennialReview Order or Triennial Review Remand Order hadactually said what they say in their brief, we never hadoccasion to consider this question before. Now we're Officialconsidering it, and here is why we think it'sappropriate to read (c)() to impose leasing. And despite the fact that, you know --again, the commission claims that the statute'sambiguous. They'd need a policy reason why it'sappropriate to read this ambiguous statute to requireTELRIC pricing for things that third parties areactually investing in and selling at marketplace rates,why it's appropriate to undercut those third-partybusiness models with this TELRIC pricing for somethingthe competitors can and are building themselves, thirdparties are selling -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we accept theirpolicy arguments, what does that do to your mainargument? MR. ANGSTREICH: I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because I think they'veexplained it to my satisfaction why this is necessarybecause (c)() requires interconnection. Congress hasmade a judgment that interconnection is the mainstay ofcompetition in this area. So, if I accept that -- MR. ANGSTREICH: With due respect, JusticeSotomayor, I don't think they've made that policy claimhere, and in particular this is not a case about whetherinterconnection is going to occur. Official Competitors and wireless carriers arepicking their points of interconnection. They areinterconnecting today. They have been doing it. Andwireless carriers never had TELRIC priced transportfacilities, and yet they're interconnected. Competitorsin nearly a dozen States that have addressed this issueand disagreed with Michigan and agreed with the SixthCircuit are interconnecting today using their ownfacilities, using third-party facilities. And when theycome to AT&T and say we'd like to plug our facility intothis point, AT&T says, absolutely, and does the worknecessary to get those two things connected. JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't say it thathappily. It really doesn't. MR. ANGSTREICH: You're right. Itcertainly -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, okay. MR. ANGSTREICH: It's -- it's an impositionon AT&T. But the notion that in any way, shape, or formthe price of the cable will alter the interconnection oftelephone networks is simply false. Yes,interconnection is an important policy, and Congresssaid we have to provide it at points within our networksselected by competitors. And we do that. But Congress didn't say, and the FCC has Officialnever said, that we also have to provide them whateverit is that they want to use to get to that point. Andthere really is -- and I think some of the questioningpulled that out, though they want to say I think becausethe Government won't endorse the absolute position thePetitioners were taking in their opening briefs, thatthis is only about things that used to be ordered asunbundled elements or things already in the ground. But their position, their interpretation ofthe statute has no stopping point. It would coveranything a competitor might ever want to use to gettelephone calls to the interconnection point. Andthey've never defended that limitless reading. And ifthe agency ever wanted to adopt it, we would challengeit. And as I've said, I like our chances, but untilthey do it, Michigan was wrong to conclude that thecommission had done it, and the Sixth Circuit wascorrect to reject that. If there are no further questions, I'll sitdown. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Bursch -- Bursch, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN J. BURSCH ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS Official MR. BURSCH: Your Honors, everything youheard in the last minutes is premised on the ideathat the FCC is doing something new and that there wasnever a promulgated regulation. That is demonstrablyfalse. If you turn with me to page a of the redbrief, this is the FCC's regulation, promulgated all theway back in , which defined the scope of the (c)()interconnection obligation. It's CFR .. Andthis goes directly to the points that Justice Sotomayorwas making. On page a, the FCC says that an incumbentmust provide interconnection at a particular point upona request by a telecommunications carrier, such as acompetitor. "Technically feasible methods" -- this isin sub (b) -- "include, but are not limited to" -- andthey give two examples: collocation and meet points.But this isn't the be-all-end-all of interconnectionobligations. These are exemplary. To take an analogy, assume you had a highschool cafeteria, and the school board said you have toprovide vegetables to students when they ask for them,and you have to give them the vegetable that they askfor; those include broccoli and green beans. And theydon't say anything else. Then you have a separate Officialobligation in (c)(), and the school board says until wesee that the kids have enough nutrition, you must givethem peas. That's entrance facilities unbundled under(c)(). So, some time goes by, and the school boardsays, okay, the kids are getting enough peas; we'regoing to wipe away that second restriction, but theinitial restriction, the obligation in , is stillthere; and if a student asks for peas, it's within thescope of because broccolis and green beans wererepresentative examples, and peas are another one. Andthat's where entrance facilities fit. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why did they fight theEighth Circuit litigation? Why did -- I mean, it --you're telling me it made no difference whether (c)()allowed them to do what they wanted to do and what theEighth Circuit said they couldn't do, right? MR. BURSCH: The premise -- no, that'sincorrect, Your Honor, because if you have an entrancefacility under (c)(), you can use it for more thingsthan you can under (c)() because under (c)() you canhave it for backhauling and still get TELRIC rates.Under (c)(), you're limited to interconnection. So,it's a different question. But the idea that somehow the FCC can -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Very slightly different.That's not that big a deal. MR. BURSCH: Backhauling is a big deal tocompetitors. And so, to say that they did something newin the TRRO is wrong. And to prove that point, if youlook at the comments -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Incidentally, where doyou -- where do you get that backhauling restrictionfrom? MR. BURSCH: The backhauling -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes. The -- MR. BURSCH: From the TRO and the TRRO, andthe FCC discussed that distinction in the Sixth Circuitbriefing at pages to . So, this isn't anything new,either. So, the fact that this is not something newis demonstrated conclusively by comments in the TRROproceedings from Bell South, which is now an AT&Tsubsidiary. And Bell South says, at page of itscomments, fully recognizing the obligation that went allthe way back to in reg : Because entrancefacilities may be required for interconnection purposesand Congress explicitly enacted provisions that governcarrier obligations to provide interconnection in(c)(), it was altogether reasonable for the Officialcommission to exclude these network elements from adefinition of ILEC dedicated transport intended forunbundled access under (c)(). So, even incumbent carriers knew what theFCC was doing in paragraph of the TRRO, and therewas nothing new there. One other small point with respect to theNetwork Engineers' map. This entrance facility righthere on page already exists. We're talking aboutexisting facilities. And it's true, as the SixthCircuit said, that if the point of interconnection ishere at the ILEC switch, then that's whereinterconnection takes place, and this entrance facilityis -- is truly providing transport, not interconnection. But when a competitive carrier chooses itsown switch as the point of interconnection, this is theend of the AT&T entrance facility, then interconnectiontakes place there. And even in the Sixth Circuit'sview, that entrance facility is interconnection under(c)(). And as Congress has said, that's the obligationthat is immutable because it is so important,fundamental to competition. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. MR. BURSCH: Thank you. Official (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAabandoned::able :above-entitled: :absolute :absolutely :: :: :accept ::,accepted:access :,:, :accommodateaccommodation::account :acknowledged: :acknowledges:Act : :,,: :actual :addition::additional :address :: :addressed:administrative:adopt : :adopted:: :,advances :advertise :affirmative :affirming :agency : :: :,:, :: :: :,,:, :,: ::agency's :ago :agree : :agreed::agreeing :agreements :agrees :Airlines :AL :allow: :: :allowed:: :alter:altering :altogether:ambiguous ::,Amd :amending :America : :: :amicus : :: :: :: :analogy ::Angstreich:: :,,:,,: :: : :: : ::, :,:,,,:,, ::,, ::,,:,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:, :,:, :,:, :: :,announced:answer:,: : ::anybody :anymore ::anyplace :anyway :Apparently:appeals ::, :APPEARANC...:appears :: :appendix ::appropriate:, :: ::, ::,,appropriately:arbitration:area : :arguing :argument ::,,, :,: : :: : :: ::arguments :arises :arising :arrangements:art :,asked:,: : :asking :asks : :Assistant :assume :: :assured:: :attach:AT&T :,: :, :: : :: :: : :: :: ::,,: :AT&T's : ::Auer:availability:available :,:, :,:a.m: :Bb : :back : :: :,: :,: ::backhauling:, :: ::,,bad:base : :based:,,basis ::,,Batchelder:beans ::bed:began :begins :behalf : :,:,,, :: ::belatedly :believe ::Bell :, :: :,bells :,,:bet :better:be-all-end-all:big :,,: :,bit :black :,blue : :,board : ::bottleneck :: :,bottlenecks ::,box :Brand :Breyer:,: :,: :,,: :,,: :,,: : : : :: : ::,, :: :,: :,,:, ::,,:,,,: :,,:,bridge :brief: ::, :: :,: :: :: ::,,,: ::, :briefing :briefs : ::, ::bring :broccoli :broccolis :build : ::, :: :,: :,:building :: :buildings ::built : :burden::burdensome:,Bursch: :: :,,,:,, ::,,,: : :: :,: :,,:,,:,, ::,,,: :,,:,,,: :,: :: :,: :business :buy : ::Cc : :,,: : ::,,,:, ::,,: : ::,,,:, :,:,, ::,, ::,, :: :,: :,,:,,,:cable :,: :: :cables : :cafeteria :California ::call : :: :called: ::calls : :: : :Official:candidate :care :,cared:cares :carrier: :: : :: ::carriers :: :: :,:, :carrier's :carrying :case :,,: :,: :,,: :,: :: :,: :,: : :: :,: ::cases :,:Central :cert :certainly :: :cetera :CFR : :challenge :: ::challenged:chance ::chances :changed:changing :: :charge : :: :,:,charged:: :charges :,: :cheap :Chief:, :: :,,: ::, ::, ::choice : :choose :,:chooses ::choosing :Circuit :,: :,,: ::, :: :,:, :: :: :: ::, ::Circuits :Circuit's : :: :: :: :cite :cited:claim:: :claiming :claims ::clear : :: :: ::clearly :CLEC :coexist :collocation:combinationcome :::comes :comment :commenting :comments ::,commission: :,:,,: :: :,: :,: :: : :: :: :,,:, :: :: :commissions: :commission's: :: :,:common:communication:companies :: :: :company :,: :competition:: : ::, :: : : :: :competitive :: : :: : :: :competitor:: :: :,: :: : :: :: : :: ::competitors ::: : ::,,,: : :: :,: :: :: :,,:competitor's: ::complex::,complicated:comports :concede :conceded:concedes :: :concepts :concern :conclude :concluded:conclusion:,:,conclusively:Officialcontrary :contrasted:controlling :cord : :,:, :: : :cords : :correct :: :: :: :correctly :cost : :cost-based:counsel :: :: :country :couple :course :: :court :, :: : :: ::,,,:, :: ::,courts :court's ::cover:create :created:credit :curiae : ::customer::, ::customers :DD : : ::DBA :,deal :,decide :: :,: :decided:decides :deciding :decision :: :: :decisions :dedicated::, :defend :defended::defending :defer:deference ::deferred:define :defined:::defines :definition:: :,:, :: : :definitively :delegated:demonstrablydemonstrateddemonstrates:::deny :Department :depth:describe :described::describing :deserves :designed:despite :detail :determination: :determine :determined:detriment :Detroit :difference ::, :,: :different :,: :: :,: :: :differently :directly :: :disagree :disagreed:::discharged:discretion:discussed:disposed:dispute :,: :dissent :dissenting :distance :: :: :,:,distances :: :distinction:: ::distinguish:conduit :Congress :: :: ::, ::congressional:connect :, :: ::, :connected:connection:: :connects :consequently:consider:considerations:considered:considering: :consistent :,: :consistently:consists :consolidated:constitute :constructedcontemplate:::contemporane...contend :context ::continue :continued:contradict :contradictionconcrete ::, distinguishesdistinguishing::district :doctrine ::doing : :: :: : :door:doubt :dozen:draw:drew:drop:due :duplicate :duties : :duty : :: :,:,,,,:, :,:,,,: : :: ::dynamic :D.C : :,: :,EE : :,economic ::economically:,,:effect :effective :efficient :effort :Eighth:: :,: :: :: ::,either: ::element :: :,: :elements :: ::, :: :,: :eliminated:elimination:embodied:enacted:encompassesencourage :endorse :endorsing :Engineers :::::English:entire :entirely ::entitled:entrance ::, :,: :,: :,:,, :: :: ::, :,:, :: ::,, ::, :: :Official: ::,,: :,:,entrants :equally :,equate :::equipment :: : ::ERIC : ::especially :ESQ : :,:,,,established: :estimation:et : :everybody's:evidence :exact :,exactly :: : :: :example :: :examples ::exchange :,: :,: :exclude :::excluded:,exclusion :excuse :,: ::exemplary :exercise :exist : ::existing ::, :: ::exists :expense :expert :expertise :explain :: ::explained:: :: :explaining :explicitly :expressed:extant : :extend :extending :extension :,:,extent : ::extra :Ffaced:facilitate :facilities :: :,,:,,,:, :,: ::, ::, :: :,: : ::, ::,,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:, :: : ::, :: ::,, :: ::facility :,:,,,:, :,: : ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :: :,:, :: ::,,,fact : :: : :: :fair:fall :,false : :far:,FCC : : :: :,: :,:, :: :: ::,,: :: :,: ::FCC's :, ::feasibility :feasible :,:,,: :,:, : OfficialFederal :::fee :,feet :fiberoptic :: ::fiction:fight :figure :,:file :,filed: :,files :find : :first: : :: :: ::fit :flat :,flaw:flip :focus :follow:footnote : :: ::footnotes :forced::forecloses :forget :form : :forth: :found : :fourth:free :freight :front :fulfill :full : :fully :function:fundamental: :: :further::GG :gainsaid :gap :garage :gather:General : :genus :getting :,,:Ginsburg :: :: ::give : ::, :given:gives :glad:,,glom:go : :,: ::God:goers :goes : :: ::going :,:, :: ::, :: : :: : :: :good : :: :gotten: ::govern :government:, :: :: :: :government's: ::green:ground :::grounds :guaranteed:guess :: ::HH : : :half :,halfway ::hand :,hands :happened::,,happily :hard : :haul :head-on:hear : :heard : :heart :help :high:highly :history :hold :homeowner::Honor: :: :,: : :: ::, :: :Honors :host :hypothetically:IICC : :idea : :identified:identifies :ILEC :,:,illustrating :illustrative :imagine ::immutable :impaired:impairment :: ::, ::implementing:,important :: :: :impose :imposes :,imposing :::imposition:imprecise :imprecision:incentive :,Incidentally :include ::,, :: :,included:: :includes :incorrect :increase :incredibly :incumbent ::, :,: ::, :: :,:, :: : :: :,: :: : :incumbents :: :: : ::incumbent's :: ::independent: ::industry ::inevitable :infeasible :initial :inside : :: :intended:interconnect: :,: ::,,,,:interconnected:interconnecting: : ::interconnection:, ::, : :, ::, ::, :,:, ::,,:,,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:, :: ::, :: :,:,, ::, ::, ::, :,: :: :,,: :: :,,:,,:,,,,:, ::, ::, ::, ::,,: :,:,,,:,internal :interpret::interpretation: :: :interpretations:interpreted: :interpreting ::intuition:intuitive :investing :invitation:invited:invoke :involve ::involved:involves :irrebuttable :irregardless :ISIOGU :issue :: ::, :: : :JJ : :, ::job: :JOHN : :: : :judge : :: :,judgment :judicial :: :jurisdiction:, ::Justice : :,: : :,:,, ::,,,: :,,:,, ::,,,: :,:,,,: :,: :,,: :,,: :,,Official:, :: :,:, :,:,,:,, ::, :,:, :,: :,,:, ::, ::, :,: :,,:, :,:,,,:, :,:,, ::,,,:,, ::,,,:, ::,,:,,,:, ::,,: :,,: :,,:,,,,:,,:, :: ::,, :Justices :KKennedy ::, ::,,,: :,Kent :key : :: :kids :,kind : ::,,,:, :kinds :knew:know: :,:,,:,,: :,,: :: :: :: :: ::Llabeled:language ::, :Lansing ::large :Laughter:: ::law: :lay : :LCO : :lease :, :: :leasing :: ::, :leave :leaves :LEC's :legal :legislation :length: :letting :let's :level :lifeblood:limit : :limitation:limited:: :limitless :limits :lines :link : :: :,linking :: :,links :literally :litigation::, :little : :local : :: : :: :: ::location::logic :long : :: :longer: :look : ::looking :lot : :: :MMahal :main :Maine :mainstay :majority :making : ::map:March :market::,marketplace: :matching :matter: : : :mean: :: : :: :: : ::means :: ::,meant :,:mechanism:meet : :meet-point ::, :method: :: :methodology:methods :Michigan:,:,, :: :,: :: :: ::Michigan's: :miles :,Miller: ::,,: :,: :,:, :,:, :,:,,:, :,:,,:, ::minute :minutes ::misconception::misunderstand...models :monthly :morning :mutual :,,: :,:NN :, :narrow:nearly :necessarily ::necessary :: :: :,: : ::need: ::,, :: :needed: ::,,needs ::network ::,,,: :,: :,,: :: : ::,,:,, ::, :,networks :: :,never: ::, :: : :: :,: : ::, :Official: :,: : :: :new:,,: :,: : :: :: :,,:Ninth: :normally :Northwest:note : :noted: :notice :,:,notion: :: :now-gone :nutrition:OO : :obligated::obligates :obligation:: :,: : :: :: ::,, :: : ::, :: : :: ::obligations :: ::occasion ::occur :occurring :occurs :PP :Pacific ::page : : :: :,,: ::, :: :,: :pages ::paragraph ::,,: : ::, ::, :: :: :Pardon:park : :,:part :,,: :,: ::, :: :,,:,,,: : :particular:: :particularly: :parties :: : ::parts :passive :pay : :: :,,: :paying :: ::offering :office :,:offices :oh : ::Ohio :okay : :: :: : :: : :old :open:opening :opinion:,:opportunity :: :,opposed:opposite :opposition:oral : :,,: : :orange :,:,, :: : ::order: ::,, ::,,,:, :: :: :,: :,:,ordered:orders :: :,: :,:ORJIAKOR:outside :: :overlap: Officialpays :peas :,,,perceived:performing :person :petition: :Petitioner:Petitioners :: : :,: : ::,phone :phrase :physical ::physically :pick : :picked:picking ::::place : :: :: :: : ::plain :please :: :plug : :,: :plugs :plus :point : :,:,, ::, ::,, :: :,,:,, ::, :: :,,:, ::, :: :,,:,,:, :,:, :: :: :,: :: :,,points : :: :,:,policies :policy :: :,: :policy-making:position: :: :: :: ::,possible :posture :,practical :preceding :precisely :: ::prefer:premise ::premised:premises :presented:: :preserve :presumably :presumption: :pretend :prevail :prevent :previous ::price : :::priced:pricing ::, :,primarily :primary :,: :providing :: :proving :provision::provisions :: :prior: :publication:: :: :probably ::problem:: : ::procedural :proceedingproceedings::process :profit : :promulgate:promulgated: :: ::,proper::proposed:protector:prove :provide :,: :,: ::, :,:,,,:, :,: :: : ::, :provided:provides ::publish:published:: :pulled:purpose ::purposes :,: :: :put : :: :,putting :p.m:Qquestion:,: : ::, :: :: :: : :: :,: :questioning :questions ::quite : :RR :radically :raised:rates :,,: : ::, :,: :: :: :,: :: :,:, :: : :read :, :: : :: : ::,reading :: ::real :realistic :really : :: :,: :: :: :: :rear-guard :reason :: :reasonable:, :: : :: :reasonableness::reasonably :reasoning :reasons ::REBUTTAL: :recall :recognize ::recognized:: : :recognizing:record : recover:red: :reference :referral :referring :: ::reg : :regard :: :Regarding :Register::regulated:regulating :regulation:: :,:, :: :,regulations :: : :: : ::, :: :,,:, :: ::regulator::reinstate :reject :rely : ::relying :,remainder:remaining :remand :,:,,: :: :request ::requesting :require : :: :: :,,:, :required:: :: ::requires ::requiring :reserve :resolve :respect ::, :: :: :response ::,responses :restriction:,:result : :review::, :: :: ::,,:, ::rid : :ridiculous ::::repeatedly :replicate :reply :representative:right : :,: :,: :,: : :: :Official:, ::, :: :: :: :: ::,,,: ::risers :ROBERTS ::, :,: ::, :: ::route :routing :: ::,,:, :: ::, :: ::rulemaking: : :: :rules : :: ::,run : ::SS : :satisfaction:saying :: :: :: ::says : : :: :: ::, ::, ::, ::,, :: :,:Scalia : :: :,,:, ::, :: :: :,:,, ::,, ::, :: :,:, :,:, :: :,: : :: :,:, ::,,school :,:,::SCOTT : :second : ::,,: :section :: ::,, :: : ::sections :see : :: :seek : :seeks :select :selected:: :sell : ::selling :,send :sense : :sensible :sent :sentence :sentences ::separate :: :: ::separately :series :service :services :,: : :set :setting :Seventh :shape : :short :,showed:side :sides :significant :similar:simple :simply :: :single :sit : :situation:: ::Sixth:,,: :,,: :,: :scope : ::Respondents :rule : :revision :runs :, Official: :: :: ::,slightly :small : :Solicitor: :somebody :sorry : :::sort : :Sotomayor:: :,:, :: :,: :,,:,,:,, ::, :South:,spacers :speaking :,species :specific :specifically :: : :: :Sprint :square :squares :standard :start :State : ::,,,: ::statement :: :statements:, ::, ::,, ::: : :statute : ::, ::, :: ::, :: :: ::, :: :statutes ::statute's :statutory :: :,: :stopping :strange ::street :structure ::student :students :stuff : :sub :submitted::subsidiary :substantive:sudden:suffice :suggestion :supporting :: :Suppose :supposed:supposedly: :: :Supreme :,sure : :: :States :, :surge :Sutton::switch:,switches :switching :::system::TT :,Taj:take : :: :taken: ::,takes ::,talk : : :: : ::talking : :: :: :,: :: ::talks : :tariff :,technical :::technically ::, ::,, :: ::Tel :,telecommunic...: :telephone :,: :,: : ::tell : :: :telling ::tells : :TELRIC :,: : :: :,: : :: :,: : :: ::, ::,, ::, ::TELRIC's :tens : :term :,: :terminating:termination: :,:terms : :: ::test :,text : ::Thank : :,: :,: :,they'd : :thing : :: :,: :::, :: : ::, :think : :: :: :,: :: :: : ::, :,: : ::, :: :,:, ::,,,: ::,, ::third : :: : ::third-party ::thought ::, :: :: : :thousands :three : :::throw:ties :time : :: :: :: :: ::things : :today : :: :: :,:,,,: : ::, ::,told :,,: :tough:traced: traffic :,,: :,,: : :transmission: : :transmit :transport ::, ::,,:,, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,, :: :,transporting:travel :tried: :Triennial ::, :: ::, :: :,tries :TRO :: :TROs :TRRO :,: :: ::,, :true : :truly :trying : :: ::turn : :twisty :two : : ::, :: : :: :: :: :: :,: ::, ::types :typically :Uunambiguously:unbundled:,: :,,: :,:,,: : :unbundling ::, ::,,: ::undercut :undercuts :underlying :understandunderstood:::undue :unfair:United:, :: :unnecessaryunreasonable::usage :use : :: : :: :: : :: :,:uses :USTA :OfficialU.S :Vv :, ::vacated:vacating :vegetable :vegetables :Verizon:versa : :vice : :view: ::, :: : :Wwait : :wall :want : :: : :: :: :,,wanted:: :wants :,: :Washington::,wasn't ::way : :: :: ::, :: :: :: :: :ways :Wednesday :weight :went : :::weren't :we'll : :,:we're : :: :: :,: : ::,,: :we've :: ::whatsoever:whistles ::, :willing :wipe :wire : ::wireless :: :,:,wires : ::wisdom:wishes :word : ::words :work : ::works :world :wrong : :: :: ::Xx :,,,: :Yyears : ::, ::Zzip : :a :,,- : :- :: : :: : :, : :: : :a : : : :,: : :: :: :, ::, :: :,: : :: :: :,,:,, ::, ::, :a : : :,: :: : ::, :: :, : :(b)() :: (c)() :,: :: : :(c)() ::(d)() :(d)() :a :a :, : : :,,: : ::,,:, :: :,: : ::,,,: : :a :, :,:a : : : : :,,: : : :a : :. ::.(e) :. : :. : :,: :. : :Official : : : :: : : :: : : : : 