Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xMICHAEL MARTEL, WARDEN, : Petitioner : v. : No. -KENNETH CLAIR. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:WARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ., Supervising Deputy Attorney General, Sacramento, California; for Petitioner.SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEWARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFSETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWARD A. CAMPBELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Martel v. Clair. Mr. Campbell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WARD A. CAMPBELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CAMPBELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: For years, Mr. Clair's Federal habeascorpus petition was litigated in the Federal districtcourt in front of the same Federal district court judge.His petition raised challenges to his guilt andpenalty, and the judge oversaw years of discovery,presided over a -day evidentiary hearing, and receivedextensive briefing. When the case was under submission,Mr. Clair sent a letter to the judge expressingdissatisfaction with his team of attorneys from theFederal Public Defender's office and requested that theybe replaced. The judge asked both sides' counsel fortheir position on Clair's complaint. The Federal PublicDefender responded that, after conferring with theirclient, Mr. Clair was willing to continue with them forthat point. Official The court then stated it would take nofurther action. Three months later, just before thecourt was to issue its decision in the case, Claircomplained again. The court issued a written order -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was there some waythat Clair knew that the court was just about to issueits decision? MR. CAMPBELL: I think, Your Honor, the onlyway you could be sure was the fact that at some point,as I understand it, the district court judge hadannounced the day he would be retiring, which would beJune th of . So, there's probably an inferencethere it could be expected that the decision was goingto be coming out by the end of the -- end of June . JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a deadline setfor all submissions, wasn't there? MR. CAMPBELL: There was an initial deadlineset for the filing of the briefing, post-evidentiaryhearing briefing, and there would be no extensions oftime. Subsequently, there was, in fact, anothersubmission by Mr. Clair in May of with someadditional declarations. The court accepted thosedeclarations but made it clear it would accept noadditional submissions in the case unless it ordered Officialotherwise, that it would proceed with the decision. Once upon -- anyway, in June, June th,, Mr. Clair sent a second complaint about hiscounsel again, and the district court issued a writtenorder denying that request, finding that Clair's counselwas doing a proper job and did not appear to have aconflict of interest. The district court had an excellent factualbasis for that conclusion because it had just completedwork on its extensive order denying the petition in Mr.Clair's case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this petition hadsomething new, the report that his investigator hadturned up this evidence. MR. CAMPBELL: That's correct, Your Honor.The -- what Mr. Clair's complaint indicated, there wassome additional physical evidence that had not beenexamined or investigated before. He indicated that theFederal Public Defender actually had met with the OrangeCounty law enforcement about the evidence, and he wasupset that there was no further action being taken bythe Federal Public Defender regarding testing, seekingDNA testing or testing of that evidence. JUSTICE ALITO: There has been someadditional litigation regarding this physical evidence Officialsince this -- the time of the -- the unsuccessfulsubstitution request; hasn't there been? MR. CAMPBELL: That's correct. After -- JUSTICE ALITO: Could you tell us what hashappened with that? MR. CAMPBELL: I'm sorry? JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. Could you tellus what has happened with that litigation? MR. CAMPBELL: The status of thatlitigation: Once the petition was denied, Mr. Clairfiled a notice -- there was a notice of appeal filed bythe Federal Public Defender. Mr. Clair also filed anotice of appeal because of the denial of hissubstitution motion. Those are merged together.Mr. Clair was appointed new counsel. The new counsel then filed Rule -- a Rule --a request to the district court to entertain aRule (b) motion, which the district court denied. TheNinth Circuit ordered that the district court considerthe Rule (b) motion. The district court heard theRule (b) motion and then denied it. Mr. Clair then filed a protective petition,a petition for writ of habeas corpus for a successorpetition, with the Ninth Circuit and has also filed apetition for writ of habeas corpus for the California OfficialSupreme Court. JUSTICE ALITO: That's what I was referringto. MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: And what -- what hashappened there? Was there -- was there testing of thisevidence in connection with that? MR. CAMPBELL: There -- there had been --there has been some testing of the evidence during --during that time by the Orange County law enforcement inregards to its relationship to the crime or itsrelationship to another crime that occurred at thattime, which I think that information is set forth in the-- the appendix to the opposition to the petition forcertiorari. The -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Can youremind me of what the outcome of that testing was? MR. CAMPBELL: The -- the outcome of thetesting is that, to the extent that the testing was doneto see if the -- there was any DNA matching between theother murder that had occurred a couple days before andthe murder of Ms. Rodgers -- let's see if I can say thissuccinctly. The -- there was -- there was no matchingof Mr. Clair's DNA with anything from the murder scene Officialof the Rodgers murder, and there was no matching of anyDNA that was found for the perpetrator of the othermurder at the site of Ms. Rodgers' murder. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, as I read yourbriefs, I think you're making, perhaps, two differentarguments. And I want to focus you in on which oneyou're really concentrating on. MR. CAMPBELL: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is thispresentation seems to be that, regardless of whatstandard we apply to the court of appeals' review ofwhat the district court did in denying the motion tosubstitute counsel, that it was wrong. And I presumethat means it was wrong for the standard you'reproposing and it was wrong for the interests of justicestandard. Am I correct? MR. CAMPBELL: I -- yes, Your Honor. Ithink under any standard that would apply, we think thatthe -- that the Ninth Circuit's disposition isincorrect. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. As I readthe Ninth Circuit decision, assuming an interests ofjustice standard because that's the one they invoked,they said what happened here is that the district courtdidn't hold a hearing to determine itself exactly what Officialthe dispute was about. And so, it was a processfailure, basically is what they're saying. Now, you make assumptions based on mattersthat have come up since that hearing about what thedispute was about, and -- but I still don't know whatthe Federal defender's position was as to whether or notcommunications had broken down with the client to apoint where they thought, as they did on appeal, thatthey couldn't continue. So, tell me why, assuming we accept that aninterests of justice standard applies, the circuit courthas no power or applied it improperly by saying --forget about the remedy -- has no power to say, districtcourt judges, you have to at minimum inquire and setforth your reasons based on the facts of that inquiry. MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. And the reason is, isthat, looking at the record and what was presented tothe Federal district court at the time it received therequest by Mr. Clair in June of , what Mr. Clair'sallegation was, was that he disagreed with theinvestigative, tactical, strategic decisions that werebeing made by the Federal Public Defender. That's --that was the reason that was in Mr. Clair's -- Mr.Clair's allegations. Those premises, even -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But what does that have Officialto do with "I think they're doing a good job"? I mean,it could well be that the judge later decides, after hehears from the Federal defender, I don't think that --we don't think there's anything to be done; hedisagrees. But he really never got an explanation fromthe Federal defenders. MR. CAMPBELL: I'm sorry. I didn't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He never got anexplanation from the Federal defenders. MR. CAMPBELL: Your Honor, it in fact -- itwould be -- it's appropriate -- if the record -- if theallegations of the -- of the Petitioner and the recordbefore the court is sufficient for the court to make thefinding that there is in fact no basis for substitution,it is not necessary for the court to go ahead andconduct an inquiry or a hearing or to initiate otherfurther process in the case. And the allegation herewhich went to the physical evidence in the case from thestandpoint of the evidence in this case and the way thiscase was prosecuted and the evidence of Mr. Clair'sguilt, the fact that there was additional physicalevidence that might be available simply wouldn't havesupported any cognizable claims in the Federal habeascorpus action. There was no need for any furtherinvestigation or inquiry on the part of the court based Officialon what was presented to it at the time. JUSTICE ALITO: What about a -- a possibleBrady claim? Is there a disagreement about whether thisphysical evidence could have been tested at the time andrevealed anything at the time of the trial? MR. CAMPBELL: There I have to -- I think Ihave to take what the Ninth Circuit says in its opinionabout this case, which is what we have here is physicalevidence that could be subject to forensic testing nowthat was not available in . So, the fact that theremight be later -- there might have been developments inforensic techniques since when Mr. Clair's trialoccurred doesn't support any claim of trial error backin . You can't show any prejudice from any -- fromany failure back in because the testing wasn'tavailable to do that they now want to do. JUSTICE ALITO: What about an actualinnocence claim? MR. CAMPBELL: Well, an actual innocenceclaim, I think to begin with, it wouldn't be clear,based on this Court's jurisprudence at the time, that afactual innocence claim would be cognizable in thisFederal habeas corpus proceeding. It would be a -- thisCourt has indicated to the -- has never really actuallyheld that that is a cognizable claim. Even if it -- it Officialdid, it wouldn't be an exhausted -- it would certainlybe an unexhausted claim. California, in fact, doesentertain that type of claim, does provide a Stateavenue for that type of claim. There's plenty of reasons why you would notraise that claim at this point, especially at the end ofthe process in the first Federal habeas corpus petition. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are familiar with(e), aren't you? MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which requires counselto participate in subsequent proceedings. MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Of a certain type andlimited. Is it your position that if there is acomplete breakdown of communications with an attorney,post-habeas decision, that that is inadequate in theinterests of justice or otherwise for a court to saythat could implicate proceedings after , so I shouldsubstitute now? MR. CAMPBELL: Actually, Your Honor, yes, itis. At that point, the defendant has, of course,already gone through the trial, the State appeal, andthe State habeas process, and it's particularly at the OfficialState trial and the State appellate process, of course,the standard for substitution of counsel is thepotential total breakdown of communications,irreconcilable conflict, conflict of interest. By thetime you've gone through the entire process by which youhave gone through the State trial, you've exhausted yourclaims in State court -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, but you're presumingyou're going to win. MR. CAMPBELL: Excuse me? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're presuming you'regoing to win. I think applies to situations inwhich the habeas petitioner wins a remand or otherwisehas something that's going to follow the habeasdecision. MR. CAMPBELL: Well, Your Honor, the -- thepoint is, is that by the time you have reached thatjuncture in which the claims have been raised andlitigated multiple times in multiple forums, that theneed for the type of communication and contact thatoccurs at the trial and State appellate level is not asessential or necessary at that juncture. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose -- supposethe public defender had said to the district court whatit said to the Ninth Circuit, and that is that the Officialattorney-client relationship has broken down to such anextent that substitution would be appropriate, whatwasn't asked, but suppose the public defender had giventhat answer to the district judge. Would the districtjudge still have rightly denied the motion forsubstitution? MR. CAMPBELL: Yes, he would have,especially given that the case at that point wascompletely under submission and simply awaiting fordecision. At that point, we're -- there is, in fact, nomore litigation to be occurring, the -- whatever theproblem with communication is at that point is not goingto in any way adversely affect the -- therepresentation. The case is over. JUSTICE KAGAN: If I understand your answersto some of these questions, you are not at all relyingon the fact that the district court had made thisdecision months earlier. You think that the answerwould be the same had the district court not made aninquiry months earlier; is that correct? MR. CAMPBELL: That -- that is correct. Imean, if -- yes. That -- that is an extra fact in thiscase, but I don't think that's the pivotal fact as faras what the district court could have done as far asexercising its direction -- its discretion in June when Officialit received the complaint from Mr. -- Mr. Clair. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, when is a district courtrequired to engage in some kind of inquiry? MR. CAMPBELL: Well, when the -- when theallegation is made that -- by the petitioner that hehas, in fact, been denied what he is entitled to under, which is the appointment and representation bycounsel qualified under that statute. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I -- I was againassuming, as Justice Sotomayor was, that if we're in aninterest of justice world, if that's the appropriatestandard, when is the district -- when does the districtcourt have to make an inquiry, and what kind of inquirydoes he have to make? MR. CAMPBELL: The inquiry -- the inquirywould occur when an allegation was made that, forwhatever reason, the counsel does not meet thequalifications that are expected to be met, the counselhas an adverse conflict of interest, or counsel hasbasically reached a point where he is no longerrepresenting or acting as an advocate for -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you're -- I thoughtthat that test was an alternative to the interest ofjustice standard. I'm positing that the interest ofjustice standard applies, and you're giving me back Officialthose same three factors. Do you think that that's allthe interest of justice standard is about? MR. CAMPBELL: I think in the context of theFederal habeas corpus action, that is in fact -- inwhich there's a statutory right to counsel -- that is infact the interest -- where the interests of justicestandard would be. The interests of -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, this is sort of amade-up standard. MR. CAMPBELL: No -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you point to onecase in which this standard has been used by anydistrict court or court of appeals? MR. CAMPBELL: No, I cannot, but -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you point to anyinquiry by Congress in which such a test was discussed,considered in any way? MR. CAMPBELL: No, I cannot. But -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where did you get itfrom? MR. CAMPBELL: It's actually analogous tothe way this Court over the years has divided up thejurisprudence regarding the Sixth Amendment right tocounsel and the dividing line between claims ofineffective assistance of counsel and claims of denial Officialof counsel. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, so, what you'resuggesting is in noncapital cases, which are lessserious, you're going to have a higher bar for a rightthat the statute gives a judge without any limitation.The capital limitation is that the judge on its ownmotion or a motion by defendant can substitute. MR. CAMPBELL: No, we're not in the contextof a noncapital habeas. There's never -- there hasnever been any construction, certainly by this Court, ofwhat "interests of justice" means in the context ofsubstitution of counsel, of a statutory counsel, in thecontext of either capital or noncapital habeas. Andwhether it's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how about a standardthat the courts are used to and one that has a basis inCongress's choice, like interests of justice? MR. CAMPBELL: Well, actually, Your Honor, Ithink -- I think that we have in fact, to the extent weare analogizing to what this Court has long done as faras dividing questions of Sixth Amendment claims betweenineffective assistance of counsel and denial ofcounsel -- we're in fact submitting a concept that isactually very familiar to this Court and very similar towhat this Court deals with in many Sixth Amendment Officialclaims. We're simply looking at it in the contextnow of the fact that you've been given, or entitled, astatutory entitlement to be represented by counsel. Youare entitled to protect that right to the extent tovindicate that particular right, which is to beappointed that counsel. If you're denied that right,then you, in fact, have a legitimate reason to ask fornew counsel, for new counsel to be appointed. Theinterests of justice standard doesn't have a fixedmeaning, really, in any context. JUSTICE BREYER: If it doesn't have a fixedmeaning. I mean, wouldn't you think -- I suspect theanswer is you do think that -- a district judge has alot of power in many, many areas, and in one of thoseareas, some district judge sometime could make ahorrendous mistake that really wrecks a case, and insuch a matter, the court of appeals, if it sees a reallyhorrendous error, will probably have the authority tosay you went beyond whatever standard applies, at leasthere, at least -- okay, we agree on that one. So, they use some words, "effectiveness,"whatever the words are, "interest of justice," just toreflect that fact. I mean, that's what I think whathappened. Then your complaint is he didn't abuse his -- Officialhe didn't really abuse anything; he made a gooddecision, the district judge. Isn't that what thatcomes down to? MR. CAMPBELL: That is certainly an aspectof the complaint, But the -- to us what's veryimportant -- JUSTICE BREYER: What's important? MR. CAMPBELL: What is important here isthat the premise of the Ninth Circuit's opinion is thatit would be an acceptable motion for substitution forthe -- for Mr. Clair to complain or allege disagreementswith his counsel about -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, what'sbothering you is the way they applied it. MR. CAMPBELL: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: And they applied it incircumstances that you think -- the district judge wasactually -- his decision was fine. You don't have thepower to set that aside because it was within -- it'swithin the scope of any kind of standard you want tocall it, including calling it "interests of justice."Am I right in thinking that, that that's really yourconcern? MR. CAMPBELL: Yes, our concern, Your Honor,is that the premise of the Ninth Circuit's opinion is -- Officialgoes to what the appropriate standard, what theappropriate level of complaint, whatever you want tocall it -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, what youreally want us to do is to look at the record of thecase, go through it, and say, here, whatever wordsyou're going to use, the district court acted within hisdiscretion in saying don't change the counsel. Is thatwhat you -- is that what I'm supposed to do? I'm tryingto get at what you want me to do. MR. CAMPBELL: That -- yes, that is -- yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, you don't want that.You don't want to stay whatever words you use. JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You want us to say thewords to be used are the words that we use in decidingwhether you have been accorded your constitutional rightto counsel, right? MR. CAMPBELL: That's -- that's correct,Your Honor. I think the confusion here -- JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't mean literally"whatever words you use." MR. CAMPBELL: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm trying to figure outwhat you want me to do. One is to go back and search Officialall the cases that use some words for a standard, which,as you can tell, I'm reluctant to think that that'smeaningful in this case. The other is to look at the record to see ifhe acted within what you would normally think of as thedistrict court's discretionary authority. MR. CAMPBELL: I think the confusion here iscaused by the fact that the Ninth Circuit opinionstarted out by borrowing the phrase "interests ofjustice" and inserting it into a section where it is --where it was not inserted, and it would appear to be adeliberate act of Congress to do that, and then it gaveit a meaning which we think under any circumstanceswould be inappropriate in this context. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose you don'tthink that the standard of review is abuse ofdiscretion, because if you do, then I suppose you'reassuming that the district court has discretion whetherto grant the motion or not instead of being confined bya particular standard. MR. CAMPBELL: Well, abuse of discretion --if the Court is wrong as a matter of law, of course, itautomatically -- I mean, that is an abuse of discretion. And our -- our feeling here about the NinthCircuit's opinion is that the way it has defined what Officialwould be appropriate in terms of a motion for asubstitution and what would trigger an inquiry by thejudge -- you know, as a matter of law the Ninth Circuitwas wrong in this case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but abuse ofdiscretion doesn't mean that the judge operates in avacuum. If we make -- issue an opinion and say, oh,well, that the standard is an abuse of discretion, thatdoesn't tell people too much. Abuse of discretion basedon what standards, what inquiries? And that's -- andI'd like to know what your position is on that, becauseit seems to me that, at the end of the day, it's goingto be something very close to interests of justice. MR. CAMPBELL: Well, Your Honor, that's --and I suppose the substance -- if we want to call it aninterests of justice standard, the substance of it wouldbe that it would not be -- substitution would not be --it would not be appropriate to move for substitution onthe basis of disagreements with counsel about tacticalor investigative decisions, such as what Mr. Clair didhere. The appropriate standard is whether or not therehas been an actual denial of counsel as provided undersection . JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can I give youan example? Beginning of the litigation, all right? OfficialCapital counsel is appointed. Capital counsel wants toraise challenges to the conviction and sentence, anddefendant says: I don't -- I want to die. Is adistrict court entitled to substitute that counsel underyour theory? Because you said to me it has to becounsel that's -- that counsel that has abandoned theclient. Counsel doesn't want to abandon the client;counsel wants to prosecute the case. There's noconflict of interest. Counsel's not representinganybody else. And what was your third criteria? MR. CAMPBELL: Qualifications, just thebasic standard of qualification. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, this is -- youknow, this is Seth Waxman sitting right next to you. (Laughter.) MR. CAMPBELL: He's undoubtedly qualified,Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I suspect that'sthe case. MR. CAMPBELL: Otherwise he wouldn't havethe appointment. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, beginning of thecase, first decision, and defendant comes in and sayssubstitute my attorney. What would be your argumentunder your test? Official MR. CAMPBELL: There are several responsesto that. At one level, the client would -- always has a-- and I think always has basic -- basic decisionmakingauthority over basic decisions, whether or not apetition should be filed or not filed, this type ofthing. So, a failure of an attorney to abide by thatparticular instruction would in fact be a failure to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, there are somedecisions that -- that the client controls? MR. CAMPBELL: There have always been somebasic decisions a client makes in any -- in any case.But it's not -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not abandonment.That's an error. That's a problem. But it's notabandonment under your definition. MR. CAMPBELL: It is in fact the failure ofthe lawyer to truly act as an agent for the client atthat point. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if I tell myattorney follow these leads, that's a failure of anagent as well. MR. CAMPBELL: It's -- it's -- actually,though, that is in fact normally always considered to bean area that's within the domain of the attorney. Thosetypes of investigative tactical decisions have always Officialbeen the decisions that attorneys have normally made fortheir clients and not necessarily under the control oftheir clients. But let me tell you about the volunteersituation, as a practical matter. The volunteersituation is a whole -- almost a whole separate categoryof litigation from the kind of litigation we're talkingabout. And what normally happens in those cases iscounsel is not substituted; usually, frequently, asecond counsel is brought in to deal with representingthe client on those particular issues, and the firstcounsel remains. So, that's become -- JUSTICE SCALIA: A volunteer issue? Whatare you talking about? I'm -- MR. CAMPBELL: A volunteer issue is whensomeone says: I do not want to pursue my remedies; Iwant to simply be executed. In the practice, we callthat a volunteer. JUSTICE SCALIA: You call that avolunteer -- MR CAMPBELL: We call that a volunteer. JUSTICE SCALIA: Volunteer. Volunteering tobe executed? MR. CAMPBELL: That's -- that's the normalterm of art. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Given my example, isn'tit the case that, under the interests of justicestandard, there will be situations in which asubstitution like the one I just posited would be rightthat wouldn't be right under your standard? MR. CAMPBELL: Your Honor, I think thatactually our standard would cover what is appropriatefor protecting the defendant's statutory right tocounsel and that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you suggesting that,for noncapital defendants, Congress chose to give themmore rather than less? MR. CAMPBELL: No, not -- not at all. Idon't think -- I don't think noncapital or capitalhabeas petitioners have any greater -- have any greaterright to the assistance of counsel. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're sayingcapital have lesser rights. MR. CAMPBELL: I think -- my guess -- Idon't think -- I don't think this Court has ever drawn acategorical difference between them in terms of whatrights are available to them for purposes ofrepresentation by counsel. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't delay one of thefactors that courts routinely look at under the Officialinterests of justice standard? MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. And I -- you know, once-- any motion for substitution, no matter what standardyou use, should be -- should be made promptly. Soshould -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, we go back toJustice Breyer's point that, even under the interests ofjustice standard, you're claiming there was an error? MR. CAMPBELL: Absolutely. Oh, yes. Yes.We would submit even under that standard it would be anerror. Your Honor, unless there's any morequestions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The court of appeals held that it was anabuse of discretion to deny substitution without makingany inquiry, even of counsel, into the specificsituation alleged by Mr. Clair. The court did not holdthat Mr. Clair was entitled to substitute counsel. Itdid not hold that he was entitled to amend his petition. OfficialIt did not hold that substitute counsel was evenrequired or advised to seek -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Is inquiry always -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, what if lastweek we get notice from Mr. Clair that he isdissatisfied with his Supreme Court counsel, thatcommunication has broken down, that you plan to argueparticular -- present particular arguments, and hedoesn't want you to do that. Do we have an obligationto conduct an inquiry into his complaint? MR. WAXMAN: I think if you have anyobligation whatsoever -- and I want to make clear thatthere -- these kinds of letters and requests forlast-minute substitutions happen all the time, and inthe mine run, there may not be any duty of independentinquiry. If you had one, it would simply be to do whatthe court did in March, which is to inquire of the twocounsel in the case, is there anything to this, and thenrule. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. He says -- hesays: I've turned up new evidence, or I think this is agreat argument, and my counsel has told me he is notgoing to raise it, and I want new counsel who will raisethis argument. Official Will we have to say -- look at it and say,well, we have to figure out is that a good argument; isit better than the ones counsel are going to raise? MR. WAXMAN: No -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Has communicationbroken down. MR. WAXMAN: No, of course not. In thissituation, the Court had pending before it a firstpetition for habeas corpus that alleged both ineffectiveassistance of counsel at trial and specific Bradyviolations. And, by the way, in answer to your firstquestion, the district judge announced that he wasretiring on June th, effective the th. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I want to -- MR. WAXMAN: So, this was beforehand. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I want to ask youabout that. You mention that no fewer than six times inyour brief. What is your point, that the judge alteredhis disposition of a legal matter before him for hispersonal convenience? MR. WAXMAN: No. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then what's thesignificance of the fact that he was going to retire? MR. WAXMAN: The -- the significance of thefact that he -- he hadn't announced that he was going to Officialretire. The significance of the fact that he did retireis only to my mind an explanation for why he failed toconduct the minimal inquiry -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you aresaying -- MR. WAXMAN: -- that he had previously -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you are sayinghe violated his judicial oath for his own personalconvenience, that he failed to do something that you sayhe should have done, because he was retiring? MR. WAXMAN: I'm not -- he -- the errorwould have been the same if he had stayed on the benchfor another years. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, why do you saysix times in your brief that the judge was retiring thenext day or retired the next day? MR. WAXMAN: Because -- it goes to theircomplaints with the remedy in the case. That is,they're faulting that the remedy is not go back and askthis judge to decide whether substitution wasappropriate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There was anotherjudge. MR. WAXMAN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There is another Officialjudge. She's available. I have to say it strikes me,frankly, as argument by innuendo that I think is veryunjustified. MR. WAXMAN: Well, I -- I apologize if itgave that impression. I don't mean any innuendo in thecase. Our proposition is simply this: Prior toadjudicating the claims of ineffective assistance ofcounsel and Brady, when the court receives a letter thatsays, Your Honor, I'm sorry for writing a second time.As you know, I have always maintained that I'm innocent.My investigator has just discovered physical evidence inthe State's files that he believes may clear me. Mycounsel -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, what -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm still trying toget to the point -- I'm sorry. I'm still trying to getto the point of the relevance of the fact that he wasretiring. MR. WAXMAN: It goes to the remedy, and itgoes to the fact he -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does it go --how does it go to the remedy? MR. WAXMAN: It -- they are alleging thatthere was an abuse of discretion not to send it back tothe judge to do what he had declined to do. And our Officialproposition is, because substitute counsel had been inplace for years and because the judge who hadsuperintended the case for years was no longer there,it was appropriate and within the court of appeals'discretion under U.S.C. to remand it to the newjudge, with new counsel, for -- to allow new counselsimply to ask the new judge, who had not heard all ofthe witnesses or the evidence, to demonstrate why, ifcounsel thought it was appropriate, to allow him toamend the petition under Rule (a)(). JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that would be prettyincredible. Maybe that's what's required. Why isn'tthis is a fair reading of what Judge Taylor did? As ofApril th, as I recall, there was not a problem withthe representation. And the decision was made onJune the th. Now, on June the th, that's the timewhen Clair sent his letter. By this point, the petition had been pendingfor a long time before the judge. The judge presumablywas approaching the point where he was going to issuehis decision. He saw the letter. He could not see anyway in which the matters that were discussed in theletters could lead to a claim that would go anywhere.As to the physical evidence, if it couldn't have been Officialtested at the time of trial, there would not have been aBrady obligation, and an actual innocence claim herewould be quite far-fetched in light of the veryincriminating statements that -- that Mr. Clair made inthe tape-recorded conversation. Had he substituted counsel, he would nothave been under an obligation, I think, to allowsubstituted counsel to amend the petition, which hadbeen pending for a long period of time. So, he said:Counsel is doing a proper job; there doesn't appear tobe a conflict of interest; and I'm going to deny this. Now, counsel could have been appointed and,in fact, was appointed to represent Mr. Clair goingforward. Why isn't that a fair reading of what he did?And if so, what need was there for further inquiry? MR. WAXMAN: Well, this -- it may very wellbe what was in his thought processes, but we don't knowthat. And, in any event -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we know what was inhis thought processes, Mr. Waxman, because days laterhe issued a - or -page opinion with -- dealing with different claims, many of which, many of which,related to actual innocence, which was the -- thegravamen of the letter of the complaint on the th.So, you -- you can't consider the letter just in Officialisolation from the -page opinion that's issued dayslater. MR. WAXMAN: Oh, I -- I think that the --that a district judge faced with a request to substitutecounsel at this very late stage is appropriately --appropriately takes into account everything that hashappened, everything that he has allowed to happen,everything that defense counsel has -- has done. And heis obviously permitted to approach this request with ahigh degree of skepticism and a strong -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And you suggest, Mr. Waxman,that he did not have to make an inquiry in every case;is that right? You're not saying that. MR. WAXMAN: That's right. I mean -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, what -- when does aperson have to make an inquiry? MR. WAXMAN: Well, of course -- JUSTICE KAGAN: What in this case requiredan inquiry on the judge's part? MR. WAXMAN: I think, you know, if thedistrict judge is presented with factually supportedallegations that appointed counsel has failed to pursuenewly discovered evidence that may be germane to anissue to be decided, especially where the potentialimport of that evidence is specifically explicated and Officialcorroborated by a willing percipient witness, in thiscase the investigator who viewed it, the district judgehas an obligation simply to ask counsel for the Stateand counsel for the defense, please respond, as thejudge did in June -- in March. Now, in March, the judge -- the judge askedfor a response -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess this goes backto Justice Alito's question, but suppose the judge saysto himself, even if the response comes in, yes,relations are terrible because the client wants thelawyers to -- to investigate a particular thing and thelawyers don't want to investigate that thing. The judgeknows it doesn't make a difference either way, becausehe is ready to issue his opinion, and furtherinvestigation of this evidence is not going to changehis mind as to any material issue. Why should the judgenot reject the motion? MR. WAXMAN: Well, because the judge couldnot know that based on the allegations in the Fordletter and the Clair letter. It is not the case, going to Justice Alito'spoint from my question to my friend, that what wasrepresented in that letter, the new physical evidencerelated only to DNA testing. There was a specific Officialallegation that there were fingerprints located at thescene of the crime that previously had been representedto the trial court and to defense counsel either to beunusable or on materials that had gone through the U.S.mail so that the probative value would be limited. Andboth of those things were untrue. And Mr. Ford said to the judge: I'mprepared to explain to you exactly what those printsare, and they have not been tested against anyone,including the other people who were suspected of theidentical type murder the night before in the same areaor other potential suspects in this case like Mr.Henriksen. JUSTICE BREYER: The Ninth Circuit -- Isee -- I think I see what they were trying to get at.They want -- they don't see anything practical here todo except to try to get the judge, the district judge,to focus on the question of whether the petition shouldbe amended to assert this kind of claim about the newphysical evidence; is that right? MR. WAXMAN: Yes. They were -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's where they're tryingto go. Okay. Now, suppose you lose this case. Supposeyou -- they were to say -- suppose this Court said,well, to tell you the truth, that district judge was Officialoperating within his authority in saying that thiscounsel can continue to represent him. But we knowsubsequently relations broke down, and now there is anew counsel. All right? Can't the new counsel go back to thedistrict court and say, Judge, we'd like to amend thepetition so that you will consider, you know, whether itshould be amended to include this physical evidenceclaim? Couldn't he do that? MR. WAXMAN: He can't ask to -- to amend apetition in a case in which there's a final judgment.He could file a -- he could file a Rule (b) motion,which he did in this case -- JUSTICE BREYER: And what did -- MR. WAXMAN: -- and face the very -- JUSTICE BREYER: And the judge -- I thinkyou answered this, but I can't remember the answer.What happened when he filed the (b)? Did they amendthe petition or did they consider the thing or not? MR. WAXMAN: No. While the appeal waspending, so that he wouldn't be accused of having simplysat on his rights while the Ninth Circuit was deciding,he filed a Rule -- he filed for leave to file a Rule(b) motion and said in essence: Look, theinvestigator has discovered this new evidence. I Officialhaven't been able to test it or examine it. Please giveme leave to do that, because I believe it may supportreopening the judgment. The district judge said: I'm not going toallow you to make that motion. The Ninth Circuit issued a mandamusdirecting the district judge to rule on the motion. Shethen denied it, essentially finding that the motionshould be denied because Mr. Grele, substitute counsel,hadn't already proven to her what it is that he wasseeking to find out; that is, what does this evidenceshow. And -- JUSTICE BREYER: So, there's no -- in otherwords, what the Ninth Circuit in my view is trying to dois they've worked out some complicated way of trying toget the district court to consider the motion about thenew physical evidence. MR. WAXMAN: Yes, I -- JUSTICE BREYER: And if that -- if that'sright, then unless you -- there's no way to get there.I don't see how you get there under the law. And so,that's my -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. -- JUSTICE BREYER: But what do you think? I'djust like to know what he's -- Official MR. WAXMAN: I have an answer to yourquestion, but, of course, I'll defer to any supersedingquestions from -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It has to go with thescope of the remedy that they did. MR. WAXMAN: Uh-huh. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming, as I do andyou just said, that what the Ninth Circuit said isthere's -- he should have gotten a reason, anexplanation, but now there's a new attorney anyway, so,what do we do, isn't the normal thing to do just toremand it, to let the district court decide what stepsit wants to take, including to decide whether or not itwould have granted the motion for substitution if it hadheard the explanation? MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning, there was a newjudge, but that doesn't -- a new judge is never stoppedfrom considering -- MR. WAXMAN: No, of course -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what has happened ina case and to decide whether under the facts as theyexisted at the time -- MR. WAXMAN: Of course not. I mean, eventhe State acknowledges that asking the judge whether or Officialnot there should be substitution when there has beensubstituted counsel since the appeal was taken is, asthey call it, an academic exercise. But, technically,the judge -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's not academic.It wasn't academic for the judge below, the new judge -- MR. WAXMAN: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- to say what happenedback then; I don't believe the motion was timely; Idon't believe that you were foreclosed from doing otherthings; motion to substitute would have been denied -- MR. WAXMAN: Right. I guess -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- end of case. MR. WAXMAN: I guess -- I'm not sure there'sa huge difference between that and what the NinthCircuit did or what I understand the Ninth Circuit to bedoing, which was to issue an order -- basically say thesubstitution motion had to be decided within the broaddiscretion that the law allows before entry of judgment.I'm going -- we're going to do as best we can to put Mr.Clair back in that position. It seems to us that sincehe -- since counsel said, represented, as soon as it wasasked after his letter, there's an irreconcilablebreakdown and substitution is advised -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I -- Official MR. WAXMAN: -- he has counsel and -- I'msorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. I'm trying tohelp you. I understood you to say you had an answer toJustice Breyer's question. MR. WAXMAN: Yes, I do have an answer toJustice Breyer's question, if I can just -- thank you.If I can just finish answering -- I apologize for mylengthy answers. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you finishyour answer to Justice Sotomayor and then go back toJustice Breyer? MR. WAXMAN: Thank you. In essence what has happened -- what Iunderstand the court of appeals to have decided is tosay, look, because we have had substitute counsel for years and the FPD has said it couldn't continue, we'reallowing this to go back and let substitute counselconvince the judge, if it can, if it chooses to, whetheror not to exercise its considerable discretion inallowing leave to amend the petition before judgment.The judge may very well say no, and the case is thenback before us. But it might say yes. In other words,to do what in essence is the prejudice or materialityinquiry that Judge Taylor would have engaged in if he Officialfound that there was a breakdown. I mean, if there's a breakdown and the judgesays the only new evidence is that the moon was in thefifth house and that doesn't depend on anything, I'mdenying -- or it was a new moon, I'm denying this. Justice Breyer, I -- I agree with you thatthe Ninth Circuit was struggling to figure out a way tomost efficiently resolve the multiple appeals that werepending in front of them. And they understood from theRule (b) appeal that was also pending and from theappeal on the denial of substitution that there was thisnewly discovered evidence in the State's files, that theinvestigator who looked at it thought that it was reallyimportant; and they had no record about what it was orwhether it should have been considered. Now, they could have said, well, we're goingto direct the Rule (b) judge to grant leave to examinethe physical evidence and analyze it. And it was anabuse of discretion of the Rule (b) judge not to allowMr. Clair at least to make some showing. JUSTICE ALITO: But suppose the -- MR. WAXMAN: But the more straightforwardway would have been to say you didn't inquire ofcounsel; counsel may have had a very good reason for notpursuing this; but in the face of a specific allegation Officialby a willing, percipient witness that there is highlymaterial evidence in the State's files and the publicdefender is refusing to do anything about it, all wethink the Ninth Circuit was holding is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- Mr.Waxman -- MR. WAXMAN: -- it was an abuse ofdiscretion not to ask. I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought -- I mean, thisis a case that has been going on for, what, years inthe district court? MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I thought that thebasic disagreement between the client and counsel wascounsel said our best shot is going to be to keep youalive; so, we want to do everything we can to change thedeath sentence, and then -- and we don't want to detractfrom that by making a claim of actual innocence whenthere's -- there'd be a very slim basis for that. So,that's the judgment, and it's a strategic judgment thatcounsel made: Our best shot to keep this man alive isto concentrate on the penalty phase. MR. WAXMAN: Justice Ginsburg, if thathad -- if the judge had inquired of counsel and counsel Officialhad given that reason, that would be something that thecourt could evaluate in deciding whether the balancingtest that is required by the interests of justicestandard satisfied his inquiry. But we don't haveany -- I doubt very much that that is what counsel wouldhave said. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if -- theinterests of justice, does that include the availableresources of the Federal Public Defender? I mean, thoseoffices are notoriously understaffed. And here you havea situation where one lawyer has been representing anindividual for an awful long time, and the defendantsays, I want a new lawyer. It's obviously going to takethat -- a new lawyer away from their work and put themin a position of having to get up to speed in a newcase. And I just wonder if that's part of this --I won't call "interests of justice" a standard -- it'san aspiration. But does that go into the calculus? MR. WAXMAN: I would think that that -- notonly that goes into the calculus, but all of the, Iwould say, well-articulated doctrines that Congress andthis Court have applied essentially establishingpresumptions against reopening long-litigated matters,whether -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that gets tomy -- MR. WAXMAN: All of those things go into theinterests of justice balancing. There's no doubt aboutit. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the -- is theperson in a different position with the new counsel thanhe would have been with the old concerning the standardsabout reopening things? In other words, do we say,well, what would the old counsel have been able to dowith respect to reopening, and say, well, that's all thenew counsel can do? In other words, new counsel doesn'tallow you to circumvent the various -- MR. WAXMAN: Of course. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- restrictions youjust talked about. MR. WAXMAN: Of course not. The only pointis what -- what Clair was basically saying is: Myinvestigator has just found evidence that he believes ishighly exculpatory, physical evidence in the State'sfiles that was previously represented not to exist. Mycounsel is refusing to do anything about it. Pleasegive me somebody, whether it's -- have my counsel do itor some new counsel, to present this to the judge, justso the judge can decide -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And one of thethings -- MR. WAXMAN: -- in evaluating these -- theBrady and the ineffective assistance claim, and if thisis as represented, it could be highly material to thoseclaims. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And one of thethings I think the district court would do in thatsituation with the same counsel is say, look, this was atactical strategic decision of the lawyer; you don't getto reopen something because of that. Now, does thatsame consideration apply with respect to the substitutedcounsel, or does the substituted counsel allow thedefendant to get a leg up on the process and make newarguments that the old counsel couldn't make? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think that in a -- ifsubstitute counsel -- if there is a remand in this caseand substitute counsel makes a Rule motion, the courtwill evaluate that under the broad interests of justicestandard. I mean, whoever the counsel is has to acquithis or her professional obligations. It may very well have been,Mr. Chief Justice, that if Judge Taylor had said, look,I -- please, you know, write to me in days or let'shave a status conference and explain to me what's going Officialon; I understand you went to see this evidence; whyaren't you -- is it true that you're not pursuing it;and if so, why not -- that would have completelyacquitted the judge's responsibility. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Waxman, the Statecontends that the interest of justice standard is notthe right one. Why do you contend that it is? Itdoesn't appear in -- in , even though it did appearin -- in the previous provision that used to cover thesecases, which is A(c). You want to carry it overfrom A(c) to . That seems to me a littlestrange when they seemingly intentionally omitted it. MR. WAXMAN: Well, I don't think it'sstrange, Justice Scalia, and let me explain at least myown reaction to this. , the mandatory appointmentrequirement, was cleaved from what is now , thediscretionary appointment, where Congress said in theControlled Substances Act, look, in death cases, attrial and in habeas, we're not -- we don't want to leaveit to the court's or the magistrate's discretion whetheror not to appoint. We are appointing. And when it did so -- I mean, it is inessence a -- a progeny -- I mean, it is -- it is acleaving of what was a discretionary obligation.Congress -- Congress had no need in to reiterate Officialthe language in A(c), which itself is not limited toappointments under A(c). I'm reading from page of the petitionappendix. The statute says -- I'm sorry. It's page .That the interests of justice standard says this -- andI'm -- it's the last sentence on page a. "The UnitedStates magistrate judge or the court may, in theinterests of justice, substitute one appointed counselfor another at any stage of the proceedings." Itdoesn't say "counsel appointed under the discretionaryauthority of ." It, like the rest of subsection (c) of whichit is a part, is a general rule for duration andsubstitution of appointments. So, even if it were nottrue that the sentence itself applied a force, it's, Ithink, only consistent with what Congress's manifestintention in enacting -- what became (e) to permitthat when substitution is requested, that motion beadjudicated in light of the interests of justice. And, indeed, that's what the State toldJudge Taylor the standard was in this very case. Imean, look at it this way, Justice Scalia: Imagine thata district court -- I realize that the cases will be fewand far between, very few and very far between, where ata late stage of the proceedings, the court will Officialinterject substitution of counsel over the State'sopposition and over the court's understandable desire toserve the public interest in efficiently and fairlyadjudicating motions. But in the rare case where the districtjudge says, gee, I think the public interest -- I thinkthat the interests of justice really would supportputting somebody else in here, but I can't because itdoesn't fit within one of the three boxes of the teststhat the State ex nihilo has announced in its meritsbrief in this Court -- it's just impossible to imaginethat Congress would have wanted a judge to say, gee,this is one of these one in a million cases where theinterests of justice really requires it, but I can't doit. JUSTICE ALITO: But the interests of justiceis such an open-ended test. If that is the test,doesn't it follow that it will only be in the rarest ofcases that a district judge will have been found -- willbe found to have abused his or her discretion in denyinga substitution request? Why does that very broad standard help youhere? MR. WAXMAN: I mean, we don't -- we're notreally arguing about the standard one way or the other. OfficialThe point -- the only real question in this case iswhether whatever the standard is -- and we think it hasto be something like interests of justice -- a judge inthis particular situation with respect to thisparticular set of circumstances, there is -- and myinvestigator, a willing percipient witness, has gone tothe police station and found evidence that he believesmay well clear me -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how does thefingerprint -- MR. WAXMAN: -- it requires at a minimumthat the judge say -- JUSTICE ALITO: I know you think thereshould be inquiry. MR. WAXMAN: I'm sorry. JUSTICE ALITO: But before your time runsout, how would the -- how would the fact that there werefingerprints at the scene that do not match anybody whowas known to be in that house have provided evidencefor -- provided the basis for any claim that could haveestablished Mr. Clair's innocence at this late -- atthis late date, in the face of the other evidence thatwas present in this case, the recorded statements? MR. WAXMAN: Well, first of all, the otherevidence in this -- the case against Mr. Clair in Officialessence was the wired statement that he made. And eventhe trial judge in this case said only of that equivocalstatement that it was, quote, "capable of being regardedas an admission." Now, we don't disagree with that.We're not -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Does your argument depend ona notion that the evidence against the defendant wasweak? In other words, if there were a great deal ofevidence against the defendant, would you be making thesame argument, that the judge still had a duty toinquire? Or are you asking us essentially to make adetermination that this was an iffy case to begin with? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I think the answer -- Iknow how frustrating this is, but I think the answer isto both -- is yes to both scenarios, particularlybecause there was no physical evidence linking him, andreally the State's case boiled down to this prettyconfusing statement. It was particularly salient to saywait a minute. I mean, the -- the district judge had noidea that there was any dispute about physical evidence,or any physical evidence was in the State's files thathadn't been disclosed and hadn't been tested. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose defensecounsel had introduced at trial fingerprint evidenceshowing that people were present at some point in Officialthat house and they weren't people who lived there.That's -- it's weak exculpatory evidence for thedefendant at best that there were -- there were unknownpeople in the house. It might have been the cable guy.Who knows who they were? So, it doesn't help very much. MR. WAXMAN: Justice Alito, I mean, we're,of course, all arguing in a vacuum here because we don'tknow what the fingerprint evidence, if it were testedand run against databases, would show. But let me give you one not at allfar-fetched example: The State had -- the countycoroner had determined that because of the extraordinarysimilarity between the murder of a woman in theneighborhood -- very close by the night before and thisone, including the very peculiar puncture injuries, thecoroner's report in the State's file said this is verylikely the same perpetrator. The State has identified the perpetrator ofthat other crime. And we don't know whether even atthis day the State has matched that perpetrator'sfingerprints with the fingerprints that were discoverednext to the victim in this case. And it wouldn't befar-fetched to say that in a case involving eitherBrady -- may I finish? It will just be this sentence.Brady or ineffective assistance of counsel, if the Officialfingerprint evidence did link up in that way, itcertainly would go into the habeas judge's evaluation ofthe merits of those claims. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Campbell, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WARD A. CAMPBELL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell us whetherthat testing has been done or not? MR. CAMPBELL: No, I don't believe thattesting has been done. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. No, youdon't think it has been? MR. CAMPBELL: No, I don't. I don't. Thetesting has not been done. The only testing I'm awareof is the testing that's discussed in the appendix. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the appendix. MR. CAMPBELL: Yes. Which excluded Mr. Goh,who apparently was the perpetrator of the -- of theother murder, from having any DNA at the scene of theRodgers murder. And Mr. Goh is dead now. So -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Then youranswer is yes, Mr. Goh's prints don't match the printsfound in the file. MR. CAMPBELL: Let me -- I am not aware -- Officialthe answer is I am not -- there has been no testcomparison of the fingerprints of Mr. Goh, to my -- tomy knowledge, in with the -- what was found at theRodgers murder. The only testing that we have is thetesting that is in the appendix to the opposition tocert regarding the DNA comparisons that were done. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't worry yourprosecutor's office? MR. CAMPBELL: I think that the problem thatthe -- from the standpoint of the prosecutor's office,the -- nothing that could be found about this case wouldundercut the fact that Mr. Clair -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If -- if thefingerprints that were found at the scene of this crimematched Goh, that wouldn't give you pause? MR. CAMPBELL: It would -- it wouldcertainly be a -- it would certainly -- I think it wouldgive them pause. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What? MR. CAMPBELL: I think -- I think it wouldgive them pause, but the fact is the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why hasn't the testbeen done? MR. CAMPBELL: I don't know why the testinghas not been done. But whatever the testing would be, Officialthe fact is Mr. Clair made numerous admissions andnumerous statements implicating himself in the murder ofLinda -- of Ms. Rodgers during the taped conversation hehad with Ms. Flores, which also corroboratedMs. Flores's testimony about his involvement in thatmurder. And that is the critical -- the criticalevidence in this case. Now, the California SupremeCourt, which has had this information in front of it,has also, in fact, denied already a petition based onthe available evidence about the murders. I think also if you look -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't think it'san iffy case? MR. CAMPBELL: No, not based on that tapedstatement. The taped statements are filled with implied-- implied admissions about what he did with thejewelry, about trying to evade her questions about thecase, to do anything to try to avoid having to reallyconfront himself directly with involvement in the case.It's a -- it really is a very damning -- damning tape,but it -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's all -- it's allthat, what -- what he told his girlfriend, right?There's nothing else. It's only that? MR. CAMPBELL: Well, I think the point of it Officialis that the tape -- she testified, and the tapecorroborates her testimony. So, in fact, what you haveis you -- you have mutual reinforcement. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aabandon :abandoned :abandonment:,abide :able : :above-entitled: :Absolutely :abuse :: :,: :,,: :: :abused :academic :,:accept : :acceptable:accepted :accorded :account :accused :acknowledges:acquit :acquitted :act : ::acted : :acting :action : :: :actual :,: :,:additional :: :,:adjudicated:adjudicating: :admission :admissions :OfficialOfficialapply :,::appoint :appointed ::, ::, ::,appointing:appointment: ::,appointments:,approach :approaching:appropriate: :: :,:,,: ::,appropriately:,April :area : :areas :,argue :arguing ::argument ::,, :,: ::, :: :,:arguments :: :art :aside :asked : :: :asking ::aspect :aspiration :assert :assistance :: :: :: :assuming :: :: :assumptions :attorney :: ::,,:attorneys :attorney-client::authority :: : ::automatically:available ::, :: ::avenue :avoid :awaiting :aware :,awful :a.m : ::Bback :,: :: :: :: :,:,,balancing ::bar :based :,: ::adverse :adversely :advised ::advocate :affect :agent :,agree : :ahead :Alito : :,:, :,: :: :,: ::Alito's :,alive :,allegation :: :,: :allegations :: ::allege :alleged ::alleging :allow :,: :: ::allowed :allowing ::allows :altered :alternative:amend :: ::,,:amended ::analogizing:analogous :analyze :announced ::, :answer :,: :: ::,,:, ::answered :answering :answers ::anybody :anyway :::apologize ::apparently:appeal :,: :: ::,appeals :: :: :: :appear :: ::,APPEARAN...appellate :::appendix :: :,:applied ::, ::Amendment: :,applies :: : Official: ::,basic : ::,,:basically :: ::basis : :: :: :beginning ::behalf :,,: : :believe ::, :believes :: :bench :best : :: :better :beyond :boiled :borrowing :bothering :boxes :Brady :: :: ::,breakdown: :: :,Breyer ::,,:,,,:, :: :,: ::Breyer's ::,brief :: :briefing ::,briefs :broad :: :broke :broken : :: :brought :Cc : : :cable :calculus ::California :: : :call : :: :,: ::calling :Campbell ::, :,,:, : ::, :,,:, ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,:, :,:, ::, :: ::,,:,,,:,,:,,:, :,:,,,:,,,:,capable :capital :,:, ::carry :case :, :: ::,,,: :,: :: :: : ::, :: :: :: :,:, :: :,: :: :: :: ::,,:,,:, ::,,,:,cases : :: :,: :,categorical:category :caused :cert :certain :certainly :: :: :,certiorari :challenges ::change :: :Chief :, :: :,:,, ::,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,,:,, ::choice :chooses :chose :circuit :,: : :: :: :: :,: :,: :Circuit's ::, :circumstances: ::circumvent:claim :,,:,,:,,,: :: :: ::claiming :claims ::, :: :: :: ::Clair : :,: :,,: :,,: : :: ::, :: :,: :: :: ::Clair's :,:,, ::,,: ::clear : :: ::cleaved :cleaving :client : ::, :,:, :: :clients :,close ::cognizable: :,come :comes :: :coming :communication: :: :communicatio...: : :comparisoncomparisons::complain :complained :complaint ::, :: :: ::complaints:complete :completed :completely ::complicated:concentrate Officialconcentrating::concept :concern ::concerning :conclusion :conduct :: :conference:conferring :confined :conflict : :: :: :confront :confusing :confusion ::Congress :: :: :,: :Congress's: :connection :consider :: :,:considerableconsideration::considered: ::considering:consistent :constitutionalconstruction::contact :contend :contends :context ::,,:, :continue :: : :control :Controlled:controls :convenience: :conversation: :conviction :convince :coroner :coroner's :corpus : :: :: :: :correct : :: :,:corroborated: :corroborates:counsel : :: :, :: :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,,,: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,:, :: :,,: :,,: :,: :,: :,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,:, :: :: :Counsel's :county : ::couple :course :: :: ::,,:, :court :, ::, :,,:,, :,:,,,: :,,:,,:,,,: ::, ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,: ::,,:, :: : :: :: :: ::, :: :,: ::courts ::court's :: ::cover : :crime :,: ::criteria :critical :,DD :damning ::databases :date :day : ::, :days : :: :dead :deadline :,deal : :dealing :deals :death ::December :decide ::,,:decided :: :decides :deciding :: :decision :,: : :: ::, :: ::, :decisionmaking:decisions :: :,:, :declarations:,declined :defendant :: :,: ::, :defendants:defendant's:defender ::, :: :: :: :defenders :,defender's ::defense :: ::defer :defined :definition :degree :delay :deliberate :demonstrate:denial :: :: :denied :,: : :: :,: :deny ::denying :,: :,: :Deputy :desire :determination:determine :determined:detract :developments:die :difference :: :different :: :direct :directing :direction :directly :disagree :disagreed :disagreement: :disagreements: :disagrees :disclosed :discovered: :: ::discovery :discretion :: :,:, ::, :: :: :: :: :discretionary: :,:discussed :: :disposition :dispute :,dissatisfaction:::dissatisfied :district :,: :, ::,,:, :: ::,,,: :,: ::, :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,,: :: ::, :divided :dividing ::DNA : :: : :: :doctrines :doing : :: :,domain :doubt : :drawn :duration :duty ::D.C :,EE : :,earlier :,effective :effectiveness:efficiently :Official:either :: ::enacting :enforcement: :engage :engaged :entertain ::entire :entitled ::, ::,entitlement :entry :equivocal :error :: ::, :especially :: :ESQ :, ::,essence ::, ::essential :essentially :: :establishedestablishing::evade :evaluate ::evaluating :evaluation :event :evidence :,:,, :: :,:, :: :: :,: :extra :extraordinary:Fface : ::faced :fact :, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :,: ::,,:, ::, :: :,:, :factors ::facts : :factual ::factually :failed :,:failure : ::,,,fair : :fairly :familiar ::far :,: :,far-fetched ::,faulting :Federal :,:,,:, ::,, ::,,: :: ::, :: ::, :: :,: ::, ::,,,:,,,:, :: : ::evidentiary :ex :exactly :examine :::examined :example :: :excellent :excluded :exculpatory: :Excuse :executed :exercise :::exercising :exhausted ::exist :existed :expected ::explain :: :explanation:, ::,explicated :expressing :extensions :extensive ::extent : : OfficialGoh :,:,Goh's :going : ::, :: :: ::,,: :,:, ::, ::, ::good : :: :gotten :grant ::granted :gravamen :great : :greater :,Grele :guess : ::,guilt : :guy :Hhabeas ::, :: :,:, ::, :: ::happen ::happened :,: : :: :: ::happens :hear :heard : ::hearing :: : ::hears :held : :help : ::Henriksen:high :higher :highly :: :hold : :: :holding :Honor : :: :: :: :: :: :: :horrendous:,house :: :,huge :Iidea :identical :identified :iffy : :imagine ::implicate :implicating :implied ::import :important ::, :impossible:impression :improperly :inadequateinappropriateinclude ::::including :: ::incorrect :incredible :incriminatingindependent::indicated :: :individual :ineffective :: :: ::inference :information: :initial :initiate :injuries :innocence ::, :: ::innocent :innuendo :,inquire :: ::inquired :inquiries :inquiry ::, ::,,,: :: ::,,: ::,,forward :found : :: :,: ::,,FPD :frankly :frequently :friend :front : :::further : ::, ::GG :gee :,general ::germane :Ginsburg :: :: :,:,,:girlfriend :give : :: :: :,:given :,: : :gives :giving :go : :,: ::, :: :: :,: ::goes : ::, ::files : :frustratingfeeling :fewer :fifth :figure :: :file :,,: :filed :,,:,,:, ::,: ::filing :filled :final :find :finding :: :fine :fingerprint: :: :fingerprints: ::, ::finish :,:first : :: ::, :fit :fixed :,Flores :Flores's :focus : :follow :: :force :Ford : :foreclosed :forensic :,forget :forth : :forums : : ::inserted :inserting :instruction :intention :intentionally:interest : ::,,,:, :: :: :,interests :,: ::, :: :: ::, ::, :,: :: :,: :,: :interject :introduced:investigate:,investigated:investigation: :investigative: ::investigator: :: :: ::invoked :involvement:,involving :irreconcilable: :Officialisolation :issue :, ::, :: :,:issued : :: ::issues :Jjewelry :job : ::judge :,,: : ::, :,:, :: :,:, ::, :: :,,:,,:, :,:,,,,: :,:, :: :,:,,:,, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::, :: :,:judges :judge's :: :judgment :: :: :,judicial :juncture ::June :, :: : :: :,:jurisprudence: :justice :, :: :,:, :,,:,,,,:, ::, ::,,:,,: :,:,,,: :,,:,,:,,,:,,:,,,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,,: :,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,:, ::,,:,,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,,: :,:,,,: :,,: :,,: :,:, ::, :,:, ::,,:,,,:, ::,,,: :,:, :: :KKAGAN ::,, :: ::,,: :keep :,KENNEDY: :KENNETH :kind :,: ::kinds :knew :know : :: :: ::, :: :,: :: ::, :knowledge :known :knows ::Llanguage :last-minute:late : ::,Laughter :law : :: :: :lawyer ::,,:lawyers ::lead :leads :leave : :: ::leg :legal :legitimate :lengthy :lesser :letter : ::, :: :,: :letters ::let's : :level : ::light : :limitation :,limited :: :Linda :line :link :linking :literally :litigated ::litigation ::, :: :,little :lived :located :long : :: :longer : Officiallong-litigated::look : :: :: ::, :: :looked :looking ::lose :lot :Mmade-up :magistrate :magistrate's:mail :maintained:making :: ::man :mandamus :mandatory:manifest :March ::,Martel : :match :matched :::matching :: :material :: :materiality:materials :matter :: :: : :: :matters :: :mean : ::, :: :: :: :: :: :,: :: :meaning :: ::meaningful :means ::meet :mention :merged :merits ::met : :MICHAEL :million :mind : :mine :minimal :minimum ::minute :minutes :mistake :months ::,moon :,morning :motion :,:, :: :,: :: :: :,:,,,: :,: ::motions :move :multiple :: :murder :,: :,,: ::, ::,murders :mutual :NN :, :necessarily :necessary ::need :: ::neighborhood:never :,: :,:new : :: :,:, ::,, :: :,: ::,,: :,:,,:,,,:newly :night :::nihilo :Ninth :,:, :: :,:, :: ::, ::, ::noncapital ::, ::normal ::normally :: :,notice :,: :notion :notoriously:numerous ::OO : :oath :obligation :: :,: :obligationsobviously :::occur :occurred :: :occurring :occurs :office : ::offices :oh : :: :okay : ::old :,:omitted :once : ::ones :open-endedorder : :,ordered :::::operates :operating :opinion ::, :: :: ::opposition :: :oral : :,: :Orange :outcome :,oversaw :PP : : :page : :,::part : :: :participate:particular :: :: :,: :,particularly: :,pause :,:peculiar :penalty ::pending :: :: :,people :: ::, Officialpercipient :: :period :permit :permitted :perpetrator ::, :perpetrator's:person :personal :::petition :,:, ::,,,: : :: ::, :: :,: :: :petitioner :,:, :: :: :petitioners:phase :phrase :physical :,:, :: :: :: :: :: :,:pivotal :place :plan :please : :: :: :plenty :point : :: :,: :,: ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :police :posited :positing :position : :: :: ::possible :post-evidentia...:post-habeas:potential :: :power :,: :practical ::practice :prejudice ::premise :,premises :prepared :present :: ::presentation:presented :: :presided :presumably:presume :presuming :presumptions::pretty ::previous :previously :: :prints ::,Prior :probably ::probative :problem :: ::proceed :proceeding:proceedings:, ::process :: :,:, :processes :professional::progeny :promptly :proper ::proposing :proposition ::prosecute :prosecuted:prosecutor's:,protect :protecting :protective :proven :provide :provided ::,provision :public :,:, :: :: : ::,puncture :purposes :pursue :pursuing :::put : :putting :Qqualification:qualifications: :qualified ::question ::, :: :,:questions :: :: :quite :quote :RR :raise : ::, :raised ::rare :rarest :reached ::reaction :read :,reading :: :ready :real :realize :really : :: :,: :,: ::,,: :,reason :,: :: ::reasons ::REBUTTAL: :recall :received :: :receives :record ::, :: :recorded :referring :reflect :refusing ::regarded :regarding :: ::regardless :regards :reinforcement:reiterate :reject :related :relations :::relationship:, :relevance :reluctant :relying :remaining : remains :remand :: ::remedies :remedy ::, :: :remember:remind :reopen :reopening :: :,replaced :report :::represent :representation: :: :represented: :: :: :representing: :: :request : :: : :: :requested ::requests :required :: :: :requirement:requires :: :resolve :resources :respect :: :respond :responded :Respondent: : :response ::responses :responsibility:rest :restrictions:retire : ::retired :retiring :: :,:revealed :review ::right : :: ::,, :: :,: :: :,,: :,: :: :: :rightly :rights :,:ROBERTS :: :: :,: :,:, ::,,,:, ::, ::,, :: : :Rodgers ::, :: :routinely :Officialrule :,,:, :: :,: ::,,: :run : :runs :SS : :Sacramento:salient :sat :satisfied :saw :saying :,: ::, :: :says : :: ::, :: :: :,:Scalia :,:,,:, ::scenarios :scene : :: ::scope : :search :second : :section :::see :, :: :,: ::seek :seeking ::soon :sorry :, :: :,: : :: :,:sort :Sotomayor ::,, :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,specific :: ::specifically:speed :stage : ::standard ::,,,: ::,,:,,,: :,: ::,,:,,: :,,:,,,:, :: :,:, :standards :::seemingly :sees :send :sent : ::sentence :: :,:separate :serious :serve :set :, :: ::Seth : :: :shot :,show :: :showing ::sides :significance:, :similar :similarity :simply :: :: :: : ::site :sitting :situation :,: :: ::situations ::six : :Sixth ::,skepticism:slim :somebody : Officialstandpoint: :started :State :,,:,,,,: :: :: :,:stated :statement :,: :statements :: :,States :,:State's :: :: ::, :station :status : :statute : ::statutory :: ::stay :stayed :steps :stopped :straightforward:strange :,strategic :: :strikes :strong :struggling :subject :submission :: :submissions:,submit :submitted ::submitting:subsectionsubsequent::subsequently: :substance :Substances::substitute :: ::, :: : :: ::, :: :substituted ::, ::,substitution :: :: :,: ::,,: :,: ::,,: :,:,substitutions:successor :succinctly :sufficient :suggest :suggesting ::superintendedsupersedingSupervising:::support :: :supported ::suppose :: ::, :: :,: ::supposed :Supreme :,: : :sure : :suspect ::suspected :suspects :TT :,tactical :: ::take : :: :taken : :takes :talked :talking :,tape : :taped :,,tape-recorded::Taylor :: ::team :technically :techniques:tell :, :: :: :: :term :terms ::terrible :test : :: :: :,:,tested : :: ::testified :testimony ::testing :,: :,,:, :: ::,,,: :,:,tests :thank ::, ::theory :thing : :: ::things :: :,:,think : ::,, ::, :,: :,:, :: :,: :: :,,:, ::,,,:, :: :: :,: :: :: :,: ::, :,:, ::,,,:,,thinking :third :thought :: ::, ::,,three : ::time : ::, ::,,,:, :: :,:, :: :timely :times :: :told : ::total :trial :,,: :,: :: :: :,trigger :true : :truly :truth :try : :trying :,:, :: :,: :Tuesday :turned ::two : :type :,,: ::types : OfficialUUh-huh :undercut :understaffed:understand :: :: :understandableunderstood :::::undoubtedly:unexhaustedUnited :,unjustified :unknown :unsuccessful :untrue :unusable :upset :use : ::,,: :usually :U.S :U.S.C :Vv : :vacuum ::value :various :victim :view :viewed :vindicate :violated :violations :volunteer :,:,,,:,Volunteering:Wwait :want : :: :,:,,,: ::, :: :,: :,: ::, ::,wanted :wants :,: :WARD : :: : :WARDEN :Washington ::wasn't :: ::Waxman :: ::,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :: :,: ::,,,: :,: :,: ::,,,: :,: :,:, ::,,: :way :, :: :,: :: :: :,:, :: :weak : :week :well-articulated:went :: :weren't :We'll :we're :: :,: :: :: :: ::whatsoever:willing : :: :win :,wins :wired :witness :: :witnesses :woman :wonder :words :,:,,,: :: ::, :work : :worked :world :worry :wouldn't :: :: :: : : : :th : :: ::A(c) :: :, :: :: :,:,(e) :: : : : : : : : :(b) :,,:,,:,,-page :: :a : :: :wrecks :writ :,write :writing :written : :wrong :,: ::Xx :,Yyears :,: ::, :: : :- : :: : :: : : :: : :(a)() : :th : :: :,:, :,-day : :,,: : : : :th : :th : 