Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xPPL MONTANA, LLC, : Petitioner : No. - v. :MONTANA. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioner.EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner.GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFEDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the PetitionerORAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext today in Case -, PPL Montana v. Montana. Mr. Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The State's claim to back rent here is trulyremarkable. When these dams were built back in the day,PPL's predecessors, Petitioner's predecessors, securedall the necessary property rights and easements. Aspart of that process, particularly for the dams thatcreated reservoirs, there was an elaborate process ofgetting flood easements and, in many cases, payingsubstantial amounts of money. In that process, nothingwas hidden; it was open and notorious. Indeed, theState assisted by lending the utilities its eminentdomain power to deal with holdouts. But now, a hundred years later, the Statecomes in with a holdout claim of its own and suggeststhat it's entitled to massive compensation based on thesmall strip of riverbed that lies underneath theseflooded reservoirs and the dams. The Montana Supreme OfficialCourt allowed that claim to succeed to the tune of tensof millions of dollars of back rent. Now, it did -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is your point thatthere should be a Federal rule of laches or estoppel, orare you just building up to the fact that this istraditional, well-recognized doctrine and there's been-- and there's been a sudden change? MR. CLEMENT: That's exactly where I wasgoing, Justice Kennedy. I was suggesting that theMontana Supreme Court could only approve this result,which clearly did unsettle settled expectations, bydeviating from well-settled principles of Federalnavigability law. Now, the mistakes were a little bitdifferent for each of the rivers at issue. As to theClark Fork and the Upper Missouri, the critical error Ibelieve with the Montana Supreme Court decision was itsfailure to focus on the river segments that are directlyat issue and instead focus on the river as a whole. With the Madison, the errors are different,because, as the Madison, there's no evidence that anystretch of that river was navigable at statehood. So,there the problem was principally that the court reliedon modern-day evidence of recreational use to substitutefor true historic evidence of commercial navigation at Officialstatehood. JUSTICE ALITO: On the issue of whether weshould look to the segments or to the river as a whole,what authorities can we consult? You rely heavily onU.S. v. Utah, and that certainly is a relevantprecedent; but there's disagreement about what it means,and the only authority that I see that U.S. v. Utahcited was The Montello, which seems to cite nothingwhatsoever. So, where do we -- is that the end of thetrail? Is there anyplace else we can look? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I mean, it's closeto the end of the trail. I mean, you can go back to TheDaniel Ball, but that's not going to help you any morethan The Montello. I think, though, that the criticalcases really are Utah, but I also think there are othercases that this Court has had. Oklahoma v. Texas wouldbe an example where this Court has looked at adiscernible segment of a river. Brewer-Elliott isanother one. And I think the starting point for theCourt's analysis in every one of these cases has been tolook at the segment of the river that's at issue, thathas been put at issue. Now, if you have a sovereigntybattle between the State and the Federal Government, alot of times it's the segment of the river within a OfficialState, or in Brewer-Elliott it was the segment of theriver adjacent to an Indian reservation. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, all of this, I takeit, derives from the rule that pre-exists -- pre-existedthe adoption of the Constitution, that the sovereignowned the navigable rivers within its borders. Is theresome body of common law that addresses this, that wouldshed some light on whether that means the whole river orit means segments? MR. CLEMENT: There really isn't,Justice Alito, because we get our common law fromEngland. In England, actually, the common law wasdifferent. At England, the navigable waters ended atthe ebb and flow of the tide. So, every internal streamwithin Great Britain was viewed as nonnavigable, and theproperty belonged to the riparians. JUSTICE ALITO: So, what -- what is theorigin of the rule that the original States owned thenavigable rivers or parts of the rivers but not theparts that weren't. That was some feature of Americancolonial law? MR. CLEMENT: Sure. I mean, it was -- itwas adopted as part of -- the sort of -- just the ideaof creating the sovereign republic of the United States.We borrowed our common law. I think initially nobody Officialfocused on these navigable segments. And it's important to recognize this issuereally doesn't even arise in the eastern United States,because until about this idea that States could ownthe riverbeds if they were nonnavigable never reallyoccurred to anyone. So, in most of the eastern Statesas a matter of State law, whether a river is navigableor nonnavigable, the riparian owns to the middle of thestreambed. So, after , this Court recognizes --makes clear to the States that they actually have achoice. And so, the States that come into the Unionafter , many of them, including Montana, adopt therule that, well, unless these -- if these streams arenonnavigable, then we take the river stream. And so,that's where the question comes up. So, maybe the reason there isn't a greatdeal of precedent on this is explained by the fact thatthis is an issue that largely arises in the westernUnited States. But that's why I think it's such amistake to kind of look a gift horse in the mouth, so tospeak, and not focus on Utah, because Utah is asituation that seems irreconcilable with the MontanaSupreme Court decision and the State's basic theory,because there the special master and this Court Officialrecognize a nonnavigable segment right in the middle oftwo navigable portions of stream. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you define "deminimis" for me? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I'm -- I'm happy totry, but I think -- I'm not going to give you -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we can't -- MR. CLEMENT: Well, here -- I'm not goingto -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what's the guidanceor limit that we set for States? MR. CLEMENT: I've thought about this a lot,Justice Sotomayor, and I'm not here to give you a soundbite that's a bright-line definition of "de minimis." Ithink "de minimis" almost by its nature takes its -- itsmeaning from the context of the inquiry. But let me --let me offer at least three guideposts that I think arehelpful. One, as a practical matter, I think thisCourt can look to its own cases dealing with islands innavigable stream, and those cases are on page of theGovernment's brief. And this Court's cases say, ifthere's a small island in navigable stream, under anacre, of negligible value, we basically ignore it.Later cases, though, came along and dealt with islands Officialthat were much larger, and the Court analyzed thoseseparately from the navigable stream and said the UnitedStates actually retains ownership to the larger islands,and they don't go. So, that's one place to look. The second place to look, I think, is also apractical judgment based on the nature of the lawsuit.And here the State itself has come in and identifiedstretches of riverbed that they think are significantenough to generate $ million in back rent. And Ithink they, having identified those riverbed stretchesas being worth $ million, are hard pressed to thenturn around and say, oh, but they're de minimis, justignore them. The third rule I would point to is that Ithink topography has something of a role to play here.If you look at the special master's report in Utah orsome of the other cases that have decided the point atwhich the navigability stops, they've pointed tofeatures of the river as defining a discernible segmentlike a tributary coming in or the geology of the -- ofthe bed over which the river runs. If it shifts fromkind of a silty loam to hard rock in a canyon, that'ssomething that you can point to. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know you've told methat you think Montello is not pertinent because it Officialinvolved a different issue. But assuming that it werepertinent, because I'm not quite sure how its discussiondoesn't fit the needs here, one of the factors youhaven't mentioned in terms of de minimis is the portageand its use with respect to commerce. And by that Imean, it appeared to me in Montello, what the Court wassaying was the history of use of this river showed thatthese obstructions didn't stop the flow of commerce,that what people did was, it appeared, some extremethings. They got off -- they got their goods off oneboat, walked it a certain distance or drove it by wagonanother distance, and then put it on another boat or thesame boat that they had lessened the load on and movedit over. And so, it doesn't talk about the distance ofthat portage; it talks about the impact on commerce. MR. CLEMENT: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, why isn't that afactor in the de minimis issue? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I mean -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If there were a historyhere. MR. CLEMENT: Sure, but, Justice Sotomayor,I think -- I mean, there are sort of two portages thatare floating around in The Montello, and I think it'simportant to distinguish between the two. There's kind Officialof the classic overland portage between the Fox Riverand the Wisconsin River. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There was a canal inthere, wasn't there? MR. CLEMENT: Well, afterwards. Butoriginally that was an overland portage. And so, that'sreally not at issue, but that's kind of the -- you know,the classic portage I have in mind is an overlandportage. Now, they're also talking about the extremeefforts, and you could call them portages. I don'tthink you need to. But there's also talk about theextreme efforts to enable navigation on the Fox beforeimprovement. But that's nothing like what's at issue herebecause those were efforts basically to use the riverbedto -- and they had to do some extraordinary things: getox to pull the boat, lift them up over some rocks. Butthey never really left the bed of the river there.Where they left the bed of the river was the portageover to the Wisconsin. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, in Montello, theytook the cargo off some boats -- MR. CLEMENT: Oh, absolutely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and moved it overland Officialto another spot before they put it back on a boat. MR. CLEMENT: Sure, but my understanding ofwhat was going on there -- and maybe I misunderstood it,but I understand what they're talking about there is aportage where you take the cargo out of the boat inorder to lighten the draft of the boat so it's notsitting as deeply in the river, and that allows thelighter boat to be carried over the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We can both look at theopinion, but I think there is one spot where the Courtsays that in some areas they had to change boats. MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and that may be, but,I mean, again, I don't think we're talking aboutanything like the distances that we're talking here, andI also -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't disagree withyou, but I -- what I'm asking is, if we had a history ofnavigation of cargo that went to the beginning of one ofthese rivers -- and I'm not a sailor, so my terms -- thecargo is taken off and driven by wagon or some othermode to another spot and picked up again. Is that adifferent situation than one where that doesn't happen?That because this -- this length of portage is so longthat it is both economically and physically impossibleto transport cargo in that way. Is that a different Officialcase for the question of navigability? MR. CLEMENT: Well, sure, because these areall matters of degree, and those would be two differentcases. But here's what I would point you to, which is,if at the point that you have to take the cargo off ofthe boats, and then you then have to leave the channel,you don't just do a little cut around some de minimusamount, but you leave the channel and go overland, atthat point, I think, that portage demonstrates thenon-navigability of the bypassed stretch. And then Ithink -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe itdemonstrates the non-navigability of the particularstretch, but we would still speak of the transfer ofcommerce as being along the river. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The sort of case --the analogy I was thinking of is if I say I fly fromWashington to Tokyo; and someone says, no, you didn't,you flew to San Francisco, then you walked however manyyards from one gate to another, and then you flew toTokyo. And I would say, well, yes, there's a gap therewhen I -- you know, part of the distance where I wasn'tflying, but people would still say you flew from D.C. toTokyo. Now, why isn't this just like that, that the Officialcommercial path, the commercial waterway people think ofas the Missouri? And, yes, occasionally you've got toget out, and, you know, we can debate how long theportage is, but it doesn't interrupt the notion thatthat whole pathway would qualify as a navigablewaterway. MR. CLEMENT: Well, two things,Mr. Chief Justice. One is I do want to make clear thatwe very much dispute factually that there ever was thiskind of commercial portage over the Great Falls. Andthe really -- you know, there's very little evidence forthe record. The State's own evidence identifies FortBenton miles below the Great Falls as the head ofnavigation on the Missouri. So, there is very much afactual issue here. But to answer the legal question you'reasking, first of all, I'm not sure I would have the sameinstinct about the common parlance if you had to go fromJFK to LaGuardia in a cab. And I'm even less sure thatyou would have the same notion if you had to drive fromSan Francisco to LA to switch planes. And I think thedistance here really does matter. And I would submitthe way you think about this, the way I would thinkabout this, is that the very need to bypass, especiallya substantial bypass where you leave the river channel, Officialis evidence that that part of the channel, that part ofthe river, is nonnavigable. JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see why -- MR. CLEMENT: And then the question that'sleft is whether that's de minimis. JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see why portage isrelevant at all. What's the basis for the rule that thesovereign owns the navigable rivers? I assume it'sbecause they are viewed -- they were viewed as highwaysfor transportation and commerce. And to the extent thatthere's an obstruction that cannot be traversed by aboat, then there isn't going to be any commerce ortransportation along that area. Now, there might be an argument that thesovereign should own the land next to the river so thatyou could portage around it, but what -- what would bethe justification for saying the sovereign owns theportion of the river that can't be traversed at all byboat? I just don't understand it. MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm with you on that,Justice Alito, and I think, you know, logically, if youthink what's the highway of commerce here, if therereally was this -mile overland portage route, thatwould be the highway of commerce, but the -milebypassed stretch of the Missouri and the Great Falls OfficialReach would not be a highway of commerce. And I thinkthat gets back to the expectations of the property ownerthat ultimately underlie these title questions. I mean, if you have boats going by a riverin your backyard, I mean, you have -- you're on sort ofnotice that you don't own the riverbed. But if you'rein a part of the river that's -- that's so unnavigablethat it has to be bypassed and you've never seen a boatin your experience ever, then I think you have verydifferent expectations, and your expectations would bethe same as somebody who -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Seventeen miles is verylong. MR. CLEMENT: It is -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think the Thompson isonly .. MR. CLEMENT: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's really close toMontello, where it talked about, about miles for someportage areas. MR. CLEMENT: Well, with respect, if I couldtake both points, I mean, you're absolutely right.Seventeen miles is very long. I mean, for the NewYorkers, you know, the East River is miles long, thewhole river. The Anacostia River is -/ miles long. OfficialSo, this bypass stretch -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I'm not aMidwesterner, and rivers of miles are normal there,I understand. MR. CLEMENT: Well, these -- this is still abig stretch and I do think, like I said, longer thansome entire rivers. But the Thompson Falls -- I mean,the miles of the Thompson Fall, I don't know exactlywhere that number comes from. It's kind of anartificiality. I mean, there -- again, the State's ownevidence, look at JA , says that navigation stopped atThompson Falls. There wasn't a portage around. But the other point is I would also ask youto look at the court decree because, as I said atthe outset, you know, these companies didn't just putthese dams up overnight as, you know, kind of -- as alark. They went through elaborate efforts to secure theproperty rights. That's what generated that courtdecree about the Clark Fork River. The Clark Fork River court decree in addresses a stretch of river specifically that's notjust the falls but those miles of the reservoir that'screated. And the court holds that that entire regionand, indeed, the entire Clark Fork in Sanders County isnonnavigable. So, the stretches that are nonnavigable Officialare much longer than miles. If I may reserve my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Kneedler. ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Montana Supreme Court committed threebasic errors with respect to all three rivers thatrequire a remand for further proceedings to actuallyweigh and make factual findings concerning the evidenceof the -- of the relevant reaches of the river forpurposes of navigability for title. We're not talkingabout navigability for interstate transportation oradmiralty or regulatory jurisdiction under the Riversand Harbors Act or the Clean Water Act. We're talkingabout navigability for title. JUSTICE KAGAN: And why does that make adifference, Mr. Kneedler? Why do you think that thereare separate tests for title than for regulatoryauthority? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, in The Montello, forexample, the question was whether there was admiralty or Officialregulatory jurisdiction over the use of vessels on the-- on the upper reaches of the river, and that depended,in the Court's view, on whether that stretch was part ofan interstate or international highway of commerce. Andso, it would make sense to look at the whole river indetermining whether there's a highway, and maybe indeciding whether there's a highway, you would look to abypassed stretch. You would look at the highway, theland highway, to decide whether it's useful ininterstate commerce. For title purposes, though, the question is,what happens to the stretch of the river right in frontof the riparian owner's land? As Mr. Clement said, thatreflects the expectations of the property owner; that ifthere are no ships or boats going back and forth, thatthat property is -- adheres to the riparian land more.I also think it pertains to the control or use of thebeds of the rivers themselves. If the river -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think, though, ifyou start drawing these lines, they become verydifficult, in some rivers anyway, to -- to apply. I'msure there are seasonable fluctuations. They may benavigable in some seasons, but not in others. The lineat which you pass from navigability to non-navigabilitymay be difficult to ascertain. Official It seems to me, once you start chopping thehighway of commerce up, it does create all thosedifficulties. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, first of all, we'renot -- we're not talking about chopping the river upinto narrow slices. I mean, I think there has to be adiscernible and substantial segment of the river.Often -- often, it will be self-evident from thetopographical features of the area. Are there -- arethere major falls and rapids over an extended period oftime? But also, the points you're raising are -- Ithink are inherent, because in deciding wherenavigability stops under any test or in anycircumstance, you could have the difficulties that youhave described. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's de minimis? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could . be de minimisin one situation and not, and how do we tell courtsbelow -- MR. KNEEDLER: I think it -- I think it maywell be. I think it -- I think a -- an important -- Iagree with the points that Mr. Clement made asguideposts. I think another one -- and this pertains Officialto -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If there's no falls butthere are riparian waters that don't permit navigabilityover ., then that's still navigable? I'm not sure -- MR. KNEEDLER: No, I -- I think it has to be-- I'm speaking of a situation where the -- where theriver is not navigable in fact. And that's the test,navigable in fact, not navigable in law. So, if a -- ifa boat cannot pass in front of the riparian land, thenthat would be nonnavigable. I agree that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And it shouldn't matterwhether it's . miles or mile, right? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, if the land isnonnavigable -- if the river at that point isnonnavigable, it's nonnavigable. MR. KNEEDLER: For title purposes, yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what we're talkingabout -- MR. KNEEDLER: Yes. And, you know, I don'twant to -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- the title purpose. Idon't see why there ought to be any de minimisexception. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I think at some -- Officialif you -- if you consider part of the -- part of what'sgoing on here is who controls the riverbed, I think itwould be unworkable to have a passage or a portion of ariver where you had -- -foot strips across theriver that are riparian owner-owned, and the State ownedeverything else, or if you had stripes across a river.So, I think -- I think the test also has to take intoaccount -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But how would the boat getup there? Does it just jump over the feet? MR. KNEEDLER: Well, in The Montello, the --there is -- there is evidence that the boat was liftedby -- men got out of the boat and lifted the boat upover the falls. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. Then that wouldwork. MR. KNEEDLER: Pardon me? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then that would work. MR. KNEEDLER: In that situation, but if youhave a long stretch of -- of river where that was notpracticable, then you -- JUSTICE BREYER: You can't lift a boat overNiagara Falls. And I -- and I read somewhere that -- Ihope I'm wrong, but I have a feeling I read somewherethat the land under Niagara Falls has long been Officialconsidered to be navigable, and, therefore, it's ownedby the United States. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an internationalboundary. MR. KNEEDLER: It's owned by the State. JUSTICE BREYER: It's owned by the State.Oh, you mean the navigable -- I get mixed up in that.The -- MR. KNEEDLER: The reply brief I thinkdescribes -- JUSTICE BREYER: The navigable ones areowned by the State. Okay. Everybody's thought the landunder Niagara Falls is owned by the State. Oh, dear,because that sort of wrecks our nice theory that all thesteps, all the little bits of it that are non -- thatare -- MR. KNEEDLER: That's not an -- I thinkthat's not an extended strip in the way that -- the waythat we're discussing here. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now we have todefine what's an extended strip. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, if I -- I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I think -- I thought it'salso an international boundary -- MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and that -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: -- as to which there is adifferent rule. MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and the -- or -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, how much are wewrecking if we just say, look, the bit that'snonnavigable is different from the bit that's navigable? MR. KNEEDLER: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: Period. Doesn't matter ifit's feet of land or not. What are we wrecking? MR. KNEEDLER: I think it does matterwhether it's feet, because the -- because an importantpoint here is that -- who can make sensible use orcontrol the relevant stretch of the river. If it's feet or feet and you had strips that stayedprivate -- JUSTICE BREYER: A quick question which youcould probably answer just by saying we decided not to.But I was somewhat curious. It's really the UnitedStates v. Montana in this, who owns the land, and it's aquestion of Federal law. It's going to be highlyfactual no matter what this happens. Made for thisCourt's original jurisdiction. And -- and normally inoriginal jurisdiction, we appoint a master, it's workedout, and we review the master's report. We can't do that here because it's a case -- Officialwhy didn't you go into, or why couldn't you go into, aquiet title action in Federal court? MR. KNEEDLER: We could, and we have notgiven consideration to that, but that might be -- thatmight be a possibility. The United States is not aparty to this case and couldn't be -- and couldn't bebound by the judgment. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could it have intervenedsomehow, because the -- the United States has come hererather reluctantly, as you recommended against grantingcert in this case. When this was in the Montana courtsand it was a question of what is the Federal law,because Federal law is going to control -- everybodyagrees that -- could the United States have come intothe proceedings in the Montana State court? MR. KNEEDLER: Ordinarily, the United Stateswould not intervene in a State court proceeding, or ifit did, it would remove the case to Federal court. So,that -- that would be -- that would be a -- anadditional consideration as to whether to get into thissuit. The United States would typically bring its ownquiet title action in -- in Federal court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your answer a momentago gives me pause. You said the United States wouldnot be bound by this litigation but could bring its own Officialquiet title action. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, we would be bound bythis Court's decision, obviously. But I was justspeaking of the law of -- the law of judgments. And ifthis Court remands back to the trial court with generaldirections but doesn't adjudicate particular stretchesdefinitively, then, you know, I think we -- that's thesituation that we would -- that we would be in. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And if we -- if it wereremanded, the United States would still stay out of itbecause it's going to be in the State -- MR. KNEEDLER: I assume so. Obviously, thatwould be a -- that would be a further consideration. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Am I to take that "deminimis" to you means small enough so that they get theboat physically over the portage? MR. KNEEDLER: Physically -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether they carry it -- MR. KNEEDLER: No, I think if they -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- drag it. MR. KNEEDLER: I think if they can take itthrough the river, it's not an interruption at all. Butif -- if you have -- if you have something that can't betransversed by a boat at all and it's long enough thatit could sensibly be thought of as a -- as a separate Officialparcel adhering to the -- to the riparian land, thatwould be -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Go back to carryingtheir boat on their shoulders, which apparently in TheMontello they did. What's the answer to -- MR. KNEEDLER: They didn't carry the boatout of the river. These were Durham boats that were-feet long and -- and weighed quite a bit. Now, maybethere were small canoes that could have been done. I --I think a small portage -- again, I don't think it's thelength of the portage; I think it's the interruption ofthe -- of the navigable portion of the river that --that is -- that is relevant, and if it's large enough toconstitute a -- a sensible administrable parcel, thatthat should be enough. I did want to take one moment to discuss theMadison River because there, as Mr. Clement discussed,the considerations are somewhat different. I mean, first of all, the court made asimilar mistake there by discussing the river as a wholeand a log float in the middle stretch of the river, butnot focusing on the relevant stretches where the damsare located. But it also put a lot of emphasis oncurrent recreational use by drift boats and whatnot,without a proper foundation to determine whether that Officialwas relevant for title purposes at statehood, becausethe relevant question is whether whatever boats are usednow are ones that would have been used as -- this is thelanguage from The Daniel Ball -- as "the customary modesof travel and transportation" at the -- at the time ofstatehood. It had to be general -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's kind of odd.Maybe this is -- maybe this is Justice Alito's earlierquestion. It's kind of odd that the more navigable theriver is, the more claim the State has. The lessnavigable -- where you're talking about sports boats anddrift fishing -- then it's Federal. MR. KNEEDLER: Well, that's -- that's aproduct of the -- of the equal footing doctrine. Andthe Court has long said that the State gets the beds ofnavigable waters. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: This case is about who owns the riverbedsunderlying the rivers at issue. It's not about floodlands; it's about the riverbeds. And under this Court's Officialprecedents, it's settled that title to the riverbedsconveyed to the State under the Constitution if they arenavigable. It's been understood in Montana for morethan a century that these rivers are navigable. Therivers were meandered as navigable. PPL's deeds -- andthis is at page of the appendix to the oppositionbrief -- specifically exclude the riverbeds. The testfor navigability that this Court has applied for years, going back to The Montello and The DanielBall, is whether the river served as a continuoushighway of commerce. In The Montello, the Court recognized thefact that few of the nation's great rivers did notinclude some, quote, "serious interruptions touninterrupted navigation." And the -- and the Court'sanswer to that geographic fact was not to say then let'scarve out the interruptions and say those aren'tnavigable. The Court's answer was to say unbrokennavigation is not required to establish navigability. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your theory, ifthere's a fall like this of miles, and a train is miles away and traverses that miles, thatportage -- MR. GARRE: Under this Court's precedents -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- is good enough tomake that area navigable? MR. GARRE: -- you have to show that thecommerce traveled along the river under the customarymodes of trade and travel. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Outside of your furtraders and your gold miners, has that happened in anyother situation -- your alleged gold miners and furtraders? Has that happened on -- on the -- in the GreatFalls? MR. GARRE: If you take the Great Falls, thehistory of portage from to was lively commerceof millions of dollars, in today's value, billions ofdollars of gold, from Helena to Fort Benton back east.This is covered in detail by the Solicitor Generalbriefs that we've appended here. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you -- could youdo me a favor and you tell me again -- I'm having realtrouble with the competing evidence in this case withrespect to every one of the three areas in dispute, andI have some serious questions about whether the courtproperly granted summary judgment. Your brief seems tosuggest that I can't do -- we can't do anything aboutthat because it wasn't a part of the question presented. MR. GARRE: I -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your adversary says thatit's a fair question if we determine there's an illegalapproach -- error in the legal approach of the courtbelow. I'm assuming that also means on their weighingof evidentiary matters. So, why shouldn't we addressthe summary judgment issue? MR. GARRE: The question presented iswhether the Montana Supreme Court or whether a court --a court -- what the constitutional test would be for acourt in this situation. It's not even limited to theMontana Supreme Court here. It presents a legalquestion. With respect to summary judgment, theproblem for PPL is not that it didn't present enoughpaper; the problem is, is it litigated the case under awrong legal theory. It litigated the case that the --that the Missouri, for example, was not navigablebecause you couldn't take a boat down the falls. ThisCourt's precedents for more than years asked thequestion of whether the river served as a continuoushighway of commerce. We presented evidence,summarized -- JUSTICE SCALIA: For what purpose? Werethey -- were they -- were we answering the question forthe same purpose, or were we asking it for purposes of Officialwhether Federal regulation could extend to the wholeriver? For that purpose, it's easy to say if the wholeriver is, you know, used for commerce, the FederalGovernment can regulate even those portions of the riverthat are nonnavigable, that have -- but that have to beportaged around. But that's a different question fromwho -- who owns title to the -- to the bed under theportions that have to be portaged. MR. GARRE: Your Honor, PPL recognizes thatThe Daniel Ball supplies the test for navigability fortitle. This Court recognized that in the Utah case, thevanguard title case that they hold out. So, the onlyquestion is, did The Montello apply The Daniel Ball testor did it apply something else? And the first paragraphof the Court's decision in The Montello said it appliedThe Daniel Ball test. Courts -- this Court and lower courts formore than a century have understood The Daniel Ball andThe Montello to supply the test for navigability oftitle. What they're asking this Court to do is upendmore than years of precedent. And the amicus brieffiled by the States in this case gives -- gives theCourt a sense of the disruption that this would cause. JUSTICE ALITO: What do -- what do youunderstand to be the reason for the rule that the States Officialown the navigable rivers? MR. GARRE: The reason for the rule was thepublic trust doctrine which -- which sought to keepthese rivers free for the public to use for navigation,for fishing, and for other uses. And this court'sprecedents -- JUSTICE ALITO: What do fishing andnavigation have to do with -- for -- what does fishinghave to do with navigability? MR. GARRE: Well, it gets back to the -- thepublic trust doctrine, Your Honor. Fishing doesn'thave -- fishing is a purpose of the public trustdoctrine, which is why it was understood -- JUSTICE ALITO: Let me put it this way:Why -- why should -- why does the State own a navigableriver but not a nonnavigable river? MR. GARRE: Because the navigable riverswere the arteries of commerce in this country, and atthe time of the founding, it was understood -- and thisgets to the core issue of federalism in this case --that the States ought to be the ones that control thenavigable rivers -- JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, and if that's thereason -- MR. GARRE: -- not the Federal Government. Official JUSTICE ALITO: If that's the reason for therule, than what is the justification for State ownershipof a portion of the river that is not navigable? MR. GARRE: I think this gets back to thequestion of whether you can just chop up the rivers intonavigable and nonnavigable bits. And we're talking --this Court, Justice O'Connor observed in her dissent inthe Phillips Petroleum case that navigability wasn'tdecided inch by inch. What the other side is asking youto adopt here is a test of navigability that's at leastmile by mile, if not acre by acre, which is completelydifferent than this Court has ever assessednavigability. JUSTICE ALITO: The rule that you're arguingfor might be an established rule that we should follow,but as a matter of theory, I don't understand what thejustification is for State ownership of a nonnavigableportion of the river if the reason for the underlyingrule is so that people will not put up obstructions onthe river so that they -- it can be maintained as an --as an avenue of commerce. I can see that you -- why theState would own that, because otherwise riparian ownerscould put up fences and obstructions and charge tollsand -- and that sort of thing. But if it's notnavigable, I don't see what it has to do with -- with Officialcommerce or transportation. MR. GARRE: What -- what the Framers wereconcerned about -- and this is also reflected in theNorthwest Ordinance -- was ensuring that the navigablerivers, the major arteries of commerce in this country,remained open. And so, they -- they applied a muchmore -- much broader conception of navigability thanis suggested -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but they're closedwhere they're -- they're impassable for ships anyway.They're closed. What do you mean, remain open? MR. GARRE: And so, that was the argument -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You've -- you've got falls.You got waterfalls. You got rapids. What does it meanto -- to be sure that that river remains open tocommerce? Commerce is impossible over it. MR. GARRE: And so, that was the argumentthat the district court adopted in The Montello case,and this Court emphatically rejected it. And by theway, the portage in The Montello case was miles long.That's reflected in the -- the record in that casebefore this Court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, what is -- yousay that you're not taking just -- you look at the wholeriver as a whole. You're saying that, no, that isn't Officialyour position? MR. GARRE: No, it's not. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it is also not inchby inch. So, what's -- when is segmentationappropriate? MR. GARRE: I think the relevant stretch orsegmentation is really a litigation term. Our positionis this Court's test: continuous highway of commerce.You would take the part of the river at issue in a case,take that part and look -- ask the question, was thatpart of a continuous highway of commerce or not? So, if you found yourself in Cataract Canyonin the Utah case, you'd ask yourself that question, andyou would say, no, this is not part of a continuoushighway of commerce, because no one argued either thatthe canyon was portaged or that goods were travelingdown the Colorado River through the canyon and out intoArizona. If you ask yourself that question in thiscase, along the Great Falls, you would say yes, becausethe evidence was unrebutted that millions of dollars ofgold was traveled up from Helena to Fort Benton alongthe -- the Missouri River with the aid of a portage andthat that was unquestionably a highway of commerce. What they're asking this Court to do is chop Officialrivers up into navigable and nonnavigable pieces. Howwould that impact the public trust doctrine? The -- thebrief filed by the National -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, you just -- so, youare disagreeing with the United States, which has givenus its view of what the Federal law is. It doesn'tcoincide with Montana's. MR. GARRE: The United States has sidedcompletely with Montana. The answer it gives for whatis a short interruption in its brief is an interruptionthat doesn't warrant separate consideration. That's onpage of its brief. That's the epitome of a circulartest, and -- JUSTICE BREYER: Just out of -- I mean, towaste your time for a second, why do the feds own theland underneath the -- and why -- under the nonnavigableparts? And why do the feds own the land under anonnavigable stream? MR. GARRE: I think if -- if you applied theproper test here, you would conclude that the river -- JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, little creekssomewhere which you'd think, gee, those belong to theState, but turns out the feds own the land underneaththe little creek; is that right? MR. GARRE: I think what -- the nonnavigable Officialparts -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. GARRE: -- didn't transfer under theequal footing doctrine. Oftentimes, those were subjectto separate conveyances. So, they might come intoprivate property. I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: I see. So, the rule is, onthe nonnavigable streams, it depends on what theconveyance was at the time of statehood, and those areindividual matters, and sometimes -- MR. GARRE: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- you'll see the feds ownthem and sometimes the States. MR. GARRE: And what was -- JUSTICE BREYER: Is that right? MR. GARRE: Yes, I think that's right. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. GARRE: And what was criticallyimportant to the -- to the Framers was that the Stateswould have control over the navigable waterways. ThisCourt has described that as an essential attribute ofState sovereignty. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we're talkingabout the land at the bottom of the -- the river. Whatis it that the State can't do on the navigable waterways Officialthat it wants to do? MR. GARRE: Well, owner -- the ownership --along with ownership goes the right to control whetherfacilities can be built on them, bridges or pipelines.It goes -- along with that goes the rights to mineralleases -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But as -- but as the ChiefJustice is indicating, I think, this concerns who ownsthe bed; and that's different from navigable waters ofthe United States. And some of the answers you gave toJustice Alito about -- that the purposes and the reasonsfor navigable waters of the United States are quitedifferent, really, than for the considerations we haveabout riparian ownership. Navigable waters of theUnited States can be controlled by the United States formany purposes, but that is concurrent with a separatedocument -- doctrine for underlying ownership of thebed. MR. GARRE: Right. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it's not clear to methat the test for navigable waters is the same in eachcase as to the whole river. MR. GARRE: I think that the test that we'rearticulating is The Daniel Ball and The Montello test -- Officialcontinuous highway test. I think with respect to theriverbeds, it's always been understood that with controlof the riverbeds along navigable waters, States have aright to control fishing and navigation and otheraspects. JUSTICE BREYER: But, now, Montello was acase -- to follow up this same question. Montello, Itake it, was not a title case. Montello was aregulation of the stream case. So, I can understandperfectly well why that language in Montello applies forthe reason Justice Kennedy just said. Now, I grant youthat they -- in later title cases, this Court has takenthe same words and written them. But is there aninstance in the later title cases where that languagehas played a controlling role? MR. GARRE: Well, the -- JUSTICE BREYER: What case should I look atto see that it was really meant that that -- this --see, start where Justice Scalia was and then say whatJustice Kennedy just said -- MR. GARRE: There's certainly -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- and then thinking,well -- I'm thinking, well, Montello was a case thatinvolved a different purpose, and now the later cases,although they quoted the language, it didn't have a Officialrole. Am I right or not? MR. GARRE: This case has recognized alwaysthat The Daniel Ball and The Montello is the test fornavigability for title as well as admiralty. It hasnever drawn the kind of distinction that PPL and theUnited States ask you to draw here. JUSTICE SCALIA: The question is, has itheld that? Do you have a case where it would have madea difference? MR. GARRE: Not -- not of this Court. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. GARRE: And the lower courts have reliedupon The Daniel Ball and The Montello in plenty ofcircumstances adjudicating title. I think the Court hasto think about what the world would look like if theCourt adopted PPL and the United States' views. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if this is such anunderstood and traditional rule, why -- why didn'tMontana make its rights known earlier when these privateowners bought the land? Indeed, the State gave themcondemnation power to flood adjacent lands so that theycould build their dams. MR. GARRE: Again -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say while all thiswas going on, well, of course, everybody knew that OfficialMontana owned this land. And now they come back, what, a hundredyears later, and they not only want to get the landback, they want to tax them for their use of it over --over all these hundred years. MR. GARRE: PPL's deeds -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary. MR. GARRE: Your Honor, PPL's deedsspecifically exclude the riverbeds at issue in thiscase. So, PPL can have no claim to those lands and, infact, in its supplemental brief says that the UnitedStates owns the lands. We're not talking about theflood lands here; we're talking about the -- between thelow-water marks. Those lands were surveyed andmeandered at statehood to show that they did not conveyto private parties. Montana courts have recognized for more thana century that these waters are not navigable.Everybody understood that they were navigable. Thereason why this issue only arises now is because of a decision of the Montana Supreme Court that saidthat the State -- made clear that the State had afiduciary obligation to seek compensation for the use ofthe riverbeds. So, that -- that then teed up thequestion of whether the State could actually charge rent Officialfor the riverbeds. The State in this case -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And what about otherlandowners on the riverbeds? If Montana wins this case,will they be paying rent as well? MR. GARRE: They're not using the riverbeds,Your Honor. The reason why the facilities here areusing the riverbeds is because they actually sit on it.There are other instances where private landowners haveeasements and leases, like mineral leases with theState, under the -- because of the acceptedunderstanding that the State does own those lands. Andthis is not at all unusual. If you look at the State's brief, Washingtonand Oregon have thousands of these types of permitsbecause it's established that if the water is navigable,then the State owns the riverbeds, and there areconsequences that flow over this. But this really isn'ta fight between the State and the private landowners.It's -- it's a fight between the State and the UnitedStates, because if this case -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Just if I could understandthen, you think that this is a one of a kind landowner;there are no other landowners in Montana who are in thesituation of PPL? MR. GARRE: No, I think there are other Officiallandowners who have asserted -- who want rights to use-- to get minerals along rivers or have piers orbridges, and in those situations, they get permits fromthe State to use it. But I think what's going to happenis, if this Court declares that every mile or so that isan interruption is nonnavigable, then title is going totransfer to the United States because, under thisCourt's precedent in Utah, the Court held that if waterswere not navigable, the United States would have -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there a mile stretchanywhere on this river? MR. GARRE: A mile stretch? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. Is there a milestretch in which the boats stop? MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's some water inthe middle, and they -- MR. GARRE: There are two areas at issuehere: the Great Falls stretch -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know the two at issue.But you're saying, if we rule the way we do, we're goingto slice it up and so does the Attorney -- the SolicitorGeneral's office say, we're going to slice it up halfmile or half acre by half acre. I'm not sure how thathappens. I go back to Justice Kennedy's question, which Officialis, does a boat stop midstream? MR. GARRE: So, the test would be any non-deminimis interruption. That's the one that PPL and theUnited States are urging here. There are thousands ofdams in the country. There's the Niagara Falls, whichfor more than a century, it's been understood that theState owns it, not because it's an internationalboundary; that's a line plucked out of a decision. Readthe decision -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, how do Ifind that out? If I start with a practical premise ofnot wanting to interrupt expectations, I also believethat it's the most common thing in the world forelectric power companies to put hydroelectric facilitieswhere there are waterfalls or rapids, and that's trueall over the country. So, what's the status quo withthe -- you know, somebody could count up how manyhydroelectric plants there are on waterfalls. And what's the general view? Have thosehydroelectric companies been thinking that they areleasing or buying from the feds or from the States? Imean, I don't know what's happened in the past. And Ihave looked at the briefs. I can't get a very goodpicture. MR. GARRE: The best evidence I think we Officialhave about this question of the implications comes fromthe brief filed by States, which explains that ifthis Court adopts the kind of segmentation approach, anyinterruption that is -- that is not de minimis has to becarved out, it's going to wreak havoc in States acrossthe country, especially in the western States. Again,getting back to -- JUSTICE BREYER: When you say "wreak havoc,"do you mean to say that the States have leased thosestrips with the waterfalls which are impassable tohydroelectric companies, and the leases will have to berenegotiated or something like that? MR. GARRE: I'm not referring to specificleases on that. I'm talking about things like publicaccess for fishing, for example. The States have citedthe Steelheader case in Oregon. And this is what'sgoing to happen: Either the public -- privatelandowners are going to claim people coming along mybanks to fish, they don't have access to these waters.If they were navigable -- understood as navigable watersowned by the State, it's clear that they had would haveaccess. There's going to be clashes. There's going tobe -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought you say itdoesn't belong to the private individuals. I thought Officialyou said it belongs to the United States if it doesn'tbelong to the State. MR. GARRE: I think -- what this Court hassaid is if it's not navigable, the United States has it.But there would be the question -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there you are. Andyou think the United States is going to keep off thesefishermen? MR. GARRE: The question is whether there'dbe a separate conveyance from the United States.There's certainly going to be plenty of privatelandowners, I think, who are going to claim privateownership. So, there is going to be some sorting out todo. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you think they'rewrong, right? MR. GARRE: Well, no. They're -- if -- ifthe river is not navigable, then the lands didn't conveyunder the equal footing doctrine. JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. MR. GARRE: There'd be a separate questionof whether they conveyed by some other Federal patent,land patent, or the like. And there are -- certainlyare plenty of those. But I think what's clear is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, you -- you Officialhave said this is genuinely a controversy between theState and the United States, but the United States isnot a party to this -- to this litigation. And we knowfrom the briefing before us, the United States takes adifferent position than Montana. It doesn't agree withyou. But if this case -- how can a case be decidedwithout any input from the United States when you saythat's the true dispute; it is between the State and thenation? MR. GARRE: Well, the United States is here.It has given its views. It's true that it didn'tparticipate below, and that is a little bit unusual.What's weird is that the United States has neveractually asserted ownership to the riverbeds in thiscase. But I think -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Does PPL pay rent to theUnited States? MR. GARRE: Not with respect to theriverbeds. There's a statement in the brief thatsuggests that they pay rent. That's with respect to theupland, the flooded lands, for example, along thereservoir. The United States has never charged rent forthe use of the riverbeds themselves between thelow-water marks. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you help me with Officialthis? Navigable waters of the United States forpurposes of Federal jurisdiction over many activitiessuch as boating is one concept. Navigable waters of theUnited States for purposes of State ownership of the bedserves different purposes. Are the -- are the boundaries and thedefinitions of what is navigable co-extensive andparallel and -- and precisely the same in each case?Or, on the other hand, are there some cases where a bodyof water, say the falls, is navigable waters of theUnited States but not navigable waters of the UnitedStates for purposes of bed ownership by the State? MR. GARRE: I mean, certainly -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And -- and if there is adifference, can you tell me a case? And I thinkJustice Scalia basically was asking this earlier. MR. GARRE: There are two -- well, there'sthree distinctions between the test for title -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. GARRE: -- and the test for regulatorypurposes -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. GARRE: -- none of which bear on thedispute in this case. One is for title. You look atthe time of statehood. You don't look at the river at a Officiallater time. The next is, is that, for purposes oftitle, you look at the river in its natural state. Youdon't look at improvements. And the third is, forpurposes of title, the kind of commerce you consider isactually more expansive than the type you could considerfor regulatory purposes. This case, the focus has been on the riversat the time of statehood, their use as highways ofcommerce without improvements, which is in the heartlandof the test for title for navigability under The DanielBall and The Montello. None of the distinctions that this Court hasever recognized would bear on this, nor would it makeany sense, I think, to say that the rule that weidentified in The Montello as -- that has -- for morethan a century, has been established as the test fortitle for navigability somehow has to be applieddifferently in this case in a way that would requirebreaking up the rivers. And I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it is conceded, is itnot, that -- if we rule for the power companies in thiscase, there still may be a situation in which thesewaters can be navigable waters of the United States forother purposes, other than ownership of the bed? Or amI wrong on that? Official MR. GARRE: No, I think the United States'position is say they're navigable for Federal purposesbut not for State purposes. And I think -- and they'vetaken what I think is a pretty remarkable position. If you look at the briefs that we'veappended to our brief, the United States' in the MontanaPower Company case, the United States is saying that thevery same stretch of the Missouri along the Great Fallsis navigable because it served as a continuous highwayof commerce, and the falls did not prevent the riverfrom being used as a continuous highway; and, therefore,it's navigable under The Montello and The Daniel Ball,which is the theory that they recognize. And now they're here saying, well, that wasonly for regulatory purposes, not for title purposes.But it's the same test in both cases, and that's thetest that the nation has understood for more than years. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but I'm not sureit has the same consequences. It seems to me thatregardless of who prevails in this case, the State willbe able to exercise regulatory jurisdiction over thewaters. You know, you can't fish during these seasons,or there are different limits on how many fish you cantake. And so will the Federal Government. It will be Officialable to apply Federal law to the river regardless of whoowns parts of the river, regardless of who owns the landunderneath. MR. GARRE: And so, this Court has alwaysrecognized the States' authority to make those decisionsas an essential attribute of their sovereignty. Andthat's why the States -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Without regard --but I would say without regard to whether they happenedto own the land under the -- under the river or not. MR. GARRE: No, when they -- when they ownthe land under the river, that -- the ability to controlaccess along those rivers -- river and fishing and thelike is an essential attribute of State sovereignty.So, just saying that, well, the Federal Government andthe State can regulate together is, I think, animportant intrusion on State sovereignty as this Courthas always understood under the equal footing doctrineand the public trust doctrine. And you also have the problem of competingregulation of these rivers when you go from mile tomile, interruption to interruption, potentiallythousands along rivers. And that's laid out in thebrief by the environmental groups here, the NationalWildlife Foundation and Trout Unlimited and other Officialgroups, that talk about the problems with fragmentedregulatory jurisdiction. And you also get into the question of publicaccess for fishing, too. The rivers are used forcommerce, but the public trust doctrine was always usedto protect access to rivers for fishing, too. And so,if you look at a place like the Great Falls or theThompson Falls, these are among the most sought-afterfishing rivers in the world. JUSTICE SCALIA: You're willing to concedeon behalf of the State that if we find that the Statedoes not have ownership of the bed, the State does nothave regulatory jurisdiction for all of these purposesthat you're now describing? MR. GARRE: Absolutely not, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then your argumentdoesn't carry much weight. MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE ALITO: The State can continue toregulate all those things whether or not it owns thebed. MR. GARRE: And so, every time this Courthas said that the ability to do that is an essentialattribute of sovereignty, it must not have meant itbecause the United States could do it, too. I mean, it Officialis important to the States because having the sovereigncapacity over those riverbeds as navigable waters underthe public trust doctrine is critical to the States'authority. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you have sovereigntyover the land owned, owned by other private persons. MR. GARRE: And -- and I think it gets backto the public trust doctrine, the equal footingdoctrine, what this Court has said in the Utah case andother cases about the role of States in regulatingnavigable rivers and owning title to the riverbedsunderlying those rivers. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We haven't talkedmuch about the Madison. What -- what is your best pieceof evidence with respect to the Madison for theproposition that it was navigable at statehood? MR. GARRE: Well, there was some evidence ofuse by fur trappers and the like. It was not extensivebecause this area was relatively sparse. I think -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, fur trappersare going to go -- they don't need a lot of -- a lot ofwater to ply their canoes up the river. MR. GARRE: Well, and this Court hasrecognized that things like pirogues and bateaux weresufficient to establish the continuous highway of Officialcommerce. I think the point on the Madison is thesusceptibility for use as a navigable river. And themain point that we made below is that where their ownexpert recognized that PPL's dams had impeded the flowof water over of the river, that if those dams impedethe flow of water over the river but yet today there arethousands of drift boats similar to the boats that wouldhave used it at the time of statehood, then it's goodevidence that it was susceptible for use. But I think the Madison is in a differentcategory than the Missouri and the Clark Fork. I do want to answer the question about the miles. The Desplaines River in the Economy Lightcase, there was an -mile portage. That's made clearat page a of our addendum, where the Governmentrecognized that. In Montello, it was a -mile portage.In -- there are other examples of portages. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Five miles, was that --was that the canal? What subsequently became the canalarea? MR. GARRE: I -- I think that's right. It'sin the testimony in that decision. But, certainly, miles -- and the other thing is, is that in theamicus brief, on page of the Tubbs brief, she Officialsuggests that the actual portage before statehood wasonly miles. I don't think you could draw aconstitutional line between , , or even miles and miles. We think the line the Constitution draws iswhether -- asks whether the river was -- served as acontinuous highway of commerce, notwithstanding anyinterruption along that way. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that then thesimplest rule is, is the river from shore to oppositeshore -- any portion of it -- did boats traverse it?That would be I think what Justice Alito was asking. MR. GARRE: But it's not even the rule thatPPL was asking for, because they acknowledge that someinterruptions would be navigable. They call it "non-deminimis." It's not clear how you get there. If you go between the low-water marks,there's only a part of the way that you could actuallybring a boat up, but, yet, it's established that theState owns the entire riverbeds between low-water markto low-water mark. After traversing the Missouri and the veryfalls at issue in this case, Meriwether Lewis describedthat he didn't think the world could furnish a finerexample of a navigable river through a mountainous Officialcountry than the Missouri. That assessment made by thePresident's own agent, charged with assessing thesuitability of the Missouri for commerce, was consistentwith more than years of this precedent -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did he write that duringhis -day -- -day portage? (Laughter.) MR. GARRE: Your Honor, it was an -dayportage. At the time of statehood, it was a -dayportage. I think what's significant is he wrote itafter that portage. And yet, he recognized there wasnot a finer example of a navigable river throughmountainous country. That assessment was consistentwith this Court's precedents for more than years.It's consistent with the actual use of the Missouri as acontinuous highway of commerce along the very stretch atissue here. We don't believe that PPL or the UnitedStates has provided a legal reason for this Court tooverturn the judgment of the Montana Supreme Court thatthe Missouri or the other rivers at issue in this caseare navigable. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Clement, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT Official ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. A few points in rebuttal: First, it's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you point to someportages that are de minimis? Point me -- I don't carewhere they are in the United States. Give me a list ofsome that are de minimis. MR. CLEMENT: I mean, I don't have any deminimis portages for you. The portages he's talkingabout, as far as I can tell, the -mile and the -mile,are portages between rivers, and that has nothing to dowith whether the bypassed stretch of a river would benonnavigable because it's de minimis, because if youportage between two rivers, you're not bypassinganything. Where I can talk about sort of portagesbeing de minimis, if you look at the special master'sreport in the Utah case, there are a few places in theCataract Canyon where he talks about portages, and hetalks -- you know, in parts where they got boats to.But the key point is, whenever the Court has talkedabout portages in the context of navigability, they'vepointed to them as suggesting non-navigability, and incertain circumstances said, well, you had to portage alittle bit, but that's not enough to make the stretch Officialnonnavigable. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what were your -- whatwere your other four points you were going to give us? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I was going to give youa couple, Your Honor. I'd start with the deeds. Youknow, the State wants to make something of the fact thatthe deeds stop at the river. But that's true throughoutthe State. And the question then becomes, what rulegoverns the ownership of the riverbeds? And that'swhere navigability versus non-navigability. So, thedeeds don't prove anything. That's just the way thedeeds were written. The next point: Justice Kagan, you askedabout, you know, do the other owner -- other people onthe river have anything to fear. And the answer as faras I heard was, well, these are different. They sit onthe riverbed. Well, two things, Your Honor: So do someof the piers, and that's why people have filed amicusbriefs and are very concerned. But more to the point, these things have notmoved under the riverbed recently. They've been sittingthere for a hundred years, and the State lent itseminent domain power to us to help us build these dams.These dams were critical to developing energy anddevelopment in this area. And now a hundred years Officiallater, they want compensation for the little riverstrip under that. JUSTICE SCALIA: Could the United Statesdemand compensation? MR. CLEMENT: We pay the United Statescompensation right now. The difference is the UnitedStates isn't going in afterwards and trying to put ahold-up to us and saying they want $ million for this.We pay rents to FERC for some of these lands. Actually,the State gets . percent of that back. JUSTICE SCALIA: For the riverbed? For theriverbed land -- MR. CLEMENT: Well, look at footnote ofthe Government's brief. I mean, again, the problem hereis if you want people to have deeds that really parseout whether it's riverbed or upland, they don't becauseeverybody defaults to the bottom line -- the backgroundrule. The background rule is if it's a nonnavigableriver, the riparian owners, whether it be the UnitedStates or private property owners, get to midway, or ifthey own both on both sides, they get the whole thing. I think on "de minimis," we talk about it alot, but I would point out that the one thing we knowthat's not de minimis from Utah is . miles, becausethat's what the Court analyzes separately in the portion Officialof Cataract Canyon. Every stretch at issue here, every dam atissue here, is more than . miles. Fully five of thedams are on the -mile Great Falls stretch, which theyagree is impassable. The other five are reservoir damsthat create reservoirs that extend over . miles. So, there's nothing de minimis in the bestevidence that is the $ million in compensation. Ithink the $ million in back rent also shows thatalthough this is a dispute between Montana and theUnited States, my client is caught in the middle of it,and they're obviously concerned about it, too. I want to talk about what's disputed andwhat's undisputed. What is undisputed is the milesis impassable. That's enough, as I say, to give usjudgment as a matter of law for the five dams on thatstretch. What is hotly disputed, despite my friend'srepresentation, is whether or not there was throughcommerce through this bypass route. He suggests it'sundisputed that gold went from Helena down to FortBenton down to St. Louis. And that, of course, is notdisputed, but it went on roads. It didn't go on theupper -- on the upper Missouri. And if you want to know who's got the betterof this argument, I ask you to think about this Officialquestion: The United States Army built a -mileoverland road from Fort Benton, the traditional head ofnavigation on the Missouri, to Walla Walla, Washington.Now, if the State is right and the upper Missouri andthe Clark Fork were navigable, all they had to do is --is have a -mile road to connect the two. They werenever navigable. Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAability ::able : :above-entitled: :absolutely :: :accepted :access :,: ::,account :acknowledge:acre : :: :,Act :,action :,:activities :actual ::addendum:additional :address :addresses ::adheres :adhering :adjacent ::adjudicate :adjudicatingadministrable::admiralty :: :adopt ::adopted :: :adoption :adopts :adversary :agent :ago :agree :: ::agrees :aid :Alito : :,: :,,: :,: :,: ::Alito's :alleged :allowed :allows :American :amicus : :: :: :amount :amounts :Anacostia :analogy :analysis :analyzed :analyzes :answer :: :: :,: ::answering :answers :anyplace :anyway ::apparently :APPEARAN...appeared :,appended :::appendix :applied :: :: :applies :apply ::, :appoint :approach :,appropriate::approve :area : :: :: :areas :: ::argued :arguing :argument ::,,, :: : :: :,: ::arises ::Arizona :Army :arteries ::articulatingartificiality::ascertain :asked ::asking :: :: :: ::,asks :aspects :asserted ::assessed :assessing :assessment ::assisted :assume :assuming :::Attorney :attribute ::, :authorities :authority :: ::avenue :a.m : :Bback :, :: : :: :: :: :: ::, :: :: :background:,backyard :Ball : :: :,:, ::, ::banks :based : :basic : :basically :: :basis :bateaux :battle :bear ::bed : :: ::, :: ::,beds ::beginning :behalf :,,: : :: ::believe :: :belong :: :belonged :belongs :Benton :: :: :best : ::better :big :billions :bit : :,: ::bite :bits : :boat :,,: :,,: :,: : ::,,,:, :: :: :boating :boats :: :: ::, :: ::, ::body : : Officialborders :borrowed :bottom ::bought :bound :,:boundaries :boundary :: :breaking :Brewer-Elliott: :BREYER ::,,:,,:, ::,,,:,,: :bridges ::brief : :: :: :,: :: :: :: :,:briefing :briefs :: ::bright-line :bring :,:Britain :broader :build ::building :built : ::buying :bypass :,: :bypassed :: :: :bypassing :CC : :cab :call : :canal : :canoes :::canyon ::,,: :capacity :care :cargo : ::,,:carried :carry : ::carrying :carve :carved :case : :,: :,: :: :,:,,: ::,,:,,: :,,:, :: ::,,: :,: :,: :,: :,: :: :: :,cases : ::, ::,,: ::,,: ::Cataract :: :category :caught :cause :century :: :: :cert :certain ::certainly :: :,: :change ::channel :,: :charge ::charged ::Chief :,:, ::, :: :,: :: :: :,: ::choice :chop : :chopping :,circular :circumstance:circumstances: :cite :cited : :claim :,: :: ::Clark ::,,: :clashes :classic :,Clean :clear : :: :: :: :clearly :Clement ::, :,,: : :: :,,:,,:, :: :,: :,:,,: :: ::, :: : ::client :close : :closed :,coincide :colonial :Colorado :come : ::, ::comes : :: :coming ::commerce ::, ::,,,: :,: ::, :: :: :,:, ::,,:, :: : ::, :commercial: :,,committed:common :,:, ::companies: :,: :Company :compensation: ::,, :competing: :completely: :concede :conceded :concept :conception :concerned :: :concerning:concerns :conclude :concurrentcondemnation::connect :consequences: :consider ::,consideration:, : :considerations: :considered :consistent ::,constitute :Constitution :: :constitutional: :consult :context ::continue :continuous: ::,,: :,: ::control :: :: :: :,:controlled :controlling:controls :controversyconvey :conveyance ::::::conveyancesconveyed :core :counsel :: ::,count :country :: :,: :,County :couple :course ::court :, ::,,,:, ::, :: : ::,,,:, ::,,,:, ::, :: ::,,,,: :,:, :: :,: :: ::,,: :,: :: :,: :,:, ::courts :: :,: :court's :: :: :: :,: :: :: ::covered :co-extensive:create : :created ::creating :Officialcreek :creeks :critical :: ::critically :curiae : ::curious :current :customary ::cut :DD : :,:, :dam :dams :,,: :: ::, :: :,:Daniel : :: :,:, ::, ::day :de :,,: :,: ::, :: ::,,,,:, :deal : :dealing :dealt :dear :debate :December :decide :decided :: ::deciding ::decision :: :: ::, :decisions :declares :decree :,:deeds : :: :,,: :deeply :defaults :define : :defining :definition :definitions :definitively :degree :demand :demonstrates:,Department:depended :depends :Deputy :derives :described :: :describes :describing:despite :Desplaines:detail :determine :determiningdeveloping::::developmentdeviating :difference :: ::different :: : ::, :: :,: :: :,: :: :: :differently:difficult :difficulties :::directions :directly :disagree :disagreeing :disagreement:discernible :: :discuss :discussed :discussing ::discussion :dispute :: :: :disputed ::,disruption:dissent :distance ::, ::distances :distinction :distinctions: : distinguish:district :doctrine :: :,: :: :: :,: :,,document :dollars ::, :domain ::draft :drag :draw : :drawing :drawn :draws :drift :: :drive :driven :drove :Durham :D.C :,,: :EE : :,earlier :: :easements :: :east : :eastern :,easy :ebb :economically:Economy :EDWIN :: :efforts :,: :either :elaborate :::electric :eminent ::emphasis :emphatically:enable :ended :energy :England :,:ensuring :entire :,: :entitled :environmental:epitome :equal : :: ::error : :errors :especially :::ESQ :,,:,,,essential ::, :establish ::established: :: :estoppel :everybody: :: :Everybody's:evidence :,: :,: :Official: :: :: ::, ::evidentiary :exactly : :example :: :: :: :examples :exception :exclude ::exercise :expansive :expectations: :,: ::experience :expert :explained :explains :extend : :extended ::,extensive :extent :extraordinary: :extreme ::,Ffacilities :: :fact : ::, :: ::factor :factors :factual :: :factually :failure :fair :fall : :falls :,: :,: :: :,: ::, :: :: :: :,:, ::far : :favor :fear :feature :features ::Federal :,: ::,,,: ::, :: :: :,:,federalism:feds :,,: :feeling :feet : ::,,fences :FERC :fiduciary :fight :,filed : :: :find : :findings :finer ::first : :: :fish : :::fishermen :fishing ::,,,,: :: :,,fit :five : :,:flew :,,float :floating :flood : :: :flooded ::flow : :: :,fluctuations:fly :flying :focus :,: :focused :focusing :follow ::footing :: :: :footnote :Fork : ::, ::Fort : :: ::forth :found :foundation: :founding :four :Fox :, fragmentedFramers :::Francisco ::free :friend's :front : :Fully :fur :, ::furnish :further ::GG : : ::gap :Garre : ::,,: :,: :: :,:, ::,,,:, :,: :,:,,:,,:, ::,,:, :,:,,:, ::,,,: :,:,,,: :,:,,:,,: ::gate :gee :general :Official: :: :: :Government's: :governs :grant :granted :granting :great : ::, :: :,: :: : :GREGORY: ::groups ::guidance :guideposts ::Hhalf :,,hand :happen :: :happened :,: :happens :: :happy :Harbors :hard :,havoc :,head : :hear :heard :heartland :heavily :held : :Helena :: :help : ::helpful :hidden :highly :highway :: ::,,,,: :: :,:, ::, :: :highways ::historic :history :,: :hold :holdout :holdouts :holds :hold-up :Honor :: :: : :: :hope :horse :hotly :hundred ::, ::hydroelectric:,,:Iidea : :identified :,:identifies :ignore : :illegal :impact ::impassable: ::,impede :impeded :implications:important :: :: :: :impossible: :improvement::,:improvementsinch :, :include :including :Indian :indicating :individual :individuals:inherent :initially :input :inquiry :instance :instances :instinct :internal :international: :,:interrupt ::interruption: ::, :: ::, :interruptions:, :interstate ::,intervene :intervened :intrusion :: :: :General's :generate :generated :genuinely :geographic:geology :getting ::gift :GINSBURG: :: :: :give :, ::, :given : ::gives ::, :go : : :: :,: :: :: :goes :,,going : ::, :: :: :: :: :: :,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,:gold :,,: :good : ::goods ::Government involved :irreconcilable::island :islands :,:issue :, ::, :,:, :: :: :: ::, :: ::, ::JJA :JFK :judgment :: ::, ::judgments :jump :jurisdiction: ::, :: :,Justice : :: :, ::,, :,:, ::,,:,,:, :: ::,,:,,: :,,: :,:,,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,: :,,: ::,, :: ::,,:,, ::, ::,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:, ::,,: :,:,,,: ::, ::,,:, ::,,: :: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, :: :justification: :,KKagan ::, ::keep : :Kennedy :,:,,:, :: ::,,: ::Kennedy's:key :kind : :: :: :,:, :: ::: :,,,: :,: :,:,,:,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,,: ::knew :know : :: :,: ::,,: :: ::, :: ::, ::known :LLA :laches :LaGuardia:laid :land : ::, :: :: :,: :,: :: :,OfficialKneedler :lands :: :,: ::landowner:landowners:,,,: ::: :,:, :: ::language ::,,large :largely :larger :,lark :Laughter :law : :,:,, :: ::, :: : ::lawsuit :leased :leases : :: :,leasing :leave :,:left :,:legal : ::, :lending :length ::lent :lessened :let's :Lewis :lies :lift : :lifted :,light : :lighten :lighter :limit :limited :limits :line : ::, :lines :list :litigated ::litigation :: :little : :: ::, :: :lively :LLC :load :loam :located :log :logically :long : ::,,,:, :: ::longer : :look :,,: : :,: ::, ::, :: :: :: :,:, :: ::looked ::lot : :: :, Official:Louis :lower ::low-water :: :,:MMadison :: ::, ::main :maintained:major ::mark :,marks :: :massive :master ::master's :: :matter : :: :: :,: :: :matters :: :mean :,: :,: ::,,,:, :: :: :,:, :: :: ::meandered ::meaning :means : :,: :meant ::men :mentioned :Meriwether:middle : :: ::midstream :midway :Midwesterner:mile : :: :,:,,:,miles ::,,,: :,: :: :,: ::,,:,, ::,,million :,: :,millions :: :mind :mineral ::minerals :miners :,minimis :,: : :: ::, :: :: ::,,,,:, :minimus :minutes :Missouri ::, :: :: :: :,:, ::,mistake ::mistakes :misunderstood:mixed :mode :modern-day:modes : :moment ::money :Montana :,:,, :: :,: ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :: :Montana's :Montello :,: :,: :: :: :,:,,:, ::,,,,:, :: ::mountainous: :mouth :moved :: :NN :, :narrow :nation :National :::nation's :natural :nature : :navigability: : ::,,: :: :,:, ::,,: ::, ::navigable ::,, :,:,, :: :: :,,: :,,: ::,,:,,,: ::,,,:,, :: :,:,,,: :,: ::, :: :,,:, ::,, ::, ::, :: :,navigation :: :: ::, :: : :necessary :need :: :needs :negligible :never : :: ::, :New :Niagara :: ::nice :non :nonnavigable: :,,: : :: :,:, :: ::, ::,,: :: ::non-de ::non-navigabil...:, :: :normal :normally :Northwest :notice :notion :,notorious :notwithstandi...:number :OO : :obligation :observed :obstruction: obstructions: :,obviously :: :occasionally:occurred :odd :,offer :office :Oftentimes :oh : ::,Okay ::, :: :Oklahoma :once :ones : ::open : ::,opinion :opposite :opposition :oral : :,,: : :order :Ordinance :OrdinarilyOregon :::origin :original ::,originally :ought ::outset :Outside :overland :,:, :: :overnight :overturn :owned :,: :,,:, :: :,owner :: ::owners :: :,ownership ::, :,:, :: :,: ::owner's :owner-owned:owning :owns : :: :: :: :: ::, ::ox :O'Connor :PP :page : :: ::,paper :paragraph:parallel :parcel :,Pardon :parlance :parse :part : :: :,: : :: ::,,,:Officialparticipate:particular :particularly::parties :parts :,: :: :party : :pass : :passage :patent :,path :pathway :PAUL : :: : :pause :pay :,:,paying : :people :: :: ::, :percent :perfectly :period :permit :permits :::persons :pertains :pertinent :::Petitioner ::, :,: : ::Petitioner's :Petroleum :Phillips :physically ::,picked :picture :piece :pieces :piers : :pipelines :pirogues :place :, :places :planes :plants :play :played :please : ::plenty ::,plucked :ply :point : ::,,:,, :: ::, :,: :,:pointed ::points ::, ::portage :,:,,,,:, ::, ::, :: ::, :: :: :,: :,,: :,portaged :,:portages :: ::,,,,:,portion :: ::, ::portions ::,position :,: :,possibility :potentially:power :: :: ::PPL : :: ::, :: :: ::PPL's : ::, :practicable:practical :: :precedent :: :: :precedents :: :: :precisely :predecessors:,premise :present :presented ::,presents :President's :pressed :pretty :prevails :prevent : Official: ::, ::rejected :relatively :relevant :: :: :,:, :relied ::reluctantly:rely :remain :remained :remaining :remains :remand :remanded :remands :remarkable: :remove :renegotiated:: ::,,:rents :reply :report :: :representation:republic :require ::required :reservation :reserve :reservoir :: :reservoirs :: :respect :: :: :: :,:Respondent: ::result :retains :review :right : :: :: ::,,:, :: ::, :: :rights :: :: :riparian ::, :: : :: ::riparians :river :,,:,,,:, :,:, ::,,,: :: :,: :,:,,:,,: :,:, :: :,:,,,: ::,,,: :: :: :,,:, :recommendedrent : : :pre-existed :pre-exists :principally :principles :private :: :: :,:, :: ::probably :problem ::, ::problems :proceeding:proceedings: :process :,:product :proper ::properly :property :: :: :,: :proposition:protect :prove :provided :public :,,: ::, ::, :,pull :purpose ::, :: :purposes :: :: ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:put : :: :: ::, ::p.m :Qqualify :question :: :: :: :,: :,: :,:,,:, ::,,: :: :: :,,: :: :questions ::quick :quiet :,quite : :::quo :quote :quoted :RR :raising :rapids :: :Reach :reaches :read :,::real :really : ::, :,:, :: :: :: ::reason :: :,:, :: ::reasons :rebuttal :: :recognize :: :recognized: :: :: :: :,:recognizes ::::record :recreational: :referring :reflected ::reflects :regard :,regardless ::,region :regulate :: :regulating :regulation :: :regulatory:, : Officialside :sided :sides :significant ::silty :similar ::simplest :sit : :sitting ::situation :: :: :: :: ::situations :slice :,slices :small : :: :,Solicitor :: :somebody :::sort : :: :: ::sorting :Sotomayor :,:, ::,,:,,:, ::, ::, ::,,: ::,, ::,,,: ::sought :sought-after:sound :sovereign :,:,,:sovereignty :: :,: ::sparse :speak :speaking :special : ::::specific :specifically: ::sports :spot :,,St :start : :: ::starting :state :,: : :: : :,:, :: ::, :: :,: ::, ::,,:,,,:, :: :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,:, :: :,: :: :: :: :: :,:,,: :,,: :,: :: :,:,riverbed ::, :: ::, ::,riverbeds ::, :: :,:, :,:,,:,,:, ::rivers : ::, :: :,:, :: ::,, ::,,: : :: :,:,,:,, :: ::,road :,roads :ROBERTS ::, :: ::, :: ::, ::rock :rocks :role : :: :route ::rule : :,: : :: :: :,:, :: ::, :: ::,runs :SS : :, ::sailor :San : :Sanders :saying :: :: ::, ::says : :: ::Scalia :,:, :: :: :,: :,:, :: :,: ::,,: :,seasonableseasons :::second : :secure :secured :see : :,: :,:, ::seek :seen :segment :,: : :: :segmentation:, :segments :: : :self-evident :sense : :sensible :::sensibly :separate :: :: ::,separately :::served :: ::serves :set :settled : :Seventeen ::shed :shifts :ships ::shore :,short :shoulders :show : :showed :shows :serious :somewhat : Official: :,: ::statehood :: :, :: :: :: : :statement :States :,,: :, ::,,,,: : :: ::,,,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :,:, :,:,, ::,, ::,,,,:, ::,,: :,,:, ::,,: ::,,,: :State's : :: ::status :stay :stayed :Steelheader:steps :stop : :: :stopped :stops : :stream :: :,,: : :streambed :streams ::stretch ::, ::,, ::, :: :: :,:, :: :,:,,stretches :,: ::strip : :: :stripes :strips : ::subject :submit :submitted :subsequently::substantial :: :substitute :succeed :sudden :sufficient :suggest :suggested :suggesting ::suggests :: ::suit :suitability :summarized:summary ::,supplemental:supplies :supply :supporting :: :Supreme :,: :,: ::, ::sure : :: :: :,: :: ::surveyed :susceptibility:susceptible:switch :TT :,take : :: :: ::, :: ::, ::taken :: :takes : :talk : :: :: :talked :: :talking ::,,:, :: :: ::, ::talks ::,tax :teed :tell : :: :tens :term :terms ::test : :: : ::,,,: ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,testimony :tests :Texas :Thank ::, :: :,theory :: :: ::thing :: ::,things :: :: :: :,think :,,: : ::,, ::,,,:, ::, :: :,:, :: :,: :: :,:,,,:,,,:, :,: :,:, ::,,:,,: ::,,:, :: ::, :: :: :,:,,: ::, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,: ::,thinking ::, :third : :Thompson: :,: :thought ::, ::,thousands :: ::three : :: ::tide :time : :: :: :: :,: :: times :title : ::, ::, :: :: : ::,,:,,:, ::, ::,,: :today : :today's :Tokyo :,:told :tolls :topographicaltopography::trade :traders :,traditional :: :trail :,train :transfer :: :transport :transportation:, :: :transversedtrappers :::travel : :traveled ::traveling :traverse :traversed ::traverses :traversing :Officialtrial :tributary :trouble :Trout :true : ::, :truly :trust :,,: :: :,try :trying :Tubbs :tune :turn :turns :two : :,: ::, :: ::type :types :typically :Uultimately :unbroken :underlie :underlying: :: :underneath: :,:understand :: :: :: :understanding: :understood :: :,: :: :: ::undisputed:,,uninterrupted:Union :United :,,: : :,: : :: :,:,,,: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,,: :,,:,,,: :,:, ::,, :: ::,,,: :Unlimited :unnavigable:unquestionablyunrebutted::unsettle :unusual ::unworkable:upend :upland ::upper : ::, :urging :use : :,: :,: :: :,:, :: ::, :useful :uses :Utah :,,:, :: :: :: :utilities :U.S :,Vv : : :,: :value : :vanguard :versus :vessels :view : ::viewed ::,views ::Wwagon :walked :::Walla :,want : :: :,: ::,,:,wanting :wants : :warrant :Washington ::,,: ::wasn't :: :: :waste :water :: :: ::,waterfalls ::, :waters : :: :,:, :: ::, ::,,:, ::waterway :,waterways:,way : :: :,: :: ::, :Wednesday :weigh :weighed :weighing :weight :weird :well-recognized:well-settled :went :: :,weren't :western ::We'll :we're :,:, :: :: :: ::, ::we've : :whatnot :whatsoever : Wildlife :willing :wins :Wisconsin ::words :work :,worked :world :: ::worth :wreak :,wrecking :,wrecks :write :written ::wrong :: ::wrote :Xx :,Yyards :years : :: ::, ::, ::Yorkers :$ :, :$:, :-day : : ::-foot :- : :-day :: : :Official :,,: :-mile :: : : : : :-mile :-mile : : :-feet : :-mile :-/ :: : : : :: :, : : :,: :,: :-mile :: : :a :-mile :: : :, : : :,: : : :: :. : ::, : : : : : : : : :-day :-day :. : :. : :: 