Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCORY R. MAPLES, : Petitioner : v. : No. -KIM T. THOMAS, INTERIM :COMMISSIONER, ALABAMA DEPARTMENT :OF CORRECTIONS :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner.JOHN C. NEIMAN, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Montgomery, Alabama; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN C. NEIMAN, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Maples v. Thomas. Mr. Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Two factors distinguish this case from thosein which the Court has found cause lacking to excuse adefault: First, the State itself had a direct hand inthe extraordinary events leading up to the default inthis case; and, second, the actions of Maples'sattorneys, which rise to the level of abandonment, arenot attributable to Maples under agency law or otherprinciples that this Court has invoked in determiningwhen attorney conduct may be imputed to a client. For either or both of those reasons, thedefault at issue in this case is not fairly attributableto Cory Maples, and the contrary decision of theEleventh Circuit should be reversed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You talk about theState's role. I assume that you're talking about thereis the failure to take action after the return of the notices.Official MR. GARRE: I think that's -- that's right,Mr. Chief Justice. I would couple that, though, withthe fact that the State initially set up a system forthe representation of indigent capital defendants thatrelies extremely heavily on the good graces ofout-of-State counsel to represent indigent capitaldefendants in Alabama. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, put -- puttingthat -- that to one side, what if only one of the threenotices had been returned? MR. GARRE: I think -- if only one from theout-of-State pro bono counsel? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MR. GARRE: I think that would be adifferent case. I think what's remarkable about thiscase is you have both out-of-State attorneys, thenotices come back marked "Return to Sender -- Left Firm"in an envelope, and the clerk does nothing. And what'sextraordinary about that, Mr. Chief Justice, is that thesystem in this case relies on the out-of-State attorneysto provide -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Who says so? Who says so?Who says that they rely on -- you have a local attorney,and you have to have a local attorney for the case, Officialdon't you? And -- and you want us to believe that thelocal attorney is -- has no responsibility for the caseat all? Is this really what the -- what the lawrequires? I -- I think there is a serious ethicalobligation when he has the -- when he gets the notice.He is one of the attorneys for your client. And he gotthe notice, right? That one was not returned. MR. GARRE: That's correct, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: He failed to check with --with the New York lawyers who were working with him.Why is it -- why is the State responsible for that? MR. GARRE: We have three points on thelocal counsel, Your Honor. First, the record shows thatthe notice is not attributable to Mr. Maples because Mr.Butler had disclaimed any relationship apart fromfacilitating the admission of his out-of-Stateattorneys. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Disclaimed to who? To --I mean, how could a clerk be expected to know that thelocal counsel really isn't taking any part? I mean --so was the disclaimer to the clerk? MR. GARRE: I think a -- a couple things onthe clerk's perspective. First, we do think that it waswell known in Alabama that, under this unique system,out-of-State attorneys were doing all the work in these Officialcases, and local counsel were simply facilitating theiradmission. Second, one of the -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, who says that, Mr.Garre? I mean, is there anything in the record on thatpoint, on the Alabama system generally? MR. GARRE: A couple of the things, YourHonor. First, we do have the amicus briefs, whichdiscuss that anecdotally. I would say that the State ofAlabama in its brief in opposition to this Court a fewyears back in the Barbour case specifically touted therole of out-of-State attorneys under its system and, asfar as I could tell, didn't mention local counsel once.So, I think it was fair to say that it's known that theout-of-State attorneys here were doing all the work.But even if the clerk -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're begging thequestion, which is how is the clerk supposed to knowthis? This is a functionary in the clerk's office whosends out notices, receives back mail that's notreturned. There has to be some local counsel that doeswork. MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is he supposed toknow the difference between those that do and those thatdon't? Official MR. GARRE: What -- what -- I think theclerk would be imputed with knowledge, general knowledgeof the system. But beyond that, what the clerk know --knew was this: He knew that two of the three noticesthat went out were returned, both to the out-of-Stateattorneys, which ought to be an extraordinary event inthe life of any clerk's office. JUSTICE SCALIA: But, you know, even iflocal counsel is as you -- as you describe it, andnothing in the record establishes it, even if he is afunctionary, surely the function would include when hegets a notice, that he makes sure that the -- the peoplewho do the real work know about the notice. MR. GARRE: Of course. But the point is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: He didn't perform thatfunction. MR. GARRE: In this case, the local counseldidn't perform as a mail drop, and that wasintentionally so. His own affidavit makes that clear.And I think what's important is the State itself mustnot have viewed him as a meaningful player. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he didn't have a maildrop? I just didn't hear what you said. MR. GARRE: My point was that ordinarily alocal counsel would serve as the mail drop; he would Officialforward notice. In this case, Mr. Butler made quiteclear from the outset that he was not even performingthat role. The role that he intentionally performed wasto admit out-of-State counsel and to let them do thework. But the State itself -- JUSTICE SCALIA: To whom did he make thatclear? You said he made it clear at the outset. Towhom? And where is that in the record? MR. GARRE: It's in his affidavit, YourHonor, the petition appendix page . JUSTICE SCALIA: His affidavit after --after the fact, right? MR. GARRE: That's right, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did he tell theclerk of the court that that was the case? MR. GARRE: He did not. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, you know, I'm counselof record. He's the counsel of record, right? I'mcounsel of record, but I don't even do so much as toforward notices to the guys that are doing the realwork? Did he tell the clerk that? MR. GARRE: He did not tell the clerk -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's extraordinary. MR. GARRE: -- but the State itself, YourHonor must not have viewed him as a meaningful player, Officialbecause when the default at issue in this case occurred,the State sent a letter -- faxed it -- to Mr. Maplesdirectly on death row in Alabama, without -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that even beforethat. In the rule -- you said the Rule -- didn't yousay something about -- the -- the notice that went fromthe prosecutor to Maples did not go to the localcounsel, right? MR. GARRE: The clerk sent out notices toall three attorneys of record, the two out-of-Statecounsel and Mr. Butler. Mr. Butler did receive thenotice. He didn't do anything, both because he hadn'tassumed any role beyond facilitating admission -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did the -- did theprosecutor -- I'm not talking about the clerk now. Theprosecutor had a filing in connection with the Rule motion. Did the prosecutor send that to, well,everybody? Maples and everybody? MR. GARRE: He did not. The State -- andthis is at page of the joint appendix. The Stateserved it on his out-of-State counsel and not Mr.Butler, his local counsel. And when the defaultoccurred, the State contacted Mr. -- Mr. Maples directlyin prison, which would have been unethical if the Statehad known or believed that he was represented by counsel.Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you seem not to relyon what the State as prosecutor did. It seemed to methe State as prosecutor was recognizing that Maples hadno counsel; therefore, sent -- said you'd better fileyour habeas; this is how much time you have -- sent itjust to him. MR. GARRE: I absolutely agree with you,Justice Ginsburg. I think that that is further evidencethat everybody knew that Mr. Maples didn't have anylocal counsel in any meaningful sense. JUSTICE SCALIA: Where does the Constitutionsay, by the way, that you have to give notice, thatevery judicial action has to be noticed -- MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to the parties to thecase? The Federal rules don't -- don't require notice,do they? MR. GARRE: The Constitution doesn't saythat explicitly -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Federal rules don'tsay it. You don't have to give notice in the Federalrules, do you? MR. GARRE: We think notice of apostconviction order in a capital case would at least Officialimplicate a due process interest in receiving notice,that it's reasonable -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Capital cases aredifferent? If you're going to go to jail for life you-- you don't get notice, but if -- if it's a capitalcase -- MR. GARRE: I think under the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, I mean, it's either arule for all criminal cases or it's not a rule. MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if -- if it's a rulefor all criminal cases, the Federal rules areunconstitutional, you're saying. MR. GARRE: The Mullane case specificallytakes into account the interests of the individualreceiving notice. There could be no greater interest ofan individual than receiving notice in a capital casewhere the individual's life is at stake. Ultimately wedon't think this Court has to find a constitutionalviolation. It has to find that the events -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Once you're in court andyou have a lawyer, it's up to your lawyer to follow whatgoes on in the court. That's the assumption of theFederal rules. And it seems to me a perfectlyreasonable assumption. And I'm not about to hold that Official-- that they are unconstitutional simply because anextraordinary requirement of notice, which is notrequired by the Constitution, has gone awry. MR. GARRE: Here Mr. Maples did not have anattorney that was serving in an agency role in anymeaningful sense. That's laid out in Ms. DeMott'samicus brief; it's laid out in our case. What's more isthe State here didn't simply just, we think quiteunreasonably, rely on a role that local counsel was notperforming in Alabama -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- but --your case it seems to me turns critically on Butler'srole. How much, in addition to what he did or didn'tdo, would he have to do to put him in a position wherehe was in fact representing Maples in your view? MR. GARRE: I think that the ordinary roleof local counsel, which would have been to, at aminimum, forward notice in a proceeding, would be ameaningful relationship. The relationship that -- thatProfessor DeMott describes here is one of sub-agency.And, in fact, if you look at the Alabama rules, they putthe onus on the out-of-State counsel to associate thelocal counsel. That's at page of the jointappendix. The out-of-State counsel did that. Mr. --Mr. Maples wasn't involved in that transaction. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Where do we look -- where dowe look to see that it's standard practice for localcounsel throughout the country to contact out-of-Statecounsel when something like this is received? Iremember a case from the Federal system in which localcounsel appeared and did exactly what was done here,moved the admission of an out-of-State criminal defenseattorney, who then tried the case for a year, got sick,and the judge said to the local -- local counsel: Comeon in; you're going to take over this trial and try itfor the next months. And the local counsel said:Whoa, I only signed up to move the admission of thisfellow. The judge said: That's too bad; you're counselof record, and you have to take over the case. I don't understand that what is alleged tohave occurred here is that far out of the ordinary. MR. GARRE: I think Mr. Butler -- justsimply saying, I'm going to allow -- I'm going tofacilitate your out-of-State attorneys to represent you,but that's my role. He had, quote, unquote, "no role"after that. JUSTICE SCALIA: He can't define his role asa lawyer. Once he appears before a court and says, I amcounsel of record, he has certain responsibilities.It's not up to him to say what his responsibilities are. Official MR. GARRE: Well, clearly that's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And if they don't extendeven to forwarding notice, even to making sure that thepeople who were doing the legwork in the case know that-- that the clock is running, my goodness, I can'timagine what his responsibility is. It's not up to himto define it. MR. GARRE: That's exactly our point,Justice Scalia, which is that he forswore anyresponsibility. The lawyer in the Holland case just hadthose responsibilities, too. He abandoned his client.This -- what Mr. Butler here did here was inexcusable. But there's another factor at play here, andthat's the confusion that the court itself affirmativelycreated when it sent an order that, by its term,directed that all counsel of record receive it. Andthat's what the order said; it's on page of thejoint appendix. And -- JUSTICE BREYER: Before you get to thecourt, could I ask you about what the State attorney,the prosecuting attorney, knew? Did the prosecutingattorney know that these two individuals from New Yorkwere representing this person? MR. GARRE: Certainly, it knew that theywere counsel of record in the proceeding. I'll let my Official-- my friend answer that question. What we know,though, is when the default occurred, it took theextraordinary step of faxing a letter directly to Mr.Maples in prison, which would have been unethical if itbelieved he was represented by counsel. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you thinkyou have -- in your view, the counsel of record knewthat these two people in New York were part of therepresentation. Did the counsel -- I mean, not thecounsel of record; the counsel for the State. Did the counsel know that they hadn't gottenthe notice? MR. GARRE: Well, I don't want to speak formy friend. I don't -- there's certainly nothing in therecord to -- to establish that they knew that theseout-of-State attorneys didn't get notice. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any reason tothink that the State attorney or whoever was prosecutingthought that the local counsel was likely not to domuch? MR. GARRE: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes? Okay. MR. GARRE: The very actions it took,Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, so it's Officialpossible -- we'll find out later -- that the State --the prosecuting attorney who works for the State knewall those things: One, he's represented by counsel inNew York; two, they didn't get the notice; three, thelocal attorney isn't going to do anything; andconclusion: They likely knew he didn't get the notice,but they are asserting that this is an adequate Stateground to bar him coming into habeas; is that thecorrect posture of the case? MR. GARRE: That's true, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: So, all we have to decideis whether under these circumstances the Stateattorney's knowledge of all those facts mean that theState cannot assert this is an adequate State ground. MR. GARRE: Right. And I think the State'sactions -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do we know that he knew allof those facts? MR. GARRE: No, Justice Scalia -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, we don't knowthat. MR. GARRE: But we know -- we know whataction it took, and that action was an action thatassumed that he didn't have meaningful counsel, or elseit would have been unethical. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, can I -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this, if Imay. I don't know if -- I don't think the briefscovered it. It may be in there. Do you know, inAlabama and/or nationwide, in how many capital casesthere is no appeal? MR. GARRE: I don't know that, JusticeKennedy. I think the Alabama system here created asystem in which it would allow for appeals, not only indirect appeals, but postconviction proceedings. Theextraordinary -- there are several extraordinaryfeatures of the Alabama system, and we think thatultimately they helped to facilitate the extraordinaryand shocking events in this case. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- the NewYork lawyers did not abandon Mr. Maples prior to thetime that they left their law firm in New York, right? MR. GARRE: That's right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, their conductprior to that time would be attributed to him, right? MR. GARRE: I think that's right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Part oftheir conduct was setting up their arrangement with Mr.Butler where he would show up as counsel of record but Officialnot really do anything. So, why aren't the consequencesof that arrangement attributed to Maples as well? MR. GARRE: Well, I don't think they wouldbe attributed. I think what you're looking for iswhether the default itself is attributable to Maples.The New York -- what -- what the out-of-State attorneysdid is they left the representation without fulfillingtheir duty to notify the court or Mr. Maples. Mr.Maples was in -- was sitting in a prison cell in Alabamaunder the reasonable belief that he was represented bycounsel who would appeal if an adverse decision wasissued. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Garre, can I go back toJustice Kennedy's question? This was not an appeal.The question was how many capital cases is there noappeal. He had been convicted and had appealed, right?The -- this is -- MR. GARRE: The direct proceedings hadconcluded. JUSTICE SCALIA: The direct proceedings wereover. He had appealed up to -- up to the State supremecourt. Did he seek cert here, too? MR. GARRE: He did, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: He did. And this was apostconviction -- Official MR. GARRE: It was, but when the State setsup that system and allows for appeals, it can'tarbitrarily deprive it of an appeal based on the sort ofcircumstances here. JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be, but I don'tthink it's extraordinary that there be no appeal, Imean, postconviction. MR. GARRE: I'm not aware of any State thatdoes not allow appeal in postconviction proceedings. JUSTICE SCALIA: It can be allowed, but itwould not seem to me extraordinary that it not besought. MR. GARRE: But I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in -- in this -- inthis case, there was a direct appeal, and then there wasthis proceeding that we're talking about here. Thetrial judge waited for months. So, you would thinkthere's some merit to the underlying claim. Anystatistics on whether or not -- on how often an appealis abandoned or not pursued in this kind of case? Nostatistics? MR. GARRE: No. I mean, the statistics thatI'm aware of are that habeas claims are in a materialsense often successful in capital cases. We've citedthose in our reply brief. Here we think the underlying Officialclaims are quite serious. The question in the case isreally not who shot the victims. The question is, waswhether Mr. Maples was going to be convicted for capitalmurder or murder that would result in life imprisonment. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm aware of theallegations. MR. GARRE: And I think, going back to thecourt's and the clerk's actions here, one of the thingsthat exacerbated the chain of events here was that youhad an order which directed that all parties would beserved. Mr. Butler did say that he saw that that orderdirected that the out-of-State counsel would be served,which created an added risk of the likelihood -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I have twoquestions for you. Is that -- is this State the onlyone that doesn't appoint counsel in a postconvictioncapital case? MR. GARRE: Well, I believe that Alabama mayappoint them. They don't provide for appointment in allcases. I believe Georgia is another State. But in thatrespect, I think these States are alone. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the vast majoritydo? MR. GARRE: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In capital cases? Official MR. GARRE: The vast majority do. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Number two,I thought there were two questions in this -- in thispart of your case. The first is, don't we have todecide that abandonment, which you have termed, iscause -- MR. GARRE: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- in a -- to excuse aprocedural bar in a State court. MR. GARRE: Right. And that is -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we have to decidefirst whether we extend Holland to this setting. MR. GARRE: Well, I think they'reindependent grounds. If the Court concludes that theState's own actions -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the due process.I'm talking about -- yes, both we would have to decide.Assuming -- we have to decide the first question. Is -- MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Will we extend Hollandto this type of situation? MR. GARRE: I don't -- I don't -- I justwant to be clear on this. They are independent grounds.If the Court concludes that the State's actions -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, I -- I understand. Official MR. GARRE: But with respect to theattorneys, that's right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: Could we find -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the line,Mr. Garre, between abandonment and just plain oldnegligence? MR. GARRE: It would be the line establishedby agency law going back to Justice Story's time. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if this local counselsimply goofed in not -- not advising the people thatwere doing the legwork in the case, why -- why is thatabandonment? MR. GARRE: I think it's actually more of asituation where he disclaimed any meaningful role at theoutset. I think, you know, the real abandonment goingon here was the attorneys in New York who left withoutnotifying the court or their client. But that -- JUSTICE ALITO: Putting aside the questionof local counsel, could we find that there was anabandonment if the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwellcontinued to represent Mr. Maples after the two youngattorneys left the firm? MR. GARRE: The Court could. JUSTICE ALITO: And does the record show Officialthat they -- they did not represent Mr. Maples, thatthis was done purely by the two attorneys? Is there afinding by a court on that? MR. GARRE: There is not a finding. Wethink that's the better reading of the record, and I'mhappy to explain why. But most importantly, we thinkit's irrelevant whether he was represented by the lawfirm in the fictional sense. He was represented byindividual lawyers in that proceeding. They were theones who Mr. Maples agreed to have represent him in thatproceeding. The Alabama courts made specific findingsthat Mr. Maples's lawyers were Ms. Ingen-Housz andMr. Munanka. It said that after the default. At thattime -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in the -- in thepractice of a law firm, these were very junior people.Wouldn't the law firm have to have some involvement ingiving them permission to provide this representation?I mean, usually there's something like a pro bonocommittee and a higher level. Can -- can such juniorassociates just go ahead and say, we want to spend a lotof our time defending a man on death row? Wouldn't theyhave to get some kind of permission? MR. GARRE: I think one would ordinarilyexpect that. And we're not condoning the actions here. OfficialI would say that, at the outset of this litigation,there were individuals from the Legal Aid Society whowere well familiar with capital cases involved. Theyapparently dropped out of the case. But we know -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what do we know aboutMr. De Leeuw's role, Mr. Garre? MR. GARRE: What we know is what Mr. DeLeeuw has said, which is that he was involved in thecase at some point. It's not clear what his involvementwas. At the oral argument in the Eleventh Circuit, hesaid, on page of the joint appendix, that he was --they were awaiting further action from the court. So,we don't know what his involvement was. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, we don'tknow, we don't know. Isn't that just proof that if wewere to find that Holland applied, a Holland exceptionapplied, that we would have to remand this case? MR. GARRE: I think that would beappropriate, Your Honor. Of course, we think the Courtshould find that the Holland -- the Holland exception,or more particularly -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In that regard, there isone part of Holland that you don't really address, whichis that Holland contrasted a statute of limitationsissue with respect to access to a Federal court with a Officialprocedural bar and said that the State's procedural barhad interest of federalism, that we had to be cautiousof ignoring a State procedural bar because offederalism. If we were to extend Holland in the way youwant, how do we justify ignoring federalism in thatsituation? MR. GARRE: That's right. There are thosedistinctions. Our point is that Holland recognizes thatattorney conduct that amounts to abandonment is externalto the client under agency and other principles.Coleman itself recognizes that external conduct is notattributable to the client and can't be a basis forcause. So, the Federal -- federalism interests aresimply not implicated in a case where you find that theattorney's actions are external. And we think if youlook at the principles you looked at in Holland, agencylaw going back to Justice Story's time, the principlesof professional standards of care, you would find thatan abandonment -- of course, that must be external tothe client. Justice Alito said in his concurringopinion that where someone is not acting as an agent inany meaningful sense, it would be grossly inequitableand unfair to attribute the agent's conduct to the client.Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre -- MR. GARRE: That's the principle we'reasking. JUSTICE KAGAN: Could we go back to thestate of the record? You've said a few times, and yourbrief does, that the record is skimpy on variousimportant matters. Would you go further and say thatthe record is irretrievably corrupted, tainted byconflicts of interest? MR. GARRE: I think there are conflicts ofinterest here. They're laid out in the legal ethicsbriefs. The Sullivan & Cromwell attorneys wererepresenting Mr. Maples up through the argument anddecision in the Eleventh Circuit. But I think -- forpurposes of what this Court would do, I think a remandwould be appropriate, because if you conclude, as wethink you should, that abandonment of counsel would bean external factor, then it would be appropriate toremand for further proceedings. We don't know whatthese other attorneys were doing. The record doesn'tshow that. JUSTICE GINSBURG: We do know, though, thatthey were not counsel of record. MR. GARRE: We absolutely know that they were not.Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, we know that the twowho were listed as counsel of record -- MR. GARRE: They were not. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- were not representinghim, and they hadn't told the court. MR. GARRE: They were not counsel of record.Mr. Maples never agreed to have anyone else representhim in a way that could bind him. The Alabama courtspecifically found not only that they weren't counsel ofrecord, but they were not authorized to practice inAlabama. This is on page of the petition appendix. JUSTICE SCALIA: But it seems to me it's upto you to produce the facts that would justify ourreversing the case that you're asking us to do. MR. GARRE: We asked -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And you say, well, we don'thave these facts; well, send -- send it back so I can --no, you should have gotten the facts in the first place.If the record doesn't show the things that you need toshow to get this case reversed, the case should not bereversed, it seems to me. MR. GARRE: But the petition did include arequest for an evidentiary hearing. And I think theproblem is that both the district court and the court of Officialappeals short-circuited the inquiry into counsel'sactions because it believed that Coleman v. Thompsonapplied in the abandonment situation. And where a courtmade that kind of legal error, it would be appropriatefor the Court to send it back and say, no, Coleman v.Thompson does not apply in the extraordinary case ofabandonment, or an attorney's actions cannot beattributable to a client under agency law. JUSTICE SCALIA: When did you first make theabandonment claim? MR. GARRE: Well, I think we've argued -- JUSTICE SCALIA: When was it? Wasn't itfirst made in the -- in the request for rehearing? MR. GARRE: I think explicitly. Now, wethink that -- two points on this. We think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's rather late. MR. GARRE: We think that all along theyargued that the attorneys' actions established cause.That's why both the district court and the court ofappeals addressed that and rejected it erroneously underColeman. JUSTICE SCALIA: That isn't abandonment.That isn't abandonment. The attorneys' actionsestablished cause; that does not mean abandonment to me. MR. GARRE: We think this falls squarely Officialwithin the rule of Yee v. Escondido, where -- where theparty makes the claim below -- which they made the claimhere that the attorneys' actions established cause --you can make new arguments, different arguments. And I think, particularly given thatSullivan & Cromwell had been involved early in this caseand the possibility of conflicts of interest would makeit appropriate for this Court to consider ourabandonment issue, which was raised in the petition forrehearing, explicitly raised in the petition forcertiorari -- explicitly -- we think it's properlybefore this Court. If there are no further questions at thistime, I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.Garre. Mr. Neiman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN C. NEIMAN, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. NEIMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: In trying to sidestep Coleman, Maples isadvocating at least three principles that areincompatible with the way our justice system works.First, Maples is asking this Court to hold that due Officialprocess required not just actual notice to his attorneyof record, John Butler, but in fact something more thanthat. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say the threenotices are sent out; all three of them come back, okay?Let's even go further and say the prosecutor knows thatnobody representing Mr. Maples received notice. Whathappens then? MR. NEIMAN: In that case, Your Honor, therewould be a much more substantial argument -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, I know itwould be more substantial. That's why -- (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question is whathappens? Are you prepared to acknowledge that in thatcase, Mr. Maples had been abandoned by all of hislawyers, it was known to the prosecution, and,therefore, the failure to file the notice should notconstitute an adequate and independent State groundbarring collateral relief? MR. NEIMAN: I don't think that the returnof all three notices would justify necessarily a findingof abandonment in toto by all the lawyers. It couldsignify a number of things. I do think that it wouldraise questions about whether the clerk had a due Officialprocess obligation to do more under Jones v. Flowers. JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the return meanwhen you get -- get a notice returned? It just said nolonger at Sullivan & Cromwell, is what the two of themsaid, right? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that necessarily meanthat they've abandoned the case? It just means you gotthe wrong address, doesn't it? MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that the only thingit means for sure, these lawyers are no longer here atSullivan & Cromwell? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know how that wouldbe an indication of abandonment. Can't you switch a lawfirm and keep the client? MR. NEIMAN: Absolutely, Your Honor,although the presumption generally is that the clientstays with the firm. But that's correct. The clientcertainly can move firms when the -- when the lawyermoves firms. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Neiman, I think we'reblurring two issues. We're not talking aboutabandonment in this respect. We're talking about notice Officialgoing to no one, and a -- and a clock ticking from acertain date that no one knows about. I mean, they were preparing for a hearingbefore this judge. So they weren't anticipating that hewas going to rule without anything further. MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.They certainly were preparing for an evidentiaryhearing, and, in fact, contrary to my friend'sstatements about what we know about Mr. De Leeuw'sinvolvement in this case, on page of the J.A.,Maples expressly alleged that De Leeuw and others atSullivan & Cromwell were preparing for the evidentiaryhearing. But -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But as far as -- as farthe record shows, De Leeuw is not on the record at all.There were three counsel of record. Two of them --well, let's go back to this -- this -- the first issue.The State by its own conduct showed it didn't regardButler as any kind of representative, because it didn'teven send its Rule response to Butler; isn't that so? MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I respectfullydisagree with that assessment of how we can read theservice of the Rule answer. Under Alabama law, a --a pleading or an order may be served on only one counselof record when a party has multiple counsel of record. OfficialSo, for example, that answer was served upon Mr. Munankaat Sullivan & Cromwell, but it was not served, expresslyat least, on -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- MR. NEIMAN: -- Ms. Ingen-Housz. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the noticethat he's -- he had lost in the Alabama court and he'dbetter, if he wants to go to the Federal court, dosomething about it? That notice went only to Maples,right? MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.The -- the State's attorney in that -- in that instancedecided to send a letter only to Mr. Maples. Ofcourse -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Mr. Garre made thepoint that if Maples were represented, that that wouldbe improper, to -- to send a notice to Maples alone.So, the -- so, the State's attorney must have thoughtthat Maples had been abandoned by his lawyers because hedidn't notify any of them. MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, the record does notreveal why Mr. Hayden decided to send the letter to Mr.Maples alone. One -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, he didn't haveto send the letter. That letter had no legal effect, did it?Official MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it was just: Bythe way, your time has expired. I mean, this is not --what could the lawyer do about it? MR. NEIMAN: Well, and it -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It wasn't a required noticethat he had to give to the lawyer or to anybody else. MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: So he just made thisextraneous, volunteered statement to Maples instead ofto his lawyer. I don't -- I don't know what thatproves. MR. NEIMAN: At that point in time, theState case was over. So, it was hardly clear if Mr.Hayden was going to do something that he didn't have todo under the rules. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did he do it?Why did he do it, then? Just gloating that -- that thefellow had lost? (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was the pointof it? He must have thought there was a problem, right? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, he certainly wasaware that Mr. Maples's lawyers had failed to file a Officialnotice of appeal. But -- and his letter reveals that heis very aware -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that surprising? Ithink Justice Kennedy asked your adversary: How oftendo appeals lie from the denial of State postconvictionremedies? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I agree with myfriend that we don't have statistics on that front. Ithink it's fair to assume that, for the most part, whena Rule petitioner loses at the trial stage, they'regoing to appeal. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In a capital case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Particularly in a -- in acapital case. MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor,although there are some instances in which a capitalpetitioner or someone on death row decides that they nolonger want to invoke the process of the courts, andthey're ready for their sentence to be carried out. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just have two questionsgoing back to the very beginning, when we were talkingabout the misaddressed or the unreceived mail. When thenotices come back "no longer at Sullivan & Cromwell,"that's just as if it said, functionally, don't youthink, "wrong address"? Official MR. NEIMAN: Not quite, Your Honor. I thinkthat -- that the notice saying that the person's nolonger at Sullivan & Cromwell indicates that the personis no longer at the firm. I guess the notice could comeback -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, it's pretty clearthat they didn't get their -- get the mail, get theletter, because it's sent back. MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: One other thing while I'mtalking with you, and it's a tangential point, perhaps.Could the State of Alabama under your laws waive whatyou allege to be the procedural default? If you thoughtthere was substantial merit to the underlying claims,even though you take the position that they ultimatelyshould be rejected, could you have simply waived theprocedural default and allowed the appeal to proceed? MR. NEIMAN: I don't think the law makesthat crystal clear, Your Honor. But I certainly know ofno law that suggests that the Attorney General ofAlabama necessarily has to assert every single potentialdefense within his or her arsenal. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Has Alabama ever waivedlack of timely appeal in a capital case? MR. NEIMAN: I'm not aware, Your Honor. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could we goback to the Chief Justice's initial question? Let'sassume the two letters went to Sullivan & Cromwell andcame back "left firm," as they did, and that the letterto Butler came back "deceased." Would there be cause inthat situation to excuse the State's procedural ground? MR. NEIMAN: Perhaps, Your Honor. It -- itwould depend on why the letters came back from Sullivan& Cromwell, I suppose. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we -- we know thatthey -- that both lawyers in this case didn't move toanother firm. Both of them took jobs that precludedthem from representing this defendant. So, I don't knowhow I define abandonment other than I take a job where Ican't work for you anymore. MR. NEIMAN: The -- the cause argument inthat case, Your Honor, would be substantially stronger,as I've said before, in part because death, of course,is an external factor. So -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, you accept -- Idon't mean to interfere with the question, but -- so,you accept the idea that there is a distinction betweenmalfeasance and abandonment. MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I think we would beprepared to recognize that, in certain cases, an Officialabandonment of a client by an attorney would terminatethe agency relationship with -- between the attorney andclient. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So, then theonly thing -- the only thing we're talking about iswhether, on these particular facts, there has beenabandonment or not. Right? MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: From yourperspective. MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. But one thingI do want to stress is that my friend has suggested thatan evidentiary hearing or further evidentiaryproceedings are necessary on this particular questionbecause we don't know what role the other attorneys atSullivan & Cromwell played in the matter. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we do know theyweren't counsel of record. We do know that the only twocounsel of record were no longer representing him, andhe had no reason to know that they weren't, but theywere not -- they couldn't represent him. The two -- the only two out-of-town counselwere the two who disabled themselves from representinghim by taking other jobs. MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, there was no one fromSullivan & Cromwell other than those two on the record.So, on the record, they had abandoned him, and there wasno substitute. MR. NEIMAN: I disagree with thatassessment, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the argument is thaton the record or not is determinative for the out-of-town counsel, but it is not determinative for thein-town counsel. The fact that he is counsel of recorddoesn't count, but the fact that those two are doescount. And only when you combine those two does the manhave no counsel. Right? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. There is thatinconsistency in Maples's argument. On the one hand,Maples says that Butler -- or that the other lawyers atSullivan & Cromwell weren't his attorneys because theyweren't counsel of record. But Butler was counsel ofrecord, but he wasn't his attorney. JUSTICE KAGAN: The notice inquiry issupposed to be a pragmatic one. As far back as Mullane,we've said that the question that we're supposed to askourselves is: Is this what somebody would do if theyactually wanted to accomplish notice, if they actuallywanted the person to get that letter? So, I'm just Officialgoing to ask you, General, if you were a lawyer in animportant litigation and you send off an importantletter to two lawyers, your principal adversaries, aswell as to a local counsel who you think may not beinvolved in the substance of the litigation, you don'tknow for a fact, but you think that there is somesubstantial likelihood that he's not particularlyinvolved, as local counsel often aren't -- so, you sendoff this letter and you get it back from the principalattorneys, and you ask yourself: Huh, should I doanything now? What would you say? (Laughter.) MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I suspect that, inthose circumstances, I might well personally dosomething else. But, of course, my prerogatives asSolicitor General of Alabama are quite different fromthe prerogatives of a clerk in Morgan County, Alabama. JUSTICE KAGAN: But the -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, as then the clerk hasto believe that it's an important letter. Right? It'snot important enough to be required by the Federalrules. How important is it? JUSTICE KAGAN: Justice Scalia is right.I'm assuming that a letter disposing of a -- of a ruling Officialin a capital case issued after months when nobodyknew that that letter was coming, that that's animportant letter for a death row person to get. So,Justice Scalia is right to that effect. So, you get this, and you say, well, youwould have. But that's the question that we have to askabout the clerk as well. The clerk -- the question forthe clerk is, if he had really wanted the person to getnotice, what would he have done? MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I disagree.The -- as far back as Mullane, this Court has said thatat the end of the day, actual notice to a party,particularly within the jurisdiction, is the finish linefor due process purposes. Mullane expressly -- JUSTICE ALITO: You can see from thesequestions that the arguments that you're making in thiscapital case, which is sui generis, are pushing theCourt to consider rules that would have far-reachingeffect, such as a rule that places upon a clerk of thecourt a constitutional obligation to serve counsel withimportant documents in the case similar to theconstitutional obligation to serve initial process inthe case. And the question that I would like to ask iswhether this -- the -- whether you as the SolicitorGeneral or the Attorney General of Alabama have an Officialobligation to push this matter in this way. This is acase where -- as I said, it's a capital case, as we allrecognize. Mr. Maples has lost his right to appealthrough no fault of his own, through a series of veryunusual and unfortunate circumstances. Now, when his attorneys moved to file anout-of-time appeal, why wouldn't you just consent tothat? If he did not receive an effective assistance ofcounsel at trial, why not get a decision on the meritson that? Why push this -- this technical argument? MR. NEIMAN: There are several responses,Your Honor. First, at least at the Rule stage, the-- the notice of appeal deadline was a jurisdictionalone. And you're right, the State did oppose the motionfor an out-of-time appeal, but there wasn't much theState could have done even if it had consented -- JUSTICE ALITO: There's no -- MR. NEIMAN: -- on that front. JUSTICE ALITO: There's no possibility underAlabama rules for an out-of-time appeal in thiscircumstance? No extension? MR. NEIMAN: The holding of the Alabamacourts here, as recognized by the Eleventh Circuit, wasthat this would not be an appropriate circumstance foran out-of-time appeal. Now, as to the question about -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: But is that a discretionarymatter or is that a flat rule, once you've passed acertain time deadline, you're out of -- you're out ofluck; there's no opportunity where there's good causefor an extension? MR. NEIMAN: There is opportunity wherethere's good cause for an extension. But the -- whatthe court held here, what the Alabama court held here,was that this circumstance in which the person hadcounsel of record, and counsel of record hadn't notifiedthe court of their address -- of their changes ofaddress, and, more importantly, Mr. Butler, who was, infact, serving as Mr. Maples's agent in this case andreceived -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this goes to myearlier question, and continuing Justice Alito's line ofquestioning. If the State of Alabama had told the Statecourt, in all of the circumstances, we think thereshould be an out-of-time appeal granted -- you're -- areyou indicating that the State court said, well, that's agood idea, but we can't do it because it's notappropriate in these circumstances? MR. NEIMAN: That seems to be the holding ofthe Court of Criminal Appeals in this case, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did you -- did you oppose Officialit? Did the State oppose the out-of-time appeal? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor, the State didoppose the out-of-time appeal, and the State pressed theprocedural bar in Federal court in this case. But theState had every prerogative to do so, in part becausethis Court recognized in Coleman, a case where thepetitioner undoubtedly could have said that he lost hisright to his appeal through no fault of his own, thatthe State had the power to do that. There are goodreasons for the State -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the State in --excuse me. Could the State in the -- in the Federallitigation have waived the procedural default? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I think the law isnot exactly clear on that, but I know of no law thatwould say that the Alabama Attorney General has to pressevery single non-jurisdictional defense at his or herdisposal. But he did not do so here and had good reasonnot to. That's in part because Coleman says that thisis how procedural defaults work. There are good reasonsfor procedural defaults. They are grounded in the sameequitable principles that led -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you agreed withme earlier that abandonment is an exception to theadequate and independent State grounds. So, under your Officialview of the case, Coleman was not necessarilycontrolling. MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, if I have suggestedthat abandonment itself is an exception to the AISGdoctrine, let me correct my earlier answer. My suggestion is that abandonment cansometimes allow a court to determine that a particularlawyer has become external to a client, that the agencyrelationship has been terminated. Of course, merelybecoming external to the client doesn't mean that theabandonment itself will constitute cause. Theabandonment also -- or the lawyer's ending of therelationship would also have to impede the ability ofthe remaining members of the defense team or thedefendant himself to comply with State rules. And here, even if there is some argumentthat Ingen-Housz and Munanka abandoned their client,which I don't think there is on this record in light ofthe way they left the case with Butler, Mr. De Leeuw,and others at Sullivan & Cromwell, even if there weresome argument on that front, Butler -- it's not clearthat the actions of Ingen-Housz and Munanka actuallyimpeded the ability of the remaining members of the teamto -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: When -- when lawyers stop Officialrepresenting a client, as the two did, isn't there someobligation of them to tell the client and the court,we're no longer representing you, and arrange forsubstitutions? There were never any substitutions onthe record of the other counsel. The record said thesetwo people are representing Maples, and those twoweren't. They never told the court, and they never toldMaples. Isn't there some obligation on -- on their partto the court when they stop representing a client toadvise the court? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor, I think thereis. But I don't think that means that what happenedhere constitutes cause. The record is clear. Mr.Maples himself has alleged, that Ingen-Housz and Munankaarranged for this case to be handled by Mr. De Leeuw,and the record makes clear that Mr. De Leeuw wasinvolved in this case in representing Maples even beforethe default occurred and even before Ingen-Housz andMunanka were -- well, even at the same -- even beforeIngen-Housz and Munanka left, I should say. JUSTICE BREYER: Is it -- is it -- I'm stillunclear on one factual thing. Did the State's attorneysknow that the letters had come back? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: Should they have known? Official MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, the record is notclear on that point. I can represent to the Court thatthe State's attorney did not know that the letters hadcome back. I -- JUSTICE BREYER: Do they check the -- dothey check the docket every so often to see what'shappened? MR. NEIMAN: Most -- most attorneys have anobligation at some point to check the docket, and that's-- that's one problem with the position that Mr. Mapleshas taken regarding Mr. Butler here and the ability ofthese parties to obtain information from the court. But in this case, it's my understanding --and this is not on the record. But it's on the recordobviously before this Court now. But it's my -- it's myunderstanding that the State had no idea that Mr.Maples's attorneys had not -- Mr. Maples's two attorneysin New York had left their firm or had -- JUSTICE BREYER: Why did -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why did they -- whydid they send to Maples alone the notice, you'd betterfile your Federal habeas? They didn't send it to thosecounsel. Where did they -- what made them send it --send that notice directly to Maples and not to either ofthe Sullivan & Cromwell lawyers? Official MR. NEIMAN: Again, this is -- this isinformation that's not in the record, Your Honor. Butit's my understanding that counsel looked at -- lookedat -- figured out what had happened, figured out theappeal had been missed, had calculated how much time Mr.Maples had to file his petition and, based on his years of experience, said that in light of the factthat the State court proceedings were over, the mostprudent thing for him to do would be to send the letterto Maples himself. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, he had figured outthat something had terminated the relationship betweenMr. Maples and his lawyers? MR. NEIMAN: No, Your Honor, I don't thinkthat's -- I don't think that's an accuratecharacterization of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, even -- MR. NEIMAN: -- of what exactly happened inthis case, but in the very least, his lawyers had missed-- had missed the deadline. JUSTICE SCALIA: Even if you assume that hehad figured it out, that -- you would have to impute hisknowledge to the clerk of court to -- to find the -- thefault on the part of the State that's alleged here. MR. NEIMAN: Well, more so than that, Your Honor.Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Did he tell the clerk ofcourt that he was only going to send it to Maples? MR. NEIMAN: As far as I know, no, YourHonor. But, of course, the clerk -- the notices cameback to the clerk long before the State's attorney sentthe letter in this case. But that's an important point, I think, bothwith respect to the clerk issue and also the abandonmentissue. The relevant question here is not what theAssistant Attorney General of Alabama thought hadhappened in this case. The relevant question on theclerk issue is what the clerk knew, and that of courseis governed by Rule of the rules governing admissionto the Alabama bar. The relevant question on abandonment is, hadMaples in fact been abandoned? Had -- had theseattorneys left him completely without counsel? And therecord definitively establishes that that had nothappened, both because Mr. Butler remained counsel hereand in a much more meaningful way, I think, than myfriend suggests. And -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could you tellme -- I'm assuming you've practiced in your State for awhile. Official MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How frequent is it inthe Alabama capital system that local counsel takes thelaboring oar, or even an active participation, in thedefense or actions of a capital defendant? Your -- the amici here says generally theydid what Mr. Butler did; they just facilitated the --the admission of the volunteer attorneys. Was that yourexperience? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, of course, thatinformation's not in the record. We respectfullydisagree, as a factual matter, with the factualassertions made by the amici on that front. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If we have tosend it back, I guess we'd have to say what the rule is.So, what -- what is the rule? What about a rule thatsays, where in fact attorneys do abandon the client andthe local attorney does as a matter of practice in theState do virtually nothing except to facilitate foreignrepresentation, and where the State had cause tobelieve -- cause to believe -- that all that was true,then the State cannot assert this as an adequate ground.That's all. MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, a remand would notbe appropriate in this case on those -- on those grounds Officialfor a number of reasons. JUSTICE BREYER: Because? MR. NEIMAN: One is that Rule of the rulesgoverning admission to the Alabama bar made emphaticallyclear that the role of local counsel was not simply -- JUSTICE BREYER: Irrespective of what therules were, you'd have to show -- he would have to showthat, in fact, in the State it is a practice such thatthe local counsel doesn't do much of anything exceptfacilitate, because this is a state of mind as towhether the State -- and the State knows that. If he shows both of those things and showsthat the letter came back and shows this was abandonmentor close thereto, then the State ought to know that thisindividual has no idea about filing a piece of paper andthinks somebody else is doing it. And that's enough tosay this is not adequate State ground that would blockFederal habeas. Now, your argument against that iswhat? MR. NEIMAN: At least twofold, Your Honor.One, as a simple matter, those factual assertions werenot made below. So, in order for the Court to remand onthat particular issue, it wouldn't be a remand for anevidentiary hearing, on whether those allegations -- JUSTICE BREYER: It seems in the briefs -- Officialthere's certainly a lot in the briefs that seemed to saythat. MR. NEIMAN: There's certainly a lot in thebriefs that says that. But one problem Mr. Maples faceshere is that he had the burden as the petitioner in thishabeas proceeding to make the requisite factualallegations that he believed would establish cause. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Neiman, am I correctthat under the Alabama rules when an attorney isrepresented by more than one attorney, the notice doesnot have to go to all of them? MR. NEIMAN: That is correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: It can only go to one,right? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, as far as local counselknew, he was the only one to receive notice of thisthing, right? MR. NEIMAN: That's correct, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it correct ordoes the notice -- most of the notices I see list thepeople who have been served. Were the New York peoplelisted on the notice that went to Butler? MR. NEIMAN: Yes, Your Honor. The notice -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then he knew Officialhe wasn't the only one getting notice. MR. NEIMAN: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or he knew that hewas the only one who was supposed to get notice. MR. NEIMAN: Well, the -- the cc line inthis case cannot establish cause and cannot be deemedState interference for any number of reasons. The firstis that -- I suppose it could only be held to establishcause if it would have been reasonable for Mr. Butler toassume that the cc line communicated a message that itwas perfectly okay for him to do nothing and to not takefurther action, based on what is in the cc line. Andthere are at least three reasons why that would not be areasonable reading of the cc line. The first is that the cc line doesn'tcommunicate that Ingen-Housz and Munanka, who were thepeople listed on the cc line, will in fact receive theorder. All it says is that the order will be sent toIngen-Housz and Munanka. The second is that the -- even if it wouldhave been reasonable for him, for Mr. Butler, to assumethat Ingen-Housz and Munanka would receive the -- theorder in this case, it would not have been reasonablefor him to have done nothing, given that Rule of theAlabama rules made him jointly and severally responsible Officialfor -- to the client and to the court in this case. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the problem is,accept the rule; it exists. But if a lawyer says, Idon't care, I'm not going to do whatever the rulesrequired me to do, what more do you need forabandonment? If a lawyer comes in and says, I understandthis is a rule of the court; I understand that I'msupposed to do x, y, and z; I don't care; I'm justnot -- that's the question. MR. NEIMAN: Yes, well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the differencebetween "I don't care" and abandonment? MR. NEIMAN: I -- Your Honor, I guess Ishould just make -- just make a couple points inresponse to that. The first is that, as I understoodthe question posed about the cc line, that is all aboutnot abandonment, but whether the clerk -- the clerk'sactions can be blamed for -- or the default can beblamed on the clerk. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not talking aboutthe notice issue; we are talking about the abandonmentquestion. MR. NEIMAN: On the abandonment question, ifit really were -- if it really is true that Butler had Officialdecided he was going to do nothing in this case and notrepresent his client and not be an attorney for theclient, then there might be a viable argument thatButler was not -- was not -- had abandoned the client insome way, but that is not the -- a reasonable reading ofthe record in this case. JUSTICE SCALIA: If we find -- MR. NEIMAN: Butler -- JUSTICE SCALIA: If we find that theselawyers did abandon their client, will there be somesanction imposed upon them by the bar? I often wonder,just as when we find that there's been inadequateassistance of counsel in a capital case, does -- doesanything happen to the counsel who have been inadequatein a capital case? MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I suppose it woulddepend on exactly what the allegations are -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Have you ever heard ofanything happening to them? Other than they're gettinganother capital case? (Laughter.) MR. NEIMAN: Your Honor, I have not.Certainly the rules would provide that a breach of therules of professional responsibility would besanctionable by the State bar, both against the Alabama Officialattorney here and the New York attorney. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said a fewmoments ago that Butler did more than your friendsuggested. What more did he do? MR. NEIMAN: Well, of course, we discussedin the briefs the very -- the undisputable fact thatButler filed numerous things, and after the defaultoccurred in this case. But even -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, after thedefault, sure. But what did he do before? MR. NEIMAN: Butler's affidavit certainly --that was filed in the State court proceedings certainlydoesn't say: I'm -- I was in this only to swear thesepeople in or move for their admission and nothing else. What Butler says -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What did he do morethan that? MR. NEIMAN: Butler said -- says, on pagea of the petition appendix, that he agreed to serveas local counsel. "Local counsel" has a specifiedmeaning under Alabama law. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you made afairly serious suggestion that your friend had notaccurately represented what Butler did. And you stillhaven't told me one thing he did more than move the Officialadmission of the out-of-town attorneys. MR. NEIMAN: Well, let me withdraw anysuggestion that I am saying that Butler had in fact donesomething that's -- that's clear on the record. And my time is up. May I finish? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. MR. NEIMAN: The -- my point was that Butlerdid not simply agree just to move these people -- movethese people's admission. Butler said he would be localcounsel. And local -- the role of local counsel isdefined by Rule . It includes an obligation to attendhearings, conferences, and the like. It also -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Thank you. Mr. Garre, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. We agree that this is a sui generis case.The facts are extraordinary, the facts are shocking, andour position is simply that under this Court'sprecedents and the extraordinary facts here, Mr. Mapleshas established cause to excuse the default. With respect to local counsel, apart fromthe fact that the State communicated directly with Mr. OfficialMaples, an extraordinary step after the default, maybethe other telling thing is that in , Alabama itselfeliminated the local counsel requirement for pro bonoproceedings, recognizing that it could only createproblems; it didn't add anything. With respect to abandonment, I understood attimes my counsel -- my friend, to acknowledge thatabandonment may establish an external event with respectto the client. If that's so, then I think it's clearthat we're at a minimum entitled to a remand. Therewere statements about what was clear from the record. Ithink, at a minimum, the record is not clear on a numberof things that this Court would have to get into if itwere going to consider adopting the State's positionthat Mr. Maples was not abandoned. Mr. Maples was in aprison cell. His attorneys of record did not tell himthat they had left the firm. They were required notonly to tell the court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't have to adopt theState's position that he was not abandoned. We have toadopt your position that he was abandoned. MR. GARRE: And you have a record of theattorneys leaving with not only not notifying Mr.Maples, not notifying the court, and not obtaining thecourt's approval, which is required by Rule . of the OfficialAlabama Rules of Criminal Procedure. JUSTICE ALITO: What is troubling to meabout the abandonment argument is that -- is the fearthat if the Court says that abandonment is cause, therewill be many, many cases in which the allegation is: Myattorney wasn't just ineffective and negligent; theattorney was so bad that the attorney in effectabandoned me. And that will substantially change existinglaw. Now, how can that be prevented? MR. GARRE: Working through agencyprinciples that go back to Justice Story's time, workingthrough the principles established in this Court'sdecision in Holland and that will be applied in Holland.The lower court in Holland issued its decision on remandand found that Mr. Collins had abandoned Mr. Holland,using this Court's precedent as a guide. So, I think Holland already recognizes thatattorney abandonment can be external. We're just askingthe Court to apply the same principles and recognizethat what's external in one context cannot be notexternal in the other context. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, do you know howoften Holland relief has been granted -- since it's veryrecent, but how -- how frequently Holland relief has been granted by the courts below?Official MR. GARRE: I don't know the answer to thatquestion. I'm not aware of any flood of relief in suchcases. I expect that this would be very extreme. Ithink the facts here are about as extreme as you canget. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, how do wedistinguish between abandonment and simply a botched, avery botched, transfer of responsibility within a lawfirm? MR. GARRE: Well, where you have counsels ofrecord leaving without obtaining the approval thatthey're required or telling the Court, I think that isabandonment pure and simple. Beyond that, you wouldlook to agency principles, whether there's a breach ofloyalty. This is going to be a fact -- you would wantto get into the facts, although I think it is a veryhigh bar. I think the Holland decision makes clear it'sa high bar. I think this case clearly passes that bar,but it's something that the courts will work outapplying agency principles, applying the Court'sdecision in Holland. Recognizing what Holland said in this caseisn't going to create any new rule; it's simply going toextend logically the recognition that attorney Officialabandonment is external to the client as it always hasbeen under agency principles. With respect to notice, this Court doesn'thave to find a constitutional violation on the State'spart. It's enough for cause that the Court finds thatthe State's actions are external. And I think the keyinquiry is what Justice Kagan recognized, which is youlook to what a person who is actually desirous ofproviding notice would do. In this situation, the clerkgot two notices back, "Left Firm." It opened it up; itwould have seen this is an order in a capital case, andit did nothing. I don't think anyone who actuallydesired to provide notice of an inmate with his life onthe line would do nothing, reasonably, in thatsituation. Mr. Maples is not asking to be released fromprison. He's asking for an opportunity to presentserious constitutional claims of ineffective assistanceof counsel to a Federal habeas court on the merits. If the claims are as meritless as the Statesuggests, that clearly will have little burden on it.But simply allowing those claims to be adjudicated onthe merits in Federal court will go a long way topreserving the legitimacy of the system of criminaljustice in a case in which a man's life is at stake. Thank you.Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialPage APPEARANCESassessment :Aabandon:: :abandoned:: : :: : :: : ::, :,abandonment :: :,,,:, ::,,,,: : ::, :,:, : ::,, :,: :,,:, :,:,, :,:ability :,::above-entitled:absolutely :: : :accept :,:access :accomplish:account :accurate :accurately :acknowledge ::acting :action: ::,, ::actions : :: : :: : ::,,, :: : ::active :actual : :add :added:addition:address : :: :,addressed:adequate :,: : ::adjudicated:admission: :: :, :: : ::,admit :adopt :,adopting :adversaries :adversary :adverse :advise :advising :advocating :affidavit : :,:affirmatively :agency : :: :, :: : ::, :agent : :agent's :ago :agree : : ::agreed: :: :ahead :Aid :AISG :Alabama :, :: :, ::, :,,: : ::, : ::,, :: : :: :,: :,: : :: : :: :Alito : :,: : ::, : :Alito's :allegation:allegations :: : :allege :alleged: :: :allow: :: :allowed: :allowing :allows :amici :,amicus : :amounts :and/or:anecdotally :answer: :: : :anticipating :anybody :anymore :apart : :apparently :appeal : ::, :,,:, :,:, :,,:,, ::,, :appealed:,appeals :,: :, :::appeared:appears :appendix : :: : :: :applied:,: :apply : :applying :,appoint :,appointment :appropriate ::, : :: : :approval ::arbitrarily :argued:,argument : :,: :, :: : :: :,: :,: : ::arguments :,:arrange :arranged:arrangement ::arsenal :aside :asked: :asking : :asserting :assertions ::::assistance :: :Assistant :associate :associates :assume : :: : ::assumed: :assuming :: :assumption::attend :attorney: :: : : ::,, ::, : ::, ::, : :: : :,: :, ::, :,,,:attorneys : :: :,,:, : :: : ::,, ::, :,: : :: : ::,, ::, : ::: : ::attorney's :: :assert : :attributable :, OfficialPage : : ::attribute :attributed::,authorized:awaiting :aware :, :: : ::awry :a.m: : :Bback : :,: : :: : :: : ::, :,:,,, :: : :: : :: : :bad: :bar: : :,: : :: :,:,,Barbour :barring :based: ::basis :becoming :begging :beginning :behalf :, :,: : ::belief :believe : :,: :,believed: :: :better: :: :beyond : ::bind :blamed:,block :blurring :bono : ::botched:,breach: :Breyer: ::,,,:, :,:, : ::,brief: : ::briefs : : :: :, :burden: :Butler: : ::, :: : :: :, ::, ::, :: : ::, : :: :,,,: :,,Butler's : :CC : :, ::calculated:capital :, ::,, :: : ::, ::,, ::, : :: :,,:care : :,,carried:case :,,,:,,, :: : :,: :, ::, :,:,, :,: : :: :, :: :,,: :,,: : :,: : ::, ::, :,:, :,:, :,:, :,: : :: : :: : :,:,, :: :,:, :,cases : :,,: : ::, :: : :cause : :: :,: :, :: : ::, : :: : ::cautious :cc :,,,,: :cell : :cert :certain : :: :certainly :: : :: : :,: :,certiorari :chain :change :changes :characterization:check : :,,Chief:,, :,:, ::,, :: :,,:, :,:, : :: : :,:, :,: :Circuit : :: :circumstance :: :circumstances: : :: :,cited:claim: ::,claims : :: :,,clear : :,,: : ::, :: :,: : ::,, :clearly : ::clerk : :,:, :, ::, :,: :,:,,, ::,,,,,:, :clerk's : : :: :client : : :: :,,: : :,: :, ::, :,,: : :,:, : :clock : :close :Coleman: ::, : :: :collateral :Collins :combine :come : : :: : ::comes :coming : :COMMISSION...:committee :communicate :communicated: :completely :comply :conclude :concluded:concludes :,conclusion:concurring :condoning :conduct : :: :,,:conferences : conflicts :,:confusion:connection:consent :consented:consequences :consider: :constitute :::constitutes :Constitution:: :constitutional ::, :,contact :contacted:context :,continued:continuing :contrary : :contrasted:controlling :convicted::correct : ::, :: :, :: : ::,,,CORRECTIONS:corrupted:Cory : :counsel :, :: :,, ::, :,,: :,,,:,, :,:,, :,:,,,,:, :,,:,,,:, :,: :,:, :,:,, :,: : ::, :,:,,,:, : ::, :: : ::, : :: : :: :,:,,,:, : ::,counsels :counsel's :count :,country :County :couple : : ::course : :: : :: : :: :, ::court :, :,: : ::,, ::, :,:,, :: : ::, ::,,, ::,, :,:, :,:,, :,:,,,:, : :,:, :,,:, : ::, : :OfficialPage :, :,: : :,:,courts : :: :,court's : :: :,:covered:create : :created: ::criminal :,: : ::critically :Cromwell :: : :,: : :: :, ::, ::crystal :DD :date :day :De :, :,: : ::deadline : ::death : :: : :deceased:decide : ::,,decided:,:decides :decision : :: : :: :,deemed:default :,,:, : :: :,: : ::, : :defaults :,defendant :: :defendants :,defending :defense : :: : :define : ::defined:definitively :DeMott :DeMott's :denial :DEPARTMENT:depend : :deprive :describe :describes :desired:desirous :determinative ::determine :determining :difference ::different : :: :direct : ::, :directed::,directly :, :: :disabled:disagree : :: :disclaimed:,:disclaimer:discretionary :discuss :discussed:disposal :disposing :distinction:distinctions :distinguish::district : :docket :,doctrine :documents :doing : : :: : ::drop:,,dropped:due : :: : :duty :D.C :,EE : :,earlier: :::early :effect : :,effective :either: ::Eleventh: :: :eliminated:emphatically :entitled:envelope :equitable : OfficialPage erroneously :error:Escondido :ESQ :, :,,establish: ::, :established::, :: :establishes ::ethical :ethics :event : :events : :: :everybody :,:evidence :evidentiary ::, :,:exacerbated:exactly : :: : :example :exception :,: :excuse : :: : :existing :exists :expect : :expected:experience ::expired:explain :explicitly :: :,expressly :: :extend : :: : :extension ::,external :,:, :: :, ::,, :,extraneous :extraordinary :: : : :: :,,:, : :: :extreme :,extremely :Ffaces :facilitate :: : :facilitated:facilitating : ::fact : : :: : ::, :: : :: : :: :, :factor: ::factors :facts :, ::, ::,, ::factual : :: : :failed: :failure : :fair: :fairly : :falls :familiar:far: : :: : :: :far-reaching :fault : : :faxed:faxing :fear :features :Federal :,,:, :: : :: :,: : ::federalism:,,:fellow: :fictional :figured:,,,file : : :: : :filed:,filing : :find :, ::, :,:, ::,, :finding :, :findings :finds :finish: :firm : ::, :,: :,: :, :: : :firms :,first:, :,: :,,: :,: : ::, :flat :flood:Flowers :follow:foreign:forswore :forward :,:forwarding :found : ::frequent :frequently :friend :, :: : :: :friend's :front : :: :fulfilling :function:,functionally :functionary ::further: ::, : :: : :GG : :, :,:Garre : :, ::, :,, ::, :,,:,,, ::,,, :: :,,,:,, :,: :,,:,, ::,, ::, :,:, :,,: :,,: :,,,:, :,,:, :,:,,, ::,,, ::,, ::,, :: :,,: : :,:general : :: :,:, ::generally : ::generis : :Georgia :getting : :Ginsburg : :: :, :: :, :: :,,: : :: :give :, :given: :giving :gloating :go : : :: :, :: : ::, ::goes : :going : :,: : :,:, : :: : :: : :: : ::,,good : :,,:,,goodness :goofed: gotten: :governed:governing :graces :granted: :::greater:GREGORY::, : :grossly :ground :,: : ::grounded:grounds :,: :guess : ::,guide :guys :Hhabeas : :: : :: :hand : :handled:happen:happened:: :, ::happening :happens :,happy :Hayden: :hear : :heard :hearing : ::, ::hearings :heavily :held :, :OfficialPage helped:high:,higher:hold : :holding : :Holland : :: :,,:,, :,: :,,:,,,:,,Honor: : ::, : ::,,, :: :,:,, :,:,,, ::, :,: :,: : :: :, ::, : :: :, ::, ::,,,: :,Huh :Iidea : :: :ignoring :,imagine :impede :impeded:implicate :implicated:important : ::,,,,:, :importantly ::imposed:imprisonment :improper:impute :imputed: :inadequate ::include : :includes :incompatible :inconsistency :independent :: : :indicates :indicating :indication:indigent :,individual :,: :individuals ::individual's :ineffective ::inequitable :inexcusable :information::information's :Ingen-Housz:: :,:,, ::,initial : :initially :inmate :inquiry : ::instance :instances :intentionally ::interest :,: :, :interests ::interfere :interference :INTERIM :invoke :invoked:involved: :: : :,:involvement ::, :in-town :irrelevant :Irrespective :irretrievably :issue : : :: : :,: : :issued: ::issues :Jjail :job:jobs : :John : : ::joint : :: :jointly :Jones :JR : : :judge :, ::judicial :junior:,jurisdiction:jurisdictional :justice :,, ::,,, :,: :,, ::, :,,:, :,:,,,,:,,, ::, :,,:,,,,:,,,,:,,,,,: :,,:, :,: :,,: :,,,:, :,,:,,,: :,,:, :,,:,,, ::,, ::, :,: :,,,: : :,:, :,,:, :,,:, :,: :,,:,, :,: :,,: :,:, :,:, :,: :,:,, ::, :,:, :,,:,,,,: :,,:,, :,:, :,: : ::, : :: :Justice's :justify : ::J.A :K OfficialPage Kagan: : :Laughter::: : :: : :keep:Kennedy : ::, : ::,, :,: : :Kennedy's :key :KIM :kind : :: :knew:, ::, :,:,, :: :,:know: :,:,, : :: :,:,,,:,, ::,,,,,:,, :: : :: : :: :,,: : :: : :: : :knowledge :,: :known : :: : :knows : ::Llaboring :lack :lacking :laid :, :late :: : :law: : ::, :,,: : :: :,:, :: :laws :lawyer:,: : ::,, :: :,lawyers : ::, :,: : :: : :: : :: :lawyer's :leading :leaving : :led:Leeuw: :: : ::Leeuw's : :left : : ::, :: : :: : :legal : :: :legitimacy :legwork : :letter: : ::,, :: : ::,,, :: : ::letters :, ::let's :, :level : :lie :life : :, ::,light : :likelihood::limitations :line :, :: :,,:,, ::list :listed: ::litigation: :: :little :local :, :,: :,, ::, :,: :,,:,,,,: : :: :, :: :, ::, :,:, :logically :long : :longer:,:, :,: :look : :,: : :looked: :,looking :loses :lost : : ::lot : :,lower:loyalty :luck :Mmail : :,,: :majority : :making : :malfeasance :man: :man's :Maples : :,: : :,,: :, ::, :: :,,,: : :,: : :: :,: :,,:,, :: : :,:, :,: :,,:, : ::,,,:Maples's :: : :: :,marked:material :matter: :: : :,: :matters :mean:, :: : ::, :: :, ::, : ::meaning :meaningful :: : :,: : ::means :,:members :,mention:merely :merit : :meritless :merits : ::message :mind :minimum ::,minutes :misaddressed:missed:,,moments :Montgomery :months : ::Morgan :morning :motion: :move : :: :,:,moved: :moves :Mullane :: :,multiple :Munanka :: :,:,, ::,murder:,NN :, :nationwide :necessarily :: : : necessary :need: :negligence :negligent :Neiman: ::,, :: :,,:, :,:,, :,:,, :,:,,, ::, :,: :,: : ::, :,:, : :: :, ::,, ::,, :,:,,,,: :, ::, :,: :,,:,never: :,,new: : :: :, :: : :: : :non-jurisdictional:notice :,, :: : :,:,,,:,,, :: : :: :, ::, :,:,, :: :, :: :,: :,:,,,,:, : :OfficialPage :,noticed:notices :,,: : : ::, : :: :notified:notify : :notifying ::,number: :: : :numerous :OO : :oar :obligation: ::, : :: : :obtain :obtaining ::obviously :occurred:,: : ::October:office : :okay : :: :old :once : :: :ones :onus :opened:opinion:opportunity :,oppose : :::,opposition:oral : :, :: :order: :: :,: : ::, :ordinarily :ordinary :ought : :outset :, ::::out-of :out-of-State :,:, :,:, : ::, :,:,, :: :out-of-time :,:, ::,out-of-town ::PP :page : : :: : :: : :paper:part : : :: : :: :, :: :participation:particular:,: :particularly :: : ::parties : ::party : ::passed:passes :people : :: : :: :,: : :people's :perfectly ::perform :,performed:performing ::permission:,person : :: :, ::personally :person's :perspective ::petition: :: :, ::petitioner:, :: : :,: : :piece :place :places :plain :play :played:player: :pleading :please : :point : :,: : :: :,: :, ::points : ::posed:position: :: : ::,possibility ::possible :postconviction: : ::, : :posture :potential :power:practice : :: : :practiced:pragmatic :precedent :precedents :precluded:prepared::preparing :,,prerogative :prerogatives ::present :preserving :press :pressed:presumption:pretty :prevented:principal :,principle :principles ::,, :: :,,:, :prior:,prison: :: : :pro : : :problem: : : ::problems :procedural ::,, :,: :,,,Procedure :proceed:proceeding :: : :: :proceedings ::, :: : :: :process : :: : ::,produce :professional ::Professor :proof :properly :prosecuting :: : :prosecution:prosecutor:,:, :,:proves :provide : :: : :providing :prudent :pure :purely :purposes ::pursued:push:,pushing :put : :,putting : :OfficialPage Qquestion: ::, :,: : ::, :: :,,: : ::, :,:, :questioning :questions :: : :: :quite : : :: :quote :RR : :raise :raised:,read :reading : ::ready :real : : :really :, :: : ::,reason : ::reasonable :,: :,,: :reasonably :reasons : :: : :,REBUTTAL ::receive : :: : ::received: ::receives :receiving :,:recognition:recognize :: :recognized:: :recognizes :,:recognizing :: :record : : ::,,, ::, :,:,, :: : :,:,, :,:, ::,,,,: :,:,,,,,:, ::,,, ::, :: : :: :,,: :regard : :regarding :rehearing :rejected:::relationship ::, : :: :released:relevant :,:relief : :: :relies :,rely : : :remainder:remained:remaining :,:remand : :: : :: : :remarkable :remedies :remember:reply :represent : :: :, :: : :representation:: : ::representative:represented:: : ::, : ::representing :: : :: : :: :,,,:request : :require :required: :: : ::, :requirement ::requires :requisite :reserve :respect : :: : :: :, :respectfully ::Respondent :: :response ::responses :responsibilities:, :responsibility ::, : :responsible ::result :return : :: :returned: :: : :reveal :reveals :reversed: ::reversing :right :, : ::, : ::, ::,,,,: :, :: : :: : ::, : :: : ::, :rise :risk :ROBERTS :,:, : ::, ::,, :: : :,: :,: :,,,:, :role : : :,: :,,,:,, :: : : ::row: : :rule :,, :,: : :,: : :: : ::,, :: :, :: :rules :,,:, :: : :: : ::, : :: :, :ruling :running :SS : :sanction:sanctionable :saw:saying : :: :says :,, :: : ::, : ::, :,:Scalia : :, :: :,,,: :,,:,,, ::, :,,:,,,:, :,:, :,:, :,,: : :,: : :: : :: : :,: :,,:second : :::see : : :seek :seen:send : :,: : ::,, :,:,,,: : :Sender:sends :sense : :: : :sent :, :,: : :: :sentence :series :serious : :: :serve : :,:served: :: : :,:service :serving : :set :sets :setting : :severally :shocking ::short-circuited:shot :show: :: :,:,showed:shows : :OfficialPage :,,sick :side :sidestep:signed:signify :similar:simple : :simply : :,: : :: : :,:, :single : :sitting :situation:: : :: :,skimpy :Society :Solicitor: ::somebody ::sort :SOTOMAYOR:, : ::, :,,:,, ::, :,:, :: : :,: :sought :speak :specific :specifically :: :specified:spend :squarely :stage : :stake : :standard :standards :state : : :: : :, ::,,, :: : ::, :,,:,, ::, :,: : :: : :: : :: :,,:,,,,,,:, :: :,: :,,:,,,,: : :: : :statement :statements ::States :, :State's : ::, ::, :: : ::, :,statistics :,: :statute :stays :step: :stop : :Story's : ::stress :stronger:submitted:,substance :substantial :,: :substantially ::substitute :substitutions :,sub-agency :successful :suggested:: :suggestion :: :suggests :: :sui : :Sullivan: :: :, :: : ::, : :: : :suppose : ::supposed:,:, : :supreme :,:sure : : :: :surely :surprising :suspect :swear :switch:system:, ::, : ::,, :: : :TT : :,tainted:take : :,: : :taken:takes : :talk :talking : :: : :: : : : :,tangential :team :,technical :tell : :,,: :, ::telling : :term :termed:terminate :terminated::Thank : :,:,, :,thereto :thing : ::,, :: : ::things : : :: : :: : :think :,,,:,, : :: :, :: :,: :,: :,,,:, :,,: :,: :,:,, :,: :,,: : ::,,,,:, :,: :,,:, : :: : :: :,:, :,:, : ::,,,:,thinks :Thomas : :Thompson:,thought : :: : ::three : : :: : ::,, ::ticking :time : :,: :,: :,:, : :: :timely :times : :told : : :: :toto :touted:town :transaction:transfer:trial : :: :tried:troubling :true : ::try :trying :Tuesday :turns :two : : :: : :: :, :: : ::, :: : ::,, ::, : :Official:, : :twofold :type :Uultimately :: :unclear:unconstitutional: ::understand :: :,understanding:, :understood::undisputable :undoubtedly :unethical : ::unfair:unfortunate :unique :United:,unquote :unreasonably :unreceived:unusual :usually :Vv : : :, ::various :vast : :viable :victims :view: : :viewed: :violation: :virtually :volunteer:underlying :,wanted:,Page volunteered:wrong : :Wwaited:waive :waived:,:want : :: : :: : ::wants :Washington:,wasn't : :: : :: :way : : :: : :: : ::went : : :: :weren't : ::, :,:we'll : :we're : :: :,,: : :: : :we've : ::Whoa :withdraw:wonder:work : :,: :, :: :working : ::works : :wouldn't :,: :Xx :, :Yy :Yeah:year :years : :Yee :York : :: : :,: : :: :young :z:Z- : :: : :: : : : : : : : : : :a : : : : : : :, :,: : : OfficialPage : : : :. : : : :: 