 Washington, D.C. Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Petitioners - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x PACIFIC OPERATORS OFFSHORE, : : No. - LLP, ET AL., : : LUISA L. VALLADOLID, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C., for JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for the General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for the Federal Respondent. v. Petitioners. private Respondent. On behalf of the Federal Respondent On behalf of the private Respondent On behalf of the Petitioners Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. JOSEPH R. PALMORE, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument Offshore v. Valladolid. Mr. Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT first this morning in Case -, Pacific Operators The straightforward question in this case is whether the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides a remedy for a worker injured in a forklift mishap on dry land. The answer is no. A worker injured on dry land from operations on dry land has a remedy in the State workers' compensation law, but not from OCSLA's extension of the Longshore Act to the outer continental shelf. Indeed, both the Benefits Review Board and the Ninth Circuit here held that the accident occurred too far inland for direct coverage under the Longshore Act. land, do you -- where do you put the -mile State offshore limit? Does that count as land under your view? MR. CLEMENT: No, it wouldn't count as land, please the Court: CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say on Official So, therefore, the counterintuitive Mr. Chief Justice. If there were platforms on there that were themselves treated as land, that might be. I think most of the miles from shore is going to be the navigable waters, and that might be covered, for example, directly under the Longshore Act. But as I say, one of the anomalies here is there was a direct Longshore Act claim in this case, and the determination was that the facility here was too far inland for direct coverage under the Longshore Act. proposition on the other side of the table today is that in extending the Longshore Act to the outer continental shelf, Congress effectively created a boomerang effect that caused the Longshore Act to apply further inland up on the Chief Justice's question, if there's a helicopter crash in the water, let's say it occurs . miles from the shore, is that covered? And, similarly, shore? the best answer is both of those crashes would be covered directly by the Longshore Act because the Longshore Act by its own terms, not extended by OCSLA, would it be covered if it occurred . miles from the than it otherwise would. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Clement, just to follow MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, I think Official covers the navigable waters, and both of those would be accidents occurring in the navigable waters. And in the part of this Court's opinion in the Pacific Operators case addressing the DOHSA claim, this Court said that a helicopter effectively, when it's performing this kind of ferrying function, is a vessel. So, I would think that the right answer there is not that OCSLA extends the Longshore Act, but the Longshore Act applies directly under those circumstances. JUSTICE ALITO: The curious thing about this case is that the statutory language seems to me to speak quite clearly to some theory of causation. Any injury occurring as the result of operations conducted on the outer continental shelf. That's -- that's causation. -- some species of causation. And yet, nobody wants this really to be -- neither you nor your adversary nor the Government wants this to be a -- to be based on causation. Everyone wants to smuggle something else talk first about the causation and then about the smuggling, if I can. As to the causation, I think there is both causation in this (b) and a situs Maybe it's but-for, maybe it's proximate, but it's some requirement that both sides acknowledge. At a bare into -- into here -- into this. MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Alito, let me Official beachcombers out there, or what? JUSTICE SCALIA: Give me an example of a -- But let me address the smuggling, because I MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think the best example minimum, there have to be injuries resulting from operations conducted on the shelf. And I think that alone, that causation principle alone, if faithfully applied, is enough to decide this case in our favor. do think -- of an injury that occurs on the shelf that is not a consequence of operations conducted. What -- just would be, Your Honor -- is somebody who's on the shelf but they're not employed in the relevant production purposes. And so, you might have an -- accountant out there. You might just have some employees who are out there whale watching or something. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How many accountants go to platforms? think it's worth recognizing -- I mean, I don't know how many go. I doubt very many go. But Congress passed this statute at a time when they didn't know the full JUSTICE SCALIA: What are they doing out there? MR. CLEMENT: Well, you might have an MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I Official there that are designed for the production of the this person one who regularly works on the outer continental shelf. And the -- this worker, we're told, was on the outer continental shelf percent of the time. scope of the operations that would take place out on the shelf. And so, what they're trying to do is they're trying to -- at the one point, they're trying to limit it to employees who are engaged in the operations out mineral wealth of the shelf. And so, I think that's what some of the language is directed at. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if that -- if that's what Congress meant, then the emphasis should be on is on the outer continental shelf at the time of this accident, he probably wouldn't have been injured. But the one thing I think the statute clearly speaks to is not status, but it speaks to, as Justice Alito suggested, at a minimum a relationship between the operations that caused the injury and the fact that those operations have to be conducted on the shelf. MR. CLEMENT: Sure. And if he was at the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. --JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if -- if you had said rig to the land, to the base of operations that's status or situs, then it seems to me it would have made more sense, given the language of the statute. We will all have hypotheticals. We won't have too many, but it's quite common on oil rigs that the employees bring prepare it, and so that they can bring it back to the next -- the next shift on the rig. And some of this machinery is complicated. It has springs in it. Suppose that the worker brings the machine back from the land-based, and is injured in repairing that machine. Under your view, no coverage? think that -- MR. CLEMENT: No, I disagree, Your Honor, respectfully, and I think your way of looking at that hypothetical doesn't give sufficient import to the phrase "conducted on the shelf." It's -- what JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think that's quite difficult to square with the "as a result" language because this is a result of the operation. Let's just say the machine got broken because of the -- of the operations, and there -- and he's fixing it and he's injured. MR. CLEMENT: No coverage, Your Honor, and I Official some of the equipment back to the land, clean it, Respondents want to do is they want you to look at the Official And so, that first "on the shelf" I think JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the your hypothetical would be that's covered. But the statute very specifically says that statute as saying as long as there is an injury that results from operations that have the purpose of developing the outer continental shelf, that that's enough. And if that were enough, I think the answer to they have to be injuries as a result of operations conducted on the shelf for the purpose of extracting the mineral wealth of the shelf. clearly modifies the operations. Only operations conducted on the shelf are -- Government and -- Ninth Circuit take care of that by saying that the person has to have -- the injured employee has to have spent substantial amount of time on the -- on the Honor, because if there's one thing that is absolutely clear about this statute it's that it doesn't include a status test that looks for the predominant place you MR. CLEMENT: -- covered by the statute. JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Government and the offshore operations. So, you could add that. MR. CLEMENT: Well, you can't add that, Your spend your time. And that's not -- reply brief. MR. CLEMENT: Sure. I mean, I have two of -- place of injury. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I agree. I thought MR. CLEMENT: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in your -- in your your reply brief, said you -- you superimpose a status test. You have the situs of the injury, and then you superimpose status. So, your test is not simple state you had a backup argument -- arguments, and let me try to address both, which is to say, on the causation point, if you look at just causation and you don't have a situs and a status get just a status test. And the only thing I would implore you to think about in that is not only is it not in the statute, but there is a statute that has a status-based remedy that travels with the worker specifically is written in status terms. And that was a model that Congress had before it, but it specifically rejected the admiralty model for dealing with these structures and adopted the model that has them treated requirement, then in that scenario, there's no way to wherever they go. It's the Jones Act, and it Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought your brief, as -- Official MR. CLEMENT: That's their status test, exactly. JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- but you call that Jones Act case. That just doesn't work. This was not the Jones Act. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you call status -- if the test is where you spend a substantial amount of time working, is that what you call status? status? MR. CLEMENT: I call that their pure status test, which they themselves cite to Chandris, which is a Now, there is a test where we say that the best reading of the statute is status plus situs. And if I could try to get this argument out -- it's a little argument, if it has one, is it doesn't leap out directly from (b), and you have to read (b) in conjunction with both the rest of and in conjunction with (a) of the Longshore Workers' Act. If you do that, I think you will see there is a situs requirement and a status requirement. you think about this statute, the primary engine for applying Federal law to the shelf is not (b); it's (a). It applies all of Federal law to the shelf. bit complicated, because I think the defect of this Let me start with the rest of the . If Official But some statutes, it doesn't work, and the One, it has this language that everyone's situs requirement that is limited to the navigable Longshore Act is one of them. If you apply the Longshore Act to the shelf without any modifications, it won't cover the shelf because it by its terms has a waters and at that point the drydocks. So, Congress has to tailor the longshore remedy to the reality of the shelf, and it does it in two ways. focused on that is something of a status requirement in that it limits the recovery to employees who are engaged in certain activities. But the rest of the language in (b) is important. It's these definitions (), (), Longshore Act to make them work for purposes of extending it to the shelf. defines the term "United States" when used in a shelf, the artificial islands, and the fixed attachments thereto. Now, that's a puzzle if you look at (b) in isolation, because it's defining the term "United States" for geographical purposes, and (b) does not use the term "United States" for geographical purposes. geographical sense, and it defines it to include the and (), and they effectively define terms in the And the key definition is (). Three Official And (a) uses the term "United States." petition appendix. But that's the situs requirement. But another statute does; it's . It's the longshore remedy that's extended. And (a), if you want to look at, is at page of the The situs requirement of (a) unmodified limits recovery to the navigable waters and drydocks. So, if you take that definition from (b)() and essentially superimpose it on (a), you then get a remedy that has a situs requirement; there's a recovery, but only if the injury occurs on the navigable waters, drydocks, the shelf, artificial islands, and the attachments thereto. argument, and it doesn't stare you in the face if you that -- how does that provide you situs on the adjacent waters? Justice Sotomayor, I think you get that without OCSLA, which is to say I think that there's a remedy under the Longshore Act directly under the adjacent waters because the adjacent waters are navigable waters. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I see. So, you're saying you don't even -- you're not going -- MR. CLEMENT: I don't -- with respect, So it's -- as I say, it's a complicated look at (b) -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How does Official MR. CLEMENT: Same way, Your Honor, which is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Instead of saying MR. CLEMENT: Exactly, and they're not. And them. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, how do you get to MR. CLEMENT: You don't need those, and that just underscores that Congress in the statute is really dealing with a very particular problem with the shelf and the artificial islands and platforms attached to the water above the shelf? to say they're navigable waters. they're part of the shelf? the statute I think couldn't be clearer about that because -- Justice Kennedy was alluding to was the example the Ninth Circuit used: A pitcher on the mound throws a baseball and hits the batter. The situs is not the mound, but the injury has occurred as a result of pitching. And so, he's coming up with examples, and I think that's what the Ninth Circuit was saying when it was creating the test of a substantial nexus between the operation and the injury. MR. CLEMENT: I'm --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's the part of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think the issue that Official MR. CLEMENT: And if I could take that --there's a couple of pieces to that, Justice Sotomayor. your -- of your definition that gives no credence to that possibility. MR. CLEMENT: Well -- and I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You may be arguing that as a factual matter what this man was doing on land was not a substantial nexus. That's a different issue than providing a test that limits injury to an operation solely on the shelf. First of all, I would say that I think that the hypothetical, let's say, of, you know, a nut or something coming off the shelf and hitting somebody somewhere else is -- illustrates the difference between the nut hits somebody in the navigable waters, they wouldn't recover from OCSLA; they would recover under the Longshore Act directly because they were on the proximate cause test, then I would say, yes, that person can recover under OCSLA, but that's really a fortuitous set of circumstances precisely because I wouldn't apply a substantial nexus test, which seems to me just an our primary argument and our backup argument. On our primary argument, somebody who -- if navigable waters. On our backup theory, that it's a tight Official MR. CLEMENT: Well, I could live with a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you're not -- you that is I think if you look at the statute, you can't have a proximate cause test that doesn't take geography into account. invitation to kind of play around with -- don't want a but-for test. Or do you? MR. CLEMENT: Certainly not. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. You don't want a proximate cause test. proximate cause test as long as it's a proximate cause test that's tailored to the statute. And what I mean by case like this, you have to ask yourself not just operations somewhere other than the shelf that were a more direct proximate cause of the injury? And if that's the case, then the remedy lies in the law that applies to those other operations. of causation now. proximate cause, so --proximate cause in the abstract, but were there And I think -- in particular, I think in a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Give me your definition MR. CLEMENT: What's that? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is a new version of MR. CLEMENT: Well, you know, it's -- it's Official for purposes of this statute, that should be right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, I don't really understand proximate cause as applied to a -- a statute funny because, you know, this Court has on more than one occasion sort of remarked that "proximate cause" itself is a weird formulation because "proximate" sounds like it has a location aspect to it. And we actually think, It's proximate cause as tailored to this statute and the policies of this statute, and I think that would want to really take the geography into account. that provides for automatic liability rather than liability for negligence. To say that it's a proximate cause of a particular act of negligence is one thing, and we have a whole body of law that gives guidance for that. But do you know of any other situation where we talk of proximate cause, something proximately caused by operations? Not by a particular act of negligence or -- I don't know how to apply proximate cause to an operation. say two things. One is I do think there's an anomaly here, but I do think it's -- you know, you're not being asked to apply proximate cause for purposes of assessing liability because, as you say, strict liability -- it's MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I would kind of automatic liability. Official But what I would say is you are being asked, That said, I do think that the best way to it's so anomalous that you wouldn't do it if you thought all of the areas off of the shelf are governed, with the exception of seamen under the Jones Act, primarily as a matter of geography. So -- at least under the backup theory, to apply proximate cause as a way of determining the geographical scope of the statute. And that's anomalous, but I don't think that was the better way to read the statute. read the statute is consistent with all the other statutes as part of a jurisdictional puzzle. I mean, position is right, then we have a worker who most of the time is doing work on a platform, and he will be covered or not depending on whether the injury occurred on the shelf or on the land. So, it's -- the other view is to say what this person does most of the time is what counts. Then this worker would always be covered by OCSLA. And if you take your view, then one will be covered by OCSLA; another one who is doing the same job is covered by a State -- a State -- you have a variety of State workers' compensation laws as opposed to a uniform law governing workers of this kind. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, if your MR. CLEMENT: Well, two responses, Justice Official Ginsburg: First of all, this Court has already confronted the objection that, well, if -- under OCSLA workers would move in and out of coverage, and it rejected it in the Herb's Welding case. And I don't --I think it's common ground -- well, maybe not, but it should be common ground that if you had a worker who was injured on a State platform, that that would not be covered by -- a State waters platform, that that would not be covered by OCSLA. And, again, that was an anomaly that this Court confronted in Herb's welding and the Court said: Yes, well, you know, workers are going to move in and out of coverage, but that's what OCSLA says. That's what OCSLA does. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what brings me -- I'm looking at petition appendix , (a) that you referred us to. I wasn't quite sure of your argument with respect to this statute. This statute is a situs-based statute. Act. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But since Congress didn't follow this model in the -- in subsection (b) that we're looking for and used "as a result," why doesn't that show that Congress meant something different? I didn't MR. CLEMENT: Yes, and it's the Longshore Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it doesn't; it talks about where the injury occurs, and that's not what -- MR. CLEMENT: Well, my argument -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't see, in other hear your argument on that point. words, how doesn't hurt you more than it helps you. MR. CLEMENT: It helps me because (b) doesn't apply a different model. It adopts this model. It adopts and extends the Longshoreman Act to the shelf. See, it's a mistake to read -- and that's not what (b) says. MR. CLEMENT: No, it talks about that as part of extending the Longshore Workers' Act to the shelf. It's important that, you know, you can't get --I mean, (b), like I said, is not a self-contained offshore workers workers' compensation regime. What it does is it extends the Longshore Workers' Act to the shelf, including (a). that you couldn't just extend (a) and the rest of the Act to the shelf without modification, because then you come to this language that says you only get relief if your injury occurred on the navigable waters or the drydocks attached thereto. So, Congress in (b)() changes the definition of the United States for But what I'm saying is Congress recognized Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, may I go you get a recovery if you're injured on the navigable geographical purposes in a way that allows you to superimpose this provision to the shelf, but instead of reading it to say you only get a recovery if you're injured on the navigable waters including the drydocks, waters, including the shelf, the drydocks, the artificial islands, and the fixtures attached thereto. back to -- you referred to Herb's Welding, but that was a case -- it was a claim under the Longshore Act, not an OCSLA claim, and the Court said it was expressing no opinion on whether (b) covered the injury. is not a holding, but at the end of that opinion, the Court confronts this argument that isn't it odd that somebody would be moving in and out of coverage? And the Court says that that is a product of OCSLA. And it doesn't say it's a product of OCSLA generally; it says particularly that it's a product of OCSLA's extension of about people moving in and out was answered by the Court in Herb's Welding. second point I wanted to make in response to your the Longshore Act. And I do think that this objection MR. CLEMENT: That's right. Herb's Welding I would also say, Justice Ginsburg, the earlier question is I understand that it might make Official But that's not what they did. They hard about having an admiralty remedy, and presumably policy sense to have coverage that encapsulates an individual no matter where they work. But the problem is -- I mean, that's not only a different model; that's the model that Congress rejected. They thought long and then the Jones Act would apply, and if you were attached to a vessel or a platform, then you would have coverage no matter where you went. incorporated instead as their model the Longshore Act, and the Longshore Act always had a situs requirement. So, when Congress makes a conscious effort to deal with this unusual geographical problem with -- and solves the problem with the Longshore Act, which is sitting there with a situs requirement, and doesn't adopt the Jones Act, which has a status-only requirement, it seems very, very peculiar to adopt instead a model that would have a status-only test. OCSLA to situations in which State workers' compensation was unavailable. rejected that with good reason, Your Honor, because you have to remember that, at this point, they're living JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress also did not adopt the proposal, the specific proposal to confine MR. CLEMENT: And I think that's -- they Official JUSTICE SCALIA: What reason did they have with the experience that this Court ultimately resolved. But they're living in real time with the experience of people under the Longshore Act, which at that point, did carve out and limit the remedy, the Federal remedy, only when a State remedy was unavailable. And they were watching that play out, and it was a mess. People didn't know if they should bring a State case or a Federal case, and at that point they were viewed as exclusive. So, Congress had ample reasons to reject the idea that we're going to only give a Federal remedy if a State remedy is unavailable. to use the terminology "as a result of" instead of simply saying that this Act applies only with regard to injuries on the platform, which is what other statutes did say? I mean, other statutes had a geographical requirement. What a strange way to say it, "as a result of operations." the other statute that most plainly has a situs requirement is the Longshore Act, and that's precisely what they extended to the shelf, as I've argued. Beyond that, it's true that some of the other provisions of this Act have slightly different wording, but I don't MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Scalia, I don't know which other statutes you're talking about. I mean, Official But your friends come back and say the JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement, you are think anything turns on that -- asking us to just ignore six words in this statute, right? You read the statute as any injury occurring on the outer continental shelf, when in fact the statute says "any injury occurring as the result of operations conducted on the outer continental shelf." And you give a variety of arguments in your brief about what those six words are supposed to do. They're supposed to cover latent injuries. They're supposed to make sure that the statute only covers things that happen in the scope of your employment. statute did all those things anyway. These six words MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, first of all, it's interesting. The only way they can say that those functions were performed by the statute anyways is to incorporate provisions of the Longshore Act, because (b) itself doesn't take care of latent injuries or doesn't take care of, you know, who's in the scope of their employment. All of that is taken care of in the Longshore Act, which is why I think the best way to read this is incorporating the Longshore Act and its situs would serve no function under your theory. requirement. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But this goes back to But, beyond that, I would never ask you to make six words go away, never. Those words do play a function, but the function they play is to make it clear that the injury has to result of operations conducted on the shelf for certain purposes. And that precludes an employee accountant who's out on the shelf and injured by something that has nothing to do with shelf operations. Justice Ginsburg's question. She asked you how many accountants are there on the shelf? One can't really imagine that Congress is writing this -- this statute, and drafting those six words in order to make sure that an accountant who goes out to the outer continental MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, I would beg to differ. And I think what you have to understand is, go back in and when they're -- I mean, you can say confidently that there aren't accountants on the shelf experience with -- post- with what goes on, on the shelf. Congress at this point is sort of legislating for a brave new world, and they don't -- they're trying to provide for all of the occasions that may come to because you have the benefit of -- years of shelf isn't covered. pass out on the shelf. Official There is a great law review article that was written December of , and it's worth a look there's going to be accountants and clerical workers out there. actually provides this background, and it's written by, of all people, Warren Christopher, the Warren Christopher, and it's in the Stanford Law Review, and it because it captures this idea that they're kind of, you know, legislating for this brave new world out there, and they don't know who's going to be out there. They don't know if it's going to be all drill workers or if And so, I think with that context, it's not at all odd that they would use those six words to say, kind of the way that Congress did later in in imposing the marine employment test for longshoremen -- it's like, look, we want to provide a longshore remedy, but not to just anybody, any employee who might happen to be on the shelf; we want to provide it to those people who are essentially in the core operations that Mr. Clement. If I could reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, are going on, on the shelf. Mr. Palmore. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOSEPH R. PALMORE Official And I'd like the point the Court to section I'd like to start off with the exchange that Justice Kagan had with Mr. Clement about the language ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: that was used here in (b), and I think the contrast between the language that Congress used in (b) and the language it used in other provisions, neighboring provisions, of is instructive. (c), which is on page a of the appendix to the Government's brief. This is the provision involving the National Labor Relations Act. And I think this shows how Congress went about drafting when it wanted to specify legal consequences that would flow from an actual event that took place in a particular place. So, Congress extends the National Labor Relations Act to "any unfair labor practice, as defined in such Act, occurring upon any artificial island...." And then it lists with particularity the particular situses where the National Labor Relations Act would apply. section (b), it would be a very different statute. It would have said, as Your Honor pointed out, with respect to disability or death of an employee resulting If Congress had followed that model in Official operations on the outer continental shelf. Congress didn't do either of those things in from any injury on the outer continental shelf. If Congress wanted to additionally require -- have some kind of operations nexus, it could have said occurring on the outer continental shelf as the result of section (b), and we think that contrast is -- is quite instructive here. It's also not the case -- Mr. Chief Justice, that I think there's a contrast with which Congress provided for where a particular event would happen. There's no question that (b) has a situs requirement, but it's a situs of operations requirement. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it's a little -- it's a little different when you're talking about a labor practice and an activity that results in an injury. Labor practice by its terms is going to have applicability to a particular location. So, you would expect them to use that type of language. It doesn't carry the same negative implication you're suggesting under (b). between (b) and (c) in terms of the specificity MR. PALMORE: Well, I think that -- So, when you're talking about a situs of Official provide benefits for injuries that result from those operations, you're talking about a geographic zone where operations take place. It makes sense that Congress would have used this phrase "on the outer continental shelf." Now, the outer continental shelf itself is a defined term in the statutes. In (a), it applies only to the subsoil and seabed. It doesn't include artificial installations put on top. So, we're talking about a general zone, a general geographic zone where the operations take place. And then Congress wanted to operations. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the facts of this case were changed a little bit so that the Respondent, instead of spending percent of his time on an oil rig doing things that he did there, actually spent only percent of his time there, and he spent percent of his time on land doing what he was supposed to be doing at the time of the accident. This particular operation produced so much scrap metal, he had to spend percent of his time going around with a forklift gathering it up. Now, would this case come out the same way then? don't see how you get this result out of the statutory MR. PALMORE: We don't think so, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: Then how does that -- I language, because the causal connection between the Official causal relationship. MR. PALMORE: Because we think it's a operations on the shelf and the accident are precisely the same in the two situations. Whether he spends percent of his time on the rig or percent of his time on the rig, that makes no difference whatsoever in the mistake in the context of a workers' compensation scheme to look at this as kind of a snapshot in time. We think that when you're talking about a workers' compensation scheme, the kind of causation that is relevant is the causation caused by the employment relationship itself. So, if someone's spending, like Mr. Valladolid -- spending percent of his time on the shelf, he's uniquely exposed to the hazards of work in that dangerous environment. that's not what it says. It says "as a result of operations." employee. That's a -- MR. PALMORE: And we think that --JUSTICE SCALIA: And I don't -- you know, I would think he doesn't even have to be an employee, does he? JUSTICE SCALIA: The trouble with that is MR. PALMORE: He does have to be an only employees are entitled to benefits. But I think the definition of "employee" or Official 'employer' means 'an employer any of whose employees are really the related definition of "employer" is instructive on this question. If you look at the definition of an employer in (b)() -- this is on page a of the Government appendix -- says "the term employed in such operations.'" It's somewhat of a circular definition. But there's a focus here on employees who are engaged in such operations. Those are employees like -- MR. PALMORE: And the Ninth Circuit viewed -- viewed injury in the way that Your Honor and Justice Alito are suggesting. And I would -- and that's our backup position. I think both sides here have backup positions. I would submit that the backup positions are where -- - better than the primary positions in this case, you JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Palmore, you're asking us to look at the relationship between the employment and the shelf activities, and the statute asks us to look at the relationship between the injury and the shelf activities. And those may be two different things and seemingly are two different things in the hypothetical that Justice Alito gave you. JUSTICE KAGAN: The backup positions may be know? Official that's so much better here? What is it? JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the backup position that are suffered by workers who spend a substantial amount of time on the shelf. The backup position is the -- in our view, is the Ninth Circuit position, which is the substantial connection between the injury and operations on the shelf. It doesn't strike me as that different from Mr. Clement's backup position. MR. PALMORE: I think the backup positions really also differ with each other only in a matter of degree, not in -- (Laughter.) MR. PALMORE: Well, I don't -- to be clear, we don't think it's better. We think that the category of off-shelf injuries that should be covered are those have no idea what that means. Now, they have the example of an accountant on land who spends all of his time doing accounting work for the -- for the oil rig. Why isn't there a substantial connection there? Were it not for the operations on the oil rig, this guy would be out of work or he'd be doing something completely different. I don't understand that. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the trouble is that I MR. PALMORE: Well, that's the -- that would be an expansive but-for test of the kind that at least Official highlighted this. Proximate cause is a -- MR. PALMORE: We think substantial -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A substantial nexus is some language in the Third Circuit's opinion in Curtis would support. We think that that sweeps too broadly. We think a proximate cause, however, sweeps too narrowly, and Justice Scalia's exchange with Mr. Clement just right? substantial nexus, substantial connection. We think, though, that it would be a mistake to look at only the snapshot in time. And there is some language in the Ninth Circuit decision which -- which might suggest that. We think -- to, given your status test. Where are you drawing your status test from? Meaning, obviously it's not from the language. we think that the language has to be understood in the context of workers' compensation. This is not a tort-based fault regime. This is a workers' compensation scheme. Workers' compensation schemes are based on the relationship between employer and employee, that it is from the language, Justice Sotomayor, because JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you accept your adversary's position that whatever causal -- you have MR. PALMORE: Well, I think I would submit Official itself, the workplace relationship itself. whose employees are employed in such operations. and they cover injuries that arise out of and in the course of employment. So, the kind of causation that matters in a workers' compensation scheme is the -- is the causation that flows from the worker relationship JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not -- I would have just thought you would have taken it out of (b) subdivision (), the term "employer," almost the obverse, means an employer -- means an employer any of MR. PALMORE: Thank you, Justice Sotomayor. I think that is the second point. I think that textual provision provides support for the fact that Congress was particularly focused on those employees who were uniquely exposed to the hazards of work on the shelf. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- but what if that exposure is not pertinent to what they're doing? Let's take the same individual, percent of the time on the rig and percent on land. An emergency comes up. They need a new part, and they say: Here, go -- you know, go drive to Reno where they have a new part and bring it back. And he skids off the road and is injured. Is he really covered by the Offshore Act? a worker who is uniquely exposed to those hazards MR. PALMORE: We think he is because that is Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, so, he's MR. PALMORE: Yes, Your Honor, because we offshore, and he shouldn't -- subject -- he's injured by, you know, a hazard on the road to Reno. He's -- I don't know how many miles that is from the offshore, and yet he's still covered by the Offshore Act? think that the -- that -- and here the contrast with the underlying Longshore Act is important, and Justice of the Government brief, that provides coverage for disability or death, but only if the disability or death waters. That was clearly in front of Congress at the time that it adopted OCSLA, because it was incorporating that statute and applying it in the outer continental shelf context. And it's quite telling that Congress did Kennedy's questions of Justice -- of Mr. Clement highlighted this, because it's quite an unusual thing for a workers' compensation statute to have a situs-of-injury requirement. The Longshore Act is the sole example of which I'm aware, and it has it for historical reasons based on this Court's decision in Jensen. result from an injury occurring upon the navigable And it has a provision that's quoted on page not use that but-only-if formulation. Official any sense? MR. PALMORE: Because the kind of certainty MR. PALMORE: Yes, in some situations. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why does that make JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but --but Mr. Clement says that -- and we can argue about whether the language does it or not, but the system he comes up with, he says, creates a very sensible division. You're either under the Longshore Act or you're under this Act. And -- whereas, in your situation, you can be under both, can't you? -- we think our test is actually much easier to administer and provides greater predictability in this sense -- contemplated, expressly contemplated, that there would (e) of the Longshore Act to provide for offsetting payments when there is overlap. So, overlap is a fact of life in this area. they both apply? Are there any differences between the two? JUSTICE BREYER: I think the question is, is there any difference between the two? JUSTICE SCALIA: Which one prevails when MR. PALMORE: Well, there's -- Congress be overlapping coverage and adopted a provision in Official MR. PALMORE: Well, in this case the Federal a certain set -- and it's the same set in both, benefits were more generous than the State benefits. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't they have been -- I mean, as I understand it, if a person of virtually, the same set of people -- where they're injured on navigable waters or piers and docks and so forth, it's the Longshore Act. And if you're on the platform, it's this Act, so far. And the benefits are MR. PALMORE: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, the only thing that extending this does, I think he says, is imagine a person who worked on a platform goes to get some person would not be covered by Longshore Act, would he? covered by this, if they're right, but not if Clement is point was there for Congress to do that? MR. PALMORE: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, he's saying what MR. PALMORE: Would not. JUSTICE BREYER: No. And he would be MR. PALMORE: Because we thought that Congress intended this to function in the way that other platform bits repaired miles from the sea. Now, that the same. right. Official plant. He is not covered, correct? JUSTICE BREYER: Let me give you an example. MR. PALMORE: Under the Longshore Act? JUSTICE BREYER: Correct. Yes, that's workers' compensation schemes function, both at the time that OCSLA was adopted and today, which is that the coverage provides comprehensive benefits from the start of the workday to the end of the workday. It might help. A longshoreman is working on a dock. Someone tells him: There is a winch here that's broken; take it to the plant to have it repaired, which is miles inland. He does it, and he's hurt at the right. So, he's not covered. happens on the platform, under your theory he is covered. Now, your opponent is asking a reasonable question. That seems to be about the only difference that he can think of, whether it's the one Act or the other, and why would Congress have done that? That's his question, and I'd like to hear the answer. Justice Breyer, the Longshore Act's strict situs-of-injury requirement is the exception, not the MR. PALMORE: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: But if the same thing MR. PALMORE: Because in that situation, rule. That is unusual and really unprecedented in Official why. compensation coverage that would apply benefits -- JUSTICE BREYER: So, your answer is MR. PALMORE: No, we do know why. JUSTICE BREYER: Why? MR. PALMORE: It was stingy for historical imposing a situs-of-injury requirement in the context of a workers' compensation scheme. At the time of OCSLA -- at the time OCSLA was adopted in , States had nearly uniformly moved away from the tort theory of workers' basically there are many statutes like this, they all have some kind of OCSLA-type requirement, it's the Longshore Act that was rather stingy, and we don't know reasons -- decision in Jensen, and there's a whole long and tortured history there, and that explains why Congress imposing a situs-of-injury requirement in the context of a workers' compensation scheme, it did so in express terms with this "but-only-if" phrase. MR. PALMORE: It was based on this Court's compensation? did that. JUSTICE BREYER: Because of the workmen's But when Congress took the unusual step of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would the -- would Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry; I don't understand the answer. So, he's covered by both? be covered by State workers' comp. Private Respondent worker who went to the factory be covered by State workmen's comp? MR. PALMORE: Yes, just like the worker on a fixed platform on the outer Continental Shelf would also cites the Bobbitt case from California that says California workers' comp doesn't have a location requirement -- MR. PALMORE: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh. MR. PALMORE: Overlap -- a certain degree of overlap is a fact of life in this area. Section (e) accounts for that by allowing for offsetting payment, so there's never going to be double recovery. And (e) really just endorsed a historical practice of offsetting payments that was discussed by this Court in the Calbeck case. So that there has always been some degree of -- this Court in Davis had recognized that even under the Longshore Act itself there was a twilight zone of overlapping coverage. So --JUSTICE SCALIA: When you're covered by both overlapping coverage. At the time of -- OCSLA was adopted in Official MR. PALMORE: You -- you might be able to one, but what is quite, Justice Scalia, is you can't JUSTICE SCALIA: You can't get -- MR. PALMORE: -- under either one, or if you the Longshore Act and State workmens' comp, can you proceed under either one? proceed under either one if you're covered under either collect -- do, you -- there are going to be contingent offsets. JUSTICE SCALIA: But you think you can proceed under the State law if you choose. MR. PALMORE: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does -- do we owe -- do the courts give some deference to the director's Justice? interpretation of the statute is entitled to Skidmore deference. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Frederick. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please. MR. PALMORE: Yes. In this Court's decision in Rambo, the Court said that the director's position? MR. PALMORE: May I answer, Mr. Chief Official I'd like to shift some focus to what would have happened if Mr. Valladolid had worked on a floating ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE RESPONDENT MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: platform instead of a fixed, because the law is clear that if the platform was floating, he would be a Jones Act seaman, and under this Court's cases, if he were injured on land, he would have a Jones Act remedy. So, the only anomaly here is that he happened to be working on a fixed platform percent of the time. And the question is whether the permissive workers' compensation benefits provided under OCSLA carry with him when he happens to be injured on land as a result of the shelf anomaly. I mean, you know, if it's a floating platform, it's a vessel. The difference between a vessel and a dock. Is it an anomaly that you're covered under the fixed, but you are not -- you're covered under the Jones Act instead if you're on a vessel, which is not fixed? Scalia --Longshore Act if you're injured on a dock, which is operations. JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think that's an MR. FREDERICK: Your question, Justice JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me Official the Western Pacific -- MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me answer your JUSTICE SCALIA: How many floating platforms are there, anyway? Jones Act? vessels. JUSTICE SCALIA: And they're covered by the like an anomaly at all. question this way, Justice Scalia. MR. FREDERICK: There are a number of floating platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. They're operating on the outer continental shelf as well as on But the point is that they get a Jones Act remedy if they happen to be injured on land. So, Mr. Chief Justice, under your hypothetical, if the Jones Act seaman is driving to Reno and there's an accident, he's covered under the Jones Act and gets injury has nothing to do with his service on the vessel itself. proposing to eliminate that anomaly?Yes. That's correct. They should be; they're to have a Jones Act remedy, notwithstanding that the MR. FREDERICK: JUSTICE SCALIA: MR. FREDERICK: JUSTICE SCALIA: You're -- you are not MR. FREDERICK: No, what I'm saying is that Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying wherever you JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you still have an anomaly. MR. FREDERICK: There is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Sometimes it will be the -- are injured, so long as you're on a platform, you're covered. I don't think so. MR. FREDERICK: If the work is substantially related and the causal connection goes to the employment relationship, to the operations, the worker is covered under OCSLA. covered; sometimes it won't be covered. than imposing and superimposing a situs-of-injury requirement, which is nowhere to be found in section (b). covered by OCSLA where we have a worker of this kind that -- who spends percent of his time on the outer continental shelf -- the injury, however, is on land? Is there any case where such a worker who predominantly MR. FREDERICK: It is, to be sure, a more comfortable fit to the actual language of the statute JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any injury on land in the course of employment that would not be works on the outer continental shelf would not be Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, then what you're covered by OCSLA in your view? MR. FREDERICK: Well, if the work is arising out of the course and scope of employment, which is the natural way that these workers' compensation regimes work, and it is related to the shelf operations, our submission is, yes, he is covered under OCSLA. really saying is -- it's not your test, but really the Government's saying we look to see, is this person dominantly working on the outer continental shelf? MR. FREDERICK: That -- that's correct, Justice Ginsburg. It's the easiest to administer test, too, because the way workers' compensation insurance works, the employer will -- based on the payroll of the payroll, will pay workers' compensation premiums, and under the Department of Labor regulations, it will add an endorsement for those workers whose status it controls, would be covered under OCSLA and thereby get percent of your time for this -- this drilling company on -- on the -- on the platform, but it so happens that you are injured on the platform, you know, a bolt comes workers who are out on the shelf and its overall the higher Federal benefit. JUSTICE SCALIA: So, if you work only off and strikes you, you're not covered? Official MR. FREDERICK: Well, that person is going MR. FREDERICK: Well, our submission would be he would be covered because he's directly injured as a result of the operations on the shelf. It's a two-factor --JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then you're not applying the -- the employment test. I mean, you either are or you are not. to be covered under our submission because it's a two-part inquiry. You look at the nature of the relationship, and you look at the nature of how the injury came about. And under those circumstances we agree with the Government, that if somebody is -- if an employee is out on the platform and is injured as a result of operations, that person is covered. JUSTICE SCALIA: Heads, I win; tails, you lose, right? We -- we have a situs-of-the-injury test when you have less than your -- a majority of your work on the platform, but we don't have a situs test when the incongruity -- this statute?majority is on the platform. JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you get that out of MR. FREDERICK: It's even greater under MR. FREDERICK: I would submit that the Official were covered in the helicopter. their hypothetical with the helicopter worker, because they want to get the person who's riding in the helicopter out to the shelf covered under the Longshore Act, and yet that flies directly in the face of this Court's holding in Herb's Welding, that when he's on the fixed platform, he doesn't get longshore benefits. And so, here under their hypothetical -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it the Longshore Act? I thought -- I thought it was the Jones Act that they MR. FREDERICK: No. Under his submission -- his submission is that when they fly out in a helicopter and they crash in the water, they get longshore benefits. But if they actually made it to the platform, under this Court's holding in Herb's Welding they would not get longshore benefits -- positions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Both positions, Mr. Frederick, are vulnerable to particular hypotheticals. You have imprecision on what it means to spend most of your time on the -- on the shelf, and they have their own problems. And what do you do with somebody who's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, both MR. FREDERICK: -- if they were in State territorial waters. Official months he's on the shelf, and then months he's back -- back on land months? Does it depend when the injury occurs, whether it's when he's on the land part of his job or on the shelf part? MR. FREDERICK: The way this Court handled that under in seaman context under Chandris was to look at the totality of the circumstances of the worker's employment, and that seems to be -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's -- I've given you all the totality. He's working for months, and then he's -- you know, it's seasonal or something, and months he's on -- on the land. That is the totality of the circumstances. person that Congress wanted to provide coverage to under Federal worker -- remind -- remember, in -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- how do you know it's the kind of person? I thought your line was whether or not he spends most of his time on the shelf or most of his time somewhere else. substantial work. We don't disagree with the MR. FREDERICK: He would be covered. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why? MR. FREDERICK: Because he's the kind of MR. FREDERICK: Our test actually is Government's adoption of a Chandris percent line. Official MR. FREDERICK: That's what the Government with them when they are -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thirty percent is terms of where that line is, because my -- my client's husband -- That seems appropriate in light of the fact that many of these workers come on for weeks, are off for weeks. They're working -hour shifts while they're out on the rig. It seems appropriate that the coverage should go the line? -- I have no brief to defend, Mr. Chief Justice, in we'd like to have a test that we apply to your situation, and it's nice to know -- maybe percent, I trying to get at -- and these are platforms that were covered by State workers' compensation in -- was to extend the more generous Federal benefits to encourage an industry that was a nascent industry to develop the resources of the outer continental shelf, to provide uniformity, to provide benefits to the workers who were exposed to the perils that were out on the platform. And so, it makes sense, we submit, that when those workers who are -- who are subjected to those CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but guess, is as good as any. MR. FREDERICK: The point that Congress was Official My client, for instance, got a one-time dimension to the life of a worker out on the shelf. circumstances have the same Federal benefits. And there are substantial benefits. lump-sum payment of $, for the death of her husband, as opposed to the Federal benefits that would be approximately $ per week during the remainder of her period as a widow. And the State benefits would be credited against any Federal benefits that she would be getting in the future. But it's -- it is a substantial JUSTICE KAGAN: So, suppose, Mr. Frederick, that we find that we can't find your status test in the language of the statute and that what this statute seems to give us is, instead, a causal test and that the cause is whether operations on the outer continental shelf caused the injury in question. So, what's your best argument for how operations on the shelf caused the injury in this case? MR. FREDERICK: The scrap metal that Mr. Valladolid was charged with moving at the time of his the death was very likely the same scrap metal that he personally had taken off the shelf, or someone in his position would have taken off the shelf. And to Justice Kennedy's point, the equipment is heavy, dangerous, difficult equipment. Just the fact that it is moved off Official an offshore event is going to be covered under a -- what the shelf for a cleaning, scrap, for removal, et cetera, is an immaterial difference. In their reply brief, they concede that an oil spill worker who's cleaning up this oil spill from they call a proximate cause standard -- under any kind of substantial connection proximate cause. Proximate cause is a legal policy that determines how you want to limit the scope of the injuries that would be covered. Justice Scalia, you were completely right it makes no sense. And so, if you adopt some kind of substantial connection, it has to be very loosely related. As the Court in the FELA context last term held in CSX v. even more sense to have a very relaxed standard of causation under workers' compensation. also apply under your analysis to a -- an independent contractor, a trucker, who carries this heavy -- this heavy steel to the place where this worker worked on it, right? MR. FREDERICK: I don't think so. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well --MR. FREDERICK: You have to be an employee. In a workers' compensation scheme, McBride, where you have a negligence standard, it makes JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that the Act would Official MR. FREDERICK: It has to be an employee. If -- if your hypothetical is the independent contractor JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but he would not have been carrying the steel had it not been for the -- for the operations on the shelf. on land, it has to be an employee in order to be covered. And that person doesn't qualify, which creates another set of -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. I see. MR. FREDERICK: -- difficult lines to draw under the Longshore Act, where you also have to be an employee, and independent contractors are not covered -- if -- he were employed by the -- by the firm that rest of the facts of your hypothetical, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well -- it's just the guy that drives the truck that takes the steel to the place MR. FREDERICK: Not covered, because that person is not directly substantially working on shelf operations -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unless he spent percent of his time on the shelf. Then he's covered. JUSTICE SCALIA: He would be covered if --operates the platform, right? MR. FREDERICK: If you could give me the where your client worked on it. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it percent of his time over his career or that month or in a year? JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you're talking workers -- those workers -- I think it's hard to imagine the kinds of -- MR. FREDERICK: This Court's articulation of that standard, Justice Kennedy, in the Chandris test has been the subject of litigation in the lower courts, and my understanding is that the courts have kind of worked out the various factors and standards that go into the nature of the employment standard -- about the Chandris standard that the seaman's relationship to the vessel must be substantial in nature MR. FREDERICK: Correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's a kind of a vague -- what's substantial? It's the same problem we have here. What is the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. So, how have courts worked this out? What is a substantial relation to the MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And the nature -- you know, if I could -- I'm sorry, did you want --and duration --Official MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Because those vessel? Official MR. FREDERICK: As I understand the case CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's a real law, Justice Ginsburg, there are a range of factors that go into the nature of the sea workers' relationship to the vessel, and they go to -- they go to duration, they go to the performance of duties in the completion of the mission of the vessel and the like. And there are a range of standards. Obviously, the facts of each crew member is difficult to unpack in a hypothetical at this time. -- obviously, it's a real mishmash, and maybe that's what we're -- we're stuck with. How does this work as a practical matter? I assume the -- the companies get insurance to cover their risks here. MR. FREDERICK: Correct. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who decides -- I mean, the insurance company will underwrite how many people spend what percentage of time where? company here -- but the way I understand that it works is that, on an annual or a periodic basis, the company and the insurance company get together through some auditing process where there's verification of the workers who are OCSLA workers and thereby get the Mr. Chief Justice -- and I don't represent the insurance MR. FREDERICK: And as a practical matter, Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No -- well, they MR. FREDERICK: It's a different form of And so, here what we're talking about is a situation where the employer is not liable for the longshore benefits, and the company and the insurance company work that out to determine either numbers or particular individuals or the like. damage. It's an insured risk, and -- have to pay higher insurance rates. To say they're not liable for it I think is a real -- employee from the Longshoreman Act? Which defines an employee as a maritime worker, and then defines that and has exceptions and so forth, and this has a couple more. That's who the employee is; is that right?liability, and it's one that based on the way workers' compensation traditionally is developed -- and I would direct the Court to the opening chapters of Larson's monumental treatise on workers' compensation, where he basically says if this is a social compact in which the employer doesn't have to face liability for personal injuries in tort but gets insurance, and the premiums are then passed on to the consuming public of that particular entity's goods. JUSTICE BREYER: Does it carry over who's an MR. FREDERICK: Well, under this statute, Official operations. So, our submission, Justice Breyer, is that no; (b)(), as Justice Sotomayor referenced, it is -- it is an employer, some of whose employees are engaged in, quote, "such operations." And Mr. Valladolid was exactly the kind of person who was engaged in such that is the kind of person that Congress contemplated when it was focusing on the work force that would be engaged in development of the outer continental shelf. If the Court has -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you -- I don't mean to get back to it all the time, but it's not -- you have to say that Congress contemplated the person who spent percent of his time on the outer test. Maybe your client is an easy case, where it's percent. But the test you want us to adopt covers the person who spends percent of his time on land. could put it this way, the pushback for the but-for test in its broadest sense is that there isn't a natural kind of a way of confining some restriction to it. And so, if you look at the statute in terms of what it naturally must have meant by Congress, there is a natural limit, and it is not just complete but-for causation, but there continental shelf. In terms of us coming up with a MR. FREDERICK: Mr. Chief Justice, if I Official REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Clement, you have minutes remaining. Justice Kennedy, you asked about deference, and I think before you give any deference to the Government's position, you should look at the other Government's position, which is to say the position that the Government took in its brief to this Court in Pickett v. Petroleum Helicopters in . are an effort -- there is an effort to try to restrict the scope of the compensation. A few points in rebuttal. First of all, They have a completely different position now, and they've never explained the difference other than to say what they thought was plausible then they now find persuasive now. That's not enough for similar to ours. There has to be status plus situs, albeit a slightly different situs, but otherwise it's on all fours with our position. Second of all, the Government comes up here and says that the longshore remedy is an outlier among deference. And in that brief, they took a position very Official workers' comp law could go to the navigable waters. Well, that's the exact same backdrop against the Longshore Act with that situs requirement. workers' compensation remedies because it's the only one with a situs. Well, the problem with that is of all the workers' compensation provisions that Congress could have extended to the outer continental shelf, it picked And the Government also says, well, you know, the reason that the Longshore Act had a situs requirement was because of Jensen, and this Court's decision in Jensen created a problem about whether State which Congress is passing OCSLA. It doesn't know that State workers' compensation law can go to the outer continental shelf. Jensen is still good law. Jensen extend their laws to the navigable waters. What makes -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why -- why doesn't Congress know? Because I think States overwhelmingly would include outer continental shelf workers in their compensation scheme. What States overwhelming did is say a worker could be covered in a different State. But covering them on the outer continental shelf was not something that was well tells Congress that it can't extend -- States can't MR. CLEMENT: Oh, no, Justice Ginsburg. Official And, indeed, Congress specifically heard solved the same problem for the outer continental shelf. established. testimony that questioned the ability of either States to get their workers' comp law there directly and also heard that there might be constitutional problems, because of the Knickerbocker Ice case, of Congress extending the State law there. So, that's why they settled on this remedy of taking this Longshore Act that solved the Jensen problem on the navigable waters and JUSTICE GINSBURG: It would make sense to use the Longshore Act because they wanted to have the same level of compensation. the OCSLA worker to have the same benefits as the longshore worker. MR. CLEMENT: Sure, when they were on the shelf. But they were solving the exact same kind of jurisdictional problem they solved with the Longshore Act with the shelf -- with the statute. read too much into (b)(). All (b)() is doing is modifying the same definition for the longshores. MR. CLEMENT: As other alternatives like the Jones Act? JUSTICE GINSBURG: No. No, no. They wanted Justice Sotomayor, I don't think you can Official Mr. Chief Justice, you talked about the and creates a situs that makes sense for the shelf: the imprecision without any text. At least in the Jones Act, you have the seamen and you have some other textual clues as to where you draw these limits. Here there's nothing in the statute that in any way suggests a status-based test. So, you would be completely unmoored, if you will. You're an employer if you employ a longshoreman or a longshore worker. So, they're just updating this for purposes of extending a longshore remedy to the shelf; (b)() does the same thing, and it modifies the situs navigable waters, drydocks, the shelf, artificial islands, and everything attached thereto. imprecision of their test. It's worse than that. It's The last point I would make is this: The answer to the causation test is really -- the kind of the lie to the other side's position is what they say when they're dealing with somebody who's not a out on the shelf, when are they covered? Well, when the injuries operating on the shelf cause them a direct injury on the shelf. At that point, even the Government resorts to a situs-based test.percenter but is a percenter. When that person goes Well, here's the problem: That status-based Official This person was injured by operations for test, it's in the Jones Act; it's not in OCSLA. And even when you recognize that and you look at what's left of the case, what's left of the case is either our approach that essentially incorporates the Longshore Act through (b)() or a tight nexus test that would require a geographical focus and give -- give force to the words "conducted on the shelf." the purpose of exploring the shelf at some level, but he sure wasn't injured by operations conducted on the shelf for those purposes. He was injured by operations on dry land. And under those circumstances, the remedy lies with the State workers' comp law, not with OCSLA. above-entitled matter was submitted.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m. the case in the A ability : able : above-entitled : : : : : : :, :, ample : :, : analysis : annual : :, anomalies : anomalous : :, activities : : activity : actual : absolutely : abstract : accept : accident : : : : : accidents : account : : accountant : address : :, : Act's : add :, additionally : : : : anomaly : : :, : :, : accountants : :, : accounting : accounts : acknowledge addressing : adjacent : :, administer : : anyways : admiralty : APPEARAN... : : adopt :, : : : adopted : : : : : : act :,, :,,,, :, :, : :, : :, : : : :, adoption : adopts :, : : adversary : :,,, adversary's :, : :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, albeit : Alito :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, allowing : : : : :,, alluding : : :, alternatives :,, amount : :,, : agree : : AL :, allows : : : OfficialOfficial areas : argue : argued : arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : answer : : : : : : : : : : arguments : : arising : answered : article : anybody : articulation anyway : : : artificial : : appendix : : : : applicability : applied : : applies : : : : : apply : : : : : : : : asked : : : : asking : : : asks : aspect : assessing : Assistant : assume : : : :, attached : : : : : : : : : : attachments : : : : : auditing : automatic : : : applying : approach : appropriate :, : aware : a.m : : approximately : : area : : B b : : :, : : :, : : back :,, : : :, : :, : backdrop : background : backup : :, : :,,, :,,, balance : bare : base : baseball : based : : : : : : basically : : basis : batter : beachcombers : beg : behalf :,, : : : : : benefit : : benefits : : : :,, : : : :,, :, : :,,, : : best : : : : : : better : Official : : :,,, : :, : : :, : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : completion : : :,, : :, complicated : changes : chapters : charged : Chief :,, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : Clement's : : : : clerical : client : : complete : completely : : : : comprehensive : : : carry : : : carrying : carve : case :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :,, : cases : category : causal : : : : : concede : conducted : :, : : :, : : :, confidently : confine : confining : confronted : : confronts : Congress : : : : : : :, : : :,: : :, : :,,,:,, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :,:, : : conjunction : :, beyond : : bit : : bits : Board : Bobbitt : body : bolt : boomerang : brave : : Breyer : :,,, :,,, :,, : : brief :,, : : : : : :, bring :, : : brings : : broadest : broadly : broken : : but-for : : : :, but-only-if : : C C : :, : : Calbeck : California : call :,,, : : : client's : clues : collect : come : : : : : comes : : : : comfortable : coming : : : common : :, comp :,, : : : : compact : companies choose : Christopher :, Circuit : causation : :,,, :, : :, : :, : Circuit's : circular : : : circumstances : : : :, : : : cause : : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : cite : cites : claim : : :, caused : : clean : : : :, certain : : : : cleaning :, clear : : : : Certainly : : : certainty : Clement : cetera : captures : care : : Chandris : :, :, : career : : carries : changed : : clearer : clearly : : company : :,,, :, :, :,, : :, : :, : : : : :, compensation : : : : :, : :, : :, connection count :, counterintuitive : :, : : : : : counts : couple : : conscious : consequence : course : consequences : : Court :, : : : consuming consistent : constitutional : : : :,, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : : context : courts : : : :,, : :, Court's : : : contemplated :, : : continental : : : : :,, : :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : : :, :,,, : contingent : contractor : : contractors : contrast : :, : controls : core : correct :, :,, : : :, : counsel : : : : : : : :, : : cover : : : : coverage : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : covered :, :, :, :,,, :, : : : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :,, : Official : : : :, :,,, : : : : define : defined : difficult : : : : : dimension : defines :, direct : :, covering : covers : : defining : :, : : : definition : directed : : crash : : crashes : created : : creates : : : creating : credence : credited : crew : CSX : curious : Curtis : DD : :, :, : damage :dangerous: :DAVID : : :Davis :deal :dealing :: :death ::, : :December :decide :decides :decision :: :: :defect :defend :deference :: :,: : : : : :,, : definitions : degree : :, Department : : depend : depending : designed : determination directly :, : : : : : : : : director's : : disability : :, disagree : : discussed : division : dock : : : : docks : determine : DOHSA : determines : doing : : determining :, : :, : : : : : develop : developed : developing : development dominantly: : double : differ : : doubt : difference : drafting : : : : : : : differences : draw : : : drawing : drill : drilling : different : drive : : : drives : : : driving : : : :, : dry :,,: : :, : drydocks : : Official : : : :, : : : : expansive : Federal : : expect : :, : experience : :, : : : : : :,, : : : encapsulates explained : explains : encourage : exploring : endorsed : exposed : endorsement :, : duration : : duties : D.C :,, : E E : :, earlier : easier : easiest : easy : effect : effectively : : engaged : : : :,, : engine : entitled : : : effort : : entity's : : environment either : : :,,, : equipment : : : : eliminate : ESQ :,, emergency : essentially : :,,, :, : :, : exposure : express : expressing : expressly : extend : : :, extended : : : : extending : : : : : : extends : : emphasis : employ : employed : : : : employee : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, employees : : : : : :,, :, : employer :, :, : :,, : :, : : employment :, : : : : : established : extension : et :, : event : : : everyone's extracting : : F: exact : : exactly : : : example : : : : : : : examples : exception : : exceptions : exchange : : exclusive : face : : : facility : fact : : : : : : : factors : : factory : facts : : : factual : faithfully : far : : : fault : favor : :, :, :,, :,, :, :, :, : :, : :,,:, : : :,:,,,:,,,:,, :, : friends : front : full : function : : :,: : functions : funny : further : future : GG :gathering :general ::,generally :generous :geographic :::geographical:,,: :: ::geography: ::getting :Ginsburg :: : : : ::, : FELA : ferrying : find :, : firm : first : : : : : : : fit : fixed : : :,,, : fixing : fixtures : flies : floating :, : :, flow : flows : fly : focus : : focused : : : focusing : follow : : followed : force : : forklift : : form : formulation : : forth : : fortuitous : found : fours : Frederick : : :, : :, :,, : :, :, Ginsburg's : give : : : : : : : : : : :, given : : : gives : : go :,, : : :, : : : : :,, : :, goes :,, : : : going : : : : :,,, : : : : : : good : : : goods : governed : governing : Government : :, : : : : :, : : Government's : : : :, great : greater : : ground :, guess : guidance : Gulf : guy : : Hhandled :happen :: ::happened ::happens :: :hard : : hazard :hazards : :, Heads : hear : : : heard :, heavy : :, held : : helicopter : : :,, : Helicopters : help : helps :, Herb's :, :,, :, higher : : : historical : : : history : hits : : hitting : holding : :, Official Honor : : : : : : : : : : : hurt : : husband : : hypothetical : : : : : :, :, : hypotheticals : : I Ice : idea : : : ignore : illustrates : imagine : : : immaterial : implication : implore : import : important : : : imposing : :, : imprecision : :, include : : : : :, incongruity : incorporate incorporated : : incorporates : incorporating : : independent : :, individual : : individuals : industry : : injured :, : :, : : : : : : : : :,: : : : :, : :,injuries : : : :,: : : : : : injury : : : : :, : :,: : : :,: :,: :,:, : : : :, : : :,: inland : : : : inquiry : installations : instance : instructive : : : insurance : :,,, :,, insured : intended : interesting interpretation: : invitation : involving : island : islands : : : : : isolation : issue : : JJensen :: :,:, : job : : Jones ::, : :, :, : :,:,,: :: :JOSEPH :: :jurisdictional: :Justice : : :, :, : :,:,,,:,,,: : : : :,,:, : :, : :,,,:, :, :, : : :,:, : : :,highlighted : including : Official : : key : Lands : land-based : language : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : :, Kennedy : :, : :, : :, :, : :, :, : :,, :, :, Kennedy's :, : :, : :, :, kind : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : Larson's : :,,, latent :, :,,, : : Laughter : : : :,, law : : :, : :,,, : : : :, :,, :,,, :,, : : :, : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, :,, :,, :, : :,, :,, :,, :,, :, : :, : :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :, :, :, : :, : : :, : : : know :, : : :,,, : : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : :,, liable :, lie : lies : : life : : laws : : leap : left :, legal : : legislating : let's : : : : level : : liability : kinds : Knickerbocker L : labor :, :,,, :, : : L Justice's : K Kagan :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : land :,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : : light : limit : : : : : limited : limits : : : : line :, :, lines : lists : litigation : little : :, : live : living : : : :, :, : :,, : : :, LLP : :,, : : : location : : : long : : : : : longshore : : : : : :, : : : : looking : :, looks : loosely : lose : lower : LUISA : lump-sum : Mmachine :,machinery : majority :: man :marine : maritime : matter : : : :,: :,:matters : McBride : mean : : : :: : :, : : :: :: : Meaning :means : : :,: meant : : :member :mess :metal ::,Mexico :miles :,,: :,,, :,, : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :,, :, : : : :, :, :, : : : longshoreman : : : : longshoremen: longshores: look : : : :,: :,: :, : : : navigable : : : : : : : mineral : : minimum : :, : : occurs : : :, : :, : :, : minutes : : :, mishap : : : mishmash : nearly : mission : mistake : : : need : : negative : negligence OCSLA : new : : OCSLA-type Ninth : : :, :, : offshore : : : : model :, : : :, :, :, : modification : modifications :,, : neighboring : neither : never :, : : modifies : : : : :, nexus : modifying : month : months :,, nice : :, : :, : :, monumental : morning : mound :, move :, moved : moving :, : : N N :, : narrowly : nascent : National : :, natural : :, naturally : nature :, :,, : notwithstandi... : number : numbers : nut :, O O : : objection : : obverse : obviously : :, occasion : occasions : occurred : : : : : occurring :, :, : Official P : : :, : : : P : : : Pacific : : :, : :,, : page : : :,, : : : : :, : :, : Palmore : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, :,, : : :, : :, : :, :,,:,,:,,:,,:,,,: :, : opponent : opposed : oral : :,, Operators : opinion : : : : : : : order : : outer :, : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : : :, :,,, : outlier : overall : overlap : : :, overlapping : :, overwhelming : overwhelmingly : owe : part : : : : : :, :,particular : : :, :, : : : : :, particularity: particularly : : pass : passed : : passing : PAUL : : : : : pay : : payment : payments : : : payroll :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : : : :, OCSLA's : : : October : odd : : offsets : offsetting : : : : : :,, : off-shelf : Oh : : oil : : :, : : Okay :, one-time : opening : operates : operating : : operation : : : : : operations : : :, : :,, : : :,, Official :, : : : :,,, :, : proposal : peculiar : people : phrase : : : :, :, picked : : : percent : Pickett : pieces : :,,, piers : pitcher : :,, :, : pitching : place : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, percentage : plainly : plant :, percenter : platform : positions : :,, : :, possibility : post- : practical : : practice : :, : precisely : : : : performance : performed : performing : perils : period : periodic : permissive : person : : : precludes : predictability :, : : :, : : : :,, predominant : : :, : predominantly :, : : : : premiums : : : : platforms : prepare : : : : presumably : : : plausible : play : : : : :,, : :, : :, principle : :, :, :, : plus : : private : : prevails : primarily : primary : please : : point : : :, : : : :, personal : personally : persuasive : pertinent : petition : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : Petitioners : pointed : points : : :, : policies : : probably : problem : :,, : :, :,, : problems : proceed :, : : Q: :, production : qualify : : question : : : : : : : :, : : : : proposing : proposition : provide : : :, : : questioned : : :, questions : provided : : provides : : : : : : : providing : provision : : : : : quite : : : : : :, : quote : quoted : R R : : : : : :, : provisions : Rambo : range :, rates : read : : : : : : : reading : proximate : : :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, : :, :,, real : : : proximately : pure : purpose :, : purposes : :,, :, : : : : pushback : put : : : : reality : really : : : :, : : : : : : :, : reason : : : reasonable : reasons : : : rebuttal : :, recognize : : : : public : Petroleum : policy : : process : position : : :, produced : puzzle : product : : : Official recognized : : recognizing : recover : :, recovery : :, :, : referenced : referred : : regard : regime : : regimes : regularly : regulations restrict : : : :, : restriction : : : : remember : : remind : removal : Reno : : repaired : : : represent : require : : : result : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, resulting : : : riding : rig :, : :, : : : : repairing : reply :, results : : review : : : : : : : :, says : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : Scalia :, section :, : : : see : : :, : : :, seemingly : self-contained : sense : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : :,, sensible : : :, : :, serve : : :, :,, :,, : :, : : :,, :,,, : : : settled : shelf :, service : set : :, : relation : Relations : related : : : : reject : rejected : : :, requirement : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, : : :, reserve : resolved : : :, :, : resorts : :, : : : : right : : : : : : : :, : : :, : scenario : scheme :, : rigs : risk : risks : road : : resources : ROBERTS : respect : : : respectfully : : :, : : schemes : Scalia's : relationship :, : relaxed : relevant : : : Respondent :, :, : : : : relief : remainder : remaining : remarked : Respondents remedies : remedy :, : : : :,, : : :,,,, response : responses : rest :, : : : scope : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : scrap : : :, : :, : :, seabed : seaman : : : : : : : :, : sea : : rule : SS : : saying :,: :,seaman's : seamen : : seasonal : second : : : : : :, : :,, :,, : :,,, : :, :,,,, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, :,, : :,:,,: :,:,,: :, Official : :, :,,, :,, :,,,, : :, : shift : : shifts : shore :,, show : shows : side : sides : : side's : similar : similarly : simple : simply : sitting : situation : : : : : smuggle : smuggling : : snapshot : : social : sole : solely : Solicitor : solved :, : solves : solving : somebody : :,, : : : : someone's : somewhat : sorry : : : sort : : spent : : : : : spill :, springs : square : standard : :, : :, standards : : Stanford : stare : start : : : state :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : : : situations : Sotomayor situs : : : : :,, :,,, :, :, States :, :, : :,, :, : : : : : :, : :,,, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : sounds : :,, : :, speak : :,, :, speaks :, status : : : :,, :, : :,,,, : : :, : : : specificity : status-based specify : species : specific : specifically : :, : : :, : : situs-of-injury : : :, : situses : situs-based situs-of-the-in... spend : : status-only :, :, : :,, : :, :, :,, substantially : : : :,, :,, : :,, :,, : : : :, suffered : : : : :, sufficient : suggest : : : suggested : : : statutes : suggesting : :, : : : statutory : steel : : : : : : suggests : superimpose :, : : superimposing : step : stingy :, straightforward suppose : support : : : strange : strict : : : : supposed :, : : Supreme :, sure : : strike : strikes : : : structures : : : stuck : : : subdivision : sweeps :, subject : system : : subjected : submission : :, : : : submit : : : : submitted : : TT :,table : tailor :tailored ::tails : take : : : :: :: :, :, : : taken : : :,: six :,, :, : Skidmore : skids : slightly : : : : : : spending : :, spends : : : : : statute : : subsection : : :,,, :, : subsoil : : : :, : : :,, : : :, : substantial : Official takes : talk : : talked : talking : :, : : : : : talks :, telling : tells : : term :, : : : : : : terminology : terms : : :, :, : : :, territorial : test : :, : :,, : : :,, :,,,, : : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : :,, :,,, :, testimony : text : textual : : Thank : : : : : :,, : theory : : : : : : thereto : : : : : thing : : : : : : : : : things : :, : : :, think :, : : :,, : :, :,, : : : :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :, : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :,, : :,, :,,,, :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : Third : Thirty : thought :, : : : : :, : : Three : throws : tight : : time : : : :, : :, : : :,,, : :,, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, today : : told : top : tort : : tortured : tort-based : totality :, traditionally : : travels : treated : : treatise : trouble : : truck : trucker : true : try : : : trying :,, : : Tuesday : turns : twilight : two : : : : : :, :, two-factor : two-part : type : Uultimately :unavailable: :,underlying :underscores:understand: :: :: ::,understanding:understoodunderwrite::unfair :uniform :uniformity: : vague : Valladolid : : : : : : variety : : various : verification : version : vessel : : :,,: :,:,vessels : view : : :, : : viewed : :,virtually : vulnerable : W:, United :, :,, : : uniformly : uniquely : want :, : :,: :, : :: : wanted :: : : ::,unmodified : unmoored : unpack :unprecedented : wants :,unusual : :: : Warren :,: Washington : updating : :,,use : : wasn't :: : : : uses : V watching : water : : :::v : : : waters : :, Official : : : : : : worse : worth : : : : : workday :, wouldn't : worked : : :, : : : : : :, writing : written : : : (a) : :,,,: :, (e) : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,,, : :, : : :, : : : :, : : way : : : :,, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : ways : wealth : : week : weeks :, weird : welding :, :,, :, went : : : Western : We'll : we're : : : : :, : whale : whatsoever : widow : win : winch : wording : words : : worker :, : : : :, : :, :, :,, : : : :, : : :, : workers : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : :,,, : : worker's : working : : : : : : : :, :, workmens : : : : workmen's : : work : : workplace : works : : : : : :, : : :,, world : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : . : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : a : : -mile : . : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, X x :, Y year : years : Z $ zone :,, : $, : $ : : - : : : : : : : : : -hour : (a) : : (b) : :, : : (a) : (b) : :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : (b)() : (c) : 