Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xSANDY WILLIAMS, : Petitioner : v. : No. -ILLINOIS. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:BRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for Petitioner.ANITA ALVAREZ, ESQ., State's Attorney, Chicago, Illinois; for Respondent.MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEBRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFANITA ALVAREZ, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the RespondentREBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFBRIAN W. CARROLL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Williams v. Illinois. Mr. Carroll. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN W. CARROLL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CARROLL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: In this case, Sandra Lambatos testified thatMr. Williams' DNA matched a DNA profile that, accordingto assertions made by analysts from the Cellmark labs,was the genetic description of the purported offender. Because no one from Cellmark appeared at Mr.Williams' trial, Lambatos' testimony conveying thetestimonial statements from Cellmark violated Mr.Williams' rights under the Confrontation Clause. Forthese reasons, the Illinois Supreme Court's decisionshould be reversed. Now, Ms. Williams' -- or Ms. Lambatos'testimony on direct examination clearly conveyedCellmark's statements. She testified that the vaginalswab and blood sample from the victim were sent from --to Cellmark for DNA analysis. She later was asked, wasthere a computer match generated from the male DNA Officialprofile found in the semen from the vaginal swabs of thevictim and the male DNA profile that had been identifiedas having originated from Mr. Williams? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, it hasn't beenthe focus of the briefing, but you've just made it thefocus here. I know that you've been claiming that herstatements about what constituted the Cellmark labresults are a statement that violates the ConfrontationClause. But are you taking the position that herstatements and the admission of the documents, mailingthe lab sample to the laboratory, and them getting itback, that all of those business records were improperlyadmitted? MR. CARROLL: As -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because she testifiedthat in her records she sees that her lab -- and shesays -- I think those records were produced; I could bewrong -- that -- MR. CARROLL: Yes, the shipping records wereproduced. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They were produced andadmitted into evidence. That the lab sample taken fromthe victim, L.J., was mailed to the laboratory and thatit came back. Are you taking the position that those Officialshipping documents were not business records? Are youtaking the position that those were improperly admitted? MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor, at this stage,we are not challenging the admission of the shippingrecords. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that would just showthat the material went to and came back from the lab.It wouldn't show what the lab results were. It was theresults that she testified to, right? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: And what other evidence wasthere of the results besides her testimony? MR. CARROLL: There was no other evidence. JUSTICE SCALIA: No other. JUSTICE GINSBURG: In the case of the bloodthat was tested in the police lab, there the person whowas testing did testify at the trial, right? It wasn'tjust Lambatos -- Lambatos, but the one who had testedthe blood? MR. CARROLL: The -- the person whotested or who analyzed Mr. Williams' blood did testifylive at the trial. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Abbinanti testified thatshe did the blood test and it went into the State Officialdatabase with reference to the other crime, not thiscrime; am I correct? MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor. The -- whenhe was arrested for an unrelated matter. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But she's an expert. Shetestified how she did the test and what the -- and thatshe put the DNA result into -- into the data bank. MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: Hasn't it long been acceptedthat experts may testify to the facts that form thebasis for their opinions on the ground that when theexperts go over those facts, they are not -- those --that information is not being introduced to prove thetruth of the matter asserted, that -- the truth of thoseunderlying facts; only that those are the facts that theexpert has relied on in reaching an opinion? And thathas not been considered to be hearsay. Now, do you argue that those -- that that'sincorrect? Those -- those statements cannot betestified to as an -- by an expert without theirconstituting either hearsay or testimony within themeaning of the Confrontation Clause? MR. CARROLL: In this case, where the --where the basis evidence the expert testifies to, whereit's -- the expert's opinion depends on that -- those Officialstatements being considered true, in those instancesthen, yes, we are arguing that the Confrontation Clausedoes not allow -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's say that -- letme put it this way: Let's say the expert -- people fromthe -- the expert testifies, I received the -- I lookedat the report from -- from the lab; I looked at thereport from -- I looked at the report from Cellmark, theoutside lab; I looked at the report that we did; andthere -- there is a match. And so, the expert is -- is mentioning factsthat form the basis of the opinion but not testifying tothe truth of those. Is that a violation of theConfrontation Clause at that point? MR. CARROLL: If the -- the expert is not,you know, asserting that the statements are true, thenno. However, that's not what happened in this case,Your Honor. Ms. Lambatos -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it would be utterlyirrelevant, would it not, if the statements were nottrue? I mean, it's one thing for an expert to testifyabout a hypothetical, you know: Assuming this, this,this, Mr. Expert, what would the result be? Well, onthose assumptions, it would be this. But this was not -- nobody asked -- asked Officialher to assume those things at all. She testifiedthat -- that she had a match between what she had doneand what had been done on the -- on the DNA of thisindividual by somebody else. MR. CARROLL: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: That seems to me quitedifferent from the -- from the ordinary hypothetical putto an expert. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I would havethought -- yes. You can -- sorry, go ahead. MR. CARROLL: No, I was just going to -- JUSTICE BREYER: You were going to agreewith that. And -- (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: I know. I mean, I'm sureyou've looked at this probably. But the most -- one ofthe more interesting things I've found in these briefswere the references to Wigmore. So, I went back andread what Wigmore said about scientific evidence, expertevidence, and business records. And he certainlyconcedes and agrees with Justice Scalia, and thoseopinions are filled with hearsay. I mean, there's noexpert who isn't relying on what his teachers told himin college, which reflects dozens of out-of-courtstatements given to dozens of people who wrote them up Officialin books. So, expert opinion is always based onhearsay, almost, and -- and so are business records.They are filled with hearsay. But Wigmore writes atreatise, doesn't he, where he says exceptions have beenrecognized since the th century or earlier to coverthat kind of material? So, my question for you is why shouldn't werecognize a similar, related kind of exception here?We're trying to discover the meaning of "testimonial."The difference here is a police lab or a lab thatreports to a police lab. The individuals there probablyknow that there is a fairly good chance that what theysay will be used in a criminal trial. They don't knowit for sure, but they're controlled by the canons, byaccreditation, by tests of reliability, by the fact thatthey're not normally interested in the results of atrial, as here they couldn't care less; they don't evencare if it is used in a trial. And all the Wigmore factors for bothexceptions could support a similar exception here, whichwould have the following virtue: It would have thevirtue of not requiring people to come in andtestify, whom the defense is, of course, free to call;and it would also have the virtue of removing the Officialtemptation for prosecutors to stop relying on the morereliable evidence, DNA, and instead encourage them torely on the less reliable evidence; namely, theeyewitness testimony in a case. Now, that -- that really is all my questionsin one. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: Because I understand everyargument you're making as fitting it in with hearsay. Iagree with that. And I also agree to a degree with thetestimonial point. And I see the need for an exception,and Wigmore provides all the reasons, and since we'reinterpreting that word "testimonial," don't we have thepower, and why shouldn't we create one out of the word"testimonial"? MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor, because theConfrontation Clause guarantees the defendant the rightto confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him,and that's the reason why this Court should not make anexception -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'll go further inyour direction -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You're not objecting tohearsay, are you, counsel? You're objecting to aviolation of the Confrontation Clause -- Official MR. CARROLL: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which is quite differentfrom what -- what Mr. Wigmore was writing about, whichwas hearsay. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but Wigmore actuallybelieved that the Confrontation Clause simplyencapsulated the hearsay rule. JUSTICE SCALIA: We've said the contrary,though, haven't we? (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: I'm asking you thequestion, and I -- I'll go further in your direction.I'll go further, because I would say what about sayingthis: that not only do we recognize the exception, butit isn't a full exception; that if the defendant canshow some reason to believe that either the laboratoryis not properly accredited, it isn't doing thingsproperly; or that the individual technician hassomething personal or knows about -- about the defendantthat makes it suspect, immediately the presumption thatthe exception applies disappears, and the prosecutor hasto call the -- the witness. You can say, well, we shouldn't make thatup, but I believe if you go back to the th century,you'll discover that your interpretation of the OfficialConfrontation Clause was not there. So -- so, that'swhat's basing my question, and I'd like your reaction.It's a long question, considers an exception, and I'dlike you to give me your reaction to that. MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor, I think thatthis Court's decisions in Crawford and Melendez-Diaz andBullcoming largely foreclose on making such anexception. The -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Justice Breyer dissentedfrom those opinions. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: I did, but I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- Justice Breyer'sdissent. JUSTICE BREYER: And I mean it because I seeextending those cases from one individual from alaboratory being familiar with the results to requiring,in ordinary cases, the calling of what could be up to technicians -- I see that as making a sea change innormal criminal law practices, and my motive is as Isaid: I fear it will push the system in the directionof relying on less reliable eyewitness testimony ratherthan more reliable technical laboratory DNA-typeevidence. Now, you have my -- I've made the point, andI really want to get your response. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Carroll, are wetalking about witnesses? I thought we were talkingabout just one witness, from Cellmark. MR. CARROLL: Yes, on this record, YourHonor, the -- the statements that were produced were thestatements of the authors of the report. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's person, not . MR. CARROLL: I believe there are twosignatories to the report. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, isn't -- is nota far-fetched hypothetical. We have an amicus brieffrom the Manhattan District Attorney's Office and theNew York City Chief Medical Examiner's Office, and theysay that their very fine crime lab involves at least technicians in the analysis of DNA. They break it down that way because itincreases accuracy; it decreases the chance of anyfavoritism for the prosecution. And they say that if --it is impossible for us to bring all of thosetechnicians into court to testify in every case in whichthere is DNA evidence, and if we have to do that, wewill just not be able to use DNA evidence in court. Wewill have to rely on less reliable evidence. Is that just a -- do you think that's just apractical consequence that we have to accept under OfficialCrawford? MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor, because evenin the worst-case scenario described in the New YorkCounty's brief, not all people in that situation maketestimonial statements, and not all people'stestimonial statements are presented at trial. TheConfrontation -- for the Confrontation Clause to besatisfied, it is only those witness who the prosecutionchooses to present at trial who must testify. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's up to the prosecutorwhich of those he wants to bring in, whether he wantsto bring in all or just . If he thinks the jurywill be sufficiently persuaded by bringing in just one,he can bring in just one, right? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: How will bringing in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But he has to bring in theone and not -- and not hearsay about what the one wouldsay. JUSTICE ALITO: How will bringing in onesatisfy the Confrontation Clause problem? If peopleperform steps in the analysis and person testifiesabout what other people did, don't you have the sameConfrontation Clause problem? MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. Again, it's Officialwho's testifying. JUSTICE ALITO: You don't? MR. CARROLL: No, we don't, because thequestion is, whose statement is being presented? Now,given the five steps in the brief, the electrophoresisstep, the person who does the DNA typing and determineswhat alleles are present in the sample, that personprobably has to testify because that's really what theresults are, what alleles are present. The amplification step, the person who, youknow, copies the DNA and tags it -- I don't think that'sa testimonial statement. And in this case, nostatements from someone who did that was presented. Next step, quantization -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why is that not atestimonial statement? MR. CARROLL: Well, just performing a testis not a testimonial statement. And just stating -- JUSTICE ALITO: If the -- if the person werein court, the person would say this is what I did. MR. CARROLL: If the person was in courtand -- JUSTICE ALITO: And that's not testimony? MR. CARROLL: In that case, it would betestimony. However, that person doesn't have to testify Officialin order for the State to present its evidence. If theState chooses to present that person's testimonialstatement at trial, then, yes, the Confrontation Clausewould require them to present that testimony live.However -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Carroll, I -- I'm justtrying to figure out -- this out, and I'm -- here's myquestion: Suppose you had two witnesses, one from --one who had done the lab analysis on Mr. Williams andone who had done the lab analysis from the victim. Andthey both testify. And now an expert comes in, and theexpert says, I've looked at both reports, and there's amatch. Now, there would be no problem at all withthat; is that right? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So, now we only haveone of the lab technicians, and we take away the otherlab technician. And what you are saying is, well, nowwe have this expert, and she's saying she could do amatch, but the question is a match of what? That's thequestion, right? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, why is that aConfrontation Clause issue? Why isn't it just that the Officialprosecutor has failed to prove an element of his case? MR. CARROLL: It's a Confrontation Clauseissue because the prosecution presented the statementsof the person who did the analysis on the victim'svaginal swab. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is that right? Imean, I thought that the judge here said: No, I'm nottaking this for the truth of the matter asserted; I'monly taking your statements about the lab tests as anindication, as -- as the basis for your opinion. So,I'm listening to your opinion. The problem is in this whole case, there hasbeen no factual testimony about what the results werefrom the swab on the victim. Isn't that right? MR. CARROLL: Well -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Or am I missing something? MR. CARROLL: You are missing something,Your Honor. And the trial judge in this case neverstated he was not considering the evidence for itstruth. No place in the record does it -- the trialjudge state that. And, in fact, in the finding offacts, he states that he was convinced of the -- thatthere was a match because the evidence from the expertsestablished that victim -- that Williams' semen wasfound on the victim. And he notes that, well, Cellmark Officialwas an accredited lab. If he wasn't consideringCellmark's statement for the truth, he wouldn't care ifthey were accredited. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what did the Illinoisappellate court say about that, about whether theinformation was -- whether the evidence was admitted forthe truth of the matter asserted? MR. CARROLL: The appellate court held, as amatter of Illinois law, these statements -- statementsthat serve as the basis of an expert's opinion aregenerally deemed not to be admitted for their truth. However, in this case, there's no meaningfuldistinction between considering Cellmark's statementsto -- you know, in assisting the evaluation of Lambatos'testimony and considering it for its truth. If thestatements weren't true, then Lambatos' testimony wouldnot link Williams' DNA to the crime. JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't -- but isn't JusticeKagan's question there the correct question? Isn't thata question of Illinois evidence law, not a Federalconstitutional question? MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: Was there sufficient -- wasa sufficient foundation laid for the introduction of the-- of the expert's testimony? Official MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: That was -- that wasaddressed by the -- by the Illinois court? MR. CARROLL: No, Your Honor. The questionhere isn't whether the State's evidence was sufficient.It's whether the evidence the State did present violatedMr. Williams' rights under the Confrontation Clause. Now, this -- I can give an example or ananalogy. Suppose a police officer were to testify: Awitness gave me this photograph and told me this is aphotograph of the offender. I compared this photographto a photograph of the defendant. I found that theymatched. Now, the police officer -- he compared thephotographs. You know, we're not contesting Lambatos'match. But the statement that this is a photo of theoffender, that's not the officer's statement. That's astatement of the witness who gave him that photograph. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's justbecause the photographing is something that peoplewouldn't dispute. I mean, what if the State presentstestimony saying, I took the sample; I put it in thesample case; I sent it to Cellmark saying give us a DNAanalysis of this sample; we got back from Cellmark theanalysis with the same name on it? And the expert Officialtestifies, I compared that to DNA from the defendant,and it was a match. You would be free in cross-examining to say:Do you know what they did at Cellmark? And she would say: Well, they're a DNA lab;we asked them to do a DNA analysis. But do you know what happened? No, I don't. As far as you know, do they -- did they justignore it and not do anything? Well, yes, I didn't -- I'm not testifying towhat happened at Cellmark. I'm just telling you we sentthe DNA there, and this is what we got back. Why is that not perfectly fine? MR. CARROLL: Because that person'stestimony that the results we got back were connected tothe samples we sent -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They did not -- shedoes not say that. She said: We sent the sample marked"crime scene" or whatever it was. We got back a datasheet that said "crime scene." Well, Expert, do you know that they didn'tmix them up? No, I don't. All I know is what we sent andwhat we got back. Official MR. CARROLL: Your Honor, I still believethat would be a Confrontation Clause violation becausethe writing on the data sheet that said "crime scene," aperson at Cellmark had to write that down on the datasheet. So, someone from Cellmark was making arepresentation that that data sheet is connected tothis -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And all the witnessis -- all the witness is testifying to is what they sentand what they got back. And you're free tocross-examine about what went on at Cellmark, and a juryis free to say, well, I believe the circumstantialevidence about what happened. Or the defense counselcan say, why don't they have anybody here from Cellmark?And a jury can say, well, yes, that's a good point. It just seems to me that nobody fromCellmark is testifying, and what you're -- that's whatyou're objecting to, but they don't need that testimonyto present the expert's conclusion to the jury. MR. CARROLL: Well, Your Honor,hypothetically, the State could -- I believe the Statecould present its evidence through circumstantialevidence, but that's not what happened in this case.Lambatos did testify that -- she didn't simply statethat I got a profile back. She testified, I got a Officialprofile that was the male DNA profile found in the semenfrom the vaginal swab. That's a statement from Cellmark. That'snot Lambatos' statement. And -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And she -- and she goesfurther. She says: And based on that, which I believeto be true. She didn't say that, but this is theimplication. Based on that, which I believe to be true,this belongs to Williams. This DNA is Williams's DNA. And if she weren't relying on the truth ofthe assertion from Cellmark, it would be irrelevant forthe jury. Isn't that your point? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: That's true whenever --whenever an expert -- an expert makes a statement.There is a conceptual difference between theirtestifying to something out of court for its truth andthat being the basis for the expert opinion. In the onecase, she's relying upon a statement in order to formher opinion; and in the other case, she's introducingthe statement. And you're saying, in this case, that'sa distinction without a difference. Isn't that what'sgoing on? MR. CARROLL: That's correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But still there Officialis the conceptual difference. And as long as there isthat conceptual difference, don't we have a basis fordistinguishing this case from Melendez? MR. CARROLL: I do not believe so, YourHonor. Had -- had Cellmark's statements been presentedin the report itself, the report being admitted itself,I think there would be no question that that was a --that would be a violation of the clause underMelendez-Diaz and Bullcoming. The fact that the samestatements were coming in for the same evidentiaryreason through the live testimony of Lambatos shouldn'tchange that situation. It's the same statements comingin for the same reason. If there's any more -- I'll -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you're -- you'resaying that the State of Illinois case is weaker herethan in Melendez, where they had a certificate, and inBullcoming, where they had somebody from the lab testifyas to lab procedures. Here they have neither. And,yet, Illinois somehow says it comes in. MR. CARROLL: That's right, Your Honor. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Alvarez. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANITA ALVAREZ Official ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MS. ALVAREZ: May it please the Court.Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, on your theoryof this case -- and I think you say, first, it's not astatement; and, second, that if it is, it was notoffered for the truth. Under your theory, if this labtechnician had introduced Cellmark's report, that wouldhave been okay, because it wasn't offered for the truth. MS. ALVAREZ: The Cellmark report was notintroduced as evidence -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm changing the facts. MS. ALVAREZ: -- and if she had -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your theory, shecould have introduced the lab report? MS. ALVAREZ: If we offered her -- theCellmark report into evidence for the truth of thematter asserted, it would be a different situation. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't understand thedifference. Meaning, the fact that you didn'tphysically introduce the report makes a difference? MS. ALVAREZ: The -- Ms. Lambatos testifiedconsistent with the Confrontation Clause here. Shetestified -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She testified that she Officialreviewed lab samples -- MS. ALVAREZ: As an expert. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that matched thedefendant. So, what's the difference between that andsaying I have the report in my hand, I match that reportwith the Williams report, and this is my conclusion? MS. ALVAREZ: She did not parrot theCellmark report, as we had seen in Bullcoming. She didnot testify that Cellmark said this was the defendant'sprofile, that Cellmark said this was a match. She didmuch more. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. She said thatCellmark said this is L.J.'s vaginal swab DNA. MS. ALVAREZ: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, she said that. MS. ALVAREZ: Because the vaginal swab thatwas taken from the victim -- and there was a -- therewas a chain of custody here and proper foundation thatwas laid -- the vaginal swab that was taken from thevictim, and this bore out through the business recordsthat came in on the shipping manifest that -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, what's thedifference between this and Justice Kennedy's questionabout Bullcoming? Could the expert in Bullcoming havesaid, as one of the amici here said, that all they would Officialhave had to do in Bullcoming is to read or to give areport that gave the blood alcohol content, the . or. or whatever it was, and have an expert come in andsay that number shows he's drunk? MS. ALVAREZ: Well, if the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that any differentthan this situation? MS. ALVAREZ: If the expert in Bullcomingdid more than what he simply did in Bullcoming -- andthat was just simply read the report and testify thatthat's what that lab did. If he actually did his ownindependent analysis based on his expertise, based onhis skill -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. The only partof his expertise is the report says point .; I'm notoffering it for the truth; I'm assuming if that's true,then he was legally drunk. MS. ALVAREZ: If he were -- if he were togive his independent opinion, based on his analysis andwhat he had done, then we would have seen a situationcloser -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He has done nothing. MS. ALVAREZ: -- closer to this. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All the report did wasgive a number. And the supervisor comes in and says Officialthat number violates -- is legal drunkenness. MS. ALVAREZ: Well, if the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is that differentfrom that? MS. ALVAREZ: If that -- if that report isbeing used, is being offered to prove the truth of thematter asserted -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right, but you'renot telling me why that's not the same here, because he-- what this expert said is the Cellmark report is fromthis victim. So, it's the same set of numbers as inBullcoming. Now he's taking a step and saying, insteadof legal drunkenness, it matches someone else's that Itook. MS. ALVAREZ: But, no, what happened herewas Ms. Lambatos testified based -- and gave her ownindependent expert opinion based on her skills, herknowledge, her expertise. She relied -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you said"independent," and I don't -- you said that in yourbrief. I don't understand how Lambatos's testimony canbe independent of the test results supplied. I mean,it's based on the test results. She -- it can't beindependent of them because it's entirely dependent onthem. Official MS. ALVAREZ: But an expert can alwaystestify about the material that they relied on, whetherthat material is ever admitted into evidence, andsometimes that material could never be admitted intoevidence. But she, in fact, testified to what sherelied on, in addition to what -- JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but didn't she say, Irelied on stuff that I received from -- from Caremark --whatever the name of the lab was? MS. ALVAREZ: Cellmark. JUSTICE SCALIA: She said: I -- I relied onmaterial that was a swab containing the DNA, the -- thesperm of this particular individual. And she did notknow that. MS. ALVAREZ: She testified that she reliedon those materials, and she can testify -- JUSTICE SCALIA: She didn't just say, I gotsomething back from the lab, and I relied on whateverthat said. No, she said what she had gotten back fromthe lab, and she did not know, of her personalknowledge, that it was what she said it was. MS. ALVAREZ: She knew from the -- theprocedures and the chain of custody and the shippingmanifest that what was sent initially to Cellmark afterpreliminary tests were done at the Illinois State police Officialcrime lab showing the presence of sperm, that it wassent to Cellmark, and it was analyzed at Cellmark andcame back from -- JUSTICE SCALIA: She didn't know if they hadincompetent people there. The last case we hadinvolving this kind of an issue, the reason they didn'tbring in the lab technician to testify was that he hadbeen fired in the interim for some reason which wedidn't know, but it was pretty clear why -- why he wouldnot have been a very good witness. We don't know howgood this lab was. We don't know how good theindividuals who did the test were. And that's why it's up to the State to bringforward testimony saying what the lab did. And the onlytestimony they brought forward was the testimony of thiswitness who was not there. MS. ALVAREZ: The testimony of Ms. Lambatossatisfies the Confrontation Clause because she is the --the witness against the accused in this case, and thefact that she testifies that she relies on material thatwas generated by Cellmark does not make Cellmark thewitness against the accused. JUSTICE SCALIA: If she said that, I wouldagree with you. But she said more than that. She said,I relied on material provided by Cellmark which is.... OfficialAnd then she described what that material was, and shehad no personal knowledge of that. MS. ALVAREZ: She had no personal knowledgeof that, and that came through during thiscross-examination. Ms. Lambatos was subjected to avery -- quite lengthy and a quite -- a specificcross-examination. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there are two types ofevidence that are -- that are involved here. One ischain of custody evidence. Was the result that was sentback the result that was done on the sample that wassent to Cellmark? That's just purely chain of custody.That has nothing whatsoever to do with the -- theaccuracy or the professionalism of what was done atCellmark. And she did make a statement. She did saythat the sample -- that the result that came back fromCellmark was -- was done -- was based on a test of thevaginal swab that was sent there. The other has to do with what Cellmark did,how well they did it. She didn't say anything aboutthat. Now, as to the chain of custody, if that'stestimonial, isn't -- isn't it simply duplicative of thevery strong circumstantial evidence regarding the chainof custody, the sending of it out with certain markings Officialand the receipt back with certain markings? MS. ALVAREZ: Right. The -- the chain ofcustody was -- was strong -- was strong in this case,the evidence that was presented through the shippingmanifest, through the other witnesses that testified inthis case. The -- the fact that Ms. Lambatos testifiedthat she did not know exactly what they did atCellmark -- again, as an expert, she was able to talkabout what material she relied on, the Cellmarkmaterials. The Cellmark materials were never -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- the chain of --the chain of custody are just supporting actors. Thekey actor in the play, the Hamlet in the play, is theperson who did the test at Cellmark, and she or he isnot here. And if you want to say, oh, this is not --tell the jury, now, we're not saying that this isadmitted for the truth, we're not saying that this isWilliams' DNA, the judge would say, well, then it'sirrelevant, it's excluded. MS. ALVAREZ: But the matching -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems to me, in --as in response to Justice Scalia, that not only does heindicate that this is hard to distinguish fromBullcoming; in Bullcoming, at least you had an expertsay how the laboratory works. Here, you don't even have Officialthat. MS. ALVAREZ: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You have less here withreference to Cellmark than you did in Bullcoming. MS. ALVAREZ: Ms. Lambatos did testify bothon direct examination and cross-examination thatCellmark was an accredited lab. The Illinois StatePolice crime lab routinely uses -- outsources -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in Bullcoming, wesaid that was not sufficient. And in that case, theperson was from that lab. MS. ALVAREZ: But -- but Ms. Lambatos -- wenever introduced any Cellmark reports in this case.There were no testimonial statements conveyed throughher testimony. There were no out-of-court statementsused to prove the truth of the matter asserted. What was presented was the expert opinion ofMs. Lambatos, who was a duly qualified expert in -- inforensic biology, in DNA. And not only did she have theability to look at the Cellmark material; sheinterpreted the material that -- that came fromCellmark. And what came from Cellmark, theelectropherogram, what I would submit to you is nottestimonial -- it's a machine-generated chart that, tothe naked eye, to a trier of fact means absolutely Officialnothing unless an expert actually interprets that. AndMs. Lambatos testified to how she interpreted that. Shetalks about the alleles and the peaks -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know how that'sany different from Bullcoming and Melendez-Diaz. MS. ALVAREZ: I -- well, Melendez-Diaz, whatwe had in Melendez-Diaz was, in fact, a certificate, anaffidavit. It was -- it was -- it was created -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: In other words, you hadsomething more than you have here; and, therefore, itgoes out and this comes in? That doesn't make sense. MS. ALVAREZ: No, I think in Melendez-Diaz,it's clear because that was -- that report was drafted,created, for the primary purpose of being used assubstitute of live testimony. I submit to you that theCellmark reports were not. The electropherogram, again,which would need expert interpretation; the allelechart, again, I would submit is not testimonial, thatthose reports were not created in lieu of livetestimony. And Ms. Lambatos looked at that. Sheinterpreted it. In fact, she even said that there wassomething on the electropherogram that she didn't agreewith Cellmark on, and it was a certain one peak that washigher that she felt was, just in her expert opinion, Officialbackground noise. So -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the report had beenintroduced, the Cellmark report, it would betestimonial; is that -- is that right? MS. ALVAREZ: Well, I -- I believe if -- ifthe State had tried to introduce that Cellmark report -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. Right. MS. ALVAREZ: -- it would have been offeredfor the truth of the matter asserted. And we -- and itwould be -- it would be a -- it would implicate theConfrontation Clause. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, how does itbecome -- MS. ALVAREZ: -- but that's not whathappened here. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it becomenon-testimonial when it's relayed by the recipient ofthe report? I mean, if -- if the -- you're notintroducing it for the truth, then it's not relevant. MS. ALVAREZ: Right. I think the key is theuse. How are these statements used? How are thesereports used? And in this particular case, they werenot used to prove the truth of the matter asserted.They were used for the limited purpose of explaining theexpert's opinion and for the expert to testify to what Officialshe relied on in getting to her opinion. JUSTICE KAGAN: How do we know that, Ms.Alvarez? Is there a statement from the finder of fact,who's the trial judge here, that he's understanding hertestimony to be not for the truth of the matterasserted? What's the best evidence that that's what thecourt was thinking? MS. ALVAREZ: There is. And in the jointappendix on page , the language from the trier offact, he says just that, that he's considering these forthe limited purpose. In fact, the Illinois appellatecourt also affirmed, stating that this evidence came infor a limited purpose, as well as the Illinois -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's the limited purposeof -- of explaining the basis for her opinion. But heropinion is that this is matched to Lambatos. MS. ALVAREZ: I'm sorry, Your Honor. I -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Her opinion is that thisis a match to Lambatos. But if -- if the match materialisn't admitted for the truth of the matter asserted orisn't considered for the matter asserted, then thattestimony is irrelevant and meaningless. MS. ALVAREZ: Well, not irrelevant, but Ibelieve it goes to the weight of her testimony, and thatis for the trier of fact to determine. And here, it was Officiala bench trial. It was a judge. But if in fact theState presents the evidence in the way that was -- wepresented it here, we're always taking the chance thatit would weaken the -- the case. And it has to beconsidered for the weight to be given to Ms. Lambatos'testimony. JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose the State had notpresented evidence of the shipments, so that you didn'teven have that. Would -- at that point, should thejudge have just thrown out the case? MS. ALVAREZ: No, Your Honor. I would sayno. I believe there was the testimony of the victim inthis case, who identifies this defendant as theperpetrator in -- in this rape. In addition, the judgemade a finding when -- in his ruling. The trier of factsaid that he believed her percent, and he found herextremely credible. JUSTICE KAGAN: But I guess what I'm tryingto suggest is that if there's no evidence in the casethat the -- that the match is to the victim, where isyour case? MS. ALVAREZ: Well, then we probably wouldhave problems with the Illinois evidentiary rules and --and the law in Illinois. We obviously presented in this case a Officialsufficient chain, a sufficient foundation, to showwhere -- when that -- we -- we presented the testimony,not only of the victim but the doctor who was presentwhen the swab was taken, of the officers who brought thesealed swab to the Illinois State Police crime lab, howthat sealed swab was first looked at, preliminary testsby Mr. Hapack in -- in ISP, in order to -- before theysent it to Cellmark, and then Cellmark extracts a DNAprofile of a woman -- a female and a man. Cellmark never makes the match here.Cellmark never says this is Mr. Williams' DNA. That isdone by Ms. Lambatos. Through her expert and herexpertise, she makes the match. JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but Cellmark says thisis the male DNA that was found in the sample that wassent. Cellmark made that decision, right? And hertestimony was based upon the fact -- was based uponcomparing that male DNA with -- with her own bloodsample. It's meaningless unless that male DNA wasindeed the defendant's. MS. ALVAREZ: And she can testify to whatshe relied on. Again -- and it goes to her weight ifthe trier of fact chooses not to believe it. The -- butthe evidence here was clear -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, I would believe Officialthat if the prosecution put the question to -- to herthis way: Assume that you got a report which said thatthis was the defendant's DNA. And if you were to matchthat with this -- the work you've done on the bloodsample, would you find that -- that, you know, that thesample was taken from the defendant? And she would sayyes. And the jury would say: So what? I mean, you've just -- you've just made ahypothesis. "If you had been told." That -- that wouldbe worth nothing. Her testimony was, I received informationthat this was indeed the DNA taken from -- the male DNAtaken from the -- from the swab that was sent. Withoutthat, the testimony was worthless. It's just, you know,a hypothesis. She responds to a hypothesis. That wasnot the way this was played out in the trial, was it? MS. ALVAREZ: The -- again, our position isthat her testimony was consistent with the ConfrontationClause. The Confrontation Clause is concerned aboutwhat statements are admitted, what evidence is admitted.No Cellmark reports were admitted here. She did notparrot the testimony -- I mean, the report of Cellmark. She testified to what she did, how shearrived at her own independent opinion on this, which --again, we did not offer any out-of-court statements to Officialprove the truth of the matter asserted. We offered Ms.Lambatos, who was subjected to a lengthycross-examination, and that satisfies the ConfrontationClause. And the inability to test the reliability ofwhat happened at Cellmark does not trigger theConfrontation Clause. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you earlierrecognized that her -- her opinion could not beindependent of the test results. It depended entirelyon the test results. So, I -- now you've -- you'veinserted "independent" again, and I thought you had --you had given up on that. MS. ALVAREZ: Well, I think, you know, whatwe saw in Bullcoming was not an independent opinion ofan expert. With -- he offered no independent analysis.He simply read off a report that was prepared by anotherlab, and that -- in Bullcoming, that was offered toprove the truth of the matter asserted. We did not offer Cellmark reports here toprove the truth of the matter asserted. We offered theexpert opinion of Ms. Lambatos, and her credibility wasattacked through a very vigorous cross-examination here,and that satisfies the Confrontation Clause. Testimonial statements, again, are -- arestatements that are -- are made in lieu of live Officialtestimony, and the key is the live testimony here, whichwe presented live testimony. The reports from Cellmarkin our -- our conclusion is that they are nottestimonial in nature. And what Petitioner is asking you here -- todo here today is to expand Crawford, to expand theConfrontation Clause, to expand the definition ofhearsay and the definition of "testimonial." And -- and our position simply is to ask youto maintain the rule of Crawford, which is quite clear,that a witness becomes -- an out-of-court declarantbecomes a witness against an accused within the conceptof the Confrontation Clause when their extrajudicialstatements are offered to prove the truth of the matterasserted. And so, the witness here -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does Illinois -- doesIllinois have notice and demand? MS. ALVAREZ: No. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It does not? MS. ALVAREZ: No. No. And so, our -- ourposition, Your Honors, is to maintain the rule ofCrawford. There is no such thing as inferentialhearsay, as the Petitioner wants you to believe. Astatement is a statement. Hearsay is hearsay. There isno such thing as inferential hearsay. What was Officialpresented here in this case was consistent with theConfrontation Clause; it was satisfied. And for -- andfor that, we respect your opinion here today, but we askthat you maintain the ruling of Crawford. JUSTICE SCALIA: She was asked, just -- justto be clear what she was testifying to: "Did youcompare the semen that had been identified by BrianHapack from the vaginal swabs of Latonia Jackson to themale DNA profile that had been identified by Karen Kooifrom the blood of Sandy Williams?" "Yes, I did." She is accepting and -- and affirming thisstatement that what she was comparing was the semen thathad been identified from the vaginal swabs. MS. ALVAREZ: She -- she is accepting andshe is relying on the material that was generated byCellmark, but, again, the State did not admit intoevidence or -- or try to admit into evidence theCellmark report or any statements from Cellmark. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Dreeben. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENT MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Officialand may it please the Court: Sandra Lambatos's testimony really has to beanalyzed as having two components to it. The firstcomponent is the match, the match between the datareflecting the allele charts from Cellmark and the datathat was produced in analyzing Petitioner's blood. Asto that component of her testimony, she's a livewitness. She's subject to cross-examination. I don'tthink that anyone asserts there's a Confrontation Clauseissue. But as several members of the Court havepointed out, that testimony is entirely irrelevant andnonprobative unless it can be linked to the semen thatwas taken from the victim and that was subsequentlyanalyzed to generate a DNA profile. As to that issue,Illinois State law provides that her testimony cannotprove for the truth of the matter asserted what Cellmarkdid. She cannot repeat on the witness stand, when shegives the basis for her testimony, things that Cellmarksaid and have them be taken for the truth -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But, Mr. Dreeben, shedid repeat what Cellmark said. I asked your -- theState's attorney whether, if she had read the datareport from the laboratory analysis, would that havebeen a violation of the Confrontation Clause? Not Officialclear. She says, only if you admitted it. But in fact that's what she did. If youread her testimony -- I give you an example at page -- she tells on cross-examination exactly what thesteps were in the Cellmark report, what numbers theygave, and she tells and explains -- she -- the State'sattorney took pride in this -- she said, I disagree withthat number that they came up with; I think the numbershould be.... So, she's really reading the report. MR. DREEBEN: Well, first of all, JusticeSotomayor, that did come in on cross-examination, and Idon't think that Petitioner is contending that evidencethat he himself elicits on cross-examination -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, thenlet's -- MR. DREEBEN: -- would violate theConfrontation Clause. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, let's --so, let's get to -- MR. DREEBEN: Can I focus on -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could the State havedone this? MR. DREEBEN: Can I focus on your question?I think, because she clearly did link the DNA that she Officialcompared to the blood DNA to the semen that was sent toCellmark, and I think that several members of the Courthave raised the question, is she implicitly therebyrepeating what Cellmark said and then making Cellmarkthe out-of-court witness? My answer to that is twofold. First of all,as a matter of Illinois State law, she could not dothat. She is not permitted to give the basis for heropinion in that respect and have it taken for the truth. JUSTICE KENNEDY: If that's so, why isn'tthere insufficient evidence in this case? MR. DREEBEN: And this brings me to mysecond reason for saying that this is not aConfrontation Clause problem. It's in essence what the Chief Justicedescribed and what Justice Alito referred to as thecircumstantial way in which the factfinder can inferthat Cellmark tested the DNA in the semen that was sentto it. There's a shipping manifest that shows that thesemen goes out to the lab; there's a shipping manifestthat shows that it comes back. And Cellmark tendersa -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: None of -- none of whichhas anything to do with the accuracy of the test. MR. DREEBEN: Correct. And that is I think Officialthe crucial point here. The State may have a very weakcase if it doesn't produce a witness from the lab whocan attest to the fact that the lab did what it wassupposed to do and conducted a properly authorized DNAexamination. It has to get by with the very skimpycircumstantial showing of we sent the material out -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it -- it doesn'tthough. It could have -- could it have a witness sayingCellmark is the nation's foremost DNA testinglaboratory; they hire only people who have Ph.D.'s inDNA testing? I mean, is that all right? MR. DREEBEN: Yes. Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The State can makeits case a lot stronger -- MR. DREEBEN: And it did that here by sayingthat Cellmark is an accredited laboratory and SandraLambatos participated in designing proficiencyexamination. But she had to admit on cross-examinationthat she had no idea what Cellmark actually did in thiscase. She could draw inferences. And the inferencesthat she drew are what enable her to say my opinion isthere is a match between the DNA in the semen and theDNA in the blood. JUSTICE KENNEDY: As you understand ourprecedents, would this have been a stronger or a weaker Officialcase if a representative, an employee, of Cellmark hadcome and said, although I didn't do this sample, I wantto tell you how our procedures work and why we're arespectable lab, et cetera, et cetera? MR. DREEBEN: It would have been relativelystronger had a witness been able to actually come fromCellmark and validate that Cellmark is an accreditedlaboratory and conducts procedures in a certain way.But the crucial point here -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Dreeben, if noexpert from either lab came in, if an expert had theCellmark information and the Illinois State Policeinformation, not offered for the truth of the matter,and came in and said, I matched this and I matched that,and it's the defendant -- could that have been done? MR. DREEBEN: Only if as a matter of Statelaw there was a sufficient foundation for the factfinderto conclude that the DNA actually came from the bloodand the DNA came from the semen. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Dreeben, that seems tome -- I mean, we have a Confrontation Clause whichrequires that the witnesses against the defendant appearand testify personally. And -- and the crucial evidencehere is the testing of the semen found on the swab.That is -- that's the crux of this evidence. And you're Officialtelling me that this Confrontation Clause allows you tosimply say, well, we're not going to bring in the personwho did the test; we're simply going to say this is areliable lab. I don't know how that complies with theConfrontation Clause. MR. DREEBEN: The Confrontation Clause,Justice Scalia, does not obligate the State to present astrong case. It does not prevent the State frompresenting a relatively weaker case, so long as it doesnot rely on testimonial statements to prove the truth ofthe matter asserted. This Court held, in Bruton v. United States,that there is a very narrow exception to the almostinvariable presumption that juries will follow theinstructions that they're given. If they are told notto take evidence for the truth of the matter asserted,they are presumed to follow that instruction. HereIllinois State law supplies that filter. Everything that the judge heard, he filteredthrough Illinois State law that says the basis for theexpert's opinion doesn't prove its truth. So, the Stategave up the right to say you can believe that this DNAreport is reliable and trustworthy because Cellmark saysso. The State doesn't get that benefit, and as a result Officialof not getting that benefit, it is not obligated totreat Cellmark as if it's a witness. Cellmark -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I suppose the problem is,Mr. Dreeben, that if the -- if the State put up Ms.Lambatos and Ms. Lambatos had to say I did a match -- Iwas given two reports; there was a match, but I have noidea where this other report came from; you know, itmight have been from the victim, but it might not havebeen; I don't have a clue -- the State would never haveput that prosecution on, because the State would haveunderstood that there was no case there. The State is relying on the fact that peoplewill take what Ms. Lambatos says about what she knowsabout where the report came from as a fact, as the truthof the matter, that in fact this report did come fromthe victim. And so, the jury can be given instructionssaying you can't consider this except for the truth ofthe matter asserted. But it's a bit of a cheat, no? MR. DREEBEN: No. I think, Justice Kagan,when you consider the things that this Court has heldjuries can properly apply limiting instructions to, theycan hear the fact that evidence was seized from thedefendant, marijuana was found at his house. Thedefendant gets up on the stand and says, no, it wasn't. OfficialThe State can introduce that marijuana to impeach histestimony. And the jury is instructed you may not usethat as proof that he possessed marijuana, only toimpeach his testimony. The same is true with unwarned statements inviolation of Miranda. JUSTICE SCALIA: What was the instructionhere? That -- MR. DREEBEN: There's no instruction here,Justice Scalia, because this is a bench trial. And in abench trial, the judge is presumed to follow the law,and as my colleague read to the Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, we simply have apresumption even though -- even though the court'sstatement seems to indicate that he does take it for thetruth of the matter. MR. DREEBEN: Well, the Illinois -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And you're saying, well, hecouldn't have because that would be against the law. MR. DREEBEN: The Illinois Supreme Courtfound as a matter of State law that he did comply withState evidentiary rules and he did not take the Cellmarkreport for the truth of the matter asserted. And thereis in this case an alternative route of proof which iscircumstantial. And I take the Chief Justice's Officialamendment of my description of the facts to include thatCellmark is an accredited laboratory. That does add tothe probative value. But it's a much weaker chain ofsupport to conclude that the DNA male profile came fromthe semen than if they had produced Cellmark. But nothaving produced Cellmark, they do not need to affordconfrontation on Cellmark. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Carroll, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN W. CARROLL ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. CARROLL: Thank you, Your Honor. First, the State cited page -- or inthe joint appendix as a reference to the trial judgestating that he was not considering Cellmark's statementfor its truth. That's not a cite to the transcript ofthe trial. That's a cite to the Illinois SupremeCourt's opinion. Nowhere in the actual trial transcripts didthe judge ever state, I'm not considering this evidencefor its truth. In fact, in the statement of facts onpage JJJ of the record, he states that it's the --it's the testimony of the expert that makes this link.Cellmark's an accredited lab. And it's inconceivable that, in the face of Officialthe evidence of Cellmark's work that the prosecutionpresented through Lambatos' testimony and during defensecounsel's objections to that testimony, that the judgewould never state at any point, hey, I'm not consideringthis for its truth. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you saying that weowe no deference to the Illinois Supreme Court'sjudgment on this evidentiary issue? And if so, nodeference, tell me what proposition of law supports thator are you saying deference is due, but we shouldn'tgive it. Which of the two positions are you taking? MR. CARROLL: I think deference is due, butyou shouldn't take it given the record in this case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is deference due? Imean, it's either the fact or it's not the fact. If aState supreme court opinion says something thatcontradicts the -- you know, the record, we owe itdeference? I don't know any such rule. MR. CARROLL: Well, if the Court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We owe deference to itsinterpretation of Illinois law, I suppose. MR. CARROLL: I guess I -- if this Courtwould like not to give the Illinois Supreme Courtdeference, I'd be more than happy -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I think we should give it Officialdeference where deference is due and not give itdeference where deference is not due. And on statementof facts that either are erroneous or not, I don't -- Idon't know why deference is applicable. MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You do think our lawis established, though, that a jury will follow aninstruction in this situation to -- not to take thetestimony for truth of the evidence, for truth of thematter. MR. CARROLL: Not in this situation, YourHonor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we have any --any case saying that instruction is inadequate in a caselike this? MR. CARROLL: Not in this particular factpattern. But this case is different than a Bruton typesituation where there are -- there's a proper way toconsider the evidence and an improper, and there's afear that the jury is going to -- or the trier of factis going to consider the improper. Here Illinois lawdid allow the trier of fact -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you aware that inIllinois they have an instruction -- assuming it was ajury case, this is a bench case, but if it were a jury Officialcase: Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you are not topresume or assume that the DNA tested by Cellmark camefrom this sample. MR. CARROLL: Yes, Your Honor. There issuch an instruction in Illinois law; however -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then they routinelygive that to juries? MR. CARROLL: I believe they do, Your Honor.However, in this case -- or Illinois law does notprohibit the trier of fact from considering Cellmark'sstatements. The trier of fact is allowed and isexpected to consider it in assisting the trier of factin evaluating Lambatos' opinion. And in this situation, where Lambatos -- theonly way that the Cellmark statements support Lambatos'opinion is if they are true, there is no meaningfuldifference between considering the statements inassessing Lambatos' opinion and considering them for thetruth. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm goingback to Justice Kennedy's question. There is anIllinois requirement that the trial judges give theinstruction he described? MR. CARROLL: I believe there is arecommended jury instruction for -- that the basis Officialevidence is not to be considered for its truth, YourHonor. JUSTICE ALITO: Under Rule of theIllinois Rules of Evidence, are the facts that an --that an expert takes into account in reaching his or heropinion introduced for the truth of the matter asserted? MR. CARROLL: Not under the language of therule, Your Honor, no. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAAbbinanti :ability :able : ::above-entitled: :absolutely :accept :accepted :accepting ::account :accreditation:accredited: :,: :: :,accuracy :: :accused :: :actor :actors :actual :add :addition ::addressed :admission :admit :,::admitted :: : :: ::, :: :,: :affidavit :affirmed :affirming :afford :agree : :: ::agrees :ahead :alcohol :Alito : :: :,:,,,:,,: :: :allele : :alleles :,:allow : :allowed :allows :alternative:Alvarez : ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:,, ::,,: ::, :,: :,:,,,:,,,:, :: ::, :amendment:amici :amicus :: ::amplification:analogy :analysis :: ::, ::, ::, ::analysts :analyzed :: :,analyzing :ANITA : ::answer :anybody :appear :APPEARAN...:appeared :appellate :,appendix :::applicable :applies :apply :argue :arguing :argument ::,,, :: : :: :arrested :arrived :asked : :: : ::asking ::asserted :: :: :: :,:,,:,,: ::, :: :asserting :assertion :assertions :asserts :assessing :assisting :assume : :::assuming :: :assumptions:attacked :attest :attorney :: :Attorney's:authorized :authors :aware :a.m : :Bback :, :: :: :,:, :: :,: :,: ::background:bank :based : :,:,,:,,: :,basing :basis :,: :: :: :: :: :behalf :,,: : :: :believe :,: :,: :,: :: ::, :: :,believed ::belongs :bench ::, :benefit ::best :biology :bit :blood : ::,,: :: :: :: :books :bore :break :Breyer :,: :,:, ::, ::Breyer's :Brian : :: : ::brief : :: :briefing :briefs :bring ::,,,:, :bringing ::,brings :brought :Bruton :::Bullcoming : :, ::, ::, ::, :: ::,business :: : ::CC : :call : :calling :canons :care :,:Caremark :Carroll : :: :,,:, :,:, :,: : :: :: : ::, :,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :,: :,: :,: :case :, :: : :: :,:,,: :: :,: :,: :,:, :Official: ::,,,:, :: :,: ::, :: ::,,,: :,:,cases :,Cellmark ::,, :: : ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:, :: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,,,:,,:,,,: :,: :,,: :,Cellmark's ::, :: :,: :century ::certain :: ::certainly :certificate ::cetera :,chain :: :,:, ::, ::challenging :chance :: :change ::changing :chart ::charts :cheat :Chicago :,Chief :,: :: :: ::, ::, :: :,:chooses :: :circumstantial:, :: ::cite :,cited :City :claiming :clause : :: :,:, :: :,: :,: : :: :: ::, ::, :: ::, :: ::,,clear : :: :: :clearly ::closer :,clue :colleague :college :come : :: :,:comes :: :: :coming :,compare :compared :: ::comparing: :complies :comply :component :components::computer :concedes :concept :conceptual: :,concerned :conclude ::conclusion: ::conducted :conducts :confront :confrontation: : ::, :: :: :,,: :,: : :: :: :,:,, :: ::, :: ::,, :connected :consequence::consider :: :,:considered :: : ::considering: :,: ::, ::,,considers :consistent :: :constituted :constituting:constitutional:containingcontending::content :contesting :contradicts:contrary : Officialcontrolled :conveyed ::conveying :convinced :copies :correct : :: : ::, ::, :counsel :: :: :: ::counsel's :County's :course :court :, :: :,:, :: :: :,:, :: :: ::, ::,,court's :: :: :cover :Crawford :: :,: :create :created :,:credibility :credible :crime :,: ::, :: : :criminal ::cross-examina...:, ::, ::,,:cross-examine: :cross-examini...:crucial ::,crux :curiae : ::custody :: :,:, ::DD :data : ::,, :,:database :December :decision ::decisions :declarant :decreases :deemed :defendant ::, :: :: ::, ::defendant's: ::defense :: :deference :,:,,,:, ::,,,definition :,degree :demand :Department:depended :dependent:depends :Deputy :described :: ::description ::designing :determine :determines :difference ::, :: :,:, :different :: :: : ::direct : :direction :: :disagree :disappearsdiscover :::dispute :dissent :dissented :distinction: :distinguishdistinguishing::District :DNA :,,: : :: : ::, :: :: :,,: :,,: :: ::,,,: :,: :: ::, :,:,,:, :: :DNA-type :doctor :documents ::doing :dozens :,drafted :draw :Dreeben :: :,: ::,,,:, :: :,:, ::, ::,drew :drunk :,drunkenness:,due :,,:,duly :duplicative:D.C :,EE : :,earlier : :either :: :: :electropherog...: :,electrophoresis:element :elicits :else's :employee :enable :encapsulated:encourage :entirely :: :erroneous :ESQ :,,:,,,essence :established: :et :,evaluating:evaluation:evidence ::, ::, :,: :,: ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :,: ::, :,: :: :,: ::, :: :: :,:,evidentiary: :: : :extremely :eye :eyewitness ::finding ::fine : :fired :first : :exactly ::examination: : ::Examiner'sexample :::exception :,:, ::, :: :exceptions ::excluded :expand :,,expected :expert :,,: :,,:,, ::, ::,,: ::,,:, :,:, ::, :: :,: :: :,:, ::expertise :: ::experts :,:expert's ::, :: :explaining: :explains :extending :extracts :extrajudicialFface :fact : :: :: :: ::, ::,,:, :: :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,factfinder ::factors :facts :,,: :: ::, ::factual :failed :fairly :familiar :far :far-fetched:favoritism :fear : :Federal :felt :female :figure :filled : :filter :filtered :find :finder :Official:, :,: :,:, ::,give : :: :,: :: :,: ::,given : :: :: :,:gives :go : :: :,:goes : :: ::going :,: :,:, :good : ::,,gotten :ground :guaranteesguess :::HHamlet :hand :Hapack ::happened ::, :: :: :happy :hard :hear : :heard :hearsay :,: :, :: :,: :,:,,held : ::hey :higher :hire :Honor :,:, :: :: :,: :,: ::, :,:, :: :: ::, :,:,Honors :house :hypothesis ::,hypothetical: : :hypothetically:Iidea : :identified ::,,identifies :ignore :Illinois :,: :,:,, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: ::, :: ::,,: :: :fitting :five :focus :,:,follow :,: :following :foreclose :foremost :forensic :form : :forward :::found : :: :: :: :: :foundation: :: :free : ::,full :further ::, :GG :General :generally :generate :generated :: :genetic :gentlemen :getting :: :GINSBURG :, ::, :immediately:impeach :,implicate :implication :implicitly :impossibleimproper :improperly ::::inability :inadequate:include :incompetentinconceivable::incorrect :increases :independent:, ::,,: :,:,indicate ::indication :individual :: ::individuals ::infer :inferences ::inferential:,information: :: :,initially :inserted :instances :instructed :instruction: :,:,,:,,instructions: :,insufficient:interested :interesting :interim :interpretation: ::interpreted: :,interpreting:interprets :introduce :: :introduced ::,,: ::introducing: :introduction:invariable :involved :involves :involving :irrelevant :: ::, :ISP :issue : :: :,:JJackson :JJJ :joint : :Officialjudge :,,: ::,,: ::, :judges :judgment :juries :: :jury : ::, :: :: ::,,,:,Justice : :: :,,:,,,:, :,:, :,,:, ::, ::,, ::,,,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,,:, ::,,:, :: :,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:,, ::, :: ::,,:, :,:,,,:,,:, :: ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,:, ::, ::,,: :,:, ::, ::, ::Justice's :KKagan :,: :,: :,:,Kagan's :Karen :KENNEDY: : :: :,:, :,:, :: :: :Kennedy's: :key : ::kind :, :knew :know : :: : :: :: ::,,,,:, ::,,: : :: :,: :: :,:knowledge: ::,knows ::Kooi :Llab :,,,:,, :,:,,: :,:, :: ::, :: :: :,: :,:, ::, :: ::, :,: :laboratory :: ::, :: :,: :labs :Ladies :laid : :Lambatos ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :: : ::, :: :,: ::, ::,, ::,,,Lambatos's: : Officiallanguage ::largely :Latonia :Laughter :: ::law : :: :: :: :,:,,:, :: :,legal :,legally :lengthy ::let's :, ::,lieu : :limited ::,,limiting :link : ::linked :listening :live : :: :,: :,:long : :: :look :looked :,,,: :: :lot :L.J : :Mmachine-gene...:mailed :mailing :maintain :: :making ::, ::male : :: :,: :: :man :Manhattan:manifest :: ::,marijuana: :,marked :markings ::match : :: :,: :: ::, :: ::, ::, ::,matched :: :: :,matches :matching :material : ::,,,:, :: :,: ::materials ::,matter : :: : :: :: ::, ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,:,,: :,mean : :: :: :: ::, :: :meaning :: :meaningful: :meaningless: :means :Medical :Melendez ::Melendez-Diaz: : ::,,members ::mentioning :MICHAEL :: :minutes :Miranda :missing ::mix :motive :NN :, :naked :name : :narrow :nation's :nature :need :: ::neither :never : :: ::, ::New : :noise :nonprobative::non-testimonialnormal :normally :notes :notice :number :,: :,numbers ::OO : :objecting :: :objections :obligate :obligated :obviously :offender ::,offer ::offered :,: :: :,:, ::offering :Office :,officer :,officers :officer's :oh :okay : :opinion :,: : :: ::, :: :: ::,,,: :,: :: :: :: :,: :opinions :: :oral : :,,: ::order : :ordinary :::originated :outside :outsources :out-of-court: :: ::owe :,,PP :page : :: :,parrot ::part :participated:particular :: :pattern :peak :peaks :people : :: :,: :: :: people's :percent :perfectly :perform :performing:permitted :perpetrator:person :,: ::,,,:,,: :: ::personal :: :,personally:person's ::persuaded:Petitioner :: :, ::, ::Petitioner's :photo :photograph:,,,:photographingphotographs::physically :Ph.D :place :play :,played :please : :,:point : :: :: :Official: : ::pointed :police : :: :,: :: :position :,: : ::positions :possessed :power :practical :practices :precedents:preliminary: :prepared :presence :present ::, :,,: :,: :presented ::, :: :: :,: :: : :presentingpresents :::presume :presumed ::presumption: ::pretty :prevent :pride :primary :probably :: ::probative :problem :: :: ::problems :procedures: ::,produce :produced ::, :: :,professionalismproficiency::profile : :: : :: :: :: :prohibit :proof :,proper ::properly :: ::proposition :prosecution: :: :: :prosecutor: ::prosecutors:prove : :: :: :,: :: :,provided :provides ::purely :purported :purpose :: :,:push :put : : :: ::,p.m :Qqualified :quantization:question :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :: :: :questions :quite : ::, :RR : : ::raised :rape :reaching ::reaction :,read : :: :: ::reading :really :: :: :reason :: :,:, :reasons ::REBUTTAL: :receipt :received :: :recipient :recognize :recognized :recommended:::record :: ::,records :,:, :,: : :reference :: :references :referred :reflecting :reflects :regarding :related :relatively ::relayed :relevant :reliability ::reliable :,:, ::,relied :: :,,:,,: :: :relies :rely : ::relying :: : Official:, ::remaining :removing :repeat :,repeating :report :,,,:, :,:,,,: :,,: :,:, :: ::,,,:, :: ::, ::,,:reports :: ::, :: :: :representation::representativerequire :requirement:requires :requiring ::respect ::respectable :Respondent:, :,: :responds :response ::result : ::,,:results : :,: :: :: ::, ::reversed :reviewed :right :,: :: :,:, :: :: : ::, ::, ::rights : :ROBERTS :: :: :: :,: :,:route :routinely ::rule : :: ::,rules :: :ruling ::Ss : : ::sample ::, ::,,: :,:, :: : :samples ::Sandra :: :Sandy : :satisfied ::satisfies ::,satisfy :saw :saying ::, :: :: :: ::, ::, :: :,:says : :: :: :,: :,: :,:, :Scalia :,,: :,: :,:, :: :,: :,: :,: :: :,:, ::,scenario :scene :,:scientific :sea :sealed :,second :see : :::seen : :sees :seized :semen : :: :,: :,: ::, :sending :sense :sent : ::,,,: :: :,: :,: :,:serve :set :sheet : ::,shipments :shipping ::, :: ::,show :,: :showing ::shows ::,signatories :similar :,simply :: :,: :: :,:situation :: ::, ::, :skill :skills :skimpy :Solicitor :somebody :sorry : :::Sotomayor ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,,:, ::,,,: ::specific :sperm ::stage :stand ::state : :,: :,:,,: :: :: :,: :: :: :,:, ::,,,: :,:, ::, :: :,stated :statement ::,,,: ::,,:,,,: :: ::, :: :,:statements :: :,: :,,: :,:, ::, :, Official:, ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :,:states :,,: :: ::State's : :: :stating :: :step :,,::steps : :stop :strong ::, :stronger :: :stuff :subject :subjected ::submit ::,submitted :subsequently::substitute :sufficient :: :: :,:sufficiently:suggest :supervisor:supplied :supplies :support :: :: :,:supporting :tell : :: ::supports :suppose :: : ::supposed :supreme :,: :: :,:sure : :suspect :swab : :: ::,,: ::,, ::swabs : ::system :TT :,tags :take : :: :,: ::taken : :: ::,,:, :takes :talk :talking :,talks :teachers :technical :technician :: ::technicians:telling :: :tells :,temptation :tenders :test : :: :,: :: :,: ::tested :,: ::testified :,: :, :: : ::,,: :,:, ::testifies : :: ::testify :,: : :: ::, :: :: :: :,: :: ::testifying :: ::, ::testimonial :: :,: :,:,,: ::, :: ::, :testimony :: : :: ::, :: :,: :: :: ::,,,: :,:,,:, :: :,:, ::, :,:,,: :,: :,:testing : :: :tests : :: :Thank :,:, :: :theory :,,thing : ::things :,: ::think : :: :: :: :: ::,,:, ::, :thinking :thinks :thought ::thrown :today : :told : :: :transcript :transcripts:treat :treatise :trial : :: :,: :,: :,: :: :,:,,:tried :trier : :: :: :,:,,trigger :true :,,: :,: :: :trustworthy:truth :,: :,:,,,:, ::, :: :: :,: :,:,,: :,: ::,,:, :: :,: :,: :,: : :try : trying : :violated ::violates : :violation :: :: ::virtue :,::Tuesday :two : :: : ::twofold :type :types :typing :Uunderlying :understand :: ::understanding:understood:United :,,: ::unrelated :unwarned :use : ::uses :utterly :Vv : : :vaginal : :: ::,,: :,validate :value :victim : :: ::,,:, ::, :: :,victim's :vigorous :violate :WW : :,: :want :: :wants :,::Washington :wasn't : :: :way : :: :,: :: :weak :weaken :weaker :: ::weight :: :went :, :weren't :::We'll :we're : :: :,: : ::We've :whatsoever:Wigmore :: :,: :,Official:,- : : : :: : : :, ::,,,: : :th : : :th : : : : : : : : : : : :Williams : ::,,,: : :: :: : :: ::Williams's :witness :: ::, :: :,:, ::, :: ::, ::witnesses :: : ::woman :word :,words :work : ::works :worst-case :worth :worthless :wouldn't :: :write :writes :writing ::wrong :wrote :Xx :,YYork : : : :, : ::,,, 