Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xCARACO PHARMACEUTICAL :LABORATORIES, LTD., ET AL., : Petitioners : No. - v. :NOVO NORDISK A/S, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES F. HURST, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; for Petitioners.BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners.MARK A. PERRY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Respondents. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEJAMES F. HURST, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFBENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ. On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the PetitionersORAL ARGUMENT OFMARK A. PERRY, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES F. HURST, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Caraco PharmaceuticalLaboratories v. Novo Nordisk. Mr. Hurst. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES F. HURST ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. HURST: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Since , whenever an -- a drug hasmultiple FDA-approved uses, there has been a statutorypath for generic drugs to reach the market if there arespecific uses not covered by a patent. Here, there isno dispute that Novo's patent does not claim the use ofrepaglinide when used alone, and that is "an approvedmethod" of using the drug. Even though that matches thestatutory language exactly, Novo is arguing that in thiscase, our counterclaim to correct their blocking usecode is thwarted by the fact that their patent doesclaim a different approved use -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the first -- is thefirst approved, the drug itself -- they're notclaiming that, because that patent has expired, isn'tit? Official MR. HURST: That patent has long expired,and they also had a patent using -- for the use of thedrug to treat diabetes through any method, and thatpatent has long expired. The only patent that's leftthat Novo has is specifically limited to the use ofrepaglinide in combination with metformin to treatdiabetes. My client, Caraco, is attempting to get onthe market for admittedly noninfringing uses, whichoccupy about percent of the marketplace out there. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose I said your briefdoes not cite a Supreme Court decision. Would that be acorrect statement? MR. HURST: I believe that -- that -- if the-- it depends on the context of the sentence, but Ithink that would be a correct statement if I understandthe way you are asking the question. You are asking the question in a way thatsuggests to me, by context, you're asking whether I citeany Supreme Court precedent. But the context here is alittle bit different, because the context here in thecounterclaim is a situation where drugs routinely havemultiple and different, distinct uses. And in thatcontext -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we have hundreds andhundreds, probably thousands, of opinions, and you Officialdidn't cite -- there were many of them that you didn'tcite. You cited quite a few, but you didn't cite all ofthem. MR. HURST: That's true. That's true. Butwhen a judge -- when a judge says to me that, you know,you're going to lose this case because you did not citean applicable precedent, I'm going to hear that to meanI didn't cite a specific particular case. There aremany ways to use the word "an" after the word "not"where it clearly does not mean "any." For instance:"The prosecutor failed to get a conviction because shedid not prove an element of the offense." "I got loston my way to the party because I failed to make a turn.""My cake fell because I did not include an ingredient."So, the context speaks volumes in terms of whether ornot "an" means "any" in any particular context. JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but the contexthere, one would expect it to say, if it meant what yousay it meant a -- did not claim a use asserted by thegeneric. MR. HURST: Justice Scalia, there -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Not just "did not claim ause." And we have to fill in, that is "the use assertedby the generic." That's a strange thing to fill in. MR. HURST: Well, Justice Scalia, I am not Officialquibbling with the fact that this could -- the statutecould have been written more elegantly. My guess isthat almost every statute this Court is asked toconstrue, there are different ways that it could havebeen written to resolve the issue in question. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a matter ofelegance. It's a matter of how I would have expected itto be -- to be framed if it meant what you -- what yousay it means. It's so easy to say "does not claim theuse asserted by the generic." My goodness. And that'swhat you say it means. MR. HURST: If -- and look at the context.The statute does not ask the brand company to identifyan approved use that the patent does claim. It puts theburden on the ANDA applicant to come into court, file acounterclaim, and identify an approved use that thepatent does not claim. We've carried that burden twiceover. There are two approved uses that the patent doesnot claim. Context -- JUSTICE ALITO: As I understand yourargument, you satisfy -- the ground for seeking deletionor correction was satisfied even before Novo wrote thenew use code that you claim is overly broad. When theuse code said simply the use of repaglinide withmetformin, the ground for seeking deletion or correction Officialwas satisfied, wasn't it? MR. HURST: Well, I mean -- the truth is thepatent -- yes, the answer to that question is yes. ButI would have no reason to go into court to fix a usecode that's not blocking me. JUSTICE ALITO: No, but that's another --so, there are two oddities in the way you read thestatute. And it may be Congress just did a bad job ofdrafting. But the first is the one we were discussingbefore, and that's the second one, that -- your -- yourbeef really is not that the patent does not includeevery use. Your beef is that the source -- the use codeis too broad. And yet, that is not the ground that thestatute sets out for seeking deletion or correction. MR. HURST: I believe it does, because ittalks about -- there's two remedies: the deletionremedy and the correction remedy. As we read thestatute, we preserve distinct roles for the correctionremedy and the deletion remedy. As Novo reads thisstatute, they all but acknowledge that they are writingthe word "correct" out of the statute, because there isno meaningful role for the correction remedy as Novo isreading this statute. They call the correction remedy a -- a relicof a failed bill. And, in fact, they haven't identified Officialany meaningful role for the word "correct" in thestatute as they read this statute. Remember, what they say is there's twopieces of information that qualify as patentinformation: expiration dates and patent numbers.Nothing else. The correction remedy can never reach anexpiration date under any circumstances. I haven't heard Novo to argue otherwise.What they're saying is if a patent is correctly listedin the Orange Book, this counterclaim is unavailable.So, what does that mean? If the brand companyincorrectly lists the expiration date for a properlylisted patent as , this counterclaim is notavailable to correct the expiration date. So, that leaves only one single piece ofinformation that could possibly be addressed by thecorrection remedy. And what does Novo say? Patentnumbers. They say, well, the correction remedy could beavailable for fixing typos in a patent. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, it's not much,but it's something. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the way you'retalking, you seem to assume that all the problems in theworld have to be addressed by this statute. Would you Officialhave no remedy by -- by suing the FCC for accepting usesthat -- that it should not have accepted? MR. HURST: I -- whether I do havealternative remedies doesn't answer the question aboutwhether I have a remedy in -- for this particularcounterclaim. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true, but it -- butif you have alternative remedies, I am not terriblyshocked by the fact that you don't have a remedy underthis statute. MR. HURST: I don't have any good remediesunder this statute. I could not, Justice Scalia, suethe FDA for accepting the use code, at least based onexisting law, because the FDA's position is that theirrole with respect to patents is purely ministerial.That has been upheld for about a decade now, includingmultiple courts of appeals, the Federal Circuit, and theD.C. Circuit. So, my ability to sue the FDA foraccepting Novo's incorrect use code is not really a truealternative remedy. The remedy that Congress gave me, that I --that we think Congress gave us is an enormouslyefficient remedy. We filed our counterclaim, and within-/ months, we got an injunction asking Novo tocorrect its use code. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose you didn'tfile the -- suppose the counterclaim provision wasn'tavailable, and Novo -- you filed a paragraph IVcertification, and Novo sues you for infringement.Could you not defend the infringement action on theground that your use of the -- of the drug was not in --did not infringe their patent? MR. HURST: I could not. JUSTICE ALITO: Why -- why is that? MR. HURST: Because there's two paths thatare available under the FDA to get -- for a generic toget approval. One is section (viii), and if I proceedunder section (viii), I can carve out the patented usefrom my label. If -- and Your Honor's question assumedI went through the other route, paragraph IV. I amnot -- FDA does not allow you to carve out any portionof your label if you are proceeding under paragraph IV.So, the circumstance that you just described, I would --I would be infringing under paragraph IV, and the onlyway for me to get on the market is to invalidate thepatent. Now, think about what that means. Novo isforcing us, essentially, to infringe. We don't want toinfringe. We are trying to carve out our label so thatwe can proceed under section (viii). They have blocked Officialour ability to use section (viii). So, they force usinto paragraph IV, force us to infringe. And whathappens if we fail to invalidate the patent? We arekept off the market until for admittedlynoninfringing uses of the drug. There are twoadmittedly noninfringing uses of the drug. That's wherewe want -- that's what we want to use to get to themarket. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hurst, would you agreethat Congress did not contemplate this situation? As Iunderstand it, it wasn't until that the FDA allowedcompanies to write their own use codes, and that's whatcreates this problem. So, would you agree that theCongress that passed this Act really couldn't have hadthis situation in mind? MR. HURST: I wouldn't agree, because lookat the timing. The FDA issued the regulation entitled"Submission of Patent" -- "Submission of PatentInformation" in June of . Congress enacted thiscounterclaim using the same language in December of. The submission of patent information regulationby the FDA with respect to method-of-use patents, andthat's what we're talking about here, is all aboutensuring that the use code itself is accurate andcorrect and matches up with the patent. Official So, I think this is something that Congressclearly had in mind, because they -- you have to assumethat they knew about the regulation enacted by theagency that was administering this statute, issued justmonths before they enacted the counterclaim using thesame -- the same -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about the factthat the FDA, and not the patent holders, were draftingthe use codes at the time this legislation passed? MR. HURST: Justice Ginsburg, that isincorrect; your timing is incorrect. Prior to June of, the FDA was authoring the use codes based oninformation from the brand companies; but after June of, the brand companies were authoring the use codes,and the statute was enacted after June of . JUSTICE KAGAN: So, you're suggesting the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: When the FDA was writingthe codes, was -- was it writing about the scope of thepatent or was it writing about labeling? MR. HURST: It was writing about the scopeof the patent. The use codes have always been about thescope of the method-of-use patent; it has never beenabout anything other than the scope of the method-of-usepatents. The only -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, we can ask the OfficialGovernment, but why did it think that it lacked theexpertise, because it didn't want to opine under thepatent laws? MR. HURST: I think the short answer is yes;the FDA has always done their very best to not getanywhere near the patents. They don't do patents,essentially. And so, they decided -- and there was a --there was a notice and rule -- I mean -- I'm sorry -- anotice-and-comment rulemaking about this, and eventuallydecided to make -- to have the brands submit the usecodes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it suffice in thedescription just to give a cross-reference to thepatent, to say the use of this drug is described inpatent claim number ? MR. HURST: It -- it would not besufficient, because the way -- the whole purpose of theuse code is to administer section (viii). So, what theFDA does is they take the use code, and they match it upwith the label, and then the generic gets to carve outwhatever the brand company says is patented via the usecode. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- MR. HURST: But if I could get back to aquestion, Justice Scalia, that you asked about the -- Officialwhether correcting typos in patent numbers is a realrole for the correction remedy. I would submit it isnot. And for all practical purposes, Novo is asking youto eliminate the correction remedy from this statute,and here's why. Think about what they're saying. Novo is saying that the brand companydecides to put the patent in the Orange Book, butsomebody transposes two numbers. There's a -- there's amistake that's made. What does that mean in concreteterms? Well, if you transpose the two numbers, the oddsare astronomically high that the brand company is citinga patent that they don't own and that certainly doesn'trelate to the drug in question. It might relate to tiretreads; who knows? But you do not -- Congress did not enact aFederal cause of action to address typos in patents.The brand company has every incentive in the world --and the generic company has no incentive to file alawsuit to fix that. But the brand company has everyincentive in the world to ensure that they don't makesuch mistakes, because there is a statutory benefit toproperly listing patents. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's -- it's -- theissue is not whether Congress enacted it only for that. OfficialThe issue is whether Congress enacted it for that inaddition to a lot of other stuff. MR. HURST: But -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it's a very smalldetail, you know -- "correct." You're saying this oneword, "correct," in this immense bill with all sorts ofcauses of actions and other provisions here and there --that one word has this -- this minimal meaning. MR. HURST: You have -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's conceivable. MR. HURST: You have to give it somemeaning. You have to give it some practical meaning.And right now -- and it's only -- the counterclaim hasonly two remedies. So, Novo is arguing that the firstof the two remedies is practically nonexistent. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- MR. HURST: There is no role -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Finishanswering. MR. HURST: There is -- there is no rolewhatsoever. It is surplusage by any definition to -- tosay that "correct" -- "correct" is surplusage by anymeaningful definition. If you even put a dose ofrealism to this, "correct" has no role under Novo'sreading, while we preserve distinct roles for both the Officialcorrection and the deletion remedy. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'll wait for yourrebuttal. MR. HURST: Thank you. I'm sorry, Justice.Sotomayor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Horwich. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I'd like to pick up with Justice Kennedy'squestion about FDA and writing use codes. The firstthing I'd point out is that before , although FDAwrote the actual text that went in the Orange Book, itwas relying on information submitted on a sort offree-form declaration by the -- by the brand. So, thebrand was still kind of -- excuse me -- calling theshots in that -- in that respect. But the -- but the more important point isthat FDA doesn't have the resources or expertise or --and to engage in the substantive patent evaluationsthat, that would be required under a theory where youwould go sue the FDA if you had a problem with this. OfficialBut more to the point -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Horwich, do we -- dowe know what FDA's position is in this case? Is theposition you're presenting the position of the FDA? MR. HORWICH: We -- yes. We represent theUnited States here; and so, we -- we speak -- we speakfor FDA and the other agencies of the government who arevery concerned here about the competition law effects ofthis. I mean, that's -- that's in some ways the biggerstory here. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Horwich, what doesthat mean exactly, that you represent? I mean, thismight be a case where we would give the agencydeference, except the agency's name doesn't appear onthe brief. So, should we give you any deference? MR. HORWICH: Well, the -- the names on thebriefs I think should not be a guide to the deferencequestion. But we're not really claiming deference inthe sense -- because what we're construing here, or whatthe Court is construing here, is the counterclaimprovision, which is a Federal cause of action. And so,the Adams Fruit decision of this Court would say thatagencies don't get deference in defining the terms of aFederal cause of action. And we do think that -- we do think that Officialit's important to recognize that Congress and the agencywere engaged in a dialogue in . And although Iwouldn't label that deference, I would -- I wouldprobably characterize it more accurately as Congressbuilding upon what FDA had done in constructing itspatent information regulation and Congress saying weneed a means to -- to protect the integrity of thesystem FDA has set up. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just one more question onhow this works. Why does the FDA rely on use codes inthe Orange Book to make the carve-outs if it doesn't doanything to ensure the accuracy of the code? MR. HORWICH: Well, the statute -- well, letme start with the basic that the statute envisions thatthere will be carve-outs. That's the whole principlebehind section (viii). JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. MR. HORWICH: And so, FDA says, well, weneed to know when a generic has made a valid carve-out.And FDA says -- and FDA goes through this in the rulemaking -- if you read through the preamble, there'smore detail. But the short of it is FDA has threechoices. It could rely on the generics to say thatthey've carved out, but that doesn't really work because Officialthe generics could say something and then get on themarket when they hadn't properly carved out, and thatkind of defeats the whole point of Hatch-Waxman'sprinciple of getting patent issues resolved beforeregulatory approval. FDA could, as the second alternative, try toevaluate patents itself. But nowhere else in thestatute is FDA given any role in the substantiveevaluation of patents, and with good reason. This Courthas said in its Markman decision that claim constructionof patents is a question of law. The actors in oursystem that decide what patents mean are courts andultimately this Court; it's not FDA. JUSTICE ALITO: If a patent holder -- MR. HORWICH: So, the third choice -- JUSTICE ALITO: If a patent holder writes ause code that is ridiculously, totally, unreasonablybroad, is there anything that FDA can do about that? MR. HORWICH: Well, I think the problem,Justice Alito, is that from FDA's point of view, it's avery slippery slope, because as soon as FDA startsundertaking criticism of a use code, its effective --the only basis for criticizing it is looking at thepatent. Now, this may be a very easy case, but theCourt shouldn't be fooled that all cases are going to be Officialeasy. And if FDA here were to go in and said, well,this doesn't look like it's the same as the claim of thepatent, in the next case, where it's a more difficultquestion, where there may be some very good faithdispute between the parties about the very meaning ofthe patent, FDA is going to have to make a decision oneway or the other -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what about after -- MR. HORWICH: -- and it's going to get sued. JUSTICE ALITO: What about after there hasbeen litigation and a court has decided that a use codethat was written in a particular case was totallyunreasonable? Does that -- does that mean that thewriting of that was in violation of some provision ofthe -- of the Food and Drug Act or FDA regulations andthat there would be some sanction against the companythat did that? MR. HORWICH: Well, I think the -- I thinkthe only posture in which a court would actually look ata use code and evaluate it is under the counterclaim.There's -- the court would not be looking at a use codeunder traditional paragraph IV litigation -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- MR. HORWICH: -- and so, the author of themajority opinion below was kind of mistaken in that Officialregard. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about an APAaction against the FDA for relying on the use code?Couldn't that be challenged as arbitrary and capricious? MR. HORWICH: Well, it seems to me that --that that challenge would fail because FDA has made areasonable construction of the statute, that its role isministerial. It does not engage in substantiveevaluation of patents because the statute doesn'tenvision that. So, FDA would win that suit. On the other hand, if in -- going back to myanswer to Justice Kennedy, if we're talking about kindof the second scenario where FDA does engage insubstantive patent review, yes, FDA could get sued. Butthe problem with that is that FDA is going to get suedin an APA suit; the real parties in interest are goingto be the generic and the brand. FDA is not going to beowed any deference because it's going to turn on amatter of claim construction, which is a question oflaw. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so, how do -- how doyou describe what the FDA does as your third -- MR. HORWICH: So, what FDA does do is itaccepts the submission from the brand describing its --describing its use code. And FDA says in its Officialrulemaking we're trying to do the best we can throughthe administrative process to get good information inthe first instance. JUSTICE KAGAN: And it's your understandingthat you require companies to state the scope of thepatent in the use code, or might you think it'sperfectly permissible for a company to write its usecode in terms of indications? MR. HORWICH: It's certainly possible in aparticular case that the indications will beappropriate. This is -- what we are asking for in theuse code is something that's good enough to do the jobthat the use code is intended for, which is to informFDA -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except that -- MR. HORWICH: -- what needs to be carvedout. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except, counsel -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, that -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. JUSTICE KAGAN: Go ahead. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Sotomayor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except the FDA tellsparties not to rely on the orange code. MR. HORWICH: Well, it tells parties -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It tells them that whatcontrols is the patent. MR. HORWICH: Well, that is true that FDAsaid that parties should, of course, look at the patent.But what FDA said in the rulemaking is that itwould rely on the use code. Let me also point out -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask -- could Iask you -- MR. HORWICH: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- just on a practicalbasis -- I understand that the Petitioner has filed anamended label in . I presume that that amendedlabel copies the current label with the exception ofsubstituting the manufacturer. MR. HORWICH: The -- the labeling -- I can'tspeak to what the labeling in the application is rightnow, because it's confidential. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But let's assume that'swhat -- MR. HORWICH: But if we assume for the sakeof argument that it's the same, yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, it claims that whenthe paragraph IV -- the paragraph IV action is startedand it's sued for infringement, that it's automatically Officialgoing to lose -- MR. HORWICH: Well, that's right. And, infact -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because -- MR. HORWICH: In fact, Caraco has stipulatedto that. That's at joint appendix -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Could youexplain to me -- MR. HORWICH: Because it includes themetformin use. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you explain to mewhy? Is merely the use of a label that's identicalinfringement or is it an infringement of the underlyingpatent? MR. HORWICH: It would be inducement ofinfringement to sell a product with labeling thatsuggests that the product be used for a patented methodof use. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay. So, tell us how acourt gets out of the quandary of there being a claimthat is stipulated to -- I've infringed -- and then howdoes it deal with the counterclaim? Now, the districtcourt just ignored -- MR. HORWICH: Well, the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the act of Officialinfringement below and went straight to thecounterclaim. But I'm not quite sure how you get out ofthe quandary that this creates for the courts and theparties. MR. HORWICH: The counterclaim is designedprecisely to get out of the quandary, because what itsays is the paragraph IV litigation here, the choicebetween infringement and noninfringement, is a falsechoice, because if the counterclaim prevails and the usecode changes, the paragraph IV litigation is going to goaway because Caraco is going to want to go proceedthrough section (viii). It's going to be able to carveout -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. How about -- MR. HORWICH: -- and get approval that waywithout a judgment in the paragraph IV litigation. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume that Caracoputs in a label like the one it wants to use under claim. Will the FDA just kick it out? MR. HORWICH: Yes. It's not -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It will not even -- MR. HORWICH: It's not permissible. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It will not even ask fora response from Novo? MR. HORWICH: FDA will not permit -- does Officialnot permit -- will not approve the application where a-- where there's carve-out labeling combined with asection -- with a paragraph IV. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But is that before --without an infringement action by Novo? MR. HORWICH: I'm not -- I'm not sure of thetiming. Of course, it's possible that -- I mean, theparagraph IV litigation is somewhat in the control ofthe parties; so, it's not as if FDA sends out thenotices that could trigger the litigation. But there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if you tell methat the FDA -- MR. HORWICH: There might not be a -- theremight be -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you tell me the FDAdoesn't want to get involved in construing the patent,why is it kicking out the claim for -- claim until Novodoes a suit on whether or not the generic is infringingor not and let that issue be decided below? MR. HORWICH: From FDA's point of view, it'snot a sufficient application if there's carve-outlabeling presented with a paragraph IV certification.And I'd also say this, to take a step back: The factthat there might be conceivably alternative remediesunder some other construction of the operation of the Officialstatute shouldn't make you think the counterclaim isn'tavailable here. After all, the situation that Novoagrees -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish yourstatement. MR. HORWICH: Thank you. -- the situation Novo agrees is covered bythe counterclaim, where the patent doesn't belong in theOrange Book at all, is one that can be remedied at some-- at some expense and delay through paragraph IVlitigation by proving noninfringement if the patent'sirrelevant. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Perry. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK A. PERRY ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. PERRY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: I think the last half-hour has made clearthat what really is at issue here is a challenge toFDA's administration of the Orange Book. That is an APAchallenge, not this counterclaim. Justice Kennedy, you asked if when FDA waswriting the -- the use codes, did it describe the scopeof the patent? And Mr. Hurst said yes. That's false. OfficialThe answer is no. For example, if I could point to thejoint appendix at page , these are some FDA-authoreduse codes. Everything before U- is an FDA-authoreduse code. U- -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I'm sorry. Whatpage were you again? MR. PERRY: Page , Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thanks. MR. PERRY: U-, "Method of use of thedrug substance." U-, "Method of use of theindication of the drug product." U-, "Method of useof the approved product." These were the ones that theFDA wrote when it was responsible for writing use codesto put the world on notice. So, U-, method of use of an indication ofthe drug product -- the patent relates to secondaryhyperparathyroidism, but you will never know that fromthe use codes, and -- and that's when FDA was writingit. In , FDA decided to turn it over to theindustry. And it said in this rulemaking -- you'veheard a little bit about the rulemaking but not what FDAactually said. It said to this: "We believe" -- andI'm quoting by the way from page a of the reply brief.This is Federal Register page ,. "We believe an Officialapproach that requires the NDA applicant or holder orpatent owner to identify the approved methods of useprotected by the patent is most consistent with thegeneral balance adopted in" the Hatch-Waxman Act. Andthen the generic industry, during this very rulemaking,made all of the arguments that Mr. Hurst has made today,said we should have more of a challenge, we should havelitigation and so forth. And the FDA said no, that'snot right, because that would let the generics pick it. And we said -- they said we shouldn't dothat. And this is important. This is on page a ofthe reply brief. The FDA said very clearly, "Therewould be repeated litigation over individual patentlisting decisions." That's a bad idea, the FDA said,because there is no assurance that ANDAs would beapproved sooner or generic drugs would enter the marketany more rapidly. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the alternativeis that the FDA is going to have to hire an awful lot ofpatent lawyers to review the -- the use codes and theircorrespondence to the actual patents. MR. PERRY: There are several alternatives,Your Honor. First, the FDA could de-link theindications from use codes. Right now the regulationssay that you can base your use code on the indication. OfficialOur use code is identical to our indication, applieswith every regulation. You didn't hear Mr. Horwich say that FDAthinks our use code is wrong. FDA has accepted our usecode. Caraco filed an administrative challenge to theuse code arguing that it was arbitrary and capricious.FDA rejected the administrative challenge. And theydidn't go to the D.C. Circuit to say that was arbitraryor capricious under the APA. I mean, that's the wayagency action gets challenged in the ordinary course asthis Court has seen many times. Not here. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's the wayagency action gets challenged when it's substantiveaction. The FDA's position -- the United States'position is that this is purely ministerial act. MR. PERRY: Your Honor, they have chosen tomake it a ministerial act, which is not a negative, bythe way. It is the Federal Drug -- Food and DrugAdministration. What they do is administer thisprogram. And they have in other areas, such as patentterm extensions, entered into memorandums ofunderstanding with PTO where there are patent issues sothat there is interagency cooperation to deal withpatent issues. They could do that here, but they'vechosen not to and, in the exercise of their enforcement Officialdiscretion, said we are going to accept the NDAapplicant's submission. And, more importantly, FDA has made thepolicy decision to tie the section (viii) determinationto the use code. They don't have to do that. That'snot in the statute. They could change that byrulemaking. And, third, on the indication, for example,Novo's use code always follows the indication. Thechange in this case was because FDA changed theindication. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What odds would youput -- MR. PERRY: I'm sorry? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What odds would you putas a betting lawyer on them winning a challenge to theFDA policy decisions of what it's capable of doing andnot doing? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, there have beenabout a dozen APA challenges to various aspects of thisadministration in the D.C. Circuit over the past years. The generics have won several of them includingmost importantly the Purepac case, which we cite in ourbrief, which is a direct challenge to FDA's refusal of asection (viii) carve-out because of the use code. Andthe generic won that argument. It said it was arbitrary Officialand capricious for the agency to do what it did. So --look, every APA battle is an uphill battle. They're theplaintiff. They have burden -- the burden of proof. Itis an available remedy. You couple that, Your Honors,with the -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What you -- what youdescribed sounded very much like this case. So, if the-- what was the D.C. Circuit case? If -- if the D.C.Circuit said it's arbitrary and capricious not to -- tojust accept the -- the brand's use code -- MR. PERRY: In Purepac, Your Honor, thebrand changed its position but the FDA did not changeits position accordingly, and that was the arbitrarinessthere. Here, the -- the brand changed its position, andthe FDA went along. So, I -- I don't think they wouldwin that case, to be clear, in our particular facts.That's because Novo has done nothing wrong. I mean,you've heard about -- a lot about over breadth,misleading, blah, blah, blah. There is nothing wrongwith Novo's use code if the agency agrees with that. JUSTICE BREYER: Can I bring you back for aminute, please, to the statute? And if you -- it's inpage of the blue brief. And in just reading it, Imight be missing something which you will point out tome, I'm sure. But if you get the statute at the bottom Officialof the page, it says, as I -- if you've got it there,right? MR. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. It says, "If the[NDA] holder" -- now that's -- that's Novo -- "holder ofthe approval" -- "the approval holder for the drug,a" -- I'm skipping words -- "a use of which is claimedby the patent" -- and that's what you are doing. Andwhat is that use? Well, I look at page , and the useis "a method for improving glycemic control in adultswith type diabetes mellitus." So, that's the use that you're -- that's theuse that's claimed by the patent. If you bring "apatent infringement action against the [ANDA] applicant"-- that's them -- "the [ANDA] applicant may assert acounterclaim" -- which they want to do -- "seeking anorder requiring the holder to correct...the patentinformation on the ground that the patent does notclaim...an approved method of using the drug." So, I look at that with those words -- I'veskipped words. I look at those words, and I say that'swhat they're saying. They're saying the use that --that your patent does not cover a portion of the set ofthings described by your use. And, therefore, theywould like to correct the description so that the Officialdescription no longer covers something that you do nothave -- a use that you do not have a patent on. Now, that would seem to me to fit withinthose literal words. And, of course, the purpose iswhat we've been arguing about. But just looking at theliteral words, why doesn't it fit? MR. PERRY: Justice Breyer, your questionconflated, as Caraco often does, the use and theindication. You quoted the indication, that is, amethod of -- of improving glycemic control. The use isrepaglinide combined with metformin. They are disclosedin different parts of the label. The indication isunder indications, and the use is under dosage andadministration. That's the way FDA has alwaysadministered this, and that's the distinction betweenindication and method of use, which is why theregulations and the form are written in the alternative. JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, you'resaying that the -- this -- a method for improvingglycemic control in adults with type II diabetesmellitus is not patent information. MR. PERRY: Your Honor, that is theindication that's -- JUSTICE BREYER: I know, but are you sayingit is patent information? Official MR. PERRY: It is not patent informationsubmitted under (b) or (c) of section , which is thestatutory language. It is information submitted under.(p)and (e) of the regulation, which is a differentquestion. JUSTICE KAGAN: Was not the regulationissued under this statutory section? MR. PERRY: No, Your Honor. The regulationwas issued under section , the general rulemakingauthority. They cite section , but there was asubsequent rulemaking when Pharma, the trade associationfor the -- for the branded industry, challenged FDA'sauthority to require all of this information. And in rulemaking that my friends on this side never cite,FDA came back and explained that our -- that the patentsubmission reg is based on section to facilitate thesection (viii) and ANDA process, not -- not aninterpretation of section . And there are lots andlots of interpretations of the statute. Drug -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Can you give us of the citeof that, please? MR. PERRY: I'm sorry. The rulemakingis -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to do itnow. Just -- just file it with the Court. I don't want Officialto eat your time up. MR. PERRY: You Honor, it's cited in ourbrief, and my colleague will hand up to you momentarily. JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, it's cited in yourprincipal brief? MR. PERRY: In the red brief, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Don't waste yourtime. Go ahead. MR. PERRY: Justice Breyer -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't really care. (Laughter.) MR. PERRY: To further answer yourquestion -- I do. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe your colleaguecan find it -- MR. PERRY: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- before your timeis finished. MR. PERRY: Justice Breyer, there is anotherpoint on the structure of the statute. If you look atthe -- at the chart in the back of our red brief wherewe tried to lay out the various provisions of the actualstatute, the counterclaim that the Court read and thatwe're focused on talks about "a" use. In the preamble, Officialit says, "If the patentholder claims a use" -- JUSTICE BREYER: You know, I know thatargument. MR. PERRY: Right. So -- JUSTICE BREYER: You don't need thatargument. MR. PERRY: Well, "a" use -- JUSTICE BREYER: If you're right that patentinformation in this particular provision does not haveanything to do with, or at least does not cover, thewords about diabetes I just read, well, then I guessthis section would have nothing to do with it becausethose are the words they want corrected, aren't they? MR. PERRY: That's correct, Your Honor, butthere's a second -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Perry, so, in your view,patent information is just the patent number and theexpiration date, and that's all? MR. PERRY: The patent information submittedunder (b) and (c) of section , correct, Your Honor. JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that just the patentnumber and the expiration date? MR. PERRY: That's right. And we know thatbecause the Congress at the same time debated a -- analternative bill that was sponsored by the Democrats Officialthat had lots and lots of additional patent information. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why would anybody havecreated this counterclaim to fix the patent number andthe expiration date when that can be done by way of adefense to a patent claim? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, it's important toremember the counterclaim is only a delisting provision.It was -- it is a very narrow provision. The FTC reportthat's cited in the briefs identified eight cases in thefirst years of Hatch-Waxman that raised this problemof improper listing, mostly due to successive -monthstays. That was fixed in the counterclaim, and the-month stays were fixed, and there has never been acase since -- since , there has never been -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was fixed? I missedwhat you said. What was fixed in the counterclaim? MR. PERRY: The counterclaim addressed theproblem of improper listing that was addressed in theFTC report. The purpose of the counterclaim, accordingto its sponsors, according to the conference report, thelisting of improper patents -- that problem has goneaway. There is no such problem anymore. It has nevercome up again. The counterclaim was entirely successfulin solving the problem that Congress set out to address.It had nothing to do with use codes. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: What do you mean by theproblem of improper listing? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, what the FTC reportexplained was that certain branded companies near theexpiration of the listed patent would come in and file asecond patent in the Orange Book, even though it was notproperly listed, it didn't fit within section (b) inthe listing requirements, solely for the purpose ofgetting a second -month stay, essentially to box outthe generic companies; and that that was ananticompetitive action. They recommended thecounterclaim to fix that. And at the same time, the FTC said ifCongress were to enact such a counterclaim, it isunclear how frequently it ever would be used. So, thiswas always intended to be a very narrow -- it's not afix-all remedy. JUSTICE KAGAN: And so, your argument, Mr.Perry, is not just that the word "correct" does no work.Your argument is that the entire provision no long doesany work? MR. PERRY: No, Your Honor. My -- myargument is very simple. A delisting question -- it'san on/off switch. Either the patent is properly listedin the Orange Book or it's not. The counterclaim gives Officialthe generic a one-shot knock-out remedy. If it's notproperly delisted, it goes away, and a bunch of thingsfollow from that. There's no -month stay. There's noparagraph IV litigation. There's no impediment to FDAapproving the ANDA, because if the patent isn't listedin the Orange Book, then a whole separate set of ANDAapproval requirements kick in. A use code is nothinglike that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I'm still notfollowing it. It's not listed simply because the numberis wrong? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the usual case isit's not listed because it doesn't fit. The most famousexample, the Buspar case, they claimed a metaboliterather than the drug substance, and that wasn't a properlisting for that reason. The correction language, which does come outof the other bill, the alternative bill, and we do thinkis an artifact, is the language we've used, is there togive flexibility to courts. If you have a situation ofan improperly listed patent, then a court has moreflexibility than simply delisting. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The brandmanufacturer has an overwhelming incentive to list thecorrect patent, doesn't it? Official MR. PERRY: Yes, Your Honor, and -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, why would wegive a procedure to an adversary to fix the number whenthe brand manufacturer is going to fix it as soon asit's alerted to the problem? MR. PERRY: Because, Your Honor, if thegeneric raises a counterclaim, if it's delisted, thegeneric gets no more -day marketing exclusivity stayat the end of the ANDA process. If it's corrected to adifferent patent number, the generic would still haveits -day exclusivity. So, there's every incentivefor the generic to bring the counterclaim for acorrection if that's the appropriate remedy. And, again, it just gives more flexibilityto the courts. That is something that very much wouldbenefit the generic, and it would be an available use ofthe word "correct." It may be an unusual one, but it'scertainly available. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I can't imagine that thatwould really come to -- I mean, if it's a transpositionof numbers, that there would be -- have to be aproceeding to get it changed. I mean, the minute thatwas noticed, I assume that the brand manufacturer wouldchange it. MR. PERRY: Your Honor, the transposition is Officialnot the problem. The more frequent -- the way we thinkit would come up is these branded companies have largeportfolios of patents. They list many patents in theOrange Book. You know, Novo has five or six right now.Other companies have many more, dozens and dozens. Theywrite these use codes, and they associate with -- themwith the patents. And in the Orange Book -- by the way,this -- it's called "the Orange Book" because it'sorange. And it's thick. It's got a lot of informationin it. It has to list every single approved drug withthe use code. I mean, it's just pages and pages ofnumbers, is what's in here. It's not a transposition of numbers but,rather, the -- listing one patent and improperlyassociating it with a drug. That could be correctedthrough this counterclaim. But, again, that's worldsaway from this use code challenge, which is really whatCaraco wants to bring, something that wasn't onCongress's radar screen because FDA wrote the use codesat that point. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, let's -- let'sassume -- because I now take from your earlierconversation with Justice Breyer that you're saying theuse code here is absolutely right, because the only usethat we claimed was the combination use of the drug, Officialyour drug, with the metformin -- that the only thingthat's wrong here is the indication that the FDA hasrequired. So, that's not even wrong because you had nochoice about that; is that correct? MR. PERRY: That -- the indication iscorrect. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me -- what thismeans practically, I believe, is that until your patentexpires, no generic can come in with a use that'sdifferent than yours because they're going to be boxedout by this indication, this overbroad indication. Doyou actually think that that's what Congress intended?I thought, with claim IV and section (viii), that whatCongress intended was to ensure that drugs got onto themarket as quickly as possible. MR. PERRY: Your Honor, that argument wasmade to FDA by the generic industry in the rulemaking, the first time this issue came up, and theysaid you should not allow use codes to be based onindications; you should instead require a description ofthe patented method of use. You heard Mr. Hurst saythat again this morning. Here's what FDA said inresponse. It's page -- Federal Register page ,,quote: "For a use patent, FDA includes in the OrangeBook a code identifying the indication covered by the Officialpatent." We decline to expand the Orange Book toinclude patent descriptions. And then it went on toexplain that persons interested in patent descriptionsshould consult the Official Gazette for Patents. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but what it also saysis this -- and that's what I want to go back to thisliteral statutory argument. We took the words --because this is what you can correct. What you cancorrect, the statute says, is you can correct "patentinformation submitted by the holder under subsection (b)or (c)." So, we look at (b), and what (b) says is (b)tells us that you're supposed to submit, in respect towhere you claim the use of a drug, the patent number andthe expiration date. So, so far, that seems to supportyou. But then we look at the regulations whichthe FDA promulgated, I take it promulgated in respect to(b) and (c), particularly the sentence I read or maybesome similar sentence. And it tells you that you haveto provide the description of the patented method of useas required for publication. So, now I go back and lookto what you did provide. And what you did provide wasyou provided -- you said that what we do, we have amethod for improving glycemic control in adults withtype diabetes mellitus. Official That seems to fit directly under () of theFDA's requirement, and that FDA requirement was anexpansion of (b). And, therefore, it sounds to me as ifwhen they say "correct," "correct the patentinformation," it includes the sentence that you putthere that they'd like to see corrected. Now, what'swrong with that? MR. PERRY: Justice Breyer, first, theregulation is not an interpretation of (b). It's animplementation of . Second and more substantively, however, theform -- you quoted accurately from Box .b of the form.There is also Box .a of the form, which includes thedescription of the method of use tied to the label,which is required by subsection (P) of the regulationthat you were just quoting to me. And that part of theform -- Novo very carefully describes claim of thepatent and ties it to the dosage and administration andclinical pharmacology sections of the patent and callsout by reference combination trials. The onlycombination trial in the label is themetformin-repaglinide combination. And in FDA speak, that is a sufficiently --because these forms -- by the way, you've got them inhere. They're these little tiny boxes. You can't put Officialvery much information in there. That is described inthere. It is not that every piece of informationrequired by the regulation -- the regulation has lettered questions, of which several have subparts; so,it's separate pieces of information. They're not allprovided in one box, box .b. There's actually a wholeform. It's four pages long. We filled it all out. And there's an important point, JusticeBreyer. This is a summary judgment case. We put in adeclaration from an FDA expert -- it's in the recordbefore the Court -- explaining how every single box tiesto every single thing in the regulation. That'sabsolutely undisputed on this record. There is nocontrary evidence as to Novo doing anything wrong. So, whether Congress -- you know -- to goback to this counterclaim, we know Congress didn'tintend it to reach this form, because this form didn'texist when Congress was debating the counterclaim. JUSTICE BREYER: The Government -- now, theGovernment, which is representing all the governmentagencies, whether the FDA signs it or not, tells us thatthat language, that (b) and (c) language, about patentinformation as interpreted by the regs does cover thisstuff. MR. PERRY: Your Honor -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: And this is about the mosttechnical statute I ever read -- MR. PERRY: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- and -- and when I'mtalking about patent information among (b) and (c), wehave the Government telling us that that covers this.And why don't I just stop right there and say thankgoodness I'm out of this case -- and I'm not out of it. (Laughter.) MR. PERRY: I -- I think I can do no betterthan refer the Court again to the rulemaking,Justice Scalia, Federal Register page ,, whichthe United States does not address and which Caraco doesnot address, in which FDA addressed your point,Justice Breyer, and explained that this information,while useful -- and we have never challenged FDA'sauthority to require the information, but it is not aninterpretation of that language, "patent information."And this Court sees agency -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And even if it were, as Ibelieve the Government acknowledged, this is not asituation in which we owe deference to the FDA. Theissue is whether a lawsuit can be brought or not. MR. PERRY: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: And we -- we don't decide Officialwhether we have authority to decide cases on the basisof what the agency thinks. MR. PERRY: It is certainly -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the parade ofhorribles that you imagine if we were to read thecounterclaim provision in the way your adversary ispromoting and the Government is promoting? What --what, presumably, in the normal case and the one thatthe regulations appear to expect is that the use code,the indication code, everything is going to match thepatent. So, in that situation, the counterclaim wouldhave no work to do. So, what's the parade of horribles? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, first, thecounterclaim has no work to do for use codes. There's acomplete disconnect there. So -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm asking you toaccept that we were to -- as an assumption only,don't -- it's not intended to be a -- a ruling -- toassume that we read the counterclaim in the way youradversaries want us to. MR. PERRY: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the parade ofhorribles? MR. PERRY: Your Honor, it is going to add Officialcomplexity, expense, and so forth. The reason -- theproblems with all civil litigation, all new causes ofaction -- and this was raised during the congressionaldebates. When they proposed a freestanding cause ofaction for generics to sue over a whole bunch of things,Congress was up in arms, said no, we're not going to dothat because we don't want to let private parties intothe FDA process. This Court is familiar with that and theparade of horribles from the Buckman case. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Perry, there arealso horribles on the other side, of course. I mean,here's -- there's -- there's the statute, and it hasthree provisions, and two of them are vague, and one ofthem works against you. One is "an approved method." Ithink, you know, you both go back and forth about it; itdepends on context. One is "patent information," which,you know, maybe you're right, and maybe Mr. Hurst isright. It's not really quite clear what it means to beunder subsection (b) or (c). The third is "correct."You basically read "correct" out of the statute. So, atbest, this is an unclear statute from your point ofview. And then there's the question of what itallows you to do. The statute read your way essentially Officialallows you to unilaterally expand your patent in areasin which it's quite clear that your patent ought not togo -- does not go -- but allows you to do that. So, whyshould we read the statute so that it effects a purposethat's entirely antagonistic to the purpose thatCongress had in passing this statute, given that thestatute is at best from your perspective ambiguous? MR. PERRY: Justice Kagan, this statute wasa political compromise. There is no debate on thehistorical record about that. And the compromise, as Mr. Hurst indicatedearlier, was that the statute would deal with somethings -- the counterclaim would deal with some things,delisting -- and almost everything else would be turnedover to the FDA. And FDA had this extensive rulemakingthat, as Mr. Hurst said, Congress was aware of. And during that rulemaking, Congress didseveral things. First, it confirmed that the -- theindustry would use the use codes. Second, that usecodes could be based on the indication. So, there's noextension of the patent monopoly. It is simplyfollowing FDA's instructions as to indication-based usecodes -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Perry, may I ask you,on that core question: We have a patent on a drug Officialalone. It expires, and then the patent holder gets alabel patent that's on a method of use, and we have ageneric that wants to sell the drug alone which is nolonger patented. Doesn't want to sell it in combinationwith anything else. Wants to sell the drug alone. Can it do so without infringing themethod-of-use patent? MR. PERRY: No. Your Honor, we will -- theywill be sued for infringement if they ever go to market,because the generic substitution laws present in States require or allow pharmacists to substitute theproducts whether or not the combination is on the label.So, there will always be an infringement suit, whichgets back to Justice Kagan's question: Why wouldCongress have contemplated this? They didn'tcontemplate this. They contemplated delisting, whereyou take it out of the infringement suit altogether. This issue -- indications, use codes,section (viii) -- that is all within the agency. And ifthere's a litigation problem with it or challenge to it,that is what the APA is for. And, again, there havebeen dozens of APA cases where the generics largely havechallenged FDA's determinations in that respect. It is not what the counterclaim is for.This is a very narrow provision. What we're -- we're Officialparsing, by the way, two clauses in one sentence of astatute. The amendments were pages long. TheHatch-Waxman Act is thousands of provisions long. Verydelicate balance between lots of competing interests,billions of dollars at stake. And we have to becareful. When Congress creates a new cause of action,the law of unintended consequences kicks in here. We know this is not -- that this case is notwhat Congress intended. The counterclaim we don'tbelieve can be read it all to it, even if it'sambiguous. Putting it in context and looking at whatFDA has actually said about these matters in itsrulemakings when faced with the same challenges by thegeneric industry that Mr. Hurst presents here, it hasrejected them over and over again as a policy matter. JUSTICE ALITO: To come back to JusticeKagan's question, your position is really nothing can bedone by a generic that is blocked from marketing a drugfor a nonpatented use by a use code that -- that is --that seems to cover that use. MR. PERRY: In this case, Justice Alito,there were two points: First, FDA rejected Caraco'sadministrative challenge to the use code. They couldhave taken that to the D.C. Circuit under the APA.Second, they have indicated a rejection of their section Official(viii) carve-out because of the use code. They couldtake that to the D.C. Circuit under the APA. That isthe usual course for challenging agency action. If there are any problems here -- ourposition is we have complied in every respect at everymoment with every bit of FDA's regulations. And, again,that -- that's what the evidence in this record shows. So, again, I need to push back a little onextensions and monopolies and so forth, because that'snot what this case is about. This case is about aproperly working administrative process, and should --in private litigation between two parties in which theFDA will not be a party, should that regulatory regimebe dismantled. You know -- and we actually asked tobring the FDA in, in this case. Novo did. And Caracoresisted that. You know, we think that if you're going todebate the administration of the Orange Book, it shouldbe under the APA -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- MR. PERRY: -- with the FDA as a party. JUSTICE KAGAN: But here's what we knowabout Congress's intent, and it goes back to the Mylansuit: What we know about Congress's intent is thatCongress wanted to give a generic manufacturer in this Officialsituation a remedy when there was a completelyirrelevant patent. And the question is why we shouldconsider this to be any different. In some respects,this makes -- this is worse from the genericmanufacturer's point of view because the genericmanufacturer doesn't even have a defense in aninfringement suit. MR. PERRY: Your Honor -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, why should we think thatthe Congress that really cared about the result in Mylandoes not care about this? MR. PERRY: Mylan, in the response, givesthe generic a one-shot remedy, and you're out of italtogether. And it's a black-and-white decision. It'san on/off switch. Either the patent is properly listedor not. A use code in the Orange Book -- there are overa thousand of them. They are shades of gray. Thereare -- there are very specific ones, very general ones.I read to the Court some of the ones that FDA itselfwrote. You would get into these long involvedquestions about compliance and so forth -- to theeffect, Congress wanted to make generic approvalsquicker in the Mylan situation. FDA itself -- and Istarted out my argument reading from that page, page a Officialof the reply brief, where the FDA said increasedlitigation over use codes -- patent listings -- wouldnot assure faster generic entry because you'd spendyears and years, as we all have, litigating these veryissues. So, the Congress hadn't focused on this,which it never did. There's not one word in thethousands and thousands of pages of legislative historyabout use codes. Had it focused on this, it would neverhave gone this way because it didn't need to. And whenit did have the broader bill, S. , it failed. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Hurst, you have minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT BY JAMES F. HURST ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. HURST: Thank you. I'd like to start by asking the Court, if Ican, to turn to the Joint Appendix, second volume, .And I want to address two issues: the argument that theuse code is disconnected from the patent itself and it-- it may relate to the indication regardless of whatthe patent says, and whether or not the information isbeing submitted under subsection (b) and (c). If you're at , this form went through Officialnotice-and-comment rulemaking before the enactment ofthe counterclaim. The title, "Patent InformationSubmitted" -- that -- that is a -- this carries out theregulation ., entitled "Submission of patentinformation." Now look at right below those two boxes.What does it say -- how does it say the information isbeing submitted? This is a form Novo signed. "Thefollowing is provided in accordance with section(b)" -- that's (b) and -- "(c) of the FederalFood, Drug, and Cosmetic Act." Moreover, when the FDA issued this patentsubmission regulation in its final rule, it cited asits legal authority. That's at J of the Blue Book.It cited -- and it specifically called out subsections(b) and (c). So, this is a regulation that was enactedprior to the enactment of the counterclaim. And now -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And what do you say aboutthe -- the section cited by -- by your colleague? MR. HURST: We address -- he's citingsomething the FDA said in . And if you actuallyread it, we cited it -- we addressed this in our briefs.It actually says our -- our legal authority for doingthis was explained fully in . And in , the FDA Officialcites . Can I turn you quickly to now? Thisaddresses quite specifically this notion that theindication can be used even if it's disconnected fromthe patent. .b. Remember what the regulation says,and Justice Breyer read this before. It's at a ofthe appendix. But the regulation says that the brand isrequired to, quote, "the description of the patentedmethod of use as required for publication." They'resupposed to provide that information. And look what the actual instruction says.It could not be more clear. .b, bottom right side."The answer to this question" -- this is where the brandsupplies the use code -- "The answer to this questionwill be what FDA uses to create a 'use code' for OrangeBook publication. The use code designates a method ofuse patent that claims the approved indication or use"-- it depends on what the patent claims -- "of a drugproduct." And then it goes on to explain why you needto do that: "Each approved use claimed by the patentshould be separately identified in this section andcontain adequate information" -- this refers to section(viii) -- "adequate information to assist (b)() andANDA applicants" -- that's us -- "in determining whether Officiala listed method of use patent claims a use for which theANDA applicant is not seeking." That is precisely thesituation we are facing. We have offered a construction of thisstatute that is fully consistent with its text, itsstructure, and its purpose. And it really is the onlyreading of the statute that carries out congressionalintent in terms of trying to prevent situations whereincorrect patent information is unfairly delayinggeneric competition. Up to this point right now, Novo has stillfailed to identify any reason why anybody in Congresswould want the system to work as Novo posits, where thebrand company gets to supply an overbroad use code,without judicial review, without agency review, thatblocks admittedly noninfringing products from themarketplace. And I -- and I submit that given theaddition of the correction remedy, that would not be inthere if this was not designed to address use codes,because that's the only thing that can be correctedwithout remedy. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Going back to thequestion that I had and a more practical question -- MR. HURST: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: As I read the record, in OfficialApril of ', the FDA rejected your section (viii)application. MR. HURST: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? And it askedyou to submit an amended code. Your brief says we didit in September of . Is it anywhere in the record? MR. HURST: The question is did we -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That you submitted whatthe FDA requested for your claim , the amended label? MR. HURST: Oh. Yes, we -- we did, and it'sin JA , paragraph . It's a stipulated fact. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. HURST: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case issubmitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAability : :able :above-entitled: :absolutely ::accept :: :accepted :accepting :,::accepts :accuracy :accurate :accurately :acknowledgeacknowledged:::act : :: ::, ::action :: :,: :: :,: :: :,: :actions :actors :actual :: ::Adams :add :addition ::additional :address :: :,: ::addressed :: :,: :addresses :adequate ::administer: :administeredadministering::administration: :: :: :administrative: :,: :admittedly ::, :adopted :adults :: :adversariesadversary ::::agencies :,agency :: ::, :: :: :: :agency's :agree :,,agrees :,:ahead ::AL :,alerted :Alito :,: : :,:,,:, ::allow :: :allowed :allows ::,alternative :,: :: :: ::alternativesaltogether :ambiguous :amended :: :,amendments:amicus : ::ANDA ::, ::, :: :ANDAs :answer : ::::: :: ::,answering :antagonisticanticompetitiveanybody :anymore :APA :,: :: ::, ::,appeals ::::appear :APPEARAN...::appendix :: ::applicable :applicant :: :,:applicants :applicant's :application: :,:applies :approach :appropriate: :approval :: ::, :approvals :approve :approved ::, ::, ::, :: ::,approving :April :arbitrariness:arbitrary ::, ::areas : :argue :arguing :: ::argument ::,,, :: : :: :: :,:,,: :: :,arguments :arms :artifact :asked : :: ::asking :,: : :: ::aspects :assert :asserted :,:assist :Assistant :associate :associatingassociation::assume :: :,: :: :assumed :assumption:assurance :assure :astronomically:attempting :author :authoring ::authority :: :: :,automatically:available :: :, Official: ::,aware :awful :a.m : ::A/S :Bb : ::,,,: :: :: ::back :: :: :: :,: :: ::, :bad : :balance ::base :based :: :: :basic :basically :basis :: :battle :,beef :,behalf :,,: : :: :believe :: :,: ::belong :benefit ::BENJAMIN: : :best : :: :better :betting :bigger :bill : :: :,:billions :bit : :black-and-wh...::blah :,,blocked ::blocking ::blocks :blue : :Book : :: ::, :: ::,, :: :: ::bottom ::box : :: :,:boxed :boxes : :brand : ::, ::,,,:, :: :,: :,:, :branded :: :brands :brand's :breadth :Breyer :: :,: :,:,, :: : :: :,: :brief : :: :: ::,,,: :briefs :: :bring :: :: :broad : ::broader :brought :Buckman :building :bunch : :burden :,:,Buspar :Cc : : :: :,: :: ::,cake :call :called ::calling :calls :capable :capricious ::, :,Caraco : :: : :: :: :: :Caraco's :care : :cared :careful :carefully :carried :carries ::carve :,: ::carved :: :carve-out ::, ::carve-outs:,case :, :,:, ::, ::, :,: ::, :: :: :,:,,:,cases : :: :cause ::, ::causes : :certain :certainly :: ::certification: :challenge ::, ::, :: :: :challenged ::, :: :challenges ::challenging :change :,: :changed ::, :changes :characterize:chart :Chicago :Chief :, :: :: ::,,:, :: :,:, :: :,choice ::, :choices :chosen :,Circuit :,: ::, ::circumstancecircumstances::cite :, ::,,, ::,,cited : :,: :,:,cites :citing ::civil :claim :,:, :,:,, Officialconversation:conviction :cooperation:copies :core :correct ::, ::, :: :,:,,:, :: :: ::, :,,:, ::,corrected :: :: :correcting :correction :: :,:,, ::, :,: :: :correctly :correspondenceCosmetic :counsel :: :: :: :: :counterclaim: : ::, :,: :: :: :: :,,:,,: ::,,,:,,:,,:, ::, ::,,: :: :,couple :course : :: :: :court :,: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,:, :: :: :: :,: ::courts :: :: :cover :: ::covered :: :covers : :create :created :creates :: :criticism :criticizing :cross-referencecuriae : :::current :DD :date :,,: :: :: ::, :: :: ::claimed :,: ::claiming ::claims :: :,:clauses :clear :: :: :clearly : ::client :clinical :code : :: :,:,,: :,: ::, ::, :: :,:,,: :: ::,,, ::, :: ::,,: :,:, :: ::,,: :codes : ::,,,: :: ::,,:, ::, :: :,: ::, :colleague :: :combination :: :,: :,combined ::come : :: :: :: :companies: :,: :,:,company :: ::,,,: :: :competing :competition: :complete :completely :complexity :compliance:complied :compromise:,conceivableconceivably::concerned :concrete :conferenceconfidential::confirmed :conflated :Congress ::, ::, ::, ::,, :: ::, ::, ::,,: :,: :,: :congressional: :Congress's: :,consequencesconsider :consistent :constructing:::construction: :,: :construe :construingconsult :contain :contemplate: :contemplated:,context :,:,,:,,:, ::contrary :control :: :,:controls ::, :: :, ::dates :deal : ::,debate ::debated :debates :debating :decade :December ::decide :: :decided :,: ::decides :decision :: :: ::decisions ::declaration: :decline :defeats :defend :defense ::deference ::,,,: ::defining :definition ::delay :delaying :deletion :,:,,:delicate :delisted ::Officialdelisting :: :: :Democrats:Department:depends :: :describe ::described :: :: :describes :describing:,description: :: :: ::descriptions:,designates :designed ::detail : :determinationdeterminations:::determiningde-link :diabetes :,: :: :dialogue :different ::, :: :: ::difficult :direct :directly :disclosed :disconnect:disconnected: :discretion :discussing :dismantled:dispute ::distinct :: :distinction:district :doing :,: ::dollars :dosage ::dose :dozen :dozens :,:drafting ::drug :,,: : :,: :: :,: :,:, :: :,: :: ::, :: :drugs : :: :due :D.C :,,: :: :,: :Ee : :, :earlier :easy : :::eat :effect :effective :effects : :efficient :eight :Either ::elegance :elegantly :element :eliminate :enact ::enacted ::,,: ::enactment :enforcement::engage ::,engaged :enormously:ensure :: :ensuring :enter :entered :entire :entirely :entitled :::entry :envision :envisions :ESQ :,,:,,,essentially :: ::ET :,evaluate :evaluation :::evaluations:eventually :evidence ::exactly ::example :: :exception :exclusivity ::excuse :exercise :exist :existing :expand ::expansion :expect : :expected :expense ::expert :expertise ::expiration :,:, :: :: :expired : :expires :::explain :,: :explained :: : Official:explaining:extension :extensions ::extensive :FF : :, ::faced :facilitate :facing :fact : :: : ::, ::facts :fail : :failed :,: ::faith :false : :familiar :famous :far :faster :FCC :FDA :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, :: :,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,:, :: :,:,,: :,:, ::,,,:,, :,: :,: :: ::,,,: :,:, :: ::, :: :,: :,: :,: ::,FDA's : :: :: :: :: :: ::FDA-approvedFDA-authored::,Federal :: :,: :: ::fell :file : :: ::filed : :: :fill :,filled :final :find :Finish ::finished :first :,,: :: :: :: :: ::fit :, :: :five :fix : :: ::,fixed :,:,fixing :fix-all :flexibility :: :focused ::,follow :following :: :follows :Food :: :fooled :force :,forcing :form ::,,,:,,: :forms :forth : :: ::four :framed :freestanding:free-form :frequent :frequently:friends :Fruit :FTC :,:,fully : :further :GG :Gazette :general :: ::generic ::, :: :: :: ::, :: ::,,,: :,:, :: ::,,,: :generics :: :: ::getting ::Ginsburg ::, :: :: :give : :: :,: :: :given : ::gives :: :glycemic ::, :go : :: ::, :: :,: ::, :goes : :: :going :,: :,:,,,: ::,,: :: ::, :: :good : :: :,goodness ::government: ::,,:, :gray :ground :,: ::guess : :guide :Hhalf-hour :hand : :happens :Hatch-Waxman: ::Hatch-Waxm...hear : :::heard : :: :high :hire :historical :history :holder :,: :,, : ::holders :Honor :: :: :: :: :,:, ::, ::,,: :: :,: ::Honors :Honor's :horribles ::, ::Horwich :: :,,:,,,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,,:,,,: :,: ::hundreds ::Hurst : :: :,,:, :,: : :: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :: :: :Official:, ::,,: ::,,,hyperparathy...:Iidea :identical ::identified :: :identify :,: :identifying:ignored :II :Illinois :imagine ::immense :impediment::implementationimportant :: :: :importantly:,improper ::, :improperly: :improving: :,:incentive ::, ::include :: :includes :: :,including ::incorrect ::, :incorrectly :increased :indicated ::indication :: :: :,,:,,,: :,:,,: :: :,indications :: :: ::indication-bas...:individual :inducement:industry :: :: ::inform :information ::, :: :: :: ::, ::, ::, :: :: :,,: :,:, :: :,,:,,:infringe :,: :infringed :infringement:, ::,,:, :: :,: :infringing :: :ingredient :injunction :instance :instructioninstructions:::integrity :intend :intended :: :,: :intent :,:interagency:interest :interested :interests :interpretation: ::interpretationsinterpreted::invalidate :involved :irrelevant ::::issue : :: :: :: :issued :: :,:issues ::, ::IV :,,,: ::, ::, ::, :: :JJ : : :JA :JAMES : :: : :job : :joint : ::judge :,judgment ::judicial :June ::,,Justice : ::, :,:,,,:, : :: :,:, ::,,,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,,:, :: :,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,, Official:, ::Mmajority :manufacturer: ::, ::manufacturer's:MARK :: :market : :: :,: :: :marketing :::marketplace :Markman :match :matches :::matter : :: :: :matters :mean :, :: :: : ::,,: :: :: ::, ::meaning :,: :meaningful :: :means : :: :: ::meant :,mellitus :: :memorandums:merely :metabolite:metformin :: :: :metformin-re...:method : :: :,:, :: :,: ::, :: ::, :methods :method-of-use: :,:mind : :minimal :ministerial :: :,minute ::minutes :misleading:missed :missing :mistake :mistaken :mistakes :moment :momentarily:Monday :monopolies :monopoly :months :::,,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,:,,,,:, ::,,,:, :: :,:, :: :: : :: :,:,,,:,,: :,: :,: :,: :: ::, ::,,KKagan :: ::,,: :,: :: ::, :Kagan's ::Kennedy :: ::, :: :Kennedy's:kept :kick : :kicking :kicks :kind : :: :knew :knock-out :know : :: :: ::,, ::, :: ::,,,knows :Llabel :,: :: :,: :: ::, :: :labeling ::, ::,Laboratories: :lacked :language :: ::, :: :large :largely :Laughter ::, :law : :: ::laws : :lawsuit ::lawyer :lawyers :lay :leaves :left :legal :,legislation :legislative :lettered :let's : ::,limited :list : ::listed :,:,, ::,,: :listing :: :,: :,: :listings :lists :literal :,:litigating :litigation :: :,: :,: :,: :: ::little : :: :long :, :: :,:longer : :look : ::, :: :,: ::,,: :looking :: ::lose : :lost :lot : :: :lots :, Officialmorning ::multiple :: :Mylan ::,,NN :, :name :names :narrow :: :NDA : ::near : :need :,: :: :needs :negative :never : :: ::,,: :,new : ::nonexistent:noninfringem...: :noninfringing: :,:nonpatented:Nordisk : :normal :notice ::noticed :notices :notice-and-co...: :notion :Novo : :,: : :: :,: :,,:, :: :,:, :: :: :: ::,Novo's : :: ::number ::, :: :,:numbers :,:,,: :,OO : :occupy :oddities :odds ::,offense :offered :Official :Oh : ::Okay : :ones : ::,one-shot :on/off :::operation :opine :opinion :opinions :oral : :,,: : :orange :: :: ::, :: ::,,,: :: ::order :ordinary :ought :overbroad: :overly :overwhelming:owe :owed :owner :PP : :page : :,:,,: ::, :: ::,pages :,: : :parade :,: :paragraph ::,,: ::, ::, ::, :: :parsing :part :particular :: : :: ::particularly:parties :: :,: : :: :parts :party : :passed :::passing :patent :,:, :,,: :,,:, :,,:,,:, ::,,,:,,,:,,:,,: ::,,,:, :: :,: ::, ::,,,:,,:,,,:, ::, :: :,:,,:,, :,: :,: :: :,:,,,,:,,: :,: ::,,,:,, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::patented :: :: :: :patentholder:patents :: ::, :: :,:, :: ::,, :patent's :path :paths :percent :perfectly :permissible :permit :::Perry : ::,,:, :: :,: ::, :,: :,,:,,:,,,:, :: :,: ::,, :: :: :,: :,:, ::, :: ::,persons :perspective :Petitioner :Petitioners ::, :,: : : Officialprecedent :::Pharma :Pharmaceutical: :pharmacistspharmacology::pick : :piece : :pieces : :plaintiff :please :: :: :point :,: :,: :: :: :: :: ::points :policy :,:political :portfolios :portion ::position ::,, :: :,: ::posits :possible :: :possibly :posture :practical :: ::practically: :preamble ::precisely :::present :presented :presenting :presents :preserve ::presumably:presume :prevails :prevent :principal :principle ::prior :private :probably ::::problem :: :: :,:,,: : ::problems :: :procedure :proceed :: :proceeding: :process :: :: :product :: :,: :products ::program :promoting :promulgated:,proof :proper :properly :: ::, :: :proposed :prosecutor :protect :protected :prove :provide ::, :provided :: :proving :provision :: :: :,: ::provisions :: ::PTO :publication: :,purely :Purepac :::purpose :: :: :,:purposes :push :put : :: :,:, :puts : :Putting :Qqualify :quandary ::,question :,: : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::, :: :questions ::quibbling :quicker :quickly ::quite : :: ::quote : :quoted :quoting :::RR :radar :raised ::raises :rapidly :reach : ::read :, :: :: :: :,:, :: :: ::reading :: :: :reads :real : :realism :really : :: :: :: :: :: ::reason : :: ::reasonable :rebuttal :: :recognize :recommended:record :,: :: :red :,refer :reference :refers :refusal :reg :regard :regardless :regime :Register :: :regs :regulation :: :: : ::, :,:,, ::, ::regulations: : Official: :: :regulatory ::rejected ::, :rejection :relate :,:relates :relic :rely :,: :relying ::remedied :remedies ::,, :: :remedy :,:,,,:,, :,:,,,:, :: :: ::, ::remember :: :repaglinide :: : :repeated :reply :: :report :,: :represent :representing::requested :require :: :: :required :: :: ::,requirement:,requirements: :requires :requiring :resisted :resolve :resolved :resources :respect :: ::, ::respects :Respondents: ::response :: :responsible:result :review :: :,ridiculously:right :: :,: :,: :,,:, ::, :: ::ROBERTS :: :: ::, :,: ::, :: :: :,role : :: ::,,: :roles : :route :routinely :rule : :rulemaking: :: ::, :: :,:, :: :,:rulemakings:ruling :SS : : :sake :sanction :satisfied ::satisfy :saying : :: : ::, :: :says : ::, :: :,: :,,: ::,, :Scalia :,:, ::, :,: ::, :: :,: ::,,:scenario :scope :,:, ::screen :second : :: ::, :: ::secondary :section :,: :: :: ::, :,:,,,: :,: :: ::, :: :sections :see :seeking :,: ::seen :sees :sell : :,:sends :sense :sentence ::, ::separate ::separately :September :set : :: :sets :shades :shocked :short : :shots :shows :side : ::signed :signs :similar :simple :simply ::, :single :: :,situation ::, :: :: ::, :situations :six :skipped :skipping :slippery :slope :small :solely :Solicitor :solving :somebody :somewhat :soon : :sooner :sorry : :: ::, :: ::sort :sorts :Sotomayor: ::, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,:, :: :,: :, Official:,sounded :sounds :source :speak :,: :speaks :specific : ::specifically :: :spend :sponsored :sponsors :stake :start :started :::starts :state :statement :: :States :,,: : :: ::statute :,,:,,,:, :,: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,: :,: ::,,,:,,,,: :,statutory :: ::, :stay : ::stays :,step :stipulated :: :stop :story :straight :strange :structure ::stuff : :submission:,,: :: :,submit :: :: :submitted ::, :: ::, :,:subparts :subsection: :: :subsectionssubsequent:::substance :substantive: ::, :substantively:substitute :substitutingsubstitution::successful :successive :sue :,: :sued : :: ::sues :suffice :sufficient ::sufficiently:suggestingsuggests :::suing :suit :,: :,: :summary :supplies :supply :support :supporting :: :suppose :supposed ::,:Supreme :,:,sure : :: :surplusage:,switch ::system :: :TT :,take : :: :: :taken :talking :: ::talks : :technical :tell : :: :telling :tells :,: :,:term :terms :: :: :terribly :text : :thank :,:, ::,,:,Thanks :theory :they'd :thick :thing : :: ::things :: ::,,think : :: ::, ::,,: :,: :,: :: :: :: :thinks : :third :: ::thought :thousand :thousands :: :,three ::thwarted :tie :tied :ties : :time : :,: :: :times :timing :: :tiny :tire :title :today :totally ::trade :traditional:transpose :transposes :transposition:, :treads :treat :,trial :trials :tried :trigger :true :, :,:truth :try :trying :: :turn : :: ::turned :twice :two : :,: : ::, :: ::, :: :type : :: typos : ::Uultimately :unavailable:unclear :underlying::understand :: ::understanding: :undertakingundisputed::unfairly :unilaterally:unintended :United :,,: : :: :unreasonableunreasonably::unusual :upheld :uphill :use :,,:, :,,: :,:,,,:,, ::, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,: :: :,:,,:, :,:, ::,,:, ::,,,,:,,:,,,:,,, ::, :: :,,:,,,:,,,: ::, :: ::,,,:,,:,,,:, ::, ::,,:, ::,,: ::,, ::,,,:, ::,,useful :uses :, :: : ::, :usual : :U- :,U- :,U- :U- :Vv : :vague :valid :various ::view :: :: :Officialviii :,,: :: ::, :: :: ::violation :volume :volumes :Wwait :want : :: :: :: :: :: :: ::wanted ::wants :: :,Washington ::,wasn't : :: ::waste :way :,: : :: :: :: :,: :: :,: :,: ::ways : ::went :: :: ::We'll :we're ::, :: :: :,we've : :whatsoever::win : :winning :won :,word :, :: :,: ::words :,:, ::, :: :work ::, :: :working :works ::world ::, :worlds :worse :wouldn't :::write : :writes :writing ::,,,: :: :,written :,: :wrong ::, ::, ::wrote :: :: :Xx :,Yyears :: :, : :- : :: : :: : :a : : : :-day :, :a : : : : : : :,: :,: ::, :: :: ::, :,: : : : : :, : :a : : : : J : : : :-/ :-month :: ::. :.(p)and:(b) :, : : :: :.a :.b : ::, : : :, : : :, : :,,: ::(b) : ::(b)() : :, : : : : :,: : :Official : 