Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xLYNWOOD D. HALL, ET UX., : Petitioners : No. - v. :UNITED STATES :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:SUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ., Phoenix, Arizona; for Petitioners.PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGESUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFPRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSUSAN M. FREEMAN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Case -, Hall v. UnitedStates. Ms. Freeman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN M. FREEMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MS. FREEMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Bankruptcy estates incur taxes when theygenerate income. The Government's attempt to limit theeffect of the farm sale statute, section (a)()(A),alters that fundamental principle in corporate chapter cases and in all bankruptcy cases, as it requiresthis Court to construe the administrative section in thepriority section of the Bankruptcy Code that do apply inall of those cases. In a chapter case, the bankruptcy estateconsists of more than just the assets that existed as ofthe date of filing. They also consist of all of theincome that is earned thereafter, wages -- Mrs. Hall'swages as a convenience store clerk are part of thebankruptcy estate -- the proceeds from selling crops -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does it include debts Officialincurred after the filing? MS. FREEMAN: From the period -- from thepetition filing date until the confirmation of the plan,yes, it does. Those debts are incurred in the operationof the estate -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Debts -- debts that wereincurred after that date? MS. FREEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. So that, forexample, in operating an estate, you would incur a lightbill as well as incurring taxes. All of the operatingexpenses are incurred by the bankruptcy estate and arepayable from the income and from the estate assetsduring that period from the petition filing date untilthe confirmation of the plan. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that true of -- MS. FREEMAN: That's the administrativeperiod. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that true of State --you said taxes. Is it true of State taxes? MS. FREEMAN: Yes, Your Honor, it is true ofState taxes as well as Federal taxes. County taxes, forexample. Property -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, in this -- in this --we're dealing with a capital gains tax on the sale ofthe farm. Suppose a State had a similar tax; it also Officialtaxed the gain on the sale. MS. FREEMAN: Correct, Your Honor, and itdid in this particular case. So, there would be Statetaxes on the capital gains, and those would also beadministrative expense priorities, except for the farmsale provision here, which demotes that priority if thedebtor is able to earn a discharge. And if so, thenthose farm sale taxes are demoted in priority and may bedischarged under a plan of reorganization. They wouldshare pro rata with the other prepetition claims of thebankruptcy estate. JUSTICE ALITO: And who would file the Statetax return? Would it be filed by the estate or would itbe filed by the debtor? MS. FREEMAN: The debtor and the estate areone in a -- in a reorganization case. And so, thetaxpayers, Lynwood and Brenda Hall, would file the taxreturn. The way that it would actually be administered,Your Honor, is shown by the Knudsen case. And,basically, there would be a tax return that includes allof the income, the wages, the crop sale proceeds and soforth. And then it would compute it with the capitalgains tax, and there would be a separate pro formareturn that does not include the capital gains tax. Those would be sent to the Special OfficialProcedures Unit of the IRS, so that somebody there wouldknow how to deal with it and would be able to count thedifference. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, how do you dealwith section ? MS. FREEMAN: Section , Your Honor,basically makes the State taxes consistent with theFederal taxes. When you have -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I read (b) to saythat, unless the estate is a separate tax entity underthe code, that the debtor, not the estate, pays Stateand local taxes. This is totally contrary to whatyou're saying, but the language of (b) -- MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- basically answers thequestion against you with respect to State and localtaxes. MS. FREEMAN: Justice Sotomayor, I do notthink it does, in the sense -- in this sense: Thebankruptcy -- section (b) made the State and localtaxes consistent with Federal taxes, and when you have abankruptcy estate that consists only of assets on thepetition filing date, then you have a separate taxableentity with a separate tax I.D. number that is set up.But under the Federal bankruptcy -- under the Federal Officialtax code, under section , whenever the bankruptcyestate had income during the course of the estate,during the administration period, as well as the assetson the petition filing date, then it's a single taxableentity. And so, that single taxpayer would pay it. Section doesn't say what assets are usedto pay the tax. That's a matter of bankruptcy law. Thedebtor, the individual taxpayer, is going to file thetax return under State and local and Federal law, buthe's going to use the estate assets because that's allthere is. He doesn't have any other assets. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, the debtor is goingto pay. MS. FREEMAN: The debtor pays -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, when this sayswhenever the Internal Revenue Code of provides thatno separate taxable estate shall be created in a caseconcerning a debtor under this title -- MS. FREEMAN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- chapter doesn'tcreate a separate taxable estate. MS. FREEMAN: Correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that the income,et cetera, shall be taxed to or claimed by the debtorunder State or local law. Official MS. FREEMAN: That's correct, Your Honor.It's going to be on the debtor's tax return. Thedebtor's the one who will have the deductions, and thedeductions would include administrative expenses of thebankruptcy estate. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This -- this is hard forme to understand, given the last line. "The estateshall be liable for any tax imposed on such corporationor partnership, but not for any tax imposed on partnersor members." By the logic of that last sentence, it seemsto me that the preceding section is not looking to theestate, but to the debtor, to pay the taxes. MS. FREEMAN: The debtor pays the taxes, butwith estate assets because those are the only assetsthat exist. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why -- why would thelast sentence be necessary? MS. FREEMAN: The last sentence, I believe,Your Honor, deals with a partnership, and in apartnership case, just as outside the bankruptcy, thepartnership files the tax return and the partnersindividually are the ones who pay the taxes. But theypay the taxes. If a partner is in its own bankruptcyestate with the only assets that exist -- all of his Officialincome, all of his wages, all of those are property ofthe bankruptcy estate, and he would use it to pay thetax. He's not individually liable any more than if atrustee were individually liable. The trustee in abankruptcy case uses estate assets to pay taxes. Andso, what -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it says the estate --the estate's not liable for the tax imposed on thepartners. So, if it's not liable, how can it ask for adischarge? MS. FREEMAN: The -- the debtor ultimatelyis the one who receives a discharge. Dischargeprovisions are separate than the -- than the tax paymentissues. Tax payment deals with what moneys are used tomake the payments of taxes during the course ofadministration of a bankruptcy case. The debtorreceives a discharge in a chapter case if itcomplies -- if he complies with all of the provisions ofhis plan of reorganization and then receives adischarge. There are exceptions to the discharge.Certain prepetition taxes are excepted from a dischargeand would carry through during the -- postpetition. Butthe farm sale statute provides that these particularadministrative expenses would be subject to a discharge Officialif he complies with the rest of the provisions of the --of his plan of reorganization. JUSTICE BREYER: What happens in a or case, just your typical case -- and this must arisefairly often -- in year , on January , the farm or theship or whatever is the subject goes into chapter or. They have a lot of pre- debt. Then in year andyear , the proceedings are going on, but the farm isoperating, so is the ship, or whatever. And theyearn -- they run up debts during that time. People givethem fertilizer -- they give them, you know, all kindsof things. So, they have a lot of debts that they'verun up in that time. Now it draws to a close, at theend of year . Now, what about those debts that have beenrun up during that time? There isn't a separatebankruptcy estate for tax purposes, I understand. Butif Joe Smith has loaned his farm some money during thattime, and it comes time to look at the future income tosubtract the prepetition debts, does his debt get woundup and get some priority in that process, or is he justat the end of the queue? MS. FREEMAN: He does get priority in thatprocess, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, if he Officialgets priority, then why in heaven's name shouldn't a taxget priority? MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's your point. MS. FREEMAN: -- it does have that priority. JUSTICE BREYER: And if it does, then, ofcourse, the exception that Senator Grassley put inapplies to that. So, that's a question I should askthem, given your answer. MS. FREEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. And, in fact, those taxes, along with thelight bill and any other administrative expenses, wouldbe paid when due over that - or -year period. Andthat's certainly what happens in the large chapter bankruptcy case, like a Delphi bankruptcy case or, youknow, a General Motors, for instance. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I mean,your -- it is a question for you, because these thingsdon't go for or years, do they? I thought typicallythey are wrapped up very quickly, and that's to theadvantage of the debtor. And your position with respectto postpetition taxes has the potential of extendingthem beyond the kind of quick turnaround that helpseverybody. MS. FREEMAN: Respectfully, Mr. Chief OfficialJustice, in chapter cases, often the bankruptcyestate will drag on for or years, and certainly forlonger than year and much longer than a chapter case, because you do have sales of assets. You havedebts that need to be restructured. You have leasesthat end up getting rejected. You have a -- new cropsubsidies that are applied for and received. Thechapter -- the -- the amicus curiae brief of theprofessors has a study, and shows how long chapter cases generally last. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How long was this --this one? MS. FREEMAN: This case, Your Honor, becauseof this appeal, has lasted from through today. So,a considerable period of time. And all of the taxesduring that period of time and all of the operatingexpenses during that period of time are administrativeexpenses and are payable in the ordinary course.There's an administrative expense claim if in fact theyhaven't been paid. And if -- if one of the creditors has notreceived payment or if a taxing authority has notreceived payment, it can move for payment as anadministrative priority. It can ask that it be paidnow, and it can ask that the case be dismissed if it Officialhasn't been paid. So, you do have that highestpriority, and this is consistent with the Court'sNicholas case, , which preceded the Bankruptcy Codeand which the Bankruptcy Code really incorporated andcontinued with. In the Nicholas case, the Court said thatall taxes incurred by a debtor-in-possession andincurred during the administration period haveadministrative expense priority, and they are payable bythe debtor-in-possession as an officer of the court, as-- as the administrator of the estate under U.S.C.section , which is still in effect today, and whichrequires that the person in control of the bankruptcyestate, whether it's a trustee or adebtor-in-possession, pay those taxes, but not pay themwith his own money. As the Court said in the Nicholas case, youpay them with the assets of the estate. The individualtrustee is not responsible; the individualdebtor-in-possession is not responsible. Theresponsibility of the debtor-in-possession really is amatter of the discharge provisions, whether he's goingto be separately discharged or if he has responsibleperson liability because he's -- he's -- you're dealingwith trust fund taxes, with wages from some other Officialperson -- JUSTICE BREYER: The -- what you say to memakes a great deal of sense, but I think one of theirstronger arguments is, it may make sense. But,unfortunately, even if Senator Grassley and the otherswanted it, they didn't do it right technically. Theydidn't amend the right provision of the code, andwhoever's fault that is, is beside the point. So,there's no way to get the words to get to the resultthat you want. I'll tell you the best I could do -- and Isee a problem with it -- is you say that -- you go to(b)(), and it says that any unpaid claim of thekind specified in (a)(); and (a)() talks aboutadministrative expenses and refers you to ; and includes taxes and administrative expenses; and then yousay it's -- at whatever it is, what did I just say? MS. FREEMAN: ? JUSTICE BREYER: . MS. FREEMAN: Uh-huh. JUSTICE BREYER: It's like an Abbott andCostello movie. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: The -- the -- you get to(b)(), and it says that that's -- shall be paid any Officialunpaid payments of that kind, including administrativeexpenses. And -- and so, then you have (a), whichrefers to that, and then the amendment applies to that. But, now, what I did was I sloughed over bytalking too quickly -- it talked about "claim" -- of a"claim," it says, any unpaid claim of the kind specifiedin (a)(). And when you look to (a)(), it talksabout claims and expenses; and then in () there, itrefers to administrative expenses. And so, I think theGovernment says they left out what was key to you, theword "expenses." All right? Now, I don't know what I'm doingwhen I start tinkering with this Bankruptcy Code. Andis that just true, what they say? It does leave out theword "expenses." Will -- will we cause untold harm ifwe were to read the word "claims" there to includeexpenses? MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor, respectfully, youwould cause untold harm because this provision appliesin corporate chapter 's and in all bankruptcy cases.They all have the administrative expense provision, ,and they all have section . So, you would stop taxesfrom being payable in a big Delphi -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, but I was thinking,suppose I do it by reading the word "claims" -- Official MS. FREEMAN: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: -- in -- in , when itsays "any unpaid claim" -- MS. FREEMAN: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Which is what you want tohave include taxes -- MS. FREEMAN: And claim -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- to read that word asincluding both the (a) claims, which are in ()(a),()(b), and -- and also administrative expenses in ().Can I do that? MS. FREEMAN: You can, Your Honor, because"claim" is defined in section of the code as rightto payment. "Creditor" is defined as someone who has aclaim that arose prepetition, which necessarily means"claim" is broader and not just one that aroseprepetition. There are numerous provisions of theBankruptcy Code that refer to administrative expenses asclaims, including . And so, the Court can see thatthose are interpreted consistently. This Court, in the Hartford Underwriterscase, referred to administrative claims, calling themclaims as well as administrative. And really what theGovernment's argument here is that administrative Officialexpenses are outside of bankruptcy altogether, thatthey're not part of what get paid in a bankruptcy case.And that's simply untrue. If the Court looks at the provisions withrespect to requirements of a plan, including (a),which apart from the exception, it says thatadministrative expenses are required to be paid.Section says that a plan discharges all debtsincluding debts provided for -- allowed under section. Debt is a liability on a claim. JUSTICE BREYER: But that doesn't answer myfirst question, what actually happens? I mean, thisisn't the first year of chapter and . MS. FREEMAN: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: And there must be instanceswhere the -- where the debts run up postpetition arepretty big -- MS. FREEMAN: And -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- and there isn't enoughmoney to go around, and they're going to have to be paidout of future income along with the prepetition debts.And it can be done, but there is a question ofpriorities, and the Government is saying there is nopriority -- I think they're saying that -- for apostpetition debt. And -- and you're saying, oh, but of Officialcourse there is. So, what actually happens? There have beenperhaps thousands and thousands of cases, haven't there? MS. FREEMAN: And administrative expenses doget paid in the ordinary course. And if the taxesaren't paid -- JUSTICE BREYER: Get paid, if necessary, byassigning priorities? MS. FREEMAN: Yes. They have administrativepriority, and they do get paid. JUSTICE BREYER: And so, to look to ahornbook on bankruptcy law which just tells me whatyou've just said, I would look where? MS. FREEMAN: We -- we've cited a number ofhornbooks that have exactly that provision. What'sparticularly interesting with respect to theGovernment's position here is that, at the Government'surging, section (a)() of the Bankruptcy Code, thatprovided for prepetition priority, eighth priority, forprepetition taxes within a short period before theBankruptcy Code, was amended; so that all of thoseeighth priority taxes during the year of the filing, thestraddle year -- here the Halls filed their bankruptcycase in August; so, during the entire period fromJanuary through August when they filed -- are treated Officialas administrative expenses. And yet, now they sayadministrative expenses mean nothing, and they don't getany payment as administrative expenses. Why urge the change? Why make all of thoseyear-of-filing taxes into administrative expenses andthen say administrative expenses have no meaning? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm going to ask theGovernment this, but are you aware of any circuit splitor any cases below that have accepted the Government'sarguments that chapter involves prepetition debtsonly and that don't pay administrative expensespostbankruptcy? MS. FREEMAN: There are several cases thathave interpreted section (a)()(A). None of themhave addressed the change in or what that means. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: A different question. MS. FREEMAN: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Government's nowsaying that chapter involves only prepetition claims. MS. FREEMAN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it's basically, bythat argument, saying it doesn't involve and can'tinvolve administrative expenses. That's how I readtheir argument. MS. FREEMAN: I think that's -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, I'm asking is --are there any courts that you're aware of below who havebeen presented with this argument, outside of the taxsituation, who have accepted it? MS. FREEMAN: I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who have failed to givepriority to administrative expenses? MS. FREEMAN: None outside of this taxsituation. And, Your Honor, I don't believe that any ofthe cases that have followed the Government'sinterpretation of this farm sale statute, (a)()(A),have addressed the impact on other administrativeexpenses and other tax claims. The wages -- the taxeson wages that are incurred, the lottery winnings that anindividual farmer might have, and the fact that thosehave administrative priority and that those would needto be paid off the top as administrative expenses --none of the cases address those. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not asking you todefend their position. MS. FREEMAN: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's just such a broadposition that I'm trying to understand if there's asplit out there that we are unaware of. MS. FREEMAN: And the problem, Your Honor, Officialis that it does have these broad impacts, and none ofthe courts have really addressed it. And I don'tbelieve that certainly the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, can we go back tothe issue that gives me trouble? MS. FREEMAN: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How to read "incurred bythe estate." If the estate doesn't pay taxes -- MS. FREEMAN: To incur -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- how could it beincurred by the estate when Congress, if it intendedwhat you're saying it intended, could have said"incurred during bankruptcy"? MS. FREEMAN: Incurred -- to incur is totake on liability. So, at the point in time that incomeis generated during a bankruptcy case, then liabilitiesare taken on at the same time, the operating expenses,the taxes. Here, you had a clear estate asset, the Hallfarm. It was sold. That generates an income taxliability, a capital gains liability. And so, thatis -- it's tied to the income, which is here property ofthe estate. The -- the important thing is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but the problem isthat, with an exception that -- that's not applicablehere, section of the Internal Revenue Code provides Officialthat no separate taxable entity shall result from thecommencement of a case under Title XI of the UnitedStates Code. How can you incur a tax when you are not aseparate taxable entity? MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor, because you are asingle taxable entity instead of a separate taxableentity. The whole reason for the separate taxableentity section was when you had a bankruptcy estate thatconsisted only of the assets on the petition filingdate, and the debtor earns income independently. So,the debtor would independently have tax liability, andthat would be separate from the estate. But when you have a reorganization case, acorporate chapter or a chapter , then the estateand the debtor are a single taxable entity, and thedebtor is the one that files the tax returns or thedebtor-in-possession, the trustee, if there's a trusteein control -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if -- if thatexception were intended, the provision I read containsan exception. It says "except in any case to whichsection applies." applies to chapter andchapter where the debtor is an individual. MS. FREEMAN: That's -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, if there is anadditional exception for chapter of the sort that youallege, why wasn't that put in there? MS. FREEMAN: There is no exception, andthere shouldn't be an exception, Your Honor. They'rewithin section , just like corporate chapter debtors. The debtor is the one that files the taxreturn. The debtor and estate are one. All of thatcorporate earnings, all of the wages, the lotterywinnings, the farm sale proceeds, all of those are partof the estate. And so, those -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What does it mean, then, tosay that no taxable -- "no separate taxable entity shallresult"? What does it mean, unless it means that it isnot the estate which incurs the tax? MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor, respectfully,there's a difference between taxable entity and estate.The estate is a collection of property. That is thecollection of property that's operated by thedebtor-in-possession or trustee in a reorganizationcase. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but they -- but theywould not have needed the exceptions for chapter andchapter where the debtor is an individual if what yousay is true, if indeed a bankrupt estate is, as you say, Officialnot an entity at all. MS. FREEMAN: You need that exception, YourHonor, in a chapter case for an individual because theindividual earns income that is wholly independent fromthe estate, that's not part of the estate. So that thebankruptcy estate consists of the assets the individualowns on the petition filing date. The trusteeadministers those, sells the assets, may incur someliability for selling the assets for taxes, pays those,and deals with those, while the individual continues toearn income postpetition that's his own income. And so,you need to have a separate taxable estate in thoseinstances. But when the income that's earned duringthis whole period of administration, from the petitionfiling date to the confirmation date of the plan, is allproperty of the estate, then the debtor, the corporatechapter debtor or the -- the corporate chapter debtor or the individual chapter debtor is incurringthat income as part of the estate. It's all property ofthe estate in a chapter case. Section saysthat. And so, the debtor is the one that files thetax returns, and the debtor uses the estate assets tomake the payments of the taxes and to make the payments Officialon the light bill and to make the payments on all of theother expenses of administration during this period ofadministration. That's what this Court held inNicholas, and that continues on in effect today. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Ms. Freeman, wouldn'tit be fair to say then that the taxes are incurred bythe debtor and payable out of the estate? Why would itsay "incurred by the estate"? MS. FREEMAN: It uses the term "incurred bythe estate" I think based upon the same kind of languagethat this Court used in Nicholas, as incurred by the --incurred during the administration period, incurred bythe debtor-in-possession. It's -- it's really a broadsense of all of the kinds of bankruptcy estates in achapter case. It -- this refers to all bankruptcycases. And so, in a chapter case, it's going tobe just the assets that exist there on the petitionfiling date. If it's a corporate case, it's going to bethe -- all of the assets that are generating the incomeduring the course of the administration of the chapter or the chapter case or even the chapter case. In chapter cases, you have a specificadditional provision, section , that deals withtaxes payable postpetition, and it also includes Officialpostconfirmation. So, it gives the government a broaderkind of right so that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: The argument that is madeagainst your position -- was one of the provisionsthat was featured, I think, both in the Ninth Circuitand the Tenth Circuit, and their position seems to bethat gives the government an election. MS. FREEMAN: It does, Your Honor, providefor an election for the government. What's important isthat in a case, unlike a or an , you have a veryshort period of administration. They have to file theirplan within days. It's confirmed within a month ortwo. And it's very unlikely that April th is going tofall within that short period of time, and that's whenthe Government says that your taxes are incurred. So,you're going to have a -- it's unlikely you're going tohave an administrative expense claim for your incometaxes during the period of administration of a chapter. It's a very short period. So, the government has the option not onlyduring the administration period, but also during thewhole period of the plan, to elect to say: All right,there have been some big commissions earned here, and Iwant to go ahead and collect from the estate rather thanjust wait and see what the debtor earns afterwards. And Officialso, it then can go ahead and file a claim and ask tohave that claim paid out of the bankruptcy estate, andit really gives the government much broader rights thanit does in a normal chapter or a chapter case or a. If I may reserve the remainder of my timefor rebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Ms. Freeman. MS. FREEMAN: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Shah. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The postpetition income tax liability atissue in this case is not subject to section(a)()(A) and thus cannot be treated as adischargeable nonpriority debt for two reasons. First,consistent with the structure of chapter , a chapter plan is limited to prepetition debts and does notcover postpetition debts, including administrativeexpenses. Rather, postpetition administrative expensesare paid separately through section (b)(), whichcontains no farm sale exception. Because section Official(a)()(A) strips priority only from a subset ofclaims covered by a chapter plan and does not alterwhich debts fall within that plan, it cannot apply tothe postpetition tax liability at issue. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, what -- what farmsales would be included? What farm sales would get thisbenefit that Senator Grassley obviously wanted them tohave? MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it would beprepetition sales. That is, any capital gains taxincurred from a prepetition sale, those would bepriority expenses covered under a chapter plan undersection (a)(), because they fall under -- they'rean -- they're a priority claim under section (a). CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that -- doesthat make sense, though, in terms of if you're talkingabout farmers and fishermen and you're talking about thetreatment of their central asset, whether it's the farmor typically the boat, and they either want to try --they want to try to save the farm or the boat, and theygo into bankruptcy, and the big issue is how thatasset's going to be treated. And your position is it'snot in the bankruptcy at all; it's outside of it. Thatseems to me to be at least counterintuitive. MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, two points: OfficialOne, as a practical matter, chapter is areorganization provision. This is not a provision justdesigned to allow farmers to get out of the business offarming. So, often what will happen is that farmerswill try to reorganize some of their farm sale assets,sell some of their livestock, change their farmingoperation, to see if they can save it outside ofbankruptcy first. All of those sales -- an example of that isthe Knudsen case. Knudsen is the only circuit case togo Petitioners' way. In Knudsen, it not only involvedthe postpetition tax liability of the type at issue inthis case; it also had a significant prepetition taxliability component in that case based upon just what Iwas explaining, the farmer trying to -- trying to changetheir farming operation to save the farm without havingto go into bankruptcy. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But also, I gather,it's a fairly typical situation where you have farmersthat might want to sell part of the farm. You know,they have dairy and corn operations or something, andthey sell one to try to preserve the other. And that's-- that's exactly the sort of thing that should beconsidered in the bankruptcy context. And yet, yourposition says we're going to treat it outside the Officialbankruptcy. MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it certainlyhappens within the bankruptcy, and I'm not disputingyour point that that may -- that may arise in abankruptcy case just like it arises in this case. Andit will be dealt through the bankruptcy. That is, thesale will happen, and it will be approved by thebankruptcy court. The question is, how do you treat thecapital gains tax arising -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's a bigdeal if you're deciding how the plan's going to work,whether they -- I mean, what the amount was here was bigfor the farmer, and the idea of, well, we're going topretend that's not at issue here seems to me to be --again, not -- not to make a lot of sense. MR. SHAH: Your Honor, we're not asking, tobe clear, to pretend that that's not there. How the taxliability would be dealt with under the Government'sview is at the time the debtor moves to sell the farmasset during the bankruptcy case -- like in this case,that sale of the farm asset generated $,. Thatwas the sale price. The capital gains tax liability inthis case is $,. If they would have set aside fromthat $, sale price $, to pay the capitalgains tax debt, that would resolve the issue. We're not Officialsaying that you ignore it. JUSTICE KAGAN: But there's every reason tothink, Mr. Shah, that what Congress was worried abouthere was cases in which the bankruptcy plan would not beapproved at all because there were very high capitalgains taxes that would result from a sale and that thatwas the problem that everybody was focused on, wasmaking sure that farmers could take advantage of section. So, it's a little bit odd -- it's actually morethan a little bit odd. It's a lot odd to read thestatute to apply not in that context but only as topeople who have somehow managed to sell their property,you know, months before going into bankruptcy. MR. SHAH: Sure. So, Your Honor, when yousay that everybody was focused on this problem, we havethe evidence of exactly one person as to what onelegislator thought that this bill would do. That'sSenator Grassley. Now, admittedly, Senator Grassley'sstatements do indicate an intent on his part to reachpostpetition taxes. But the pre-existing statutoryframework does not permit that result. What section (a)()(A) does is it allowsthe debtor to strip priority from a certain subset ofgovernmental claims, such as prepetition taxes, andthere is no doubt that Senator Grassley correctly Officialunderstood that's how section (a)() -- JUSTICE ALITO: But it's not just SenatorGrassley. Your interpretation makes this provision,(a)()(A), of very, very little practical value.And you think that's what Congress intended? Not onlywould it -- would it mean that postpetition capitalgains on the sale of part of the farm or the entire farmwould -- would be outside of the bankruptcy, outside ofthe bankruptcy, but all of the prepetition capital gainswould be outside of it too, unless they occurred in aprevious taxable year. MR. SHAH: A couple of responses, YourHonor. First of all, I don't think it's sort of a nullset or a vanishingly small set. There's the Knudsencase which qualifies. Of -- in the professors' amicusbrief, on page a of their amicus brief, they provide achart of representative cases involving postpetition taxliabilities. They cite eight cases in their chart onpage a. Three of those eight cases involvesignificant prepetition tax liabilities, even under thenarrower definition of "prepetition." But -- but to get to your larger point, evento the extent it might be narrower than what Congressintended, Congress certainly knew how section operated in the sense that it would strip priority from Officialcertain claims that are already entitled to priorityunder a chapter plan, such as prepetition taxes. Andboth sides agree that that's how section (a)()(A)works. There's no dispute about that. The dispute is about whether thispostpetition tax liability comes within the chapter plan in the first place. That dispute turns onpre-existing code provisions, part of the Act, partof the Act, and the Act. Whatever deferenceSenator Grassley is owed as to the operation of section(a)()(A) itself, he's owed no deference whatsoeveras to the proper interpretation of those pre-existingcode provisions. It's our position that those pre-existingcode provisions, section (b), section , andsection , , all lead to the result thatpostpetition tax liabilities are not an administrativeexpense within the meaning of the code. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about employment tax?Employment taxes? MR. SHAH: Your Honor, employment taxesarguably could be treated differently. Now, as a matterof discretion, the IRS has chosen not to treat themdifferently. That is, they don't try to seek those asadministrative expenses. I think there would be an Officialargument -- and we set this -- set forth the argument ina footnote of our brief. What the potential argumentwould be is that they could be deemed an administrativeexpense not because they're incurred by the estate, butunder the other part of the definition of anadministrative expense under (b)()(A). JUSTICE BREYER: Just following up onthat -- MR. SHAH: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: -- I'm looking for what I'dcall past practice, where there must be a lot -- MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- that would shed somelight on this. So, I see -- your point that we cannotcall these taxes administrative expenses is because whenthat's defined in for the entire code -- MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- it talks aboutadministrative expenses incurred by the estate. MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: And so, you're saying hereare three people who incurred their own taxes. One issection -- section ; one is section ; and one isindividuals in section . Is that right? MR. SHAH: Ah -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: At least that's my -- MR. SHAH: Yes. Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Okay. So, we havethree categories of people that -- where the taxes,literally taken, they incur postpetition taxes. Now,the bite would come up if it turned out, when they weregetting around to settle these things, that there isn'tenough money to pay fully the postpetition or let's --no, to pay fully domestic support obligations, wages,and also Federal taxes. Isn't that -- that's where it's going toshow up, because the question will be, do you have toshave the Federal taxes because they're coming in to bepaid as an administrative expense priority which isonly there as number , I think, in light of number .Or do you not shave them at all? If they're liablepersonally, there isn't any reduction in the amount ofthe Federal Government -- if they're allowed becauseit's one of the estate's expenses basically, using theestate very, very loosely, then they would have to takea reduction, too. Am I right? Are you following it? MR. SHAH: I think so. Let me try to saywhat I think what you're saying. Under chapter and, if it is in fact a priority claim, whether it's apriority claim or an administrative expense, those have Officialto be paid in full. There isn't an ability for thecourt to shave those -- JUSTICE BREYER: No. The administrativeexpenses don't have to be paid in full if there isn'tenough money for them too in unsecured claims fordomestic support obligations, because administrativeexpenses is the second priority; it isn't the first. MR. SHAH: Okay. So, Your Honor, there is amisunderstanding I think in what you are saying. Thatis, in a chapter plan, the priorities matter more interms of the relative priority between category , , ,, , , , and . They matter more in a chapter liquidation where there's a finite set of assets beingliquidated, and then those will be paid out in thepriority that you're talking about. In a chapter or case, there's going to be a plan proposed, and thatplan will be confirmed. Now, under (a)(), any of those priorityclaims, whether it's first priority or eighth priority,has to be set out and to be paid in full in order forthe plan to be confirmed. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. SHAH: So, the plan won't be confirmedat all. There isn't a matter of ordering the prioritiesin a chapter or case. Official Now, if I could turn back to JusticeSotomayor's question. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you turn backto -- before you answer my other question, could youfinish your thought on what you're doing with wages?Are they given priority or aren't they? If you'resaying they're not -- if we accept your reading of this,employee wage taxes are not administrative expenses. MR. SHAH: Right. Well, Your Honor, they'recertainly not administrative expenses under thedefinition of incurred by the estate. That would be therelevant issue in this case. They may come under theother definition of administrative expense; that is, thecosts -- necessary costs of preserving the estate, likewages. If you consider the employment payroll taxthat's paid simultaneously as the wage, as part andparcel of the wages, you could get at it that way. But,again, that doesn't have anything to do with the"incurred by the estate" language. The "incurred by the estate" language, asyou properly point out, is relevant -- the most relevantprovisions as to whether a tax is incurred by the estateare sections (b) and and -- JUSTICE KAGAN: How does that work,Mr. Shah? Because this was a part of your argument that OfficialI have to say sort of tripped me up -- MR. SHAH: Okay. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- because you define"incurred by the estate" by reference to thoseprovisions, but those provisions were enacted yearsand years after the phrase that you are trying todefine. MR. SHAH: Sure. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, it must have been a veryprescient Congress. MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor it was aprescient Congress, because in the legislative historythat we cite, they say -- and it's not true that all ofthe -- separate taxable entity rules weren't implementeduntil afterwards. There -- section , which dealtadmittedly only with State and local taxes, they set uprules, the same separate taxable entity rules thatCongress later enacted years later, to apply to Stateand local entities. And that's the provision that'sreprinted in our appendix at page . What Congress said when they passed is"we fully" -- "we fully expect" -- and as they hadoriginally drafted them in the Act, to also applyto Federal taxes. But it decided to pull them out ofthe Act so as not to step on the shoes of the Officialjurisdiction of the Ways and Means Committee. That'sthe explanation that Congress provided and then years -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're saying that as of, there was kind of an idea in people's heads aboutthis separate tax entity or at least in some people'sheads, but that idea had never been converted into anystatutory language. And you're suggesting that weshould take this phrase "incurred by the estate" andread it as if they were referring to something real thatwas in a statute. MR. SHAH: It's not simply taking out oftheir head, Your Honor; the section rules which areparallel and apply to State and local taxes, thosedidn't come out of nowhere. Those came out of prior IRSrulings as to when there is a separate taxable entity ina bankruptcy case. There were pre-existing -- before the Act, in particular, there was a IRS revenue rulingwhich set forth the rules about when there is a separatetaxable entity, whether the Act should -- whether thetax should be taxed to the estate or to the debtor.Section in the Act codified those rules forState and local income taxes. In the intervening years between and Official when Congress consummated the step and extendedthose to Federal taxes, the IRS was still applying itspre-existing practice based on its revenue ruling. So,there wasn't a gap where there was no guidance as towhether -- how to determine whether these were incurredby the estate or not. Courts may -- courts readily would havelooked, I presume, to the Treasury ruling and theparallel rulings in that gap time until thelegislative guidance came along and then codified thatresult with respect to Federal taxes. Now, I think to -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask anotherquestion -- MR. SHAH: Sure. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- while we are on this?Because the , would suggest that we're lookingto this separate taxable entity, but if I understandcorrectly, in the corporate context, the IRS actuallydoes not look to that. It looks to just the question ofwho's filing the tax return. So, if that's the case, aren't you, in thatvery large bankruptcy context, losing your textualanchor entirely? MR. SHAH: No, Your Honor. There are two Officialways that a bankruptcy estate can incur a tax. One isif it's a separate taxable entity, then it -- then it'sresponsible for the taxes. All the taxes are taxed tothe estate, and it has to file the return and pay it. The other way is if it has the duty to filethe return. That's a different provision of theInternal Revenue Code, section (b)(). (b)()also appears in the Government's -- in the appendix tothe Government's brief. What (b)() on page asays is that, in a bankruptcy case, the trustee of acorporate bankruptcy estate shall make the return forincome in a corporation. What this Court held in Holywell, which bothsides cite and both sides agree, is that when acorporate trustee has a duty to file a return under(b)(), it also has a duty to pay the tax. That is,it incurs -- it's liable for or incurs the tax. So, there are two ways to incur the tax:One is separate taxable entity; the other way is if thecode imposes an obligation on the bankruptcy estateto -- to file and pay the tax return. That's the otherway to interpret it, and that's why all the chapter and corporate cases that are cited by Petitioners areinapt. In those cases, the postpetition tax liabilitiesare, in fact, incurred by the estate. Official What's remarkable is that Petitioners do notcite a single chapter case in which a postpetitiontax liability has been treated as an administrativeexpense. Chapter has been around since , andyet, there is not -- if this was such a big problem thatCongress was trying to get at it through this way, youwould have expected at least a single case in which apostpetition tax liability had been treated as anadministrative expense. JUSTICE BREYER: How would it show up? Imean, what difference -- suppose -- suppose you -- in individual, , or , what's the difference whether youtreated it as an administrative expense or not, as longas they all have to be paid anyway, you say? MR. SHAH: Sure. So, the difference is, inchapter and , they are treated outside of thebankruptcy plan itself, but they do need to be paid upfront. And, in fact, they receive a special -- JUSTICE BREYER: No. I mean, how would weknow? How would we know -- MR. SHAH: Oh, that they're treateddifferently? JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. SHAH: Through the code. So, in chapter and , (b)() and (b)(), the parallel Officialprovisions in chapter , they pull out administrativeexpenses. They pull them out -- JUSTICE BREYER: I know. Let's imagineyou're absolutely right. They mean to treat themdifferently. MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: They mean to treat thepostpetition tax obligation to the Federal Governmentnot as an administrative expense. But this is aninstance where the business will continue, and,therefore, you have said in order to continue, you haveto pay all your tax liability and all youradministrative expenses. MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Therefore, what differencedoes it make whether you do or whether you don't treatthem as administrative expenses? What is theoperational difference? MR. SHAH: Sure. Your Honor, it would be tothe government's advantage if these were in the ordinarycourse -- at least before section (a)()(A) wasenacted that stripped priority, it would have been inthe government's advantage to take the position thatthese were administrative expenses. And the reason whyit's favorable to the government is, those have to be Officialpaid up front as part of the bankruptcy. If you don't treat them as administrativeexpenses -- and the government took the self-denyingposition here in the years leading up to ,consistently taking the position these were notadministrative expenses, even though it was to thegovernment's disadvantage, because the code requiredthat interpretation. And the disadvantage is you don'tget -- the government didn't get them paid up front asadministrative expenses. They would have to collectthem outside of the bankruptcy. And when you go tocollect them outside of the bankruptcy, there's muchmore uncertainty. There may not be any -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it's certainlynot a self-denying position now, right? You're arguingthat these are -- that the taxes of this sort areadministrative expenses when that puts you at the headof the line. You're arguing that they are notadministrative expenses, same type of taxes, when itputs you at the back of the line, even though theprovision that puts you at the back of the line wasdesigned to particularly help the fishermen and -- andfarmers. MR. SHAH: Your Honor, that -- that's justnot true. Dating back to -- and these are cited in Officialthe Government's brief at pages a to a. Dating backto , the government had consistently taken theposition that postpetition tax liabilities -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I'm talkingabout the position you're taking now. You argue for -- MR. SHAH: We have maintained our -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- differenttreatment of these taxes as to whether or not they'readministrative expenses -- not solely, but it leads tothe result that you get the money first either way. MR. SHAH: Because Congress -- thegovernment has stayed consistent in its position.Because Congress has changed the rules, it turns outthat that same interpretation -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but thenyou're saying that Congress changed the rules in a waythat, as Justice Alito's question suggested, reallydoesn't do much at all, when what they wanted to do wasprovide some real protection for farmers and fishermen. MR. SHAH: I can't speak to what Congresswanted to do. If in fact they wanted to do that, thenthey did it the wrong way. They could have -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What would be -- whatwould be the right way? MR. SHAH: You could easily enact a separate Officialprovision within that said something like -- usethe language something like section , that said anytaxes that become payable after of the filing of thepetition shall be treated as non-dischargeable,nonpriority debts and paid that way. But they didn't do that. And I thinksection is critical here, and this goes to yourquestion, Mr. Chief Justice, as well, that thegovernment is trying to take advantage here. The --adopting Petitioners' position would have a significantripple effect in chapter . This is not simply amatter of trying to get to the result that SenatorGrassley intended by narrowly interpreting(a)()(A), and it won't have any other effects inthe code. It will have a significant effect in theintended operation of chapter . And -- and the reason why that's importantis, is to put this in perspective, there are about to total chapter filings each year. There'ssomewhere on the upwards of , chapter filingseach year, and here's where it would throw a wrench intochapter . If you look at section of chapter -- and that's reproduced on page a of theGovernment's appendix. What (a)() does is itprovides a special procedure for the government to file Officiala claim for postpetition taxes, exactly the type of taxat issue in this case. It says: Government, you can gofile a claim to have that included within the bankruptcyplan. If -- if you adopt Petitioners' position,there would never be a case in which the governmentwould ever have any occasion to invoke (a)(),because they would -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But why would that be aproblem? You said that there would be a significantripple effect and practical difficulties. And Iunderstand your argument about shows that you have todo this and why would be necessary if Petitioner wereright, but you started out, I thought -- MR. SHAH: It -- yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- by trying to show us thatit would be a significant practical problem -- MR. SHAH: I said it would be a significantdisruption to the intended operation of chapter . Inpractice, it would actually mean that the governmentcomes out better under chapter than in thegovernment's current position, because what Petitioners'position would do, if you read -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So, it just doesautomatically for the government what is now done by -- Officialby some kind of government filing? MR. SHAH: Well -- well, not even that, YourHonor, because under -- the reason why (a)() wouldbe dead letter -- you could just rip that page out ofthe code and throw it away if you accept Petitioners'reading. The reason why that's true is because undertheir reading, it would get administrative expensepriority, which are paid up front, super-priority, evenbefore anything else; but under (a)(), it doesn'tget administrative expense priority; it may not even getany priority at all. And so, it's a significant change in theoperation of how the government would be seekingpostpetition tax liabilities. Now, it would work to thedetriment of the debtor in chapter cases, the upwardsof , chapter cases that would -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But those are --those are small potatoes compared to the sale of a farmand a boat, right? MR. SHAH: I would -- I would -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would there -- thisparticular issue of large capital gains from a sale ofsignificant assets doesn't typically arise in thechapter cases. MR. SHAH: Sure, the capital gains tax Officialwouldn't, but there's all sorts of postpetition incometaxes that would arise in a chapter case. In achapter case, those are wages that are being incurredafter the filing of the petition. All of the taxes onthose wages after the petition would be the -- the typeof -- would be eligible for postpetition tax treatment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, in chapter --chapter cases are the ones that you -- that aretypically resolved very quickly, right? MR. SHAH: Your Honor, it is true that --from the statistics that I have seen, on average we'retalking about months in a chapter case. On averagein -- in a chapter case, according to the professors'amicus brief, median time is about months. What's clear from the legislative history,the reason why Congress set up the chapter rules asto make the tax incurred by the debtor rather than bythe estate is because Congress expressly said in thelegislative history, which is cited in our brief, thatthey expected the confirmation time to be relativelyquickly in a chapter case. We know that they made the same assumptionin the chapter case because, one, they enacted thesame separate taxable entity rules; and, two, they putin actual deadlines in the code for chapter : days Officialto propose a plan, days to confirm it. So, roughly months is what Congress had extended. Now, in practice, it's been the case thatbankruptcy courts have extended that time beyond thestatutory deadlines. So, perhaps they are open a couplemonths longer than what Congress had expected. But thatwasn't the intent that Congress had enacted this with,and if Congress wants to change that, it can go back andrewrite the rules to -- to make that change. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, before youfinish, could you answer my question of what impact yourbroader reading, your chapter , affects onlyprepetition debts? What else is that kind of holdinggoing to affect? Your narrow alternative holdingaffects just this issue. That broader reading -- Iworry about a broader reading when I don't know itsimpact. MR. SHAH: I don't think it would have -- Ithink -- I don't think it would have any adverseeffects. And the reason is this: The administrativeexpenses, whether they're included in the plan or not,are still going to be paid up front. If you takePetitioners' reading that administrative expenses arereally part of the plan under (a)(), rather than(b)(), you now have a conflict between (b)(), Officialwhich is on page a, which expressly addresses and onlyaddresses administrative expenses, and states that --this is on page a. It said those will be paid "beforeor at the time of each payment to creditors under theplan." Now, if you also said that they come under(a)(), which is the only way that Petitioners couldwin -- if they also came under (a)(), (a)()says that their -- they must be provided for fullpayment in deferred cash payments. So, deferredinterest-free payments over the life of a - to -yearbankruptcy plan. That's very different than having themget super-priority treatment under (b)() and bepaid in front -- up front, separate from the plan. So that -- that is one significant piece oftextual evidence that Congress thought that these shouldbe paid outside of the plan. The other piece of textual evidence issection (a), which appears on page a as well, andwhat it says is that the confirmed plan shall be bindingon each creditor. That's the only potentially relevantcategory to the government. But section defines "creditor" -- andthis is on page a of our appendix -- as "entity thathas a claim against a debtor that arose at the time of Officialor before the order for relief concerning the debtor."That is a holder of a prepetition claim. If a confirmed chapter plan is onlybinding on the holder of a prepetition claim, it makesno sense to include postpetition claims within achapter plan. I don't even know what it would meanto have a confirmed -- to have a plan included that andnot have that plan binding on the government. And so, I think if you take those two piecesof textual evidence together, I think that stronglysupports the interpretation of (a)() that when itsays a claim of the type specified in section , itmeans "claim" and doesn't mean "claim and administrativeexpense." Now, admittedly, Congress has not beenperfectly clear in using that term. It uses --sometimes it uses the term "claim" to mean claim andadministrative expense. Sometimes it means it to onlymean claim. But we should give effect to thedistinction between claim and administrative expense inlight of section (b)(), which specifically alreadyaddresses administrative expenses. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the problem withthat argument is that the two are used interchangeablyby everyone. Congress, the Court -- Official MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor. And if -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The government in manysituations, given the broad definition of "claims" -- MR. SHAH: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- the only logicalconclusion is that it includes a subset, a liabilitycreated by administrative expenses. MR. SHAH: Your Honor, and if you are onlyconstruing that language in isolation, if it only said"claim" in (a)() and (b)() didn't exist, Iwould be in full agreement with you that you would readit to mean "claim and administrative expense." Becausewe know that administrative expenses have to be paid insome way through the bankruptcy case. But (b)() does exist in this code, andwe need to give that provision effect. The last point I would make is Congressknows how to include administrative expenses within abankruptcy plan when it wants to. If you look at thecorresponding provision in chapter , as opposed to theprovisions in chapter and -- this is section(a)()(A) -- it expressly provides for the paymentof administrative expenses within the context of thechapter plan. Chapter and take a differentapproach, and the Court should give effect to the choice Officialthat Congress made to treat administrative expensesoutside of the bankruptcy plan. If there are no further questions? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Shah. MR. SHAH: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Freeman, youhave minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SUSAN M. FREEMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MS. FREEMAN: Your Honor, one of the firstthings that Mr. Shah said was that the debtor shouldhave set aside $, from the sale proceeds to pay thetaxes. That's $, in sale proceeds are property ofthe estate. And, yes, those are ordinarily set aside topay the taxes. That's how bankruptcy cases work. Because you have (a)()(A), that $,didn't need to be used to pay the taxes, and instead wasset aside to be treated under the plan ofreorganization, where that tax claim could be demoted inpriority to a prepetition claim and discharged. But the ordinary course is that the saleproceeds are used to pay the taxes, the administrativeexpenses. That's how bankruptcy works. And theGovernment's argument here completely undercuts that. With respect to section , the language Officialis different because it uses the word "payable." Itincludes all postpetition, postconfirmation, all the waythrough to the end of the bankruptcy case. Not just theshort period of administration. In chapter cases, you still have to payadministrative expenses. It's just that it's prettyrare that you have a tax that is incurred during thatshort period of administration. And so, you have aseparate statute that covers the whole period throughthe entirety of the plan of reorganization. The Court was -- Mr. Shah was asked aboutcases where -- and in fact an administrative expenseclaim was incurred for a capital gains tax in achapter case. We would cite the Court to the Spechtcase. A copy of that is attached to the professors'amicus brief. And that shows where a plan was defeatedbecause of the large capital gains tax from the sale ofthe family farm. And that, in fact, is cited in some ofthe -- some of the legislative -- not the legislativehistory, but some of the commentary about one of thereasons why Senator Grassley supported section(a)()(A) and drafted it in the first place. This prevents a plan from being confirmed.In so many chapter cases, family farmers are not ableto go through with their plans. And that's why you have Officialthe demotion in priority. It does have very little practical value if,in fact, it only applies to prepetition sales -- and notjust prepetition but more than a year prepetition inmost instances. The professors' amicus brief justrefers to prepetition, and its little chart doesn't saythat those are not within the scope of (a)(), andthose eighth priority -- I'm sorry, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. MS. FREEMAN: Thank you. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) AAbbott :ability :able : ::above-entitled: :absolutely :accept : :accepted ::Act :,,:, ::,actual :additional ::address :addressed :: :addresses :,:administeredadministers::administration: : :: :,:, ::, ::administrative: : :: : ::,,: :,:,,:,,,: ::, :,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:,,:,,,: ::, :: ::,,,:,,,: :,:,administrator:admittedly: ::adopt :adopting :advantage :: :,:adverse :affect :agree : :agreement:Ah :ahead :::ALITO :Alito's :allege :allow :allowed ::allows :alter :alternative:alters :altogether :amend :amended :amendment:OfficialOfficialamicus ::, :: :amount ::anchor :answer :: ::answers :anyway :apart :appeal :APPEARAN...appears :::appendix :: ::applicable :applied :applies ::, :: :apply : :: :,:applying :approach :approved ::April :arguably :argue :arguing ::argument ::,, :,: :,: :: :,,: :: :,arguments ::arises :arising :Arizona :arose :,:aside ::,,asked :asking :,:asset :: :,assets : :: :,,: :,: : :: ::,,,:, :: :asset's :assigning :Assistant :assumption:attached :attempt :August :,authority :automaticallyaverage :::aware : :a.m : ::Bb :back : :,:,,: :bankrupt :bankruptcy:,,,: : ::,, :: :,,:,, ::, ::,,:, ::, ::,,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,,,,,:, :,: ::,,,: :,: :: ::, ::, :based :: :basically ::, ::behalf :,,: : :believe :: :benefit :best :better :beyond ::big : :: ::, :bill : :: :binding ::,bit :,bite :boat :,:Brenda :BREYER :: :, Official:,,,: :,,:,,:, ::,,,:, :,:,,:,,brief : :: :: ::, ::broad :: ::broader :: ::,,business ::CC : :call :,calling :capital : ::, :: :,: ::, :: :,carry :case :, ::, :: :,,:, :: :,: :,: :: :: :,: ::, ::,,,: :,:,,,:,,,: ::, :: :: :,:, :,:,,,: ::,,:,cases :,,:, :: :,:, :: ::,,:, ::, :: :,:cash :categories :category ::cause :,central :certain :: :certainly :: : :: ::cetera :change :,:, ::,changed ::chapter :,: : :: :,,: :: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :,:, :: ::, ::,,,: :,:, ::,,,:, :: :,: :,,:,,,:,,: :,:,,,:,,chart :,:Chief :,:, ::,,: :: ::,, ::, ::, :choice :chosen :circuit : :: :cite : :: ::cited :: :: :claim :: :,,:,,,: :: :,: :,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,:, :claimed :claims : ::, ::,,: :: :: :,: :clear :: ::clerk :close :code : ::, :,: ::, :: :: :,:, ::, :: :: ::codified ::collect ::,:come : :: :comes :: :coming :commencementcommentarycommissions:::Committee :compared :completely:complies :: :component:compute :concerning ::conclusion :confirm :confirmation:, ::confirmed ::,,: :,:conflict :Congress :: :,: :,:, :: ::,,,:, ::,, ::, ::consider :considerable::consist :consisted :consistent :: :: :consistently: ::consists :: :construe :construing :consummatedcontains :::collection :considered context :: :,:continue ::continued :continues ::contrary :control ::convenience:converted :copy :corn :corporate :: ::, :: :: :,:corporation :correct : :correctly :corresponding::::Costello :costs :,counsel :: :count :counterintuitive:County :couple ::course : :: ::, :: :court :,:, ::, :Official:, ::debtor :,,: :,,:, :: :,: :,:,,:,,:,,,:, :: :: :: :: ::debtors :debtor's :,debtor-in-pos...:,,,: :: :debts : :,: :,:, ::,,,: :,: ::decided :deciding :deductions :,deemed :defeated :defend :deference :deferred :::define :,defined :,:defines :definition :: :,:Delphi :demoted :::demotes :demotion :Departmentdesigned :::determine :detriment :difference :: :,: :,different :: :: ::differently:, ::difficulties:disadvantage:,discharge ::,,,:,,,:dischargeable:discharged :: :discharges :discretion :dismissed :dispute :,,disputing :disruption:distinction:doing : :domestic ::doubt :drafted ::drag :draws :due :duty :,,D.C :,EE : :,earn : ::earned :: :earnings :earns : ::easily :effect : :: :,: ::,effects ::eight :,eighth :,: :either ::elect :election :,eligible :employee :employment:,,:enact :enacted :,: ::entire :: :entirely :entirety :entities :entitled :entity :,: :,,,: ::, :: :: :: :,courts : ::, :Court's :cover :covered :,covers :create :created ::creditor ::,creditors ::critical :crop : :crops :curiae :current :DD : :dairy :date : :,: : :: :,: :Dating ::days :: :dead :deadlines :deal :, ::::dealing :deals : :: :dealt :,:debt :, :, :: ::, ::, ::, ::exception :: ::, ::, ::exceptions :ESQ :, ::Officialexpressly :: :extended ::,extending :extent :Ffact : :: :: :: :,:failed :fair :fairly : :fall : ::family :,farm : ::, : ::, :: :: :,:, ::, :: :,: :farmer :: :farmers ::,, :: ::farming :,:fault :favorable :featured :Federal : ::,, ::,,: :,:fertilizer :file :, :: ::,,,: :filed :,:,files : :: :filing : :,: : :: ::, :: :: :filings :,finish : :finite :first : :: :: :: :,: ::fishermen :: :focused :,followed :following ::footnote :forma :forth : :framework::Freeman ::, :,,:,,, :: :,,:,, ::, :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:, ::, ::,,:,,,:,, :: :,: :,: :,:,,:front : :: :: :,full :,,: :fully :,:,fund :fundamental:further :future ::GG :gain :gains : ::, :: :,: ::, :: :,gap :,gather :General ::generally :generate :generated ::generates :generating:getting ::GINSBURG:,,: :: :give :,:,estate :,:,,,:,,:,, ::,,,:,,,,:,, :: :,: :,:,,:,,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,:,,: ::, ::,,,: ::, ::,,,: ::estates ::estate's ::et : :everybodyexist :,: :,existed :expect :expected :: :expense :: :: :: :,:, ::,, ::, ::, ::expenses :: : ::, :: :,,:,,:, :: : ::,,,,: :,: :: :,: ::, ::, :,:,,,:,,,: ::, :: :,:, :: :explaining:explanation: :,evidence ::, :exactly :: ::example :,:excepted :: Hall : : ::: ::,given : :: :gives : :,:go : :: :: :: :,: :: :goes : :going :,,: : :: ::, ::, :: :,: :: :,government: :: :,,:, :: :,:, :,:, :,:, :: :: :governmental:government's: ::, :: :: :,:, :: :: :Grassley :: ::, :: ::Grassley's :great :guidance ::H:Halls :Hall's :happen ::happens :: :: :hard :harm :,Hartford :head ::heads :,hear :heaven's :held : :help :helps :high :highest :history ::, :holder :,holding ::Holywell :Honor :,:, :,:, ::, :: ::, :: :,: : :: :,: :: :: : :: :: :Official: :: :,:, :hornbook :hornbooksIidea : ::ignore :imagine :impact ::,impacts :implemented:important :: :imposed :,:imposes :inapt :include :: : :: ::included :: ::includes :: :: :including ::, :,:income :,: : :: : :: :,: ::,,,: :: :: ::incorporated:incur : ::, :: : ::incurred :,,: :,: :,:, ::,,,: :: :,: :,:, :: :: :,:,incurring ::incurs ::,independent:independently:,indicate :individual ::, :: ::,,,,:individually: :,individualsinstance :::instances :: :intended :: ::, :: :intent :interchangeably::interesting:interest-free:Internal :: :interpret :interpretation: :: :: :interpreted: :interpretingintervening::invoke :involve :,:involved :involves ::involving :IRS : ::, ::isolation :issue : ::, ::, :: ::issues :I.D :JJanuary ::Joe :jurisdiction:Justice : ::, :,:, ::,,,:,,, Official:, : :: :,: :,:,,,: :,,:,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,: :,: :: :,: :,: :: :: :,:,,:, :,:,, :: ::, ::, ::, ::,,,: ::,,:, :: ::, :,:KKAGAN :: ::, ::, ::,KENNEDY: : :key :kind :: :,: :: ::kinds ::knew :know : :: :: ::, :: :: :knows :Knudsen ::,,:Llanguage :: :,: : ::large :: ::larger :lasted :Laughter :law :,,:lead :leading :leads :leases :leave :left :legislative :: :,:,legislator :letter :let's : :liabilities ::, :: ::liability :: :,: :: :: :,:, ::, ::liable : :,,: ::life :light : :: :: :limit :limited :line : :,:liquidated :liquidation:literally :little :,: :,livestock :loaned :local :,,:, :: :,logic :logical :long :,:longer :,:look : ::, :: :looked :looking :: :looks : :loosely :losing :lot :, :: :lottery :Lynwood :::MM : :, ::maintained :making :managed :matter : :: :: :,: ::mean :: ::, :: :,:, ::,,,:meaning ::means :: :: :,median :members :minutes :misunderstan...:money :: :: ::moneys :month :months ::, ::morning :Motors :move :moves :movie :NN :, :name :narrow :narrower ::narrowly :necessarily:necessary :: ::need : ::, :: :needed :never : :new :Nicholas :,: :,Ninth :nonpriority: :non-discharge...:normal :November :null :number :: :,numerous :OO : :obligation :obligations :::obviously :occasion :occurred :odd :,,officer :oh : :Okay :: ::, :ones : :open :operated :: Officialoperating :,: ::operation ::, :: ::operational:operations:opposed :option :oral : :,: :order :: :ordering :ordinarily :ordinary :: ::originally :outside :: :,: :,:,,: :,: :owed :,owns :PP :page : :: :: :: :,,:pages :paid : :: :: :,: :,,: ::, ::,,,: :,:, :: ::,,:parallel :: :parcel :part : :: :,: :: :,: :,: :particular :: ::particularly: :partner :partners :,:partnership ::,,passed :pay :,,:,, :: :,: :: ::, :,: ::,,,:payable :: :: :,: :payment :: :,: :: :,:payments :: :,: :,payroll :pays : :: :people :: ::people's :,perfectly :period :,,: ::,,: :,: :,:,,,:, ::,permit :person :,: :personallyperspective::petition :,: : ::, :: :,Petitioner :Petitioners :: :, :: :: ::, :: ::Phoenix :phrase : :piece :,pieces :place : :plan :, :: : :: ::, ::,, ::, ::,,,: ::,,:,,,: :,,: :,:, ::,plans :plan's :please ::point : :: :: :: :points :position :: :,:, :: :: :,: :,: ::,,:postconfirmat...: :postpetition: ::, :: :,: :: ::, :: :,: :,: : :: :,: :potatoes :potential ::potentially:practical :: :,:postbankruptcy:practice :: ::PRATIK :: :preceded :preceding :prepetition :: ::, ::, :: ::, :: :,: :: :,: :,,:prescient ::presented :preserve :preservingpresume :pretend ::pretty ::prevents :previous :pre-existing: :,: ::pre- :price :,principle :prior :priorities :: ::,priority : :: :,:,, ::, ::,,, Officialreason : :requires ::, ::, :: ::,,:,,,:, :: :,: ::,pro :,problem :: ::, ::, :procedure :Procedures :proceedings:proceeds :: ::,,process :,professors :: :: :proper :properly :property :: ::, :: ::propose :proposed :protection :provide :: :provided :: ::provides :: :: :provision :: :,: :: :,: :: :: :,provisions :: :: :: : ::, ::, ::pull : ::purposes :put : :: :puts :,,Qqualifies :question ::, :: :: ::, :: :: :questions :queue :quick :quickly :: :,RR :rare :rata :reach :read : :: :: :: :: :readily :reading :: :,:,,,real : :really :,: :: :: :: ::, ::reasons ::rebuttal :: :receive :received :,receives :,reduction ::::refer :reference :referred :referring :refers ::, ::rejected :relative :relatively :relevant ::, :relief :remainder :remaining :remarkable:reorganization:, :: :: :: :reorganize :representative:reprinted :reproduced:required :requirements:::reserve :resolve :resolved :respect :: :: ::respectfully: ::Respondent: : :responses :responsibility:responsible:,,:rest :restructured:result : :: :,: :: :return :,:, : :: :: :,:,,returns ::revenue :: :: :rewrite :right : ::, ::,,: ::, :: :: :: :: :rights :rip :ripple ::ROBERTS :: ::, :: :: :,: :,: :,:roughly :rules :,: :,: :,:, :ruling ::,rulings :run :,,::SS : :sale : ::,,, :: :: :: :,:, :: :,:,,:sales : :,: ::save : ::saying ::,,:, : Official: :: :: ::says : ::, :: ::, :: :: :: :,:SCALIA :: :,:scope :second :section :,: :,,:, :: :: :,: :: :,: :: :,: :,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,: ::,,:, :: :: :sections :see : :: ::seek :seeking :seen :self-denying:,sell :,,: :selling : :sells :Senator :: ::,,: :: :sense :,:, :: :: :sent :sentence :,:separate ::,,:, :: :,,:, :: :,:,,: :,: :: :separately ::set : ::, :: :,: :: :,:settle :Shah : ::,,:, :: :,: ::,,,: :,:, :: :,: ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:, ::, :: :,,:,,:share :shave :,:shed :ship :,shoes :short ::,,:,show :: :shown :shows :: :sides : ::significant: ::, ::, :: :similar :simply :: :simultaneously:single :, :: :,situation :,:situations :sloughed :small ::Smith :sold :solely :Solicitor :somebody :sorry :sort : :: ::sorts :Sotomayor :,:, ::,, :: :,:, ::,,:,, :: ::,Sotomayor's:speak :Specht :special :: :specific :specifically:specified :: :split : :start :started :State :,,: :, ::,, :: :,:,statements:states :,,: : :statistics :statute : :: :: :statutory :: :stayed :step : :stop :store :straddle :strip ::stripped :strips :stronger :strongly :structure :study :subject :: :submitted ::subset :: :subsidies :subtract :suggest :suggested :suggesting :super-priority: :support ::supported :supports :suppose :: :,Supreme :,sure :,: :: :: ::SUSAN : :: : :TT :,take : :: :: :: ::taken : ::talked :talking ::, : Official: :talks : ::tax :, ::,,,:, :,,:,,, ::,,: ::,,: :,: :,: ::, :: :,:, :: :,: :,:, ::,,,:, :: :,: ::, :: ::,,taxable : ::, :,:,,,:,,: ::, :: ::, :taxed : :: :taxes : ::,,,: :, ::,,,: :,:, :,: :,: :,: :: ::,,: ::, :: :,:, ::, ::, :: :,:, ::, :: :,:, :: :: : :: :,:,taxing :taxpayer :,taxpayers :technically :tell :tells :Tenth :term : :terms :::textual ::, :Thank :,:, :,thing ::things :: ::think : :: :: :: : :: ::,,: :: :,: :,thinking :thought :: :: :thousands ::three :: :throw ::tied :time :,,:, ::, :: :: :: :,: :,tinkering :title : :today :: :top :total :totally :Treasury :treat : :: :,: ::treated :: :: :,:,,: :treatment :: ::tripped :trouble :true :,,: :: :: ::trust :trustee :,:, :: :: :,try :,:, ::trying ::, :: :,:Tuesday :turn :,turnaround:turned :turns : :two : :: :: ::,type : :: ::typical ::typically :: ::UUh-huh :ultimately :unaware :uncertainty:undercuts :understand :: :: :understood :Underwritersunfortunately::Unit :United :,,: :unpaid ::, :unsecured :untold :,untrue :upwards ::urge :urging :use : ::uses : :: :,:UX :U.S.C :Vv : :value : :vanishingly:view :Wwage :,wages :,: : ::, :: :,: :,wait :want : :: :,:wanted :: :,:wants :Washington :wasn't : ::::way : :: ::,,: :,:, :: : ways : :::weren't :We'll :we're : ::,,: :we've :whatsoever:whoever's :wholly :win :winnings ::word :,:, ::words :work :: ::works ::worried :worry :wouldn't ::wound :wrapped :wrench :wrong :Xx :,XI :Yyear :,,,: ::, ::, :years : ::,, :: :year-of-filing:$$, :: :,:$, :: :, ::, :: :a :a :,:,,- : :: : : : : : ::, :: :: :: :: ::,a :'s :: :(a)()(A): : :: :,:, ::, :: :,: :: :,: :,: : :: :: :,: :,:,,: :,: :,:, :Official: : :(a)()(A):, : :(a) ::(a)() :: :: :,,:(a)()(A): :: :: :: :: :: :,:,(b)() :: :: :,: ::,(a) : : :, :: :,:, :: :,:,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,:,,,,:, :: : : :: :,,:(a)() :: :,(b)() : :,, :: : : :-year : :,: ::(b) :(b)()(A): : ::(a) ::(a)() :: :,:(a)() :: : : :(b)() ::,, : :: :,: :,: : : : : :: :: : :: :: :a : :th :a : :a : : : : : ::,,, : : : :: : : : :,: :: :: :,: :,: : : : : : : : :,: :: :-year : :, :: :,: :,:(b) :,,: : :: : 