 v. Petitioner. Washington, D.C. Wednesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x PANAGIS VARTELAS, : : No. -: ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., : ATTORNEY GENERAL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ. ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS, ESQ. MR. BIBAS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Bibas. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, Vartelas v. Holder. please the Court: As the Government concedes, INA subsection (a)()(C)(v), added by IIRIRA, does not expressly mandate retroactivity. Under Landgraf, applying that new provision would attach new legal consequences to pre-IIRIRA offenses, penalizing both those who travel visit their parents abroad without being forced to abandon their children here. They would be removed from the country or else confined here. Either way, they would lose an ability they had under pre-IIRIRA law based on pre-IIRIRA offenses. Thus, applying the subsection to them would be impermissibly retroactive. The settled expectations at issue here are those of round trips by lawful permanent residents, not, as the Government would put it, one-way tickets or and those who don't. Covered lawful permanent residents could not Official P R O C E E D I N G S Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: As far as going forward is concerned, that's -- that's just the way it is, These are people who have structured their they will be able to maintain ties to visit aged and first-time entrants. lives here. They have homes, spouses, children, and careers here and, yet, have a settled expectation that ailing parents abroad, to go to funerals and wakes and visit them in the hospital and surgeries. Our amici, the NACDL brief and the Asian American -- right? expressly changed the law post-IIRIRA. The question is, for those before IIRIRA, whether those settled they -- the person who -- who is here and then the new law is passed -- could that person have petitioned for discretionary relief before traveling? MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, that is a possibility. That is not the same as the automatic ability to travel, and, in fact, in this case the discretionary relief was denied. It depends on a different set of factors from the automatic pre-IIRIRA ability to travel. But it is a theoretical possibility MR. BIBAS: Yes, because Congress has expectations are being disrupted. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could they -- could Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, your MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. First of all, which is an alternative. Even the Government concedes it's not a prerequisite. in some cases. expectations argument is that somebody trying to figure out whether to go ahead and rob the bank is going to say, well, if I do and I'm caught and I'm found guilty, I won't be able to take temporary trips abroad; so, I'm not going to rob the bank. you phrased it specifically as a reliance argument, expectations is the moment before the law is enacted: Does one have an expectation at that point that one will concerned under Landgraf, I think, with whether or not it disrupts settled expectations. And it just doesn't seem to me that this issue enters into the expectations at all when the pertinent act, which is the commission of the crime, not the pleading guilty, takes place. practical impact is a new travel disability or penalty, just as in Landgraf. The discrimination there had been illegal for decades; yet, adding a new form of damages be able to continue -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're Second, the right time to look at MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor, I believe the Official reliance possible at all, but there was a settled JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference to it was impermissibly retroactive. In Hughes Aircraft, filing false claims with the government had been illegal for years; yet, broadening the class of people who could file suit and removing a defense -- no expectation that there would be no additional consequences attached to that. between someone who commits the crime just before the Act is passed and someone who commits the crime just after the Act is passed? The person who commits the crime just after the Act is passed had the expectation prior to the passage of the Act that if he did certain things, he wouldn't -- he wouldn't have this consequence from his conduct. power to change things, but the expectation until an Act is passed is that the consequences are fixed in time. And if Congress decides that the potential unfairness is retroactive -- JUSTICE ALITO: But the person who -- who commits the crime just after the Act is passed had the expectation prior to that time, that had -- if he did certain things in the future, he wouldn't suffer certain outweighed by the benefits of making the Act MR. BIBAS: Congress, of course, has the Official consequences. MR. BIBAS: And yet, Congress has -- has affirmatively warned and put everybody on notice that now there is this new consequence. You may be deterred by this new consequence. We may be punishing you by this new consequence. But the consequence has been announced. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Bibas, I have -- this is almost a question of personal privilege. You -- you make your whole argument on the basis of Landgraf. So does the Government. You do not cite -- the Government cites but does not discuss the relevant portion of a -- of a later case which involved the same question, Republic of Austria v. Altmann. thought that the test that the Court was using, upsetting settled expectations, was indeed the proper test for constitutional provisions forbidding ex post facto laws, which is where the Court derived it from, constitutional case. test for -- for the other issue of retroactivity, namely, constitutionality aside, does this statute mean to be applied only in the future or in the past? And I concurred separately in Landgraf because I Justice Story's opinion in a New Hampshire But I said in my concurrence that the proper Official "Our approach" -- which postdates Landgraf. for that, I propose -- well, I'll read you what we said in Altmann: "Our approach to retroactivity in this case thus parallels that advanced by Justice Scalia in the concurrence in Landgraf." Quote, and it's quoting the concurrence: "'The critical issue ... is not whether the rule affects 'vested rights,' or governs substance or procedure, but rather what is the relevant activity United States, and it is clear that this statute applies only to prospective entry into the United States. It doesn't apply to past entry so that those people who came in, in violation of this statute, can be deported. Now, why shouldn't we apply that rule in this case, as that the rule regulates. Absent clear statement otherwise, only such relevant activity which occurs after the effective date of the statute is covered. Most statutes are meant to regulate primary conduct, and hence will not be applied in trials involving conduct that occurred before their effective date. But other statutes have a different purpose and therefore a different relative retroactivity event'" -- "'relevant retroactivity event.'" And that is what we have here. The -- the event that is sought to be regulated is entry into the Official MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. As a -- first JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would it be limited MR. BIBAS: That's the majority's approach. But taking your test on its own terms, what you're we did in the Republic of Austria case? of all, our reply brief discussed Altmann, and the majority of the Court has viewed that as limited to the foreign sovereign immunities context. But taking your test on its own terms -- just to the foreign sovereign immunities context? pointing out is there is a future -- majority's approach? was in a sui generis context and that its holding shouldn't be extended to -- to Fernandez-Vargas. JUSTICE SCALIA: Its -- its holding. MR. BIBAS: Yes. But to take -- to look at your test, you were pointing out that there is a future event which the Government -- practically its entire theory turns on that. But even if there is a future event, there is a past event being regulated here, and the activity at Fernandez-Vargas expressly said that Republic of Austria issue under your test would be the pre-IIRIRA offense, JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you say that's the MR. BIBAS: I'm sorry. The majority in Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Bibas, how is it in the future? How is it different at all? MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, there are five different then from a felon in possession statute, where not just the innocent post-IIRIRA travel. What we have is future lawful travel, concededly lawful, nothing nefarious needs to be shown of it. you look at the past offense -- MR. BIBAS: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and then you say, well, this man, because of that past offense, can't buy a gun pertinent distinctions. Permit me to unpack. The first and most important is that the Landgraf test should have a broader scope than the ex Congress can override it expressly. State and Federal legislatures from acting at all, the deprivation of power must be narrow and careful so State and Federal legislatures can continue to regulate felon in possession or racketeering or the other crimes the Government advances. legislate. It's a background rule. So, it's legitimate to have a presumption against retroactivity sweep more post facto context in these criminal cases because Since the ex post facto clauses disable both But Landgraf just tells Congress how to Official just a punitive or deterrent law. The third and related point is that felon in JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why isn't the -- the broadly, as Congress is free to override it and, as I will explain, does override it regularly. Secondly, felon in possession is inherently dangerous conduct. This is a protective law. It's not possession laws are tailored. There's a nexus to a danger, a threat to people suffering firearm -- it's narrowly tailored. Fourth -- are quite different. Felon in possession is limited to firearms in the hands of proven dangerous people. Here we have a law that says you can stay in the country indefinitely; we're going to discourage you from going abroad and leaving the country because we'll make it harder for you to come back. That's not tailored at all government, Congress, making the exact same judgment here? If the activity to be regulated is entry, and Congress is making a judgment that we do not want dangerous people to enter, and we're using the conviction, the prior conviction, as a marker for who is dangerous, and that's exactly what Congress has done in the felon in possession statute. to protecting the people inside the United States. MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, I believe the two expectations being upset by felon in possession laws. And the final one is Congress can do that possession statute, as this Court noted in Heller, is part of a long tradition of forbidding such activity as a crime. So, it's hard to say there are settled simply by being explicit, and it has done so repeatedly in laws such as IIRIRA. Elsewhere in IIRIRA, section (b) says the aggravated felony definition applies to convictions entered before, on, or after the statute's effective date. It knew how to do it; it did it more than a dozen other times in IIRIRA, as this Court noted in St. Cyr. It didn't spell it out here. The point of this -- noted, in the criminal context, this Court in Witte and Gryger notes it's a heavier punishment on the new crime criminal enhancements, instead of the felon in possession? And assuming your arguments, what limits can Congress put on anyone with respect to future conduct if it's going to be a burden? Under your view, it stops people from traveling. Career criminal statutes put on the distinct disadvantage of a longer sentence. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about the career Official I'd also point out that the felon in MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, and as we Official say that that's punishing the past offense because the because it's aggravated, because it's repeated. And because Congress has more leeway in the ex post facto context and because recidivism enhancements have a long tradition, it's entirely legitimate. There's no need to future offense -- it --- it's permissible to increase it under the Ex Post Facto Clause. And that's an inquiry that's different from the Landgraf test here because all Congress has to do is spell out expressly we want to apply this to convictions entered before, on, or after the statute's effective date, which it did in (b), which it didn't do here. So, if we were looking at the function of -- conclusion that Congress intended to rescind the Fleuti decision -- but you assume that's what its intent was? MR. BIBAS: We've assumed arguendo because that's the premise of the question presented. Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if we assume that, if we assume that was Congress's intent, doesn't that start -- give you the conclusion? If Congress intended to undo it, doesn't that prove that they intended to effect it retroactively? MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor, it doesn't. All JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does that argument that you've just made go more to whether or not the BIA's Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. I -- those go MR. BIBAS: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you assume Congress the case law, the legislative history, the other discussion was about certain other aspects of entry doctrine that needed to be changed. The discussion was express about saying we're changing the definition from entry to admission because we don't want people who have snuck into the country outside of -- to the basic premise. intended to rescind the prior doctrine, isn't that proof itself that it intended to apply the statute retroactively? MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To this conduct? MR. BIBAS: No, Your Honor. Congress can intend to rescind -- to -- to abrogate a statute such that it will have no effect going forward, but as this Court noted in Landgraf, the -- the background default laws will apply prospectively. That has the virtue not only of giving a clear background rule which -- against which Congress legislates, against which it did legislate in IIRIRA; but it also forces Congress to rule that the public and Congress expect is that new advert to the potential unfairness of retroactivity and open. If you think it's beneficial to make this disability, the Government's argument seems to boil down to that, because there is one event that must happen after the statute's effective date, therefore there can be no retroactive effect. decide that the benefits outweigh it. makes perfect sense, and that clear statement rule serves the function of having them smoke out into the affect convictions in the past, just say so. But it didn't. the practical impact or effect being a new travel entry into the country. It's not as though the -- you know, the government says -- just picks an event at random and -- and makes it the trigger mechanism. The government has picked the event that it wants to MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, but this is an effect test, and under Martin v. Hadix and Landgraf, we have to take a commonsense functional view of what the effects are, the new legal consequences. As -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that event is the event that the government cares about, which is the regulate, which is entry. Official That's what this Court said in Landgraf. It So, to go back to our primary point, with CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought Official Why would -- why would the Government your answer to my colleague would be: No, what they want to regulate is the staying in the country, and they're trying to make that as uncomfortable as possible in order to encourage the individual to leave. If he can't go to the, you know, parent's party, the cousin's wedding or whatever, he's just going to leave, and then once he does, he can't come back. care -- it's a question for them, I'm sure. Why would they care whether somebody that they don't want to be here stays here? It seems to me the exact opposite. So, I would have thought your argument -- your answer would be, no, what they're trying to regulate is not the coming and going, but simply the staying. MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, you're right that, particularly given the strange way in which it's written, it's hard to understand it as something other than a penalty and possibly a deterrent, but certainly a penalty based on past crimes, to make life uncomfortable. And that does not speak of a protective, forward-looking exclusive function, if that's the test. But to go back to the earlier point, if that were -- if we were to follow the approach Justice Scalia outlined, that would be the right response. But we don't even need to get there because the primary test Official JUSTICE SCALIA: But there are a lot of --committed a prior murder convictable; whereas, before, he was not convictable. under Landgraf is not the point or function or purpose, but an effects test. The effect, as the Government concedes, is to force him to choose between his parents in Greece and his wife, children, career, and home here. but there are a lot of statutes which we interpret to be valid, and not retroactive, which have a substantial effect. You can pass a statute altering the rules of evidence which have the effect of making someone who And we don't just look to the effect and say, well, it has that substantial effect; so, it's operating retroactively. We say, no, it's a rule of can come in. approach. There are often adverse effects upon activities that occurred before the statute was enacted, but we still regard the statute as prospective only and, therefore, not subject to special rules for people who are affected. difference between the ex post facto context and the evidence. It applies in the future, and that evidence And that's my problem with this other MR. BIBAS: Well, setting aside the civil context, and I -- there is the procedural Official conduct. The disability in St. Cyr of not being able distinction which I know Your Honor didn't sign on to. It's also relevant that here it is directly expressly tied to a past conduct. It's a precondition. It's not even a piece of evidence or something one can draw an inference from. It is a precondition for ineligibility under (a)()(C)(v). And, therefore, it looks like the disability that Justice Story said; a disability has to involve future conduct. But if it's expressly disabling future conduct, that's a penalty on past to apply for future discretionary relief. The disability in some other cases of this Court that we found after briefing and alerted opposing counsel to, Cummings v. Missouri and Ex parte Garland in volume of the U.S. Reports. Even though the law there forbade teaching in the future or holding office or preaching or being a member of the bar, the Government's theory would say those are post-enactment things; just refrain from This Court said, no, we recognize those are expressly targeted to punish the past membership in the Confederacy that triggers that disability. And so, the Government's approach would render the Justice Story's teaching; you don't have a vested right to teach. disability category a nullity. Official the bar, whatever, is not? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What --an which privilege was that? MR. BIBAS: The privilege of teaching or the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it matter in the examples that you just gave that admission to the United States is purely a matter of legislative grace, while we might conclude that teaching, being a member of MR. BIBAS: I don't believe that that is important. That only matters for the vested rights argument, and this Court in Cummings said expressly it was dealing with a privilege. So -- moreover -- privilege of holding office. So, you can't rest on a right/privilege disposition. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Suppose that might have been regarded as such then but not under current law. MR. BIBAS: Okay. Well, another answer -- in St. Cyr, the government made the same argument, and this Court said: Well, sure, Congress has the plenary power to change the rules any time it wants; just do it expressly. but whether it has, in fact, changed the rules expressly, to make that express tradeoff that the The question is not whether Congress can, Official prerequisite. This Court can rule for Petitioner and goes away. The Government concedes the court of appeals implicitly was wrong on that. potential unfairness of retroactivity is worth it. Now, the final point here, I believe there was some reference earlier to reliance in the offense. And as the Government concedes, reliance is not a not even bother with reliance. But the presence of reliance here is an extra factor that -- that shows the retroactivity to be obvious and severe. So, the court of appeals' whole premise that reliance is necessary As a practical matter, our point is that defendants rely on the known consequences of offenses when they decide to plead guilty. As this Court plead guilty? MR. BIBAS: We don't claim that there's a reliance interest in committing the crime, but in the decision to plead guilty, as a practical matter, the defendants weigh a number of consequences. And one of those is whether they might have a -month discount off MR. BIBAS: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The operative issue recognized in -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When they decide to here is when they commit the crime. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, this -- so, JUSTICE KENNEDY: So, you draw the line -- MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, our primary position this --guilty? their sentencing guidelines, which was the inducement here, and another one is, will they ever be able to see their parents again? your position is that only those who have entered a guilty plea are entitled to the presumption against non-retroactivity, but not those who've been found is that because reliance isn't necessary, all of them benefit from it because they all have settled expectations. if reliance isn't necessary? St. Cyr is all about reliance. MR. BIBAS: Yes. And at the end of this Court's opinion, the Court said that the presence of this reliance made the retroactive effect especially obvious and sincere -- especially obvious and severe in St. Cyr. That did not purport to overrule holdings in Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft, where there had been no legally cognizable reliance. JUSTICE KAGAN: How do you explain St. Cyr So, St. Cyr is an easy case because of the Official attached to pre-enactment conduct. So, regardless of whether there is reliance, guilty plea because of the reliance. But Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft didn't involve any reliance, and there was still retroactivity because the settled expectations were disrupted because there were new consequences there are settled expectations that are upset by a law whose function or point is to punish and deter misconduct based on past wrongs. My client -- MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. BIBAS: This -- that is the background default rule against which Congress legislates. And in JUSTICE SCALIA: We're trying to figure out what Congress intended, right? We're not talking about constitutionality. We're talking about a rule that it's presumed that statutes are only prospective. All right? And your argument is the reasonable expectation of Congress when they passed this was that it would only apply to -- to people who, what, committed the crime or were convicted after the statute passed -- MR. BIBAS: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- just as a matter of statutory interpretation? laws such as IIRIRA and SORNA and elsewhere, Congress Official know, it's retroactive even though it depends upon a future event? spells out when it wants to apply to pre-enactment offenses, to pre-enactment conduct. That's a defeasible civil retroactivity rule that can reach more broadly than the ex post facto jurisprudence. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you have any case in which a court has deemed a statute retroactive even though it wasn't triggered until the party took some further action? Is there any case out there either from this Court or from another court where we've said, you depended on applying for discretionary relief in the future. He didn't have to. Cummings depended on trying depended on trying to practice law in the future. future ability based on a past wrong. That's what the disability category has to mean if it's to remain Justice Story's fourth category. If there are no further questions, I'd like to reserve the balance of my time. to teach or preach or hold office. Ex parte Garland CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Miller. MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. St. Cyr Those are all disabilities taking away a meaningful. And the Government's approach would gut Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: As the discussion so far this morning reveals, the Court's retroactivity analysis takes account of a number of different factors, but the one that is most significant and, indeed in this case, virtually dispositive is that the application of section (a)() to Petitioner was triggered only because he engaged in voluntary conduct that postdated the enactment of the statute. JUSTICE KAGAN: What do you take the trigger to be? Because in your brief you kept on talking about that you would have talked more about the activity being the attempt to enter the country. closely connected together in time, and they both -- but they both postdate the enactment of the statute. But what -- the thing that is being regulated by section (a)() is the entry of aliens into the United States. The statute sets out a comprehensive scheme for determining when an alien arriving at the border seeking the trigger being the trip. And I would have thought to come into the United States should be regarded as MR. MILLER: That's -- I mean they're Official seeking an admission. So, that's conduct that takes place in the future. Part (A) of (a)() sets out the general definition of admission, and then (C) sets out a number of exceptions. And so, taken together, they are part of a comprehensive effort to codify Fleuti in some respects. And, in particular, Romanette (ii), the -day provision, is actually a fairly generous codification of Fleuti, probably extending beyond what would have been regarded as a brief trip under Fleuti. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I have to -- I just don't understand this statute. This is somebody we would not allow into the country. And yet, the only thing we say is you can't leave. I just don't MR. MILLER: I think there are -- there are two points to be made about that. And the first is that that is a feature of the statute writ large. I mean, that exists even with respect to post-enactment criminal understand it, it's helpful to look at the history. The distinction between grounds of inadmissibility and CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Right. MR. MILLER: And the second, I think to understand how that -- how that works. convictions. So, it's --grounds of deportability goes back all the way to the Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, and I Greece if once he's there for the -- but it seems very odd to say we're going to show you how much we don't want you here; we're not going to let you leave. Act. In that statute, a single crime of moral turpitude was a basis for inadmissibility but was generally not a basis for deportability unless it had a -year sentence and was committed within years -- understand that there is a limitation on actually deporting the person. But here I would think the one thing you want the person to do is leave. Maybe for a particular event, but maybe he'll decide to stay in history shows that it's the crossing the border that has This Court's cases recognizing -- We -- I think we have held that an immigration lawyer is obliged to tell a defendant faced with a criminal charge what the legal -- what the immigration consequences will be. And here, suppose before the -- at the time of the plea in this case, the attorney had said, once you've served your time, you will be able to take brief casual trips. That would have been accurate advice, right? always been regarded as a legally significant event. MR. MILLER: I think what the -- what the JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it wasn't before. Before IIRIRA. Official consequence for me? And the question that's asked is, will I still be able to visit my mother in Greece? What should the lawyer -- what should the lawyer at that time have answered? MR. MILLER: Well, I think -- I think the most important point about the consequence of the plea is that, as an immediate result of the plea under pre-IIRIRA law, so at the time he pleaded guilty in , he made himself inadmissible. So, that's not anything that has changed. So, he knew that he was -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm asking you, the lawyer talking to the client -- and the client wants to know before I enter this plea, what will be the inadmissible to the United States. Under -- been the law -- Fleuti -- and the answer to the question would have been, yes, you can make trips abroad, MR. MILLER: That's -- that's right. And I think you might also have said that under a current law, you will not be regarded as seeking an admission if you take a brief, casual, and innocent trip. But the change JUSTICE BREYER: When Rosenberg would have MR. MILLER: I think the lawyer should have said, by pleading guilty, you are making yourself wouldn't it? in the law -- Official JUSTICE KAGAN: All right. Well, that's very real has happened to the life of this person. MR. MILLER: That's -- that's right, I mean, what's going to be important to the person, right? It's not inadmissible and all the legal terms. Am I going to be able to make short trips to visit my mother? Yes, you are going to be able to make short trips to visit your mother. And then you wake up the next morning, and Congress has passed a statute, and now you're not able to take short trips to visit your mother. So, something and there is no question but that there is a serious consequence as a result of the change in the law. But the Court has made clear in Landgraf and in a number of statutes can impose burdens. JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but in -- in St. Cyr, as I read it, on pages and , the Court focused directly, not on the crime point of time, but the time of the guilty plea. And what the Court says there is that a person who is thinking of pleading guilty might well have taken into account the fact that he could ask the Attorney General later when he's about to be deported to exercise discretion in his favor.other cases that even uncontroversially prospective So, that's as I read those pages. You can Official Is the second as likely to be in the be of importance to some people, as opposed to whether I will never see them again. Now, that seems to be the question. say why I'm not reading them correctly, but that's how I read them. And then, having read it that way, I thought the question in this case is whether the person who's sitting at the table and deciding whether to plead guilty or not is likely to think, well, if I plead guilty, I can always ask for discretion. That's St. Cyr. Well, if I plead guilty, I can still visit my aging parents and grandparents, a matter that could person's mind as the first? And to tell you the truth, There isn't that much chance of getting discretion. It might be important to some people to visit their aging parents and grandparents. So, go ahead. Answer the question. Is the one more important than the other? described the reasoning of the Court in St. Cyr, and I think that that reasoning highlights two ways in which this case is significantly different. And the first is I don't know the answer. I mean, maybe it would be. And if not, why not? MR. MILLER: I think you've correctly that, in St. Cyr, it was the guilty plea, the Official JUSTICE BREYER: No, but I'm really asking MR. MILLER: -- is not the guilty plea. JUSTICE BREYER: -- isn't my question the conviction, that was legally significant under the provision of IIRIRA at issue there. And the Court emphasized that a guilty plea is a quid pro quo. It has to be knowing and voluntary. The Court cited Santobello v. New York, a due process case about guilty pleas. And then -- so, one difference in this case is that the legally significant event here -- you -- key question? Now, you can answer that "no." But -- I mean, I suppose you could prove that the only thing that mattered to -- to LPRs who plead guilty, the only thing grandparents, a matter I doubt; but, you can say, even on that situation, it would make no difference, or you could say I think the one is as important as the other, or you could say they're not. I just want to get your full answer, all -- your whole answer to my question. MR. MILLER: The conclusion to the first part of the answer is that it wouldn't make a difference because what matters here is not the guilty plea; what triggers the application of (a)()(C) is the that mattered, was visiting their parents and underlying criminal conduct and is -- Official JUSTICE KAGAN: You're quite right, like more than on one -- you know, five fingers of your MR. MILLER: I don't have any -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I can't imagine that it's Mr. Miller, as a formal matter that that's true, that that's the words of the statute. But how many times has the Department of Homeland Security tried to declare a person inadmissible on the basis of the commission of a crime without putting into evidence either a conviction or a guilty plea? hand. I mean, that's the way people prove crimes in this area, isn't it, by convictions or guilty pleas? is a statue -- by -- in the first instance, by customs officers at the airport or at the land border crossing. They have records of convictions but also things like arrest warrants. And an arrest warrant by itself would not be enough to show that a person had, in fact, committed an offense, but it might well trigger some further inquiry from the customs officer that would lead to them finding access to a number of databases which include not only MR. MILLER: Well, I would say that -- this JUSTICE KAGAN: Or convictions after trial or convictions by guilty pleas. MR. MILLER: The statute is being applied Official JUSTICE KAGAN: If, as a fact of the matter, out more information or perhaps getting an admission from the person. the way the commission of crime is proved in this area is through showing a conviction, does your distinction stand up at all? MR. MILLER: I mean, there is still, I think, a significant formal distinction, and then there's also another important distinction from St. Cyr, which is that that was a case where, as a result of the guilty plea plus the change in law, the person there faced immediate deportability with no prospect of discretionary relief. And the Court said that there is a clear difference, for purposes of the retroactivity analysis, between a possibility of deportability and a certainty of deportation. Here, not only is he not deportable, but there's no immediate consequence for him at all. The statute only has any effect on him when he engages in characterization? Which seemed to me to make common sense. Yes, the trigger is that he has gone abroad and is returning. But the target, they say, was the crime. That's why the law -- the law really doesn't care about the post-enactment travel. And I think -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the Official In those cases, you had statutes that were MR. MILLER: I -- I don't think that's the distinctions between this case and Cummings v. here is that the statutes are imposing punishment for the completed acts. To the extent there was any doubt in those cases themselves, this Court discussed them both in Harisiades v. Shaughnessy and said that it viewed them as cases about punishment. This is not a statute -- the travel back and forth; what it cares about is that this person was convicted of a crime. correct, Your Honor, and I think that highlights one of Missouri and Ex parte Garland. nominally prospective in application, but the Court actually said that we think that what's really happening here, meaning -- it goes back to the Chief Justice's question, which is what they're trying to do is punish those individuals, those LPRs, who have committed this kind of crime, by not letting them travel or come back in. That's really what their argument is, is -- you know, you are imposing a punishment, a disability, for having committed the crime. You're not imposing a disability merely for the act of traveling. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't that the case MR. MILLER: I mean, I think when you look Official And then you have -- have this one, which is distinction between inadmissibility and deportability. And I think it recognizes -- at the statute as a whole, you see that it's a -- it's a comprehensive regulation of crossing the border, which has always been regarded as a legally significant event. There are six subparts to (a)()(C). Five of them have nothing to do with past conduct. They're about the nature of the trip and what the alien is doing as he's coming in. of a piece with the long history of drawing a is the policy underlying the rule that doesn't allow somebody who has a lawful status here to go to his It's going to take days. He goes; he comes back. What policy supports prohibiting that travel? reflects a -- a judgment over -- on the part of Congress over many, many years that it is one thing to say to an alien, all right, we're not going to go and try and find you and take you and kick you out of the country. It is quite another to say you may freely cross our borders; CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the -- what grandmother's funeral -- MR. MILLER: I -- I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- and come back? MR. MILLER: I mean, I -- I think it Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. They're two articulated what the policy is to prevent -- prohibit control over the border is a core sovereign prerogative that lies at the heart of Congress's immigration power. And I think that -- even after having left, you may come back, and we're -- without any inquiry into your -- different things, but I don't know that you've somebody from doing that. MR. MILLER: I mean, other than referring you to -- to the history and to the idea that's been reflected -- you know, this Court has recognized that say that there's a likelihood of quite inequitable to pick up all of these people and send them away. That's not going to happen. It'll -- it'll be hit and miss. forbid reentry to those people who want to come back in and who have to, you know, give their names to Immigration, and you can check on -- on this status. That seems to me a sensible reason. MR. MILLER: That's right. And -- And, on the other hand, you can enforce it rigorously and equitably upon everyone if you only JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I suppose you could enforcement if indeed you adopt a position we're going Official JUSTICE BREYER: All right. But why do you So, Congress certainly wasn't clear on what could have an exception for the -day trip. That's what -- look, as I read the statute, it isn't even clear whether it overrules Rosenberg v. Fleuti. I mean, they talk about admission, but admission, after all, the Court said effectively in Rosenberg v. Fleuti. policy they're following. I would have thought that. You can disagree with that. But I -- because -- but the part that's still gnawing at me percent of the people plead guilty. All right. You know. Everybody pleads guilty. All -- about. About. And now, the consequence that this ex post enacts is he can't take the -day trip. requires action on a person's part. Right. Of course, it does. So, why does that matter? I mean, the fact is he can't take the -day trip. A -day trip requires action. You have to buy a trip -- ticket. You have to MR. MILLER: Well, i think -- if I could just first address the -- the question of whether the statute, in fact, abrogates Fleuti, and just to be clear on that -- the question presented assumes that it does. Petitioner isn't challenging that. And the Board, in And you keep saying, well, a -day trip get on a plane. So -- Official And I think that the significance of this illustrated by this Court's decision in effect -- there, it was choosing to remain in the United States and becoming subject to the reinstatement of a prior order of removal -- here, it's taking the travel. But that goes a long way towards establishing that it doesn't have a retroactive effect, that it's regulating future conduct. the Collado-Munoz decision, has explained why the -- the statute, in fact, does have that effect. post-enactment conduct, the significance of the trip, is Fernandez-Vargas, which made clear that when you have -- when the application of the statute is within the control of the person to whom it's being applied, because he has to do something after it comes into Another -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Prior to the Fernandez case, the illegal act was remaining. And so, that was within your control. But the -- you can't undo an act is now part of your background. And so, there's nothing in your control to change that act once the statute has passed. illegal act that you've done to be able to travel. The MR. MILLER: Well --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so, you're -- you're Official MR. MILLER: In Fernandez-Vargas, the procedure was remaining in the United States. that was in the future, that was after the statute was enacted. carrying that around as a disability. conduct that subjected the alien to the application of this -- this procedural -- this disadvantageous removal And it's true that that conduct was unlawful, but for purposes of the retroactivity analysis, the Court didn't focus on whether it was lawful or unlawful. What matters is that it was conduct And so, here, although the -- the trip is not unlawful in that sense, it is future conduct. And here, as in Fernandez-Vargas, there is ample warning --which was another point that the Court emphasized in that case -- ample warning that the statute would be applied to people who engaged in that conduct. mechanism that is entirely random, you know, it's -- you can be deported if you've committed a crime of moral turpitude in the past, but not until you go to the movies on a Saturday. I do want to address your -- JUSTICE KAGAN: It -- it can't be right that it's any future conduct. If -- if there's a trigger Surely, that would not change the analysis. Official MR. MILLER: I think that's right, Your If you have a statute that, for example, Honor, and I think the reason it wouldn't is reflected in some of this Court's -- in the ex post facto analysis. makes it a crime to have engaged in certain conduct in the past and then, you know, something -- some commonplace, utterly trivial activity in the future, I think a court looking at that would say this is not --although it is nominally prospective, this is really a statute aimed at punishing the prior conduct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I -- I don't know. I think it would be prospective and unconstitutional because it's irrational. I mean, not everything that's unconstitutional is unconstitutional -- not everything that is unconstitutional is not prospective, it seems to -- or do you think that's so? violation of the ex post facto law, the statute has to assumed not to cover that prior conduct. Is that right? hypothetical statute I was describing I think would violate the Ex Post Facto Clause under the sort of analysis that this Court used in Smith v. Doe, in a be -- has to be prospective. I'm sorry. Has to be If it's -- if it is unconstitutional in MR. MILLER: I mean, I think -- the Official MR. MILLER: Oh, you mean -- if you mean a MR. MILLER: I mean --JUSTICE SCALIA: By reason of the holding that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. And if it does, it automatically has to be interpreted not to cover that? presumption of expectation -- parallel statute in the civil context. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, yes. MR. MILLER: I -- I think that's the best reading of Landgraf, and I think under -- under the analysis suggested in your concurring opinion in Landgraf -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. Yes. MR. MILLER: -- I think one would look at that statute and say this is really a statute that's aimed at regulating the past conduct, and that -- that has a retroactive effect. I would just say that there is a narrow category of cases where you have what is in form a prospective regulation that's really aimed at -- aimed at burdening or punishing a past act. But this is not that. So, I mean, to finish that thought, I think JUSTICE KAGAN: And how do we separate those two? How do we decide that this is not that, and that Official MR. MILLER: I -- in the criminal context, legitimate prospective regulatory purpose. And so, that's why, for example, statutes Mendoza-Martinez to figure out whether a statute is -- it's instead something else, that it's a regulation of future conduct? the Court has used the analysis of Kennedy v. is imposing additional punishment for past conduct. And that looks at a number of factors, and the most important factor under that test, the Court has said, is whether the statute appears to be related to a like (g), the felon in possession statute, which was, I would point out, amended just back in to add misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence, which had not previously been something that would subject one to a firearms disability -- that was added. the question has held that it doesn't violate the Ex Post Facto Clause and, I think, implicitly has held that pleaded guilty to spousal abuse? MR. MILLER: I'm not aware of any cases -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. MR. MILLER: -- specifically addressing that it does in fact reach that conduct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Even -- even if you had Every court of appeals that has considered Official Nor does it mean that it's appropriately viewed as imposing a disability. I mean, I think that question, but -- but, yes, because there you have a statute that is regulating future conduct. It only applies to somebody who engages in the future conduct. The sex offender registration laws are another example that this Court has upheld. That kind of law obviously imposes a very significant burden on people on the basis of prior conduct, but the fact that there is some burden by itself does not mean that the statute is retroactive. the Court in Landgraf quoted Justice Story's formulation of a disability as referring to statutes that impose a disability in respect to transactions that are already passed. So, it is not enough that there used to be something that you could do, and now, in the future, you're not going to be able to do that. That's not a disability in the relevant sense, and if it were, I think the Court would have a very difficult line-drawing problem to figure out why it is that statutes like any number of -- think the Chief Justice's question and the ambiguity of the statute are relevant. Like with SORNA you would apply it backwards, because that's a pretty clear (g) are okay, or sex offender registration laws, or JUSTICE BREYER: That's -- that's why I Official That's -- do you want to say something about that? MR. MILLER: I think, if you're -- if you're at step two of the --disadvantage to the person pleading guilty, that intent. I don't know about, you know, like, "three times and you're out" statutes, et cetera. But -- but here you have the disability on the one -- the problem, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, you have the policy that with a -- fill in the blank -- with a statute that doesn't talk about it but simply uses a new definition of admission or admissibility. asking whether Congress has specifically addressed the temporal scope of the statute, we -- we acknowledge under St. Cyr that it hasn't. And so, that's why we're JUSTICE BREYER: More than that, what is -- I'm ignoring -- more than that, I'm saying what's the policy on the other side? The policy that favors the retroactivity despite the fact that the person might not have pleaded guilty? And that's why I was interested in the Chief Justice's question and also the ambiguity of the language in the statute that they used. MR. MILLER: I think that the -- the policy is Congress was trying to redefine -- I mean, they were replacing the old term of "entry" and -- with a new Official again for me your distinction of St. Cyr? that was to be applied going forward, when people If there are no further questions -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you go over concept of admission. They're trying to redefine a comprehensive scheme for regulating the treatment of aliens arriving at the border. And I think that you have to look at all the parts of it together as a scheme arrived at the border in the future, after the enactment of the statute. MR. MILLER: I think it's twofold, Your Honor. The first is that, in St. Cyr, the legally significant event was the conviction. It was the guilty plea. Here, the guilty plea is significant because it makes Petitioner inadmissible, but that was true under current law. -- that the significance of what the individual is giving up makes a difference? MR. MILLER: That's our second point, is that St. Cyr said there is a big difference between immediate deportability and the potential -- a difference in terms of what they face if they don't plead guilty? I've always had difficulty with St. Cyr CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't argue that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there -- is there Official seems to me it is to avoid years. account, or if St. Cyr prohibits that? MR. MILLER: No, I think it is certainly and the notion that, say, someone pleads -- is facing, you know, years, and they plead -- plead guilty to years, that the -- the reason they did that is to, you know, avoid one of these immigration provisions. It MR. MILLER: I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I just wonder if the relative significance of what is at issue under the immigration law is something that we can take into appropriate to take into account, that however -- however significant the application of Fleuti might be to aliens, it's on a different order of significance Solicitor General actually represented to us -- in the Judulang argument, used that as an example, the Fleuti case, as something that people doing pleas did think don't question that that's something that people might have -- have been aware of and have been thinking about, but it's not something that was bargained for in the plea agreement because it's not something that's MR. MILLER: Well, I think -- I mean, we from -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Miller, the about and did rely upon. Official The statute here is triggered by the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, crime. And, as Petitioner has acknowledged, there isn't affected by the plea agreement. post-enactment conduct of entering the country but also by the -- the pre-enactment conduct of committing the any reliance in the state of immigration law when you choose to commit the crime. And so, I think that's -- that's a difference from the scenario that was addressed in Judulang. Mr. Miller. minutes remaining. to make five points. As the Court has noted, its perverse effect is to discourage people from leaving the country, to keep them in. So, any idea that the purpose is to get them out just doesn't square with the way the statute is written. MR. MILLER: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bibas, you have REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANOS BIBAS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER The first one is the statute is poorly tailored to any protective or forward-looking effect. MR. BIBAS: Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like As Justice Ginsburg noted, while the Official Third, let me make clear that we have prerequisite is that it is the misconduct that is being helpless to undo. That is all that is required under Landgraf. If Congress thinks it important, it can expressly require retroactivity, but it hasn't done so. post-IIRIRA innocent travel may be the trigger here, the obvious target is the pre-IIRIRA offense. The statute is tied to misconduct. The natural inference of making misconduct not just a piece of evidence but a penalized. Second, the impact, we suggest, is the relevant test. The impact is a penalty. It is a disability based on a past act that Mr. Vartelas is now alternative theories here. Reliance is something that makes the case worse. It is something that exacerbates the problem, makes it obvious and severe. And our amici, the NACDL brief, points out very movingly how important these kinds of considerations are in immigrants' decisions to plead guilty. Here, for example, my client received a -month discount off his sentencing range. It's entirely plausible to believe that immigrants in his situation might value the ability to stay in the same country with their -year-old and -year-old child as much as months in jail. But our broader theory is that the violation Official business, et cetera -- that is sufficient. Just as in of settled expectations is sufficient, whether or not there's reliance. The settled expectation that one has of planning one's life in this country and yet having relatives abroad one will tend to or care for their Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft, there were no legally cognizable reliance interests in discriminating or in submitting false claims, but changing the penalties is enough. Fourth, this Court's decision in St. Cyr, I believe, strongly helps our case. The first reason is that it imposed a disability, a disability on filing in the future for discretionary relief, but as a practical matter, it's burdening past conduct. Secondly, St. Cyr didn't purport to change the holdings in Landgraf and Hughes Aircraft that those are other ways of showing impermissible retroactivity. The logic in St. Cyr is ineluctable that because you are burdening a decision, a decision that, as the -- the Court and the amici in St. Cyr noted, matters greatly and factors into things like the plea bargaining calculus, that the retroactivity is especially obvious and -- and severe. this same statute, a privilege, not a right, a privilege And let me note that St. Cyr was decided under Official Finally, let me talk about the discretionary relief, there is a privilege to not be that Congress can abrogate at any time. That did not influence this Court's holding at all. The right/privilege distinction is dead in this area of law. If there is a privilege under IIRIRA to apply for subject to the disability on one's traveling and returning. criminal/civil line. I believe my brother here trying to say this law is forbidden. Smith v. Doe involved a law where the Court's opinion said on its introduced Smith v. Doe and mentioned some of the sex offender cases. I've explained why the criminal cases in ex post facto are different, but let me go into some more detail as the Court is well familiar with Smith v. Doe. That was a civil case that Doe attempted to turn into a criminal case under the very demanding standard in Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez. But that's a very uphill fight. As the Court's opinion recognized, the court must be very deferential before turning something facially civil into criminal because then it's categorically forbidden and it comes with the criminal procedure protections in the Bill of Rights. That's not what we're doing now. We're not face the legislature made it retroactive; it says it's Official that's expressly retroactive? Does Mendoza-Martinez Versus here, where it's not retroactive. the drafters across the street is clear: Just draft the statutes the way you've always been doing it; say before, on, or after effective date. retroactive. The Federal law SORNA is expressly retroactive in section (d). IIRIRA is expressly retroactive. That's a different inquiry, where you're asking, does the Ex Post Facto Clause forbid something turn it into a criminal case? All Congress has to do is spell it out. If this Court adheres to its previous jurisprudence, the guidance to JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think we have the authority to tell Congress how to draft its laws? I intended. manual? Now, you can do this, but you can only do it if prescribed. And you've said this over and over. It seems to be completely unfounded. MR. BIBAS: Your Honor, this Court has said that it's important to adhere to its traditional tools MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: Do we send them a drafting thought what we were doing was trying to infer what they you do it -- if you follow the steps that we've of statutory construction because it's a settled Official MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- better than I am. MR. BIBAS: Let me explain. This Court decided Landgraf two decades ago. A few years after background rule against which Congress legislates, which it is aware of. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you think Landgraf is clear and settled, and you're -- you're over there in Congress, and you say, boy, I know how this statute is going to come out under Landgraf -- Landgraf, Congress passed IIRIRA in . IIRIRA contains express retroactivity provisions that go hand-in-glove with the Landgraf presumption. (d) says, yes, this sex offender registration shall apply; the Attorney General can apply it to people with pre-SORNA convictions. Congress understands the Landgraf presumption. In those statutes and others, it because this Court should continue to use its traditional tools of statutory construction. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that can be explained because Congress understands that who knows whether it's going to be held to be retroactive or not. If you -- if has legislated against it. It can continue to do it And then Congress passed SORNA, to which my brother alludes. SORNA in likewise in section Official MR. BIBAS: Yes, Your Honor, and a clear is well aware. For all of these reasons, we ask this Court CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the you surely want it to apply, you'd better say so. If that's the rule you want us to adopt, that's okay. statement rule has that virtue, as I believe Your Honor to reverse the judgment below and remand. counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial adding : additional : address : : : : : ALITO :, :, allow : : addressed : alludes : altering : alternative : addressing : : : : :, : applying : : : approach :, :, : : : : appropriate : : : area : : argue : arguendo : argument : :,, :,:, :: :: :,: :: ::: Altmann : : : : amended : American : amici : : : ample :, analysis : : :, :, : : announced : answer :, ambiguity : appropriately automaticallyA abandon : ability : : : : : able : :, : : : : :,, : : above-entitled : : abroad : : : : : : : abrogate : : abrogates : Absent : abuse : access : account : : :, accurate : acknowledge acknowledged : : act : :, :,,, : : : :, :, : : acting : action : :, activities : activity :, : : : : : acts : add : added : : : adhere : adheres : admissibility : admission : : :, : : :, : : adopt : : advanced : advances : adverse : advert : advice : affect : affirmatively aged : aggravated : : : aging :, ago : agreement : : ahead : : ailing : aimed : :,, Aircraft : : : :, : : :, : arguments:,, :answered : arrest :,appeals :, arrived :arriving :: APPEARAN... :: appears : application : aside : :articulated :Asian :: : : : : applied : : : : : : asked :asking : :: :aspects :Assistant :assume :,: :assumed ::assumes :assuming :airport : alerted : alien : : apply :, applies : : : : : : aliens : : :, attach :attached :: : :attempt :attempted :attorney :: ::Austria : :authority :automatic ::::avoid :,aware :: ::a.m : :Bback : ::, ::,,:, :: :background: :,: ::backwards:balance :bank :,bar : :bargained :bargaining:based :: :: :basic :basis : :,: :becoming :behalf :,,: : :believe : Official : :, chance : change : : : : : : : : Cchanged : : : : changing : : : : : : : : beneficial : benefit : benefits : : : briefing : broadening : broader : : broadly : : brother : : best : better : : burden : beyond : BIA's : Bibas : :, burdening :, :,, :, burdens : :, : : business : : :,,, buy : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : :, : : :,, :, : : : C : : : calculus :care :,: :careers :careful :cares : : carrying :case : : career :,:big : Bill : blank : Board : boil : border : : : : : :, borders : bother : boy : BREYER : : :, : : : brief : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :,:, : :, : : :: ::, : :,cases : : : :: :,: :: :,casual ::categorically: category : : :, claim : :, : claims : : caught : certain :, Clause : class : : : : certainly : : : certainty : cetera : : challenging : commonplace commonsense : : completed : completely : comprehensive : : : : concededly : concedes : : : : : concept : concerned : : conclude : conclusion :, : concurred : concurrence : : : clauses : clear :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : client : : : : closely : codification : codify : cognizable : : : : :,characterizati... Collado-Munoz concurring : charge : check : Chief :, : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : :, : child : children : : : choose : : choosing : cite : cited : cites : civil : : : : colleague : come : : : : : : :, : comes : : : coming : conduct : :, : : : :,,,: : : : : : :, :, :,,,:,,: :,: :,,:, : commits :, Confederacy : : : commit : commission : : :, committed : : : : :, : committing : : common : : confined : Congress : :, : :, : :,,:, :, :, : Official :,,, :, : :,, : : : :, : : :, :, :,,, Congress's : : connected : consequence : : : : :,,, : core : correct : correctly : : counsel : : : :, country : : :,,, :, : : : consequences :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, course : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, crimes : : : : databases : date :, : : : : days : dead : dealing : decades : : decide : :, : : : decided : criminal : :,, : : decides : : : :,,, deciding : decision : : : :, :,, criminal/civil : considerations : considered : constitutional :, constitutionali... : : construction : : contains : context :,, : : : :, : : continue : : :, control : :,, convictable :, convicted : : court :, : critical : cross : crossing : :, : :,, : : : : :, : Cummings : : : :, :, : : : current : :,, : : : :,, customs : : :, : :, : : : Cyr : : : :, :,, : :, : : :, :, : : : Court's : : : : : : :, : D : : : : conviction : cousin's : : : : : : convictions cover : : covered : : crime : : :damages :danger :dangerous ::,,: demanding : :, definition : :, : : :, : : : :, denied : :, : Department :,,, : : : Ddeportation : : deported : : : deporting : deprivation : derived : described : describing : despite : detail : deter : determining : deterred : deterrent : : difference : : :, : : :,, : decisions : declare : deemed : default : : defeasible : defendant : different : defendants :, : : : :, defense : : : deferential : : : : : : : : : difficult : difficulty : directly : : disabilities : : :, depends : depended : disability : : :,:,,,: :,: : :,,,: : :, : deportability : : :, : : deportable disable : Official disabling : disadvantage : : dozen : draft :, drafters : disadvantageo... drafting : draw : : drawing : due : D.C :, disagree : discount : : : discourage : : discretion : :, discretionary :, : : : : : discriminating discrimination : : discuss : discussed : : discussion : : : disposition : dispositive : disrupted : : disrupts : distinct : distinction : : :,, : : : distinctions : : doctrine :, Doe : : :,, doing : : : : :, domestic : doubt : : EE : :, earlier ::easy :effect :: :,: :,,:, : : :,: ::,effective :,: :: :effectively :effects ::,effort :either : : :emphasized: :enacted :: :enactment:, : enacts :encourage :enforce :enforcement: engaged : : : engages : : enhancements : : exactly : example : : : : : examples : exception : exceptions : exclusive : exercise : exists : expect : enter : : : entered : : : entering : enters : entire : entirely : : : entitled : entrants : entry :,, expectation : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : equitably : ERIC :, : : especially : : : ESQ :, : :, establishing expectations : : : :,, : : : :, : explain : : : : explained : et : : : : event :,, explicit : express : : : expressly : :,, :,,, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : facto : : : :, : : :,, : : : factor : : factors : : : : fairly : false : : familiar : far : : favor : favors : feature : Federal : : : felon :,:,,,:,,: felony : Fernandez : ex : :, extent : everybody : : evidence :, : : : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : exacerbates : exact : : : : : : :,, : :, : :,, Fernandez-Va... :, : :,fight : figure : : extended : extending : extra : Fface : : faced ::facially :facing :fact : : : :: : file : filing : : fill : final : : Finally : find : finding : fingers : finish : firearm : firearms : : first : : : : :, : : : : : : first-time : five : : : : fixed : Fleuti : :,, : :, : :, focus : focused : follow : : following : forbade : forbid : forbidden : forbidding : : : : force : forced : forces : foreign :, form : : formal : : formulation : forth : forward : : : forward-looki... : : found : : : fourth : : : free : freely : full : function : Official : : : : functional : funeral : funerals : further :, : : future : : :,, :, : : : :,,, :,,, : : :,, : : : :, : : G G : Garland : : : general :, : : : : generally : generis : generous : getting : : Ginsburg :, : : : : give : : given : giving : : gnawing : go : : : : : : : : :, : : : : goes : : : : : going : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, government :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, Government's : :, : governs : grace : grandmother's : grandparents:, : greatly : Greece : : : grounds : : Gryger : guidance : guidelines : guilty :, :,,:, : :, : : :,, : :,:,,:,,: :,: :, :,, : : gun : gut : HH :Hadix :Hampshire :hand :: :,hands :hand-in-glovehappen :::happened :happening :hard : : harder : Harisiades : hear : heart : heavier : held : : : : Heller : helpful : helpless : helps : he'll : highlights : : history : : : : : hit : hold : Holder : : holding :, : : : : holdings : : home : Homeland : homes : Honor : : : : : : : : :,: : : : : : : : : : :, : :,hospital : Hughes : : : :,hypothetical : Iidea : : ignoring : ii :IIRIRA : : :,,: : : :: ::,illegal : : :,illustrated : imagine :immediate : :, : immigrants:,immigration :, : : :,:immunities : :impact :: :,impermissible:impermissibly : :implicitly : Official knew : : know : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : knowing : :, : : :, known : knows : :, : : :, :, :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, :, : :, : Justice's : : : Lland :Landgraf ::, : : :,:, : : :,: :: ::, : : :,:,,,:,lawyer : :,,, lead : leave :, : :, leaving : : leeway : left : legal : : : : legally : : :, : : : legislate : : legislated : legislates : : : legislative : : legislature: legislatures:,legitimate : : : letting : lies : life : : : likelihood : likewise : limitation : limited :,: limits : line : : line-drawing: lives : logic : long : : : : longer : look : : : : : inside : instance : intend : intended : :, : : : : intent :, : interest : interested : interests : interpret : interpretation : interpreted : introduced : involve : involved : : : involving : irrational : issue : : : : : : : : it'll :, J jail : January : JR : judgment : : : : Judulang : : jurisprudence : importance : important : : : : :, : : : :, : impose : : imposed : imposes : imposing : :, : : INA : inadmissibility : : : inadmissible :, : : : include : increase : indefinitely : individual : : individuals : inducement : ineligibility : ineluctable : inequitable : infer : inference : : influence : information : inherently : innocent : : : inquiry : K KAGAN :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : keep : : Kennedy : : : language :large :law : :, : :,,: :: :: :,:, : :,,: :: :: :,: :lawful :,:, : :laws : : :, : : :,:: : kept : Justice : : key : kick : : :, : : :, : kind : : : : :, kinds : Official : : : : : : : looking : meaning : mother : meaningful :,, : meant : mechanism movies : movingly : murder : : : : looks : : member : lose : lot :, LPRs : membership : : : M maintain : majority :, majority's : : making : :, : : : man : mandate : manual : marker : Martin : matter : : : :, : : : : : : : : mattered : : matters : : : : mean : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : Mendoza-Ma... : : : mentioned : merely : Miller : : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, mind : minutes : misconduct : :,, misdemeanor Missouri : : : moment : months : moral : morning : : : O O : : obliged : obvious : :, : : :obviously :occurred : :occurs : odd : offender :,: :offense ::, :, : ::offenses :,: :office : : :officer :officers :Oh :okay :: :: ::old :once : : : :one's : : one-way :open :operating :operative : opinion :: ::,opposed :opposing :opposite :oral : :, : :order : : :outlined : outside :outweigh :outweighed :override ::,overrule :overrules :PP :PAGE :pages :,PANAGIS :parallel :parallels :parents : : : : : : :parent's :part : :, : ::, : parte :: :particular ::particularly:parts :party : : pass :passage :passed : : :,,,:, : : ::,penalized :penalizing :penalties :penalty ::, : :Pennsylvania:people : : : :,NN :, : NACDL :: names : narrow : : narrowly : natural : nature : necessary : :, need : : needed : needs : nefarious : never : new :, : :, :,,, : : :, : : :, nexus : nominally : non-retroacti... : : note : noted :,, : :, : notes : notice : notion : nullity : number : : : : : : : Official :,, : : :, : : : plead :, : :, : : : :, : : : : previous : previously : : protecting : protections pre-enactment : protective : : :, : : :,, postdate : : : : :, : : : postdated : pre-IIRIRA prove : postdates : :,, : : : : : proved : post-enactment proven : : provision : pre-SORNA pleaded : : : pleading : : : : pleads : : pleas : : : : please : : plenary : plus : point : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : post-IIRIRA : : : potential : : : : power : : : : practical : : :, : : : : provisions : primary : : : : : : public : punish : prior :, : : : : : :, punishing : :, : : : : privilege : :,,, :, : : practically : pro : practice : preach : preaching : precondition : : : probably : problem : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : percent : perfect : permanent : : permissible : Permit : person :, :, :, :,, : :, :, : : :, personal : person's : pertinent : : : perverse : petitioned : Petitioner : punishment : :, : : punitive : purely : purport : : purpose : : : : purposes : : put : : :, putting : p.m : Qquestion : :, : : : :, : :,, :,,: :,: :,: :: :, : pointing :, : : : : :, points : : : :, premise : : : prerequisite procedural : : procedure : Philadelphia : phrased : pick : picked : picks : piece : : : place : : plane : planning : plausible : plea : : policy :, : : : :,, poorly : portion : position :, : possession : : :, :, : :, : possibility : : : possible : : : :,, possibly : post : : : : : : : : : process : prohibit : prohibiting prerogative : prescribed : presence : : : : prohibits : proof : proper :, prospect : presented : propose : presumed : prospective : presumption : : : :, : : : : :,,, : : prospectively pretty : prevent : Official questions : : records : redefine : : quid : quite : : reentry : reference : referring : : : : :,, : : :, relief :, : : : : : rely : : remain : : remaining : : : remand : removal : : removed : removing : render : repeated : repeatedly : replacing : reply : Reports : represented : Republic : reflected : : : reflects : refrain : regard : regarded : : : : : : regardless : registration :, : regularly : regulate : : : :, regulated : : : : quo : Quote : quoted : quoting : R R : racketeering random : : : range : reach : : read : : : :, : reading : : real : really : : :, : :, reason : : : : : reasonable : reasoning : : reasons : REBUTTAL : : received : recidivism : recognize : recognized : : : recognizes recognizing : : : : :, : : : : :,, :, : retroactively : : : retroactivity : : : :, : : :,: : : : : : : :, : returning : : reveals : reverse : right : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : : : :,,: :,: rights : : : right/privilege: : : :, round : rule :,, : :, : : : :, : : : :, rules :, :,SS : : Santobello :Saturday :saying :: :says : : : :: :Scalia : : :,,: ::,,: ::,,,:, : :,scenario :scheme ::,scope ::second :: :: :Secondly ::section ::, : :Security :see : : :seeking :: :send ::, regulates : regulating : require : required : requires : : : : regulation : : : regulatory : : rescind : :, reserve : residents : : : : : related : relative : reinstatement respect : : : respects : Respondent rigorously : rob :,ROBERTS : :, : :,,:, : : :,: :,: :,: : :, : :,,,,, retroactive : Romanette : :,,, : : : response : rest : result : :,, : :, : reliance : : relatives : relevant : :, : : : Rosenberg Official : : : : sensible : sentence : sense : : simply : : : sincere : single : sitting : situation : sentencing : : : separate : separately : serious : served : serves : set : sets : :, setting : settled : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : six : Smith : :,, smoke : snuck : Solicitor : : somebody : : : : : : SORNA : : : :, severe : : : : sex :, : : Shaughnessy : short :,, show : : showing : : shown : shows : : side : sign : significance :, : :, significant : : :, : : : :, : significantly sorry : : : sort : SOTOMAYOR : :, :,, : :, sought : sovereign :, : speak : special : specifically : : : spell : : : spells : spousal : spouses : square : St : : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, statutory : :, : : : :,,, stay : : : : stand : standard : start : state :, : statement : : : States :, :, : : :, : : : staying :, stays : step : STEPHANOS : :, : : steps : stops : Story : Story's : : : : : : submitted : statue : status : strange : street : strongly : statute : : structured : subject : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : subjected : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, substance : :,,, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :,, : : : submitting : subparts : subsection : substantial : : : suffer : suffering : sufficient :, suggest : suggested : sui : suit : supports : suppose : : : : Supreme :, sure : : surely : statutes :, : : : : :, : :, : : : statute's : : : : surgeries : sweep : TT :,table : tailored :, : : take : : : :: :: :, :, : : taken : : takes : : talk : : ::talked : talking :, : : target :: targeted : teach ::teaching :: :,tell : : :tells : temporal :temporary : tend :term : terms :, : : test :,,:,,,: :: :,: : : Thank : :,, : Official upset : : upsetting : trying : : : : :, : use : uses : : : utterly : : : turn : : U.S : turning : Vturns : turpitude : U uncomfortable :: two : : : : : : : twofold : :, unconstitutio... :,,, : uncontroversi... : underlying : : understand v : : : : :: :,:, : : :,:,valid :value :Vartelas : : Versus :vested : : :view ::viewed :: :violate ::theoretical : theories : theory : : : thing : : : :, : things :, : : : : : think : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : :, :,,, :, : : : :,,,, :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : thinking : : thinks : third : : thought : : : : : : : : threat : three : ticket : tickets : tied : : ties : time : : : :, : times : : : tools : : tradeoff : tradition : : traditional : : transactions : travel : : : : : : : : :, : :, : traveling : : : : treatment : trial : trials : tried : trigger : :, : : : : triggered : : : triggers : : trip : : : : :,,, :, : : trips : : : : :,, trivial : true : : : : : : :, : : : truth : try : : :, violation :: :: : understands violence :virtually :virtue ::, undo : : : unfairness : : : unfounded : United :, :, : : :, : ::unlawful :,:unpack :upheld :uphill ::visit : :, : :,,:,visiting :volume :voluntary ::Wwake :wakes :want :: ::, : : : : : : :, wants : : : : warned : warning : : warrant : warrants : Washington : : wasn't : : : way : : : : : : : : : : ways : : wedding : Wednesday: weigh : we'll : : we're :,: :,: :,: :,: :,we've : : : who've : wife : Witte : wonder : words : works : worse :worth :wouldn't ::, : : :writ :written : Official : : -day :,, :, -month : : -year-old : : : : : : (g) : : : wrong : : : wrongs : X x :, Y years : : : :,, : York : -year : : - : : (a)()(C)(v) : : : : : (a)() :, : (a)()(C) : : (d) : : : : : -day : : : : : : -year-old : : : : : : (b) : : : 