Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Tuesday, January , Petitioners - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x DIANNE KNOX, ET AL., : :: No. - SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL : UNION, LOCAL . : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: WILLIAM J. YOUNG, ESQ., Springfield, Virginia; for JEREMIAH COLLINS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners. Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. YOUNG, ESQ. JEREMIAH COLLINS, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. YOUNG, ESQ. please the Court: Before addressing SEIU's motion to dismiss Employees International Union. ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. YOUNG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Young. ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. YOUNG (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Knox v. The Service for mootness, it is important to remember the underlying facts of this case. For months in and , more than , nonmembers, or nearly percent of those employees represented by SEIU employed by the State of California, were compelled to contribute to SEIU's $ million Political Fight-Back Fund without being provided the opportunity to challenge the amount of the fee and to object to its exaction, required by Adding insult to that injury, the Ninth Circuit said that nonmembers could never say no to contributing to SEIU's political expenditures for ballot propositions, at least Proposition . They have no right to refuse to bankroll that element of SEIU's Official P R O C E E D I N G S the First Amendment. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Young, could I ask you MR. YOUNG: I was just addressing that. JUSTICE KAGAN: As -- as I understand your political speech. This defies this Court's decisions, distorting the political process on a massive scale. to speak to the mootness question first? brief, you're essentially saying that it's impossible to moot a claim for nominal damages. Is -- is that a correct reading of your position? far, Justice Kagan. I think in this case, the wishy-washiness, as it were, of the language used by SEIU when it distributed this pasted-on dollar to the class -- or dollars, more accurately -- was inadequate judgment that the nonmember class had won. point, right, which is that the notice was inadequate? "inadequate," I read you to be saying sort of not apologetic enough. And -- in other words, not saying, look, you had a claim against us, we think you're right; it was a valid claim; here is your judgment in satisfaction of that claim. That it didn't forthrightly MR. YOUNG: I'm not sure I would go that because it failed to represent the importance of the JUSTICE KAGAN: So, that's a different MR. YOUNG: That would be correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: And -- and when you say Official universe. But this case is about the judgment of the district court that the SEIU was attempting to comply with. They failed to do so in virtually all of its elements. say that. But do you think if it had forthrightly said that, we would be living in a different Article III universe? MR. YOUNG: Not in this case, Justice Kagan. Turning to the adequacy of the notice, of the financial disclosure, that did not comply with the district court's judgment, either. If -- if the only question were the distribution of nominal damages, then perhaps we would be living in that different Article III of whether they were forthright enough about the fact that they were satisfying a claim? ordered -- described the type of notice that it that SEIU's subsequent financial disclosure was inadequate to cure the problem that was caused by the seizure of fees starting in September . And that's on a of the -- the Petition Appendix B.anticipated. The district court specifically determined JUSTICE KAGAN: And how is that? How did they fail to comply, other than, you know, the question MR. YOUNG: The -- the district court had The union in this case merely sent the same Official Obviously, the district court did not CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the reason financial disclosure in the notice that it sent, to try to moot the case, that it had sent in June of . Well, the district court had already said this is inadequate. That seems to me to -- to end the inquiry. contemplate that the notice that was sent in June satisfied the obligations of its judgment; else it hardly could have ordered a -- a useless act in ordering a new type of notice go out. that's important in terms of the content of the notice, the inadequacy, is what? MR. YOUNG: The reason that is important, Justice -- Mr. Chief Justice, excuse me -- is that the SEIU is asserting that the case has become moot because it has now complied with the district court's judgment. would have resulted in more members electing to opt out, to demand the refund of their assessments? possible consequences. Obviously, I -- we would --that's speculative to some extent. But since the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your -- MR. YOUNG: It has -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your argument was that the -- a different type of notice MR. YOUNG: And that's certainly one of the Official MR. YOUNG: If the notice -- I'm sorry. I JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we're not dealing here with the district court's judgment. JUSTICE ALITO: If the special assessment purpose of the notice is to provide the information necessary to -- to object, one of the purposes, then we certainly anticipate that there would be more objectors were there to be an -- an adequate notice that complies requires a different kind of notice and possibly a different kind of opt-in or opt-out regime, would the case be moot? didn't understand. with the kind of notice -- with the typical Hudson notice given at the beginning of the year, when the assessment. Now, if a different kind of notice is constitutionally required in that context, would this case be moot? and the adequacy of the payment -- the -- the different requirements, which presumably were not met here in the context of the special assessment, MR. YOUNG: No, it would not. Obviously, we have -- we -- we still have the nominal damages question annual dues are collected. We're dealing with a special JUSTICE ALITO: My question is whether if there are different requirements in that context, Official court's judgment, we believe, provides a -- an adequate JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Young -- MR. YOUNG: Yes, Justice --JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- as I understand, the would that be enough to preserve this case as a live controversy? MR. YOUNG: So long as the union failed to provide them, and at least in this case, the district respect for Hudson's underlying requirements, Justice Alito. MR. YOUNG: No, Justice Ginsburg, and this is why: The union would remain free to return to its old ways, the -- the very type of reason that this Court declined to find mootness in W.T. Grant. The union has made much -- much of a showing -- or much of a show, more accurately, of the fact that it has changed its internal policy. It won't do this for days. But that can hardly be sufficient for this Court to find union recognizes that a consequence of mootness would be that the Ninth Circuit judgment is vacated. Now, if the union would also recognize that that means the district court judgment stays in place, so if the Ninth Circuit judgment is worked out and you're left with the district court judgment as the law of the case, then I think it is moot, isn't it? Official in this case. It is also about the effect of that judgment special assessment that is long over. MR. YOUNG: That is true, Justice Ginsburg. mootness in this case. The union made this wonderful and meaningful policy change on days' notice. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it wasn't -- this -- this case is about a completed episode. It's about a But it is also about the declaratory relief that was ordered by -- that was entered by the district court. It is about the -- which was virtually injunctive relief for future activities and -- and how that will affect the way SEIU operates. case, Justice Kennedy. The union set a very short time -- well, a relatively short time period, given the length of time a case comes up from the courts as a rule in this Court. future -- future terms? Is it a permanent injunction or JUSTICE KAGAN: Does it have --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, are you saying that this is capable of repetition, yet evading review? I'm not quite sure. is it just an injunction that relates to the notice MR. YOUNG: It would certainly be so in this JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does the injunction have Official MR. YOUNG: Yes, Justice Kagan, I think that actually phrased as an injunction. It was an same thing could happen again, it's where an injunction has been before us rather than a suit for damages as to a past act? that's required in this case? MR. YOUNG: Just -- just to be clear, there is -- I'm talking about something that's tantamount to an injunction, Justice Kennedy. It's -- it wasn't affirmative -- an act -- ordering an affirmative act. JUSTICE KAGAN: But isn't that important, Mr. Young, because usually where we've talked about capable of repetition or where we've talked about the has been generally the case. I -- in my research, I could find very few cases where it wasn't clear to me that this Court was addressing injunctive relief. Hudson itself, it seems to me, did not specifically discuss the entry of injunctive relief in the lower court, and Hudson itself addressed a mootness issue. I mean, if we -- if we talk about these cases in their -- in their strictest sense, the union's notices are all annual. So, by the theory that it becomes moot when those notices expire, or potentially moot when those notices expire, this Court would never address these issues because it would -- I can't imagine Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you make that argument But the -- this Court in Hudson, in -- I the policy, the procedure, the acts as they were one of these cases ever getting up to this Court in as little as a year. believe it was footnote , said that this Court reviews defended in the district court. And the union's policy and procedure and acts here were defended in the district court. And, therefore, cases like this should not become moot, because it is capable of repetition and would be evading review simply by the mere limits of how long these policies and procedures are in effect. in your opposition? although clearly our main point in that argument is that this is a -- a paradigm case of voluntary cessation of allegedly unlawful activity. Until cert was granted in this case, until the Petitioners' merits brief was remains free to impose that practice. something quite different than the capable of returning to old ways, because here we do have a discrete episode MR. YOUNG: It's -- it seems to me, Justice Kennedy, it is implicit in our argument, filed, SEIU was vigorously defending its practice. It JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's another --that's over. And there was no question that, even Official MR. YOUNG: That's -- that's true, Justice JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, they said that it become moot simply because the period was over. though that -- what was it, in -- that the period in -, when the special assessment was in effect, that was long over, but you were -- you were continuing to litigate it. And nobody suggested that it would Ginsburg. Pardon me. This argument -- this argument was not raised until we were before this Court, the union's argument that the case had somehow become moot, and until it issued a notice -- had become moot because they gave you all the relief you requested; so, there was nothing left to the case. Ginsburg, implies that they had complied with the district court's judgment. As to the notice, we believe that they have not, and we believe that's clear because of the very fact that the district court rejected the point for you to move to the merits. Mr. Chief Justice. MR. YOUNG: Well, "all the relief," Justice financial disclosure as adequate. And -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe it's a good MR. YOUNG: Yes, thank you, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you a Official MR. YOUNG: Yes, certainly, Justice JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you attacking the normal system of basing assessments moving forward, MR. YOUNG: I -- I appreciate the question, Justice Sotomayor. No, we are not attacking the normal question about the merits? Sotomayor. based on past accounting and chargeability and non-chargeability? Or are you just attacking the special assessment? Hudson procedures. On -- articulate for me what's -- borrowing a phrase from one of my colleagues yesterday, how do we write this Let's presume for the sake of argument that the union had cost overruns. Labor salaries went up; printing costs went up, not for lobbying; but generally there was a percent increase in their expenses across the board required it. Would you require a second notice in that circumstance? would -- we believe -- pardon me -- that a new Hudson because various contracts that they were involved in MR. YOUNG: Yes, Justice Sotomayor. We notice is required whenever there is a material JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, opinion? When is a second Hudson notice required? Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Articulate that again. MR. YOUNG: A material increase or -- JUSTICE SCALIA: A material new assessment? MR. YOUNG: A material new assessment. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. YOUNG: Yes, Justice -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- we're talking alteration in the obligations that are imposed upon nonmembers. The values that this -- A material change -- increase in general terms, in the obligation imposed upon the nonmembers. In this case, I don't think anybody would dispute the percent -- about money here, right? without regard to the reason for the assessment? I would have to say yes, Mr. Chief Justice. The nonmember -- that -- this may just simply be repeating Justice MR. YOUNG: Yes, we are. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. YOUNG: Yes. Certainly -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Without -- but MR. YOUNG: I think as a matter of principle CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm not sure Sotomayor's question, but if they say we have to raise Official MR. YOUNG: Well, it wouldn't be so much a the assessment percent because, as she said, you know, we estimated the printing costs for the union newsletter, whatever, was going to be this and it turns out they raised it, it's going to be that; so, we know we're going to have to get additional money, for things that are indisputably chargeable, why do you need special procedures in that case? special procedure as a new opportunity to object and challenge the amount of the fee, Mr. Chief Justice. Certainly, one of the elements -- and we recognize, of course, that the primary reason individuals object is political expenditures, but this Court said very clearly in Abood that people can object for any reason, for no reason, for a good reason, for a bad reason; nobody can inquire as to why someone objects. there has been a material increase in the obligation imposed upon nonmembers, they may choose to make an economic decision that heretofore they chose not to make. They may choose to minimize -- particularly the non-objectors. They may choose that they want to minimize the financial obligation that they are paying And certainly when a material alteration --to the union at that time. And -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: It's peculiar because in the circumstance where the extra assessment is all going to go to chargeable activities, in fact that means economically speaking the following year the objector will be better off, not worse off, because there is a higher percentage of the total fee that's being paid to chargeable activities. So, this special assessment that Justice Sotomayor and the Chief Justice were talking about is one that will benefit the objector, if he keeps quiet and says nothing. So, it's a little hard to imagine the frame of mind that would say I need the notice because now I might object, whereas I wouldn't have before. MR. YOUNG: Well, Justice Breyer, the reason for the notice is these people may not trust the union. They -- they may choose to challenge the amount of the fee. I ask you -- oh, are you -- you want to pursue that this example. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Let me give you MR. YOUNG: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: And now I -- but I think I JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, I see that point. Can further, or are we -- Official MR. YOUNG: Yes, sir. JUSTICE BREYER: And normally, under Hudson, see what your answer is. Imagine it's year two. In year one, expenditures broke down so that it was percent chargeable, percent not chargeable. Got that? that means in year two the deal is the objectors pay percent, right? MR. YOUNG: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: In the middle of year two, surprisingly, something comes up. Something comes up. A surprise to the union, and they want to have a special assessment. And you're saying they just can't without going through this procedure all over again? MR. YOUNG: That would be correct, Justice Breyer. The -- I'm now talking about -- they collected? MR. YOUNG: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can they take the money that they collected under the first notice, and, instead of doing the special assessment, in the middle of it, this campaign gets announced by the governor, and can they then divert the chargeable amount that they had JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And take the money that predicted and spend it on the non-chargeable amount? Or Official MR. YOUNG: I understand, Justice Sotomayor. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, this is a is that we're going to take money we already collected from them and spend it for a totally political purpose, we don't give them a special notice and they don't have to object. are you -- or does that require a second Hudson notice? Without a special assessment. And no, under that case, I don't believe it would. peculiar rule that you have asked us to adopt. The rule is that where there is a special assessment and it will make all the objectors better off, they have to have a special notice that they can object. But where the rule which you can confirm, is that's the only administrable system you can think of. going to make them better off? I would -- I would know whether this new assessment is indeed going to be divided the way the original one was or not. They might want to challenge -- Now, that seems totally backwards, but I understand why you get there, and my suspicion is -- MR. YOUNG: That's --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- whether -- whether it's JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you concede that it's assume that that's your principal objection. They don't Official JUSTICE BREYER: Right. But in my hypothetical -- MR. YOUNG: Well, that's exactly correct, Justice Scalia. And I understand -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but the hypothetical, JUSTICE SCALIA: At the very least, they all going to be used for -- for assessable activities or not. And they have no -- you're telling me they have no -- have to make a -- an interest-free loan to the -- to the union until such time as they can challenge it. if I could continue with it, is -- is perhaps unrealistic, but they have bishops and most honest people in the United States, and they've all absolutely guaranteed, and everybody agrees, that this goes to chargeable activity. And where I was going with my question, which you see where I was -- you're with me on this, right? I'm trying to point out and get your response is that you've been forced into this position to create a workable system. Now, why is that workable system one whit better than the workable system we already have, which is all this washes out in a fair manner the MR. YOUNG: Yes, I am, Justice --JUSTICE BREYER: And combine the two. What Official JUSTICE BREYER: They're useful to me. (Laughter.) MR. YOUNG: They are, I'm sure. JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume we wouldn't need a following year, that there is an inevitable year's lag? It doesn't work perfectly, but it's as good as any other, and all we have to say is it's better than yours. Now, why is yours better than that? MR. YOUNG: Well, I recall the bishops from the last time I was here, Justice Breyer. I think they made an appearance then. Hudson notice at all, if -- if bishops affirmed all of these things, right? Justice Scalia. These -- these aren't bishops, and with due respect to our litigation opponents in this case, these are people that nonmembers don't trust. These are people with whom nonmembers do not wish to affiliate. support, and -- this system, and going back to Justice Breyer's practicality, they will get a chance to object. It just (Laughter.) MR. YOUNG: You anticipate my next point, And these are people that the nonmembers do not wish to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem is in -- in won't be at the moment of the special assessment; it Official Isn't that correct? They do get a chance to object; the question is the timing. MR. YOUNG: Then the problem is, Justice Proposition , we're going to take percent as will be the following year. So, when the union gives its new notice, it's going to set forth its chargeable and non-chargeable amounts as audited, and it will say, as it did -- as it's done in the briefs before us, on chargeable. And the union members can come in and give a Lehnert objection, those who want to. Those who don't, know it's happened, and they agree to it. Sotomayor, understanding the -- that? They will get a chance to object then? object after they've already paid the interest-free loan. the first example I gave you. If something happens in already-assessed funds to challenge a election, they can do it. And you said that's okay. the chance to challenge that, but it would be within the the middle of the year and the union needs to divert JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that's true of JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there an answer to MR. YOUNG: Well, they'll get a chance to MR. YOUNG: And the nonmembers would have normal system of ordinary union dues. Official MR. YOUNG: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: And what's now proposed is, We -- we, and I believe this Court in Hudson, presume that any reasonable -- reasonably competent union management would -- would have relatively stable expenditures over the years. JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't -- isn't the premise of Hudson that you give the notice before, before -- you receive the notice before you have to cough up the money? well, for -- if there's an additional assessment, you cough up the money first, and then later you straighten it out. And I -- do you get -- do you get the interest? June notice were left in the dark -- indeed, the union may have been in the dark -- as to this special assessment. But once the union agreed to -- decided to impose the special assessment, the union was required by perhaps it is less predictive, less accurate, to say we intend to spend the money this way. But when you have an assessment which is purely intended for politics, and that's what the union said, to create a Political Hudson's principles to shed some light. You know, MR. YOUNG: That seems to me to be the problem, Justice Scalia. The people who got the June --Fight-Back Fund, that's not, you know -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Do you get -- does your MR. YOUNG: The Hudson notice provides you MR. YOUNG: I think -- I think that would be because of the audit requirement -- JUSTICE BREYER: But am I right in my tell, that's what it will be next year, but -- but Hudson notice tell you about what's going to happen next year? I thought your Hudson notice told you this was the breakdown for the last year, and as far as we can things could change. What does the Hudson notice tell you? with an opportunity to object and some assurance, description of it? a fair description, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do they -- do they carry over from one year to the next, or do you have to refile your objection to the union expenditures every year? require an annual objection. Now, of course, there would be nothing -- we find nothing wrong with an annual challenge requirement if you choose to challenge that year's figures, because obviously it's a specific event. But most unions seem to require annual objection. So, MR. YOUNG: Most unions, Mr. Chief Justice, Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but what MR. YOUNG: But that's not raised in this elections happen every years. So, in the normal cycle of union activities, in an election year they're going to divert more of whatever accessible moneys they have to their lobbying efforts, and the following year they'll go back to normal for years. you have to say again and again: I don't want to pay for your politics. happens -- case. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But going back to the -- forget about special assessments. I think in one of the briefs, I know in one of the briefs, someone says in the -- in the distribution of the moneys, correct? that, too, may vary from union to union, from State to State even. As some of the Justices I'm sure know, is I don't see how that, given your argument, is any less alone than this special assessment where the labor -- where the objecting members at the end of the year will get notice of what has happened that year, Virginia has called for -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, I guess my problem You're not challenging that normal variation MR. YOUNG: Correct, Justice Sotomayor. And Official But I'm not quite sure how this is a MR. YOUNG: Well, we disagree with the will have an opportunity to place their Lehnert challenges and get them ruled upon, and will, as Justice Breyer said, have a benefit because they're going to either pay more if the Lehnert -- pay less if the Lehnert challenges are upheld or pay more if -- if they're not. different loan. union's characterization of its supposed benefit. But I -- Justice Sotomayor, I see my time has expired, and I'd like to reserve a balance for rebuttal. I will try address your question more thoroughly when I stand up again. that what we have suggested to the Court is that the court of appeals decision be vacated, with the consequence of reinstating the district court judgment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why do -- why did CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Collins. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEREMIAH COLLINS Justice Ginsburg is absolutely correct ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. COLLINS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Official matter were new and the then union officers' actions you give up once the case was granted here? You didn't consider that until the case came before this Court. MR. COLLINS: That's correct, Your Honor, and the reason for that is when the events in this were being challenged, the instinct was we're going to defend the case. And, as time went on, there was no rethinking of that situation. When the case was granted here over our opposition, noting that we didn't think special assessments are made? Will they provide notice or will they go back to the old system? belabor the term "special assessment" at the moment, but that the questions presented were really presented, the officers of the union, who are not the ones involved in the original case, thought about the situation and came to the realization that they have no stake in the procedures that are at issue here. This is a local that had never done a mid-year increase in the past. The --what was contemplated as a temporary increase here turned into a permanent increase. The dues went up to . percent of salary a year after this increase ended. JUSTICE ALITO: What does this local, and what will the other locals, do in the future when MR. COLLINS: This local -- and I won't when we get to the merits, I think there's a Official for two reasons. First, when we state that the district court misunderstanding around that, Justice Alito. But this local has put in a procedure which frankly would satisfy the Petitioners' concerns for the future if future conduct was legitimately at issue here. But it is not, judgment be reinstated, that's a judgment that was not appealed by the Petitioners. That defines the limits of what they can attain from this case, whatever this Court may decide, and that decision gives whatever protection it gives against future conduct. Now, it gives essentially none for a very good reason. This was a case, as has been noted, brought only about a one-time event. There were no allegations of an ongoing practice. There was no request for declaratory or injunctive relief to prevent -- Mr. Young's argument, there is a serious dispute about the adequacy of this notice, and it might be a dispute satisfying claims, or it might be a dispute about whether it allowed refunds easily enough, but that Mr. Young is contesting whether the notice complied with the district court's order.about whether it was clear enough, about that it was JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Collins, as I understand Now, as long as that's true, don't we have a MR. COLLINS: No, it doesn't, Justice Kagan. in a posture where this Court, in disposing of it, needs to grant certain relief or clarification of the status of prior orders; and yet, the case is moot on the merits such that the Court cannot appropriately reach the merits. live case before us? Somebody has to answer that question about whether your notice complied with the order, and if it's the case that a court has to answer that question, doesn't that depend on the questions And the Court's explained in a number of cases, beginning I think with Walling v. Reuter and also, obviously, Munsingwear and U.S. Bancorp, a case can be dispute -- and I'll explain in a moment why there really isn't. But if there is a dispute, for example, as to whether an individual failed to get their refund because the notice was inadequate, that dispute is not affected reinstated, then the question of whether we have fully provided all relief called for by that judgment, which we believe we have, would be before the district court by and requires no decision of this Court. If the district court judgment is That's what we have here. If there is a Official presented here, the substantive questions? for decision, unaffected by -- Official people don't. And I guess I'm following up on Justice wayside. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this is not -- this is not an incidental matter. I mean, the whole point of your friend's argument with the Hudson notice is they want people to understand what's happening with the -- their union money. And they say this notice didn't let people know that. And if the case is not moot and if they prevail, they will have a right to be heard on what the notice should say. And that will make a difference in how many people opt out or how many Kagan's question. That's a very important part of this case, what the notice is going to say, and if we accept your view that it's moot, that issue goes by the Mr. Chief Justice, for two reasons: First of all, the district court required a certain kind of notice to be given. We are stating the district court judgment should be reinstated. If the notice we have given does not comport with what the district court judgment, which was not appealed by the Petitioners, requires, it will be provided by the district court. We are -- we are not contesting -- the Petitioners are looking a gift horse in the mouth. MR. COLLINS: I think that's incorrect, Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I don't MR. COLLINS: No, I don't think that's the notice you sent out, the district court doesn't have see how that -- I don't see how that works. The notice is only required by the district court if the case is not moot. If the case is moot by a case on the basis of which to order a different notice. correct, Your Honor. A case can be moot in this Court -- and this is what I believe Munsingwear, Walling v. Reuter, and the other cases, U.S. Bancorp more recently, explain. And, at first, it seems paradoxical, but it is not paradoxical. A case -- there can be remaining issues potentially in the district court, such as whether the check that the plaintiff paid bounced or not, that could potentially have to be resolved by a district court. And it -- but it means, at least in terms of prudential mootness, there is not a substantive merits issue remaining for the court to be deciding. And it's really quite simple. The Petitioners, as I say, are looking a gift horse in the mouth. The apex, the acme, that they can achieve in this case, is what they got from the district court, and it was reversed. We are saying give it back to them. Take back the reversal, reinstate the judgment. Official But let me explain the second point, if I incorrect. The district court said that the notice Whatever they won, they will have. We believe we have already given them everything they want. If we have not, the district court will do that. may, Mr. Chief Justice, which is that there is no legitimate issue here about whether the notice was adequate. Mr. Young stated quite incorrectly that the notice we have provided is the same as the notice the district court struck down. That's absolutely issued before the dues increase obviously did not give specific notice of the dues increase, although it stated that dues could be increased. described the so-called fund and the dues increase, and the purposes of it, was completely adequate. And the notice the district court -- one also has to realize the district court was requiring the union to refund only the non-chargeable portion of activities attributed to this increase. A certain kind of notice would be needed for that to justify how the union was computing what it was saying with the chargeable portion to refund. But what the union has done here is provide greater relief than The district court specifically held, at Petition Appendix a, that the notice, which Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- I want you to MR. COLLINS: Fine. Turning to the So, there's no serious question that the notice that the union sent out, which explained what the the district court ordered. We have refunded every penny that anyone who requests had paid during the increase. increase had been spent on, sufficiently informed individuals as to whether they now want to get back every penny, as we've offered them, of what they paid under the increase. move to the merits. It may be a good time to do that. merits -- union regulations, the new ones -- is it limited to days? I thought I heard your adversary say that the -- can't be a sudden repeal of the new procedure. we think nothing -- our position on mootness is not JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I clarify a point? I thought I heard and maybe I just didn't look at the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I see. MR. COLLINS: But I do want to make clear, MR. COLLINS: It -- no, it has a provision that it can't be repealed without -day notice. There dependent on the Court determining that the new Official happen to know how frequently unions impose special MR. COLLINS: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and what the procedure will be in effect forever. Our position -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what the burden is on a union to give a second Hudson notice whenever there is a special assessment? Meaning do you assessments -- incremental cost is to the union of giving such notice? extensive answer, I believe, Justice Sotomayor, partly because -- wasn't looking to monopolize you. I believe the word "special assessment" is being used here with a meaning that doesn't correspond to what this union did. I can say this much: There's never -- there's been only one other case in any Federal court that I'm aware of, and only in a district court, there's been no other appellate court, dealing with any kind of assessment, a temporary dues increase, and how it affects Hudson rights. So, this is a -- a non-event in the real world. There are -- there are no challenges that have MR. COLLINS: That requires a fairly JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Try to summarize it. I MR. COLLINS: I understand, but I believe -- Official But unions use assessments in two -- in many -- that have been made previously to any kinds of assessments or increases. different ways. And let me contrast one way with what happened here, and I think it will show why there's no serious question here about a need for a notice. Some unions have a dues structure which covers only certain kinds of activities. And they contemplate a new kind of activity that they would not normally pay for out of dues or fees. They say often with -- with a vote, which was not required here. There was -- there was no vote required or taken here of bargaining unit members for what occurred in this instance. to make a kind of expenditure that's really unanticipated. It's not what we normally do with our dues. We're going to put it to a vote. If you approve it, we'll collect it. We'll probably put it in a potential issues, I would acknowledge, under Hudson. It's worlds away from what we have here because all that happened in this case was that the union increased, from percent to . percent of salary, the regular But you may have a union that says: We want segregated fund separate from our treasury. That kind of an assessment can raise Official JUSTICE ALITO: Is it incorrect that this was for what was termed a "Political Fight-Back Fund"? MR. COLLINS: It was -- some union basically to fight back at the bargaining table and to fight back politically. membership dues and the fees based on those dues that were deducted by employers and paid into the union's general treasury -- communications described it as having that sole -- that purpose. The October th letter, which was the most detailed explanation, said it had two purposes, But what's essential, Justice Alito, it was never suggested nor was it ever the case that this money would be in any way segregated or treated as a separate problem here. Basically, Petitioners' position is based on the fallacy exposed in Schermerhorn of trying to take part of a unified general treasury and treat it as if it were a distinct entity, because -- example, and maybe you'll say that this is different from your case and the rules should be different in these two cases. The annual dues for particular -- for members of this union are percent of their salaries, and let's say that amounts to -- or it's a certain entity, so to speak. So, we have the Schermerhorn JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you this Official Now, during the course of the year, the exactly reversed: percent is for non-chargeable; percent is for chargeable. So, now a nonmember who potentially wants to object has $ at stake. Now, in that situation, why shouldn't there be separate notice? Aren't the economic incentives quite different? MR. COLLINS: If I understand the percentage of their salaries, and let's say that amounts to $ annual dues. And let's say that, in the prior year, percent of the money collected by the union was used for chargeable purposes, percent for non-chargeable purposes. So, someone who objected, a nonmember who objected, would be able to get back $. union levies a special assessment or whatever you want to call it, and for this -- the percentages are hypothetical, there could be a problem there if the assumption is then that the union really is beginning a kind of spending that's really foreign to the way it's spent money in the past. Justice Alito, I don't think one would guess from anything that has been said today that we're talking about a period of time when the union's chargeable spending increased and its non-chargeable spending What needs to be explained here, though, decreased. We're talking about a period of time when JUSTICE ALITO: But what if the money is MR. COLLINS: Well, the problem -- it would be a closer question, but I think not, because, again, objecting nonmembers did not even pay their pro rata share of the concededly chargeable expenditures, meaning they did not pay one penny for any political activities. hypothetical may be very different from what happened here, and maybe it's an unrealistic hypothetical; and you can answer that. But if -- if it were to occur, should there not be Hudson notice? it would be caught up in the subsequent year. going to be used for an election campaign? What if it is going to be used to weigh in, in favor of one gubernatorial candidate against another, in favor of one slate of legislative candidates against another? And on those issues, the nonmembers may have very strong partisan and ideological objections. So, why should they not be given a notice at that time -- not to give what would be at a minimum a -- an interest-free loan --MR. COLLINS: It would depend -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- and given the opportunity Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as I said, my MR. COLLINS: Because --JUSTICE ALITO: -- for the purpose of one might be able to say that what is occurring is influencing an election campaign? Justice Alito. I think in your hypothetical, one might be able to say -- there might be more facts needed, but something that could not be anticipated reasonably by the person who got the notice. In this case, however -- and this is crucial to this case -- the notice in told every nonmember that, of our $ million budget, we spent . percent of it last year on non-chargeable activities. And if you do not object, we will spend whatever amount out of our roughly $ million budget in the coming year on various activities as we perceive the need, including specifically ballot initiatives, which were specifically mentioned in the notice as one of the things the union spent its money on. initiative. That's what the literature suggests, that this was not sort of the normal run in the course -- every years, every election cycle, we spend something. That's why it's a special assessment. Now -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your point, though -- this was a very special ballot Official MR. COLLINS: It would depend, MR. COLLINS: Well, I don't -- I wouldn't Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it's not MR. COLLINS: But it's nothing new under the that, in addition to the money that was attributed to the dues increase and spent in opposing these ballot propositions, additional money, approximately $ million, was spent on those same purposes from the pre-increase dues. call it a special assessment if one uses that term as it's usually used, to mean a very short-term assessment apart from general union functions for a new kind of function. short-term; it's just until November th or whatever. sun, Mr. Chief Justice. And we can see that -- for example, the record reflects the audit for shows us nothing new for this union. second -- to go back to Justice Sotomayor. Now, I would like you to see, I think, why she asked the question. at the beginning of, say, September -- say it goes September -- September. September of year two, we look back to year one, and we see what the percentages were. And now we in the union calculate a budget for year two. And we go and get approval or opt-outs on that basis. So, ballot -- opposing ballot initiatives is JUSTICE BREYER: Can you think of for a As I understand it, the way it works now is Official You're making the argument that however you Now -- but there's a new argument that's saying? It's not a special assessment. It wasn't really -- et cetera. Okay. Now, what I thought coming in here is that the problem was going to be, if you have to have a new notice in the middle of the year for special political assessments, you're going to discover that half the time you don't know if they're special political assessments. It's an impossible line to draw. It's really tough. draw the line, we're on the right side of it, not the wrong side. Isn't that what -- basically what you're come along that I hadn't focused on, that we can avoid the administrative problem by saying all special assessments require a new notice, whether they're for political purposes or not. Hence the question that I was trying to get -- I was very interested in your answer. If we had that rule, which avoids the problem of saying which is which, how does that affect the union? Not necessarily yours but unions in general. How often is it that you draw up your budget for year two in September, you put it into effect, and then during the year, you discover you need more money from people for any reason, and, therefore, you change what you thought they were going to contribute? How often, Official if you can give us an estimate -- and you're in a better position than I. Does it happen a lot, rarely, a little? What do you want to say? MR. COLLINS: I -- I --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And a footnote: And if it happens a lot, how burdensome is it? MR. COLLINS: I will get to that, Justice Sotomayor. I have tried to determine how frequent it is, and I've been unable. All I've been able to determine is there's no litigation over it. How often -- and I've been able to determine that so-called assessments take many different forms from -- and I think there are crucial distinctions -- from funding what would -- a kind of charge that would not otherwise be funded out of dues for some short period of time, to the opposite extreme, what we have here and what I don't think would be called an assessment frankly by anything I've read, a temporary dues increase which became permanent and which simply increased the total flow of dues and fees into the general treasury and which went for the usual -- the kinds of activities the union had always funded. And in that regard, there's one -- my question? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you please answer MR. COLLINS: The burden? Official whereas I've been trying to explain the spending that that happened here that is undisputed but hasn't been discussed is that collective bargaining costs were up six-fold in over , and they were up six-fold in over . JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? The burden. MR. COLLINS: The burden consists of two things, Justice Sotomayor. The -- if a union has to give a new Hudson notice in a situation like this, went on is really not different from what one would have reasonably anticipated given the notice, then we have litigation and disputes about the need for new notices whenever any number of things happen, because one thing mean, we're dealing with the situation where the union is compelling nonunion members to give them money for political activities. We allow, as I understand Hudson, as I read it, because you can't figure out what that is, you wait until the end of the year. In other words, Normally, you wouldn't allow it at all, as -- at least under the law as I read it, you would not allow people to take money -- you would not allow the union to take money from people who don't want to spend it on CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One reason -- I it's a compromise for administrative convenience. political activities so the union can spend it on Official additional charge, there you don't have the political activities. But we allow that in the course of the year because it's impossible as you go on to sort these things out. I thought the argument on the other side was when you have a special assessment, an administrative problem. You can tell it's . percent. So, you can't take that until you tell them, do you want to object or are you happy -- are you fine with having this spent on political purposes? MR. COLLINS: The reason, Mr. Chief Justice, that it isn't that straight forward is quite simply that all of these questions about it's a special assessment, we can figure out what it is, we can treat it separately, flounder when one realizes that the because if I were to try to imagine -- let's try to imagine the notice that could have been given. If I was giving a new notice in the fall of to explain to all nonmembers how things look now compared to what was given, I would say the following, completely consistent with all the facts of record in this case as revealed in the audits. I would say: We've determined we need more income. Part of this is because we so-called special assessment is simply a dues increase, they -- how they may have looked when the Hudson notice anticipate $. million in fight-back expenses this Official On the Petitioners' theory -- and this is why Schermerhorn is the complete answer to their year. Another part is we expect more than $-/ million of additional bargaining costs this year, and we expect a lot of other changes in our costs. theory -- there's a constitutional violation if the union says we're going to view this increase as paying for our additional political costs, and it's going to free up our bargaining -- our general treasury for the bargaining. That's a violation. But if you say we're going to treat this increase as covering those new bargaining costs we told you about, that's going to free up our general treasury for the political costs -- this assessment would be used -- and they're quoting from union material -- "for a broad range of political expenses, including television, radio advertising, direct mail, voter registration, voter education, and get out the vote activities in our work sites and in communities across California." And it further said, quote, "The fund will not be used for regular costs of the union such as office rent, staff salaries or routine equipment replacement." CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But on the -- I'm reading from the district court opinion. It said that MR. COLLINS: But two points, Official But, as Schermerhorn points out, that is why -- my point to you, Mr. Chief Justice, is Schermerhorn says even if you specifically say this part Mr. Chief Justice: First, as the court of appeals pointed out, there were other statements that said the money would be used for both purposes. of our dues income is going to be earmarked for this purpose, it's artificial when you're dealing with a general union treasury, not a separate segregated fund, to give that separate legal status. And that -- because nothing in the world would have changed here. JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the -- MR. COLLINS: If -- JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the proponents said, would you please give us an interest-free loan for money because we want to use this money to -- to persuade the electorate to enact these; but don't worry because we're going to pay it back right after the election, when we've achieved our electoral ends. because it's all going to come out in the wash? that question. I don't know. I --of Propositions and had come to the union and Would -- would the union provide the money MR. COLLINS: I -- I really can't answer JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I -- gee, I really Official money back -- we're going to use your money to achieve a doubt that you -- that they would. But what's the difference? If you look at this from the perspective of a nonmember who doesn't want those ballot initiatives to be defeated, saying that we're going to give you your political end that you oppose, but don't worry because we're going to give it back to you next year after we've achieved our political end -- how does that solve the problem? MR. COLLINS: That's not the situation here, Justice Alito. The nonmembers were told in June in the Hudson notice that if you don't object, we may spend millions of dollars on political activities, including ballot initiatives. If a person didn't want to support that, they merely need to object. What then happened -- and this is what gets lost in the messaging about the dues increase. What actually happened in the real world in the period that followed is that, compared to the numbers in the Hudson notice, the union spent less matters. And the only reason there's a case here in the Court is that the union, for whatever PR purposes, whatever it may have been, instead of saying we're going to treat the increase as covering our vastly increased on non-chargeable matters and more on chargeable bargaining costs, thereby freeing up money for politics, Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: It -- it seems to me that we're instead going to describe this increase as being attributable to our political costs, thereby freeing up money for bargaining. But what the union is spending its -- its money on is bargaining. More money -- this answer is -- is so confusing that the Court probably should consider whether or not an opt-in requirement is -- is preferable. I -- we're talking -- in the first exchange, you had with Justice Alito, he question on the constitutional rights of these objecting members.gave you a very simple question: percent and percent. Then, it's reversed. Special assessment for percent political. And the point there was that you're taking someone's money contrary to that person's conscience. And that's what the First Amendment stands against. And you simply wouldn't answer that question. You would -- and then you say, well, maybe that it's --it's fungible, it's hard to -- MR. COLLINS: I won't avoid the -- I don't avoiding -- MR. COLLINS: No, but -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that you're MR. COLLINS: No. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- a very, very critical Official there's a problem. My point is very simple. Anyone reading the believe -- I was not meaning to avoid it, Justice Kennedy. What I thought I said is, if you are springing something on someone that's not anticipated in the notice that gave them their rights to object, then Hudson notice, if that person was asked -- if I don't -- if you -- if I don't object, might the union spend $. million next year on ballot initiatives that I may not want to oppose? The answer would be yes. The notice made it perfectly clear. consider the -- as one factor the importance of ensuring that the governmental employer has fiscal stability? yes, by unions. ultimately a political judgment, so that even collective bargaining involves a core political judgment? MR. COLLINS: And that's exactly what the Court said in Abood. And the reason that exclusivity JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this -- MR. COLLINS: And the person can object. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- by way of background: In collective bargaining negotiations, do the unions MR. COLLINS: That's generally considered, JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, isn't that and agency fees are permitted in -- in serving an Official or different -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you -- you concede, in important government purpose is that the government has concluded that its interest lies in having an exclusive spokesperson who -- with whom it can negotiate so that it won't have an array of different employment relations ordinary collective bargaining, there are critical and important political -- significant political judgments that are being made by the union in the course of collective bargaining with chargeable expenses? MR. COLLINS: Absolutely. And Abood explicitly says that, and Abood then says that, nevertheless, the government -- we're talking about a regulatory scheme to promote the government's interest make arrangements and agreements on terms of employment. It has a vital interest in having an exclusive representational arrangement where that can be accomplished. And that, the Court held in Abood -- and it's not challenged by Petitioners -- that justifies the degree of impingement that's inherent in the fact that, as Your Honor correctly says, all bargaining, particularly in the public sector, has political elements in it.in orderly labor relations. The government needs to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Official Mr. Young, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM J. YOUNG ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS What if the union here had simply said all this additional assessment will go to bargaining MR. YOUNG: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Young, I hope this won't use up much of your time, but I do have a pressing question to make sure that we're just not spinning our wheels here. activities, and then simply used its original assessment, the portion that had been anticipated to be used for bargaining, for political activities? It could do that, couldn't it? MR. YOUNG: It would -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it's not committed to -- to, you know, an -, or whatever the division is, simply because that's what's given out in the first notice. It can indeed use its -- the anticipated portion for bargaining for political activities. Justice Scalia. time? I mean, all the unions are going to do is say this is a general assessment for bargaining purposes, JUSTICE SCALIA: So, why are we wasting our MR. YOUNG: It would be free to do so, Official MR. YOUNG: Because the nonmembers still JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they don't lose it; Justice Breyer said from the beginning, which is, given, as has been recognized, that money is fungible and that you can't really often predict what's going to happen in the future, it's been developed a system that cyclically gets money to the people back. and then use their -- their general funds for the political thing. have that right to challenge, Justice Scalia. they're going to do it the following September. The attractive part of your argument from the beginning was that this is somehow a forced loan. And I understand the attractiveness of that. But it goes back to what degree, Justice Sotomayor -- Sotomayor -- excuse me. And I respect that argument, but let's remember the facts as we have them here. In the facts of this case, it was a segregated fund. There's a separate portion, a it'll never happen again. It'll never again be called a segregated fund for politics. separate line item in the union's notice for both -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So, you win, and MR. YOUNG: And money is fungible to a (Laughter.) MR. YOUNG: I lose, Justice Scalia, and it Official JUSTICE BREYER: No, but the -- the problem And the virtue of the present system is that the other way of getting to the same result, while will happen all the time, I'm afraid. if you win in this case, and then there is this other way of getting to the same -- the same result, is that permissible, is far less transparent. And people won't understand it, and it -- it encourages a kind of slyness that seems highly undesirable. it does require some forced loans, that's true, but it does wash out in the wash, and it ends up being fair to the objectors. And it's simply hard to think of a better system that doesn't provide more administrative problems than the existing one. MR. YOUNG: But -- JUSTICE BREYER: So, that's -- go ahead. MR. YOUNG: And I thank you, Justice Breyer. I'm sorry for interrupting. It -- I understand that, Justice Breyer. And for ordinary union dues, that's why when Justice Sotomayor asked me at the beginning of the argument whether we're challenging the ordinary Hudson system, I answered no, because that system is perfectly adequate for ordinary union dues. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem is that I'm Official being told by your adversary -- and since we don't know, I'm always afraid of writing a decision in a vacuum, okay? MR. YOUNG: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That unions structure their business in a myriad number of ways, that some have a very small due each year and a larger special assessment for special projects. And I assume there's endless variety. You're proposing a rule that every single time an assessment outside of annual dues is imposed, that a new Hudson notice can be given. And you're suggesting, Justice Scalia, that all they have to say is we think it's going to be for chargeable effect. MR. YOUNG: Well, the -- I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly, counsel. MR. YOUNG: Yes, and I thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. friend Mr. Collins is saying that it doesn't happen that often. So, the burden is minimal. Unions have other options than extracting this money from unwitting nonmembers -- interest-free loans, internationals.I'm saying it would -- it would be brief -- and my So, Justice Sotomayor, the answer is that And I thank the Court for its attention. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) counsel. OfficialOfficial A addressed : : able : :, addressing : alteration : :, : : : Abood : : :, : adequacy : : : Amendment : : adequate : : amount : : : :, : : :, : above-entitled : : absolutely : administrable : : administrative : : : : : adopt : adversary : accept : accessible : accomplished : : amounts : : : announced : annual : : :, : : : : answer : : :, : : : : : : :, : : approval : approve : approximately : argument : :,, :, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : arrangement : : :, :, : : assume : : : assumption : assurance : attacking :, : attain : attempting : attention : attractive : attractiveness : : arrangements attributable array : Article :, articulate : audit : : attributed : : : : : affirmed : afraid : : answered : asked : agency : : : agree : : anticipate : : : artificial : : advertising : affect : : affiliate : affirmative : : accounting : accurate : accurately : achieve : achieved : : : : acknowledge : agrees : ahead : : acme : act : :,, agreed : agreements actions : activities : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, activity : : : : AL : Alito :,, : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : allegations acts :, Adding : addition : additional : : : : : :, : address : : allegedly : allow :, :, : allowed : already-assess... audited : audits : avoid : : : avoiding : avoids : aware : a.m : : : B B : back : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, background : backwards : bad : balance : ballot : :, : anticipated : asserting : : : : assessable : assessment : :, anybody : apart : apex : apologetic : appealed : : appeals : appearance APPEARAN... appellate : Appendix : : appreciate : appropriately : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :,,, : : :,, : : : :, : : :,, : : :,, :, assessments : : : Official :, : : : Bancorp : : bankroll : bargaining :,, : :, : :, :,,, : : : :, :, : : Breyer's : : :, :, : brief : : :, : : :, Briefly : : :, briefs : : :, : : : basically : based : : broad : broke : brought : budget :, : : basing : : : basis : : burden : beginning : : : : :, : behalf :,, : : : belabor : believe : : :, : : : : : : :, : : benefit : :, better : : : : :, : : bishops : :,, board : borrowing : bounced : breakdown : Breyer :, :,, : :, : burdensome : business : CC : : calculate :California ::call : : called :: ::campaign :: :candidate :candidates:capable :: :,carry :case :, : :,, : : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :,,,, :, :, :, : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : :, cases :, :, : : : caught : caused : cert : certain : : : : : : charge : chargeability : : chargeable : :, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : check : Chief :, : :,, :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : certainly : : : : : :, cessation : cetera : challenge : : : chose : : : :, : Circuit : : : : : : :, choose :, challenged : : challenges : : : challenging : : chance : :,,, change : : : : changed : : changes : characterizati... circumstance : : claim :,, : : claims : clarification : clarify : class :, clear :, : : : : clearly : : closer : colleagues : collect : collected : :, : : collective : :, : : Collins : : :,, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : combine : come : : :,comes : :,coming : : committed : communicatio... communities compared : : : : compelled : compelling : competent : complete : completed : completely comport : compromise controversy : convenience concededly : concerns : concluded : conduct :, correspond confirm : confusing : conscience : Official :,,, : :, :,, : : : : : : : courts : court's : : : : : : : : covering : : covers : create : : critical : : crucial : : cure : cycle : : cyclically : DD :damages : : : :dark :,days : : :deal :dealing :,: ::decide :decided :deciding :decision :: ::, : decisions :declaratory ::declined :decreased : dismiss : disposing : deducted : dispute : defeated : defend : :,, defended :, :,, defending : disputes : distinct : defies : defines : distinctions degree : : : demand : depend : : : dependent distorting : distributed : distribution : : : : : :, determining determined : describe : described : detailed : determine : : : description :, district :, :, :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : : : divert : : : developed : divided : division : DIANNE : difference : doing : dollar : dollars : different : :, : : doubt : :,,, draw :,,: : due : : : : :, : dues : : : :,: : :, : : :, direct : :,,disagree : :,, : disclosure : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : discover :, discrete : discuss : discussed : D.C :,: : contracts : contrary : contrast : contribute : : contributing : : core : correct :, : : : :, : : : correctly : cost : : costs : : : :,, :,, : : cough :, counsel : : : :, course : : : : : : court :, : :, : :, : :,, : : :, : :,, :, :, : : :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,, :,,,, :, : : : complied : : : : complies : comply :, : : computing : concede : : : consequence : : consequences : consider : : : considered : consistent : consists : constitutional : : constitutionally contemplate : : : contemplated : content : contesting : context :, : : continue : continuing : E : :, earmarked : easily : economic : economically : : essentially : : estimate : estimated : et : : evading : : education : event : effect : : : : events : everybody exaction : exactly : : : example : : : : : : : : : efforts : either : : electing : election : : : :, : elections : electoral : exchange : electorate : exclusive : element : elements : : : employed : employees : excuse : exclusivity : : : :, employer : employers : employment :, enact : encourages : ended : endless : ends : : ensuring : entered : entity :, entry : episode : : equipment : existing : expect :, expenditure : expenditures : : : : : : expenses : : : : expire :, expired : explain : : : : : explained : : : explanation Official extensive : extent : extra : extracting : extreme : F fact : : : : : factor : facts : : : :, fail : failed : : : : fair : : : fairly : fall : fallacy : far : : : favor :, Federal : fee : : :, fees : : : : : fight :, fight-back : : : : figure : : figures : filed : financial :, : : : find :, : : fine : : first :, : : : : : fungible : :, further : : future :, : : :,, : G G : gee : general : :, : : : :, : : : generally : : : getting : :, gift : : Ginsburg :, : :, : :, : : give : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, given : : : :, : :, : :, : : : gives : : :, giving : : go : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : fiscal : flounder : flow : focused : followed : following : : : : : : : footnote : : forced : : : foreign : forever : forget : forms : forth : forthright : forthrightly : : forward : : frame : frankly : : free : : :, : freeing : : frequent : frequently : friend : friend's : fully : function : functions : fund : : : : : : : :, funded :, funding : funds : : ESQ :, : : :, essential : explicitly : exposed : : goes : : : : going :,, : : :, happening : happens : : implicit : implies : importance : : : hear : heard : :, : : happy : hard : : : :,, :, : :, : :, : : : : :, :,, : held : : :,, :,, :,,, : : :, : higher : highly : honest : Honor : : heretofore : good : : : : : government :,,, governmental government's : : governor : grant : : granted : :, greater : guaranteed : : guess : : : H half : happen : : : : : : :, : : happened : : :, : hope : horse : : Hudson : :, : :,, : : : :, :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : hypothetical :, : :, : I ideological : III :, imagine : : : :, impingement gubernatorial Hudson's : Official : important : :, : : :, impose : : : imposed :, : : impossible : : : inadequacy : inadequate : :, : : : incentives : incidental : including : : : income : : incorrect : : : influencing : information : informed : inherent : initiative : initiatives : : :, : injunction : :, :, : injunctive : :, : injury : inquire : inquiry : instance : instinct : insult : intend : intended : interest : :,, interested : interest-free : : : : : incorrectly : increase : internal : :, : :,,, International :,,, :,, : : : : :, :, : increased : interrupting internationals involved : : : : : : : : : increases : incremental indisputably : : individual : individuals : : inevitable : : involves : issue : : : : : : issued : : issues : : : : item : it'll :, JJ : :, : :January : JEREMIAH : : : judgment : : :, : : : :, :,,: :: :, :, : : : :, judgments : June :, : : : Justice :, : :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :,, :, :, :,,, :,, :,,:,,, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,,, :,, :,,, : :,:, : :,,,: :, :,,,:,, :,,:,,, Official : kinds :, know : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :,, : : :,, :,,, :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, :, Knox : : : : : :, :,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, :,, : lag :language :larger :Laughter :: :law : : left : : labor :: ::Llegal :legislative :legitimate :legitimately: Lehnert : Justices : justifies : justify : K Kagan :,, :, :, : :, : : Kagan's : keeps : Kennedy : :, : :, : :, : :,, : kind :,,, Mmail :main : making : management :,, length : letter : let's : : manner : : :, : : massive : material : :,,, :, : levies : lies : light : limited : limits : : line :, : matters : literature : litigate : matter : : : : : mean : : : litigation : : : : : :, little : : meaning :, : live : : living :, loan : : : : meaningful : means : : : : members : : : : : loans : : : : : : : lobbying : membership : : : local : : mentioned : mere : merely : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, : moneys : : monopolize : months : moot : :, :, : :, : :,,: :,:,,:, : locals : long : : : : : look : : : : : looked : looking : : : lose :, lost : lot :, : million : lower : mid-year : mootness : merits : : : : :, : :, messaging : met : morning : middle :, motion : mouth : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : millions : mind : minimal : minimize : : minimum : minutes : misunderstan... : moment : : : money : : :,: :,: : : :, : move : : moving : Munsingwear: : myriad : NN :, : nearly :necessarily:necessary :need : : : :: :: ::needed :: Official never : : notice : : partly : pasted-on : pay : : :,, : :, : paying : : payment : peculiar : penny :, : : people : : : :,, : :,, : : :, : : perceive : percent : : : : :,, : : :, : :,,, : : :,, percentage : : percentages: : perfectly : : : period : : : :,: : permanent : : : permissible : permitted : person : : :,person's : perspective : persuade : Petition : needs : : : : negotiate : negotiations : : : : :, nevertheless : new : : :, : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : : newsletter : Ninth : : nominal : : : : nonmember : : :, : : nonmembers :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : normal :, : :, : : normally : : : : :, :,, objected :, :, : objecting : noted : : : opposing : : : opposite : opposition : : opt : : options : opt-in : : ordered : : order : : objection : : :, : : : : :, : : objects : : : : objector :, opt-outs : oral : :, objectors : : :,,, : :,,, :,, : objections : opt-out : : :, :,, :, : :,, : : :,, : obligation : :,, : : :, obligations : :, :, :,,, :,, :, :,,, occur : :, : occurred : : :, occurring : : : :, :, October : offered : : :, office : :, : :, : officers :, : :, : : : : obviously :, orderly : orders : ordinary : : :, : original : : : outside : overruns : : : : : ordering : : : P :PAGE :paid : : oh : okay :, : : : : old : : Pnotices :, : : noting : November : nonunion : number : non-chargeab... : : : non-chargeable : : : :, : : : non-event : non-objectors : numbers : O O : : object : : :,, : :, : :, : : : once : : ones : : one-time : ongoing : operates : opinion : : opponents : opportunity : : : : : oppose : : :,:paradigm :paradoxical:,pardon ::part : : : :: :particular :particularly: :partisan : Official pursue : : : : : : put : : : : : : : Petitioners : posture : potential : potentially possible : : :, : possibly : : :, :, : : : : : phrase : phrased : place : : plaintiff : please : PR : practicality : :, : : practice : : : predict : problems : procedure : : : : : : : procedures : : : : process : projects : promote : point : : predicted : proponents predictive : preferable : proposed : premise : present : presented : : proposing : questions : :, : Proposition : : Q really : : : : :, :, : :, : question : : reason :, : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :,,, : : : : : : : : : reasonable : reasonably : : : reasons : : rebuttal : quiet : : : quite : : recall : : : receive : : : recognize : : : quote : quoting : R R : radio : raise : : raised : : : range : rarely : rata : reach : read : : :, reading : : : real : : realization : realize : realizes : recognized : recognizes : record : : refile : reflects : refund : : :, refunded : refunds : refuse : regard : : regime : registration : regular : : regulations : regulatory : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : pointed : points : : policies : policy : : :, political :, :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, :,, : : :, :,, :, : politically : politics : : : : portion :, :, : position : : : : : : : preserve : pressing : presumably presume : : : prevail : prevent : previously : pre-increase : primary : principal : principle : principles : printing : : prior : : pro : probably : : problem : : : : : : : : :, propositions : : : protection : provide : : : : : : provided : : : : provides : : provision : prudential : public : purely : purpose : : : : : : purposes : : : :, : : : : : : reinstate : reinstated : : : reinstating : rejected : relates : relations : : relatively : : relief :, requirements :, : requires : : : : requiring : research : reserve : resolved : respect : : : Respondent :, : : : :, : result :, resulted : : : : response : remain : remaining : rethinking : : : remains : remember : Reuter : return : returning : : rent : repeal : repealed : repeating : repetition : : : replacement : represent : representatio... : represented : request : requested : requests : require : : revealed : reversal : reversed : : : review : : reviews : right : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : rights : : : : :, ROBERTS : : : required : : : :,, : : : :, requirement :, : :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : Official : roughly : routine : rule : :, : : : ruled : rules : run : SS : : sake :salaries :: ::salary ::satisfaction :satisfied :satisfy :satisfying ::saying :,,: :: ::,,:, : :says : : : :: :,:scale :Scalia :,:, : : :,:, : :, : :,,:,,:scheme :Schermerhorn:, : :,second :,segregated : : : : sector : see : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : single : sir : sites : situation : : : :, : six-fold :,slate : slyness : small : sole : solve : Somebody : seizure : sense : someone's : sent : :,, sorry : : : : : :, SEIU : : : : : : SEIU's :, :, : : : separate : : : :, : : separately : September : :,,, : : serious : : : Service : : serving : set : : share : shed : short :, short-term : : : show : : showing : shows : side :, : significant : simple : : : simply : : : : sort : : : Sotomayor: :,:,,: : :, : : :, : :,:, : :, : :,,: :,: :,:,,:, : : Sotomayor's: so-called : : : speak : : speaking : special :,,: : : :, : : : :, : stating : :,, : :, status : :, : : :, : : :, : :,,, :,, : :, specific : stays : straight : straighten : strictest : strong : struck : structure : : : specifically : submitted : subsequent : : : : : :, : speculative : speech : spend : sudden : : : :, : sufficient : : : : : substantive : sufficiently : suggested : : : spending : :, : : suggesting : spent : : suggests : :, : suit : : : : summarize spinning : spokesperson : : sun : support : : : Springfield : Suppose : springing : stability : stable : staff : stake : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : : : : : : : : surprise : surprisingly : suspicion : system : : :, : : : stand : stands : starting : state : : : : stated :, statements : States :, Official : : : :, :, TT :,table :take :,: :: :: :,:taken :talk :talked :,talking :: :: :,: :tantamount:television :tell :,, : :, telling : temporary : : : term : : termed : terms : : : : : thank : : : : : :, : theory : thing : : :, : things : : : : :, :, think :, : : : : :, : try : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : Tuesday : : : turned : : :, :, : Turning : : trying : : : : : thoroughly : thought :, : : :, : :, : : time :,, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : timing : today : told : : : : : total : : totally :,tough : transparent: treasury : :, : :, : treat : : : : treated : tried : true : : : : : trust : turns : two :,,: : : : :, : : : : : type : :, : typical : U:::ultimately :unable :unaffectedunanticipatedunderlying :understand :: : : : :: :: :: :: :,understanding:undesirable:undisputed:unified :union : : : :,,:, :, V::vacated :v : : : : :, U.S : : : : : :,, : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, : : :,, : : :,,, :,, :,, :, : : : : :, vacuum :valid :values :variation :variety :various :vary :vastly :view : : vigorouslyviolation ::::unions :, : :, : :, : :, union's : : : : : : : unit : United :, : universe :, unlawful : unrealistic : : unwitting : upheld : use : : : :, : useful : useless : uses : usual : usually : : Virginia :virtually ::: virtue : vital : voluntary : vote :,, : voter :, W wait : Walling : : want : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : wants : wash : Official :, : washes : work : : Washington : workable : : :, wasn't : : worked : works : : : : wasting : way : : : : : : : : :, : world : : : worlds : worry : : worse : : : ways : : wouldn't : : : : : : wayside : weigh : went :, write : :, : writing : wrong : : :,, : : :,: :, :,,, : : :,,: :,: :, : :,:,,,: :,:,,,:, : : :,: :, : :,:,,:, : : : :,,,,: :,: :,:,,Young's : we'll : : : we're :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : :we've :,: :: : wheels : whit :WILLIAM ::, : : win : : wish :,wishy-washin... :won : : wonderful : word :words : : W.T : Xx :,Y$$ :$ :$-/ :$. : : $ :$ :$ :year : : : :,,: ::, :, :,, :,,, $ :: :, $ :: :,:,,:,, : : :, : : : years : : : : year's : : : : . :. : : : : ::, : - : : : : : yesterday : :Young : : : :: :,, : : Official - : :,, :, : : : -day : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : - : : : :, : : : : : : : th : : : : , : : : : . : : : : th : :, a : : : : : : 