Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Wednesday, January , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x DANIEL COLEMAN, : :: No. - COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND, : ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: MICHAEL L. FOREMAN, ESQ., University Park, Pennsylvania; JOHN B. HOWARD, JR., ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, for Petitioner. Baltimore, Maryland; for Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. FOREMAN, ESQ. JOHN B. HOWARD, JR., ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. FOREMAN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FOREMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, of Appeals of Maryland. Mr. Foreman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. FOREMAN CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Coleman v. The Court The propriety of any section legislation is judged by in reference to the historical perspective that it reflects, and that historical perspective is very clear in -- and it's set very clearly by Congress history of State-sponsored gender discrimination. And those -- that discrimination embodies gender-based stereotypes that took a very firm hold in the employment area, where women had difficulty obtaining employment and holding employment. And this Court in a litany of cases recognized these gender-based stereotypes as -- as an improper assumption about women's abilities. issue that women's mission were to be women -- to be wives and mothers; Stanton v. Stanton, that women were and by this Court. It -- it is an unfortunate, long and may it please the Court: In Frontiero v. Richardson, it rejected this Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Foreman, I guess MR. FOREMAN: And it was directly attempting and the history of gender discrimination, whether to be the homemaker and men the breadwinner, and -- the question in this case is what this particular statutory provision has to do with gender discrimination Congress was aiming to eradicate gender discrimination through this provision or whether it was trying to do something else entirely. to address these gender-based stereotypes in a couple different ways as a practical matter. At that time, when an employer saw a woman, they didn't necessarily just see a worker. They saw a person that could become pregnant, and worked on these gender-based stereotypes, that that woman would either become pregnant, would be disabled because of pregnancy-related disabilities but, in any event, was a least -- least attractive employee. addresses that specifically in its purposes section. It specifically says that is intended to promote the equal opportunity for women and men pursuant to the Equal Protection Clause. provision, Congress made it very clear what they were And the Family and Medical Leave Act But more specific to the self-care attempting to do. If you move to the "findings" Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where are MR. FOREMAN: I am reading from Appendix A to the brief, and it is -- that employment standards That's the negative inference argument that section, first, in finding number , they address -- you reading from, counsel? that apply to one gender only have a serious potential for encouraging employers to discriminate against employees and applicants of employment who are of that gender. we make in our brief. But even more to the point, if you move to the purpose sections at appendix , page appendix , it specifically is intended to minimize the potential for employment discrimination on the basis of sex by ensuring generally that leave is available for eligible medical reasons, including maternity-related disabilities and for compelling family reasons, and to ensure equal protection under the law. seeing how providing weeks of leave for self-care for both men and women affects the incentive of an employer who we will assume has an inclination to discriminate against women based on the possibility that a woman Justice Kagan's question, I have -- I have difficulty applicant for employment may become pregnant. I just JUSTICE ALITO: Well, following up on Official MR. FOREMAN: The rationale of Congress at right? Okay. So, we're just dealing with (D), several different ways. They -- and they passed (A), don't see how that would affect the incentives of -- of an employer in that situation. that point was that they could have addressed this issue (B), and (C) -- the birth of the child, the adoption of the child, and the Family and Medical Leave Act -- against -- again, addressing gender-based stereotypes. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, (A) is not at issue, which concerns a serious health condition. So, you have an employer who is willing to discriminate on the basis of gender. The employer has two applicants for well, if I hire the man, he might take weeks of leave for a serious medical condition, and if I hire the woman, she might take weeks of leave for a serious medical condition which might be something that either men or women could get, or it also could be a sickness related to pregnancy. an incentive for this hypothetical employer to discriminate against the woman.employment, a man and a woman, and the employer says, So, there still is -- there still would be MR. FOREMAN: But one of the things Congress MR. FOREMAN: It affects the incentive by and women weeks of leave for self-care affects the is an employer, if you just have (A) through (C), can look at an employee and, based upon gender stereotypes, would make the assumption that the women, because of historically the role they were required to play, would be taking all the leave under (A) and (B) and (C). And so, why would I even hire that woman in the first place? tried to do is to take that incentive away. what I'm -- I understand that, and it's a worthy objective. I just don't understand how giving both men incentive. providing -- it becomes the equal opportunity employer. It evens the -- the ground. And the way it would do it less often than men, do they? something to both sides of the balance, and it doesn't affect the employer's incentive. The employer still -- the -- the hypothetical discriminatory employer would still say, well, women are going to be caregivers more often; so, I'm -- I'm going to not hire that person. JUSTICE KAGAN: But women don't get sick MR. FOREMAN: No, absolutely. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, you're just adding Official JUSTICE ALITO: How does it do that? That's MR. FOREMAN: But under (A), (B), and (C) Official MR. FOREMAN: There is nothing in the record JUSTICE KAGAN: And that's why (A), (B), and (C) go to the problem, but what does (D) have to do with after the Family and Medical Leave, an employer would look and say both men can take these now. And I think we need to step back -- it? If you assume that both men and women get sick at an approximately equal rate -- maybe you don't assume that -- but if you do, it doesn't seem to factor into the employer's incentives in any way. that demonstrates that there's a differential rate between the self-care rates for men and women. But the perception was that women, because of pregnancy, because of pregnancy-related disabilities, would in fact take more leave. And so that I would look at a woman as an employer and say she will become pregnant, she will take leave, she will be disabled. However, with (D) now, but the man can take a -- a disability leave on the same basis. would happen immediately, but by the -- what would happen is, with the application of family and medical leave, at some point men would be taking (A), (B), and (C), and, in fact, women and men would be taking family And the hope of Congress was not that it and medical self-care leave. I just -- Official trying to open up caregiving for both sexes. But you have answered the question that said there is this close association of women with JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Foreman, I think everyone has been trying to get you to focus on the health care sickness leave alone, and in the -- in the portions of the Act that this Court upheld, the Congress children; we think it's going to be good for everybody if fathers recognize their responsibility for elderly parents, sick children, sick spouse. So, we -- we can see the rationale, trying to change the stereotype, women and men get sick; there's no -- there's no disproportion. So, how do you tie that, just -- just that part of the Act, where there -- there isn't the obvious association of women with childbearing? So, we extend the benefit to men so they'll be associated with child care. There isn't that same link here, is there? MR. FOREMAN: I think it is the same linkage trying to address -- it's addressing a difference there, but it's addressing the linkage that women will in fact take pregnancy-based leave or pregnancy-based disabilities and, therefore, are less attractive, less -- employees, and that's what self-care was intended to do. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, you're saying -- let me Official MR. FOREMAN: Absolutely, Your Honor. And employer who thought women are going to take more family just make sure I understand. You're saying that the -- that Congress is thinking that an employer actually does think that women take more sick leave because women get pregnant. And just as Congress was thinking about the leave, you think Congress was thinking about the employer who thinks women are also going to take more sick leave because of pregnancy? in response to Justice Alito's question -- and I'm sorry if I gave a confusing response. There are two separate ways of addressing that. You can look at self-care as a stand-alone provision, without (A), (B), and (C). Congress passed just self-care. In that case it would be responding to exactly that type of gender stereotype, and weeks would be a congruent and proportional response. The other way to look at it is that's not the way Congress passed the bill. They passed it as a comprehensive response with (A), (B), and (C), and hence (D) then becomes a bit of an equalizer to take away this negative incentive that only women would take (A), (B), and (C). So, there's two separate ways that this Court can get to the same conclusion, and that Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have any evidence two things? Is there anything in the record that conclusion is that this is a congruent and proportional response to gender-based discrimination. that Congress in fact was thinking about either of these suggests either of those two theories? MR. FOREMAN: Yes, there -- there is, Your Honor, and let me -- let me take the negative inference first, because I think looking at the statute as a was parental leave without medical leave would encourage discrimination against women of child-bearing age, who constitute approximately percent of all women in the workforce. Employers would tend to hire men, who are much less likely to make this claim. passage of -- and this would be on page of our merits brief: "A law providing special protection to women or comprehensive makes sense -- is it was introduced -- and I'm reading from page . It's referenced on page of our brief, that starting in , National Women's Political Caucus testified, quote: "My primary purpose is to stress that parental and medical leave are inseparable. In the words of the old song, 'You can't have one without the other.'" And the point she then later on to explain Fast forward to at the time of the Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, I -- I take statements repeatedly by many congresspeople, there appears to be -- have been a dual motive for this provision. They were, in fact, engaged in the question of discrimination against pregnant women. That was recognized in Hibbs, and that's clear. any defined group, in addition to being inequitable, runs the risk of causing discrimination." The FML addresses this by addressing the needs of all workers, avoids this risk. The FMLA is based on the guarantees of equal protection. So, it addresses that aspect of -- it addresses that aspect. your argument, but if you look at the legislative record, the reports, the findings, et cetera, and the provision, they were also concerned about economic effect that -- that happened to everyone, men and women, who became disabled. And so, they appear to have had dual motivation. Part of the bill was gender-related; bill, where Congress may have been expanding the benefits it's giving to people, not solely because of gender discrimination, but because of this desire to part of the bill seemed to be disability-related. What do -- how do we judge that kind of But with respect to this particular address disability discrimination? responsive to gender-based discrimination, then how families and that families are -- benefit should not be used to undermine the fact that Congress indeed was acting pursuant to one of its broadest powers, section of the Fourteenth Amendment, and, therefore, that their -- their considered judgment is a congruent and proportional response. think the way you judge it is rely on what Congress's expressed findings and provisions are. And to the extent this Court makes a determination that the FMLA is Congress chose to address that is congruent and proportional. The fact that Congress may also have had other motives, that there was a concern with -- with reflective of a fact that this covered both governmental employers and private industry. So, there was reference to Commerce Clause type of -- of analysis, which my colleagues raised repeatedly in their brief. But the court -- the Congress needed to do that because they were regulating private employment but, at the same time, recognized to the extent that we are -- are going to regulate State-based conduct. Part of -- part of the findings is clearly Official MR. FOREMAN: Justice Sotomayor, I -- I JUSTICE ALITO: Well, with respect to the Official parte Young action here that would be made -- able to be made consistent with the Commerce Clause, under the Commerce Clause? Commerce Clause, could I ask you this: If we were to disagree with you on the Fourteenth Amendment and hold that it -- that Congress didn't validly abrogate State sovereign immunity with respect to subsection (D), would your client still be able to seek reinstatement or other injunctive relief? MR. FOREMAN: Justice Alito, I think what you're -- and you'll clearly correct me if I am wrong, but I think what you are responding to, is there an Ex And the answer is -- and I know that both Justice Kennedy and Justice Rehnquist, I think, in one of his dissents, pointed out in the Family and Medical Leave Act that the employee may not be left out in the dark because there is an Ex parte Young claim. as you sought damages. I -- I think you also sought reinstatement and other equitable relief, but the district court dismissed it completely. MR. FOREMAN: That's right. JUSTICE ALITO: But you're not contesting A couple points on that -- JUSTICE ALITO: Here the district court completely dismissed your FMLA claim, not just insofar Official damages. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because this is for money MR. FOREMAN: Pardon? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because this is for money MR. FOREMAN: We're not contesting it dismissed based upon Eleventh Amendment immunity. But if I could try to respond to your that, are you? consistent with any Ex parte Young claim. What the district court did was say the claim is totally question more specifically, this Court has never as a Court held that Ex parte Young type of action is available in this type of claim. Assuming that it -- damages. Ex parte Young was just injunctive relief. of the State against money damages. MR. FOREMAN: Correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not Ex parte Young. MR. FOREMAN: Correct. But as -- as you pointed out in your dissent in Hibbs, that Ex parte Young may be available, but one of the concerns we have is, again, that the Court -- as a majority, the Court has never held that. I believe that is in fact the correct interpretation of the law, that it would be The Eleventh Amendment primarily protects the treasuries available for injunctive relief. However, the Court has Official JUSTICE ALITO: You said "in this case." That's basically what I'm asking. If we were to dismissal of your claim, insofar as you sought never defined the parameters of what an Ex parte Young action really gives a plaintiff, and that becomes very important in this case. disagree with you on the Fourteenth Amendment, are you asking us simply -- would we then simply affirm the Fourth Circuit? Or would we have to -- would we have to make some accommodation for the possibility that the injunctive relief, may have been improper? that accommodation, but, with respect, Your Honor, I think that would be an incorrect approach. And here's -- here's the reason why in Ex parte Young, a perfect example -- little bit helpful to you. And I -- and I apologize. JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What relief did you ask for? Damages, we know, and the -- you have to overcome the Eleventh Amendment. Injunctive relief, you don't, (Laughter.) MR. FOREMAN: And apparently I missed that, MR. FOREMAN: I think you would have to make JUSTICE ALITO: I am really trying to be a Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I'd go with Justice Alito MR. FOREMAN: If that's your reading of it, MR. FOREMAN: In the complaint itself, it but did you ask for it? does not ask for injunctive relief pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act. JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you -- MR. FOREMAN: There were combined claims -- JUSTICE ALITO: I thought you did, but maybe I'm reading your complaint more generously than you read it yourself. here. we will certainly accept your reading. such other and further relief. MR. FOREMAN: But, again, back to the Ex parte Young, in the case Nelson v. The University of Tennessee -- Texas, a -- the case that dealt with -- exactly with this issue of abrogation of Eleventh Amendment immunity, and they found that there was valid abrogation of Eleventh Amendment immunity, the State of Texas -- then the court was required to address the Ex parte Young issue. And the State of Texas argued that (Laughter.) JUSTICE GINSBURG: You must have asked for Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, Congress must have thought that giving the woman back her job was an reinstatement is not an appropriate remedy under Ex parte Young and that -- while the Fifth Circuit ultimately rejected that, that is an argument that employees would have to face: What are the parameters of Ex parte Young? And, more importantly, that is not the remedy that Congress in their considered judgment believed was the appropriate remedy to address gender-based discrimination. important part. I mean, I thought the whole idea is she wasn't supposed to be fired. So, I think that the -- the relief, the non-monetary relief, is certainly important. MR. FOREMAN: It is extremely important, but Congress did not stop there. Congress decided it needed to take one step further and there needed to be monetary relief. And I think Mr. Coleman's case illustrates exactly why. were supposedly guaranteed him under the Family and Medical Leave Act, and indeed under a State law, and the State of Maryland fired him, and he is out of work. And what is the disincentive for the State to not do the same thing the next time if the only thing that you can Here Mr. Coleman exercised his rights that Official to mitigate, try to find another job. What's an employer to do? And Congress said Family and Medical Leave Act attempts to fill those voids, and one of those voids is try to provide a monetary incentive so that the State of Maryland and private employers will in fact comply with the law. get is possibly injunctive relief prohibiting them from doing that in the future and maybe reinstatement or years down the line? Employees at that point cannot put their lives on hold. They have a duty to go out and try there needs to be more. We passed Title VII to try to address gender-based discrimination, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, but there were still voids. And the concerned about a disincentive to hire women, but the Pregnancy Discrimination Act makes that unlawful. So, if an employer decides I don't want to hire women of the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, isn't it? MR. FOREMAN: That is, Your Honor, but the Pregnancy Discrimination Act did not fill the other gap which the Family and Medical -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you -- when you --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say you're child-bearing age, that is an out-and-out violation of JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you're relying on the Official pregnancy. to provide -- incentive -- the disincentive to hire women of child-bearing age. The law protects the woman of child- bearing age by saying, Employer, you can't refuse to hire her, promote her, and all the rest because of MR. FOREMAN: It -- well, what the Pregnancy Discrimination Act provided was that you needed to treat pregnancy-related disabilities as you would other short-term disabilities. So, if an employer decided not JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm just asking you about -- your -- your argument rests on an employer acting unlawfully, you see. He won't hire -- we have to give them medical leave, to everyone, because otherwise the employer won't hire women. And that's -- the question I'm asking is, you are assuming that the employer will break the law by refusing to hire women that -- of child-bearing age? Coleman as an example of why Congress could have made a determination that monetary relief would be appropriate in the Family and Medical Leave Act. a large extent depends -- or you say Congress did this JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I -- your argument to MR. FOREMAN: I don't want to make that assumption in my incentive argument. I was using Mr. Official though it's unlawful? MR. FOREMAN: I -- I don't think that was MR. FOREMAN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that -- that because they wanted to eliminate or at least reduce one kind of discrimination against women in the job market. discrimination was refusing to hire women of child- bearing age. Well, they couldn't do it out and out because that would be a violation of the law. So, is Congress having in mind discrimination that is under -- under the radar screen, that it's going to go on even Congress's intent, and that that's not what was reflected. I think, again, they were trying to address it on two separate levels: one, the gender-based discrimination, the gender stereotype that women simply become less attractive; and in the broader statute, to prevent the negative inference so that all -- that ultimately where we would get in society is the ability to take pregnancy-related leave, other leave, would not be viewed as a negative inference running against women, and, therefore, women ultimately would become a nonissue. reserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. And I see the light's on. So, if I could JUSTICE GINSBURG: Need go no further? I'm sorry. I -- I didn't --and may it please the Court: In order to affirm in this case, the Court MR. HOWARD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN B. HOWARD, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS need go no further than to distinguish Hibbs, and we think Hibbs is readily distinguishable. And I'd like to highlight four principal -- MR. HOWARD: I'm sorry, Justice Ginsburg. Need go no further than simply to distinguish Hibbs. And we think there are at least four distinctions that we'd like -- I'd like to highlight today. The first is one that's -- Justice Kagan, your question goes to, which is subsections (A), (B), and (C) are all related in some fashion to women's roles with respect to work and family. Subsection (D) really does not speak to would point to -- JUSTICE KAGAN: If I could just -- MR. HOWARD: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- stop you there, Mr. And I think my second sort of distinction I Official Mr. Howard. that purpose. Official So here, employers think of women as needing more medical leave because of pregnancy, and the MR. HOWARD: Congress, Justice Kagan, did Howard, for a second, as I took from Mr. Foreman something that I hadn't understood from his briefs -- maybe I just missed it -- which is that he's making a kind of analogous argument, that, just as in the -- in the prior provisions of the Act, employers thought of women as caregivers and the response of Congress was to provide a gender-neutral leave benefit that had both -- that both women and men were eligible for. response of Congress is to provide gender-neutral sick leave. So, what is your response to that argument? not I think take that stereotype or perception that Mr. Foreman referred to into account. And I'd specifically point the Court to page of our brief, where we cite some Bureau of Labor Statistics studies indicating that men and women at the time took roughly the same amount of sick leave. In fact, Mr. Foreman has conceded as will take roughly the same amount of time after the enactment of the FMLA -- was -- there was certainly much conversation and much. And that same study projects that men and women testimony that, whether they in fact took the same JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there certainly Official likely to take the time. amount of leave time or not, that women who were pregnant or were perceived as capable of getting pregnant were hired less frequently because, subjectively, the employers thought that they were more So, frankly, for years there was questions about whether law firms were hiring young -- not hiring young women because they feared they would leave in the middle of a big case or something else. We all know those stories. So, it is sort of common knowledge in many ways, but there was plenty of testimony related to that. perception, because it was supported by the record or as Where does that leave your argument? MR. HOWARD: Well, I would make a couple of points in response to that, Justice Sotomayor. First, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act was already in place. employers might discriminate based on pregnancy disabilities, that would be unlawful under Title VII as amended by the Pregnancy Discrimination Act. much of the record as Hibbs recognized as adequate. And so, to the extent there were perceptions that So, assume that that was Congress's And the fact that -- and you are quite right that there is a fair amount of discussion in the Official as a type of illness. But we again would note that this is valid legislative record, although I think it's less of a predominant theme than the concern for job security for working families, but there certainly is discussion about pregnancy discrimination and pregnancy disability Commerce Clause legislation. And so, to the extent that kind of discrimination was occurring and leave was being denied or women were suffering adverse consequences in the workplace as a result of pregnancy discrimination, they could enforce the weeks through a Title VII action. Pregnancy Discrimination Act says that you have to treat pregnancy like any other disability. So, if they're not giving anybody any leave for anything, they don't have to give any leave; not weeks, not day. And that's what -- that's the gap that this legislation fills. It says, yes, you do have to provide leave for women who have disabling conditions, including pregnancy, but then you have to give that to men as well. You can't reserve that for the one sex. So, it was the gap in the Pregnancy Discrimination Act that this -- this was referring to. MR. HOWARD: Yes, I agree, Justice Ginsburg, JUSTICE GINSBURG: They couldn't -- the Official served as prophylaxis for Title VII but not for JUSTICE ALITO: Assume for the sake of but the gap that existed was the absence of a guaranteed period of leave. In other words, it was the absence of a substantive entitlement, and so -- to a certain amount of leave. And, in effect, the gap that was being filled constitutional violations. Now -- argument that for the -- the applicants for particular provisions -- particular positions, I should say -- could argue that that is connected with eliminating pregnancy disability discrimination. It's also connected to the purposes of (A), (B), and (C). I think that the principal reason why employers do view where the applicants are typically of a certain age, men tend to take less sick leave than women, because women also take sick leave for pregnancy-related illnesses. So, giving everybody weeks eliminates the -- the possibility that women -- women who will be -- want to take additional -- will want to take more sick leave will be fired because they exceed the amount of sick leave allowed by the employer for everybody. Now, isn't that connected to eliminating discrimination in employment?potential hires as -- when they're women, as likely to MR. HOWARD: Justice Alito, I think that one Official fired -- that may -- at least for applicants within a take a lot of time off I think goes more to the family caretaking provisions, and I think that's largely reflected in the record. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't think -- I have difficulty with the incentives argument either -- honestly, either as to (D) or as to (C). But I'm just talking about the -- an argument based on consequences. If an employer says you get weeks of sick leave, period; after that, if you can't come back, you're certain age range, that may have a much more severe or a more severe impact on women than on men. think what -- the answer, and what I was going to say was that what you are describing is a disproportionate impact on women disability. And, of course, if States were engaging in this kind of conduct or if there were a disproportionate impact, that would not state an equal protection violation under Washington v. --JUSTICE ALITO: What would the answer to that be, that that's not intentional discrimination? MR. HOWARD: Yes, Justice Alito, and I MR. HOWARD: That would certainly be part of as a result of assumptions concerning pregnancy JUSTICE BREYER: Why are you separating four Official things? I mean, I've heard, it seems to me, three separate rationales. One, the easiest, is in (D) itself. Sometimes a woman could have a miscarriage, and of course she has to stay home. And that isn't covered by (A), (B), or (C). So, we cover it in (D), you know. And then we put the men in too because we don't want to make this incentive just to not hire women. That's one. The second one was the one Justice Ginsburg brought up, that there is a gap in the pregnancy law which won't work unless you have to give people some medical leave. So, here it is, (D). And the third one, which I think was related to what Justice Alito just said, is when -- you have to read it together to understand the third one. You get weeks all together. All right? Now, that means, once you put in (D), this Act will have less of a bad effect. The bad effect of the Act is if you protect the women, then the -- the employers say, well, we're not going to hire women, perfect; we have to give them leaves; we'd have to give the men -- terrible, it's a terrible disincentive. disincentive. And the way you do that, you say weeks overall. And now look what happens. A woman wants to take, say, weeks to look after her family, and she But then they worked out how to lessen the Official (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: Now let's think of the man. gets separately sick, more weeks. But how many does she get? Answer: Twelve, right? Twelve. You could answer that part. Let's think of the man. The man would like to look after the family, say, for weeks. And he gets sick weeks. How many weeks have we got? MR. HOWARD: Ten. JUSTICE BREYER: Ten. Thank you. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. HOWARD: I like these questions. JUSTICE BREYER: So -- perfect. So, now the employer is sitting -- and it will work with other numbers. I don't rely on those alone. Without this Act, he's got a woman who is going to be out of there -- I mean, with the Act -- see, unless we put in four -- unless we put in the fourth part of it, we have a woman who's gone for weeks and a man who's gone maybe for but maybe for zero, okay? Maybe for . (Laughter.) MR. HOWARD: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: But now look what happens. Official And so, the comparison there -- and it will We have three different rationales. All of there is very different. And the comparison doesn't -- With the Act, the woman's gone for , the man's gone for . You see? work with whatever numbers you want. The comparison doesn't totally erase the problem with the woman, but it may reduce it to a size where the Act itself will no longer act as such a disincentive to hiring a woman. them are related to a serious problem, which is the problem of discrimination against women because the employers think they'll be home more. And so, you see the conclusion I'm drawing? Yes, okay. So -- so, where are we? MR. HOWARD: Well, let me speak first to the second one, the concern about the gap. The gap that is filled by the weeks is -- is a -- is to provide a substantive entitlement. And when it permits a claim, a damages claim enforceable against a State treasury, it provides an entirely -- it requires a different justification than simply to fill a gap with a substantive entitlement. It becomes -- one package. I think that's what Justice Breyer was getting at. But just suppose that Congress wanted to JUSTICE GINSBURG: The idea is it's part of Official attended to. Now, what leave policy would say, okay, to improve conditions for the -- in the job market for women, which I think it's fair to say was the motivating force behind this Act, and they also wanted to protect families so that sick children, sick spouses are do that, we will have leave when a spouse is sick, a child is sick, a parent is sick, but not when the worker herself is sick? Without -- it's all part of one package which is designed to increase job security for women and increase protection for their families. So, I don't think you can slice off (D) from the other three. MR. HOWARD: Justice Ginsburg, I think you can separate (D) on the same analysis that this Court case. In Lane, of course, different sections of the same Antidiscrimination Act required different analysis -- analyses and reference to different parts of the record. There was a single over-arching purpose, to disabilities, but the operation and effect of the particular claim requires a different analysis. As Justice Stevens said, the Court is not required to evaluate statutes as an undifferentiated whole.applied in Tennessee v. Lane, in contrast to the Garrett JUSTICE BREYER: No, it doesn't have to, of prevent discrimination against persons with Official suddenly the ratio from the point of view of the course. But the whole point of the question that I was asking was, sure, what helps you by doing it separately is it helps your case. But if we look at what Congress was trying to do, they were trying to do it as a whole. That's my point that I want you to answer. And they're trying to do it as a whole because, no matter what numbers I use, if I look at it without (D) -- is it (D)? Yes, (D). If I look at it without (D), the ratio will disfavor the woman. And if I look at it with (D), employer of the disadvantage of hiring a woman over -- over hiring a man -- it goes way down. And that helps women. And that is why, I think -- reading this and listening, a major reason why they put in (D) as part of the other, because working with that -week limitation and the whole rest of the statute, we now have a statute that doesn't defeat itself. We now have a statute that actually can achieve the end of leading employers to not discriminate against women. Not perfectly, but there's a big improvement. And that's the -- that's the argument I'm making. You have to read it as a whole to see that. And that's what I -- I wonder if there's an answer to that. Of course, I'm at the moment thinking there isn't Official MR. HOWARD: Well, with respect to the JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if Congress had an answer to it, but I asked the question because I want to hear what you say. ratio, I think the premise of that point is that women will take more leave for serious health conditions than men. And I don't think that's borne out. And, you know, Mr. Foreman has recognized as much. So, I don't think the ratio really changes. added three additional subsections here and said that an employer has to provide weeks of unpaid leave so that an employee can go to a health spa, weeks of unpaid leave for -- so that the employee can travel, weeks of unpaid leave so that the employee can take an Now, that -- those could be taken advantage of by either men and women. It makes both men and women increasingly unattractive as employees and, therefore, reduces the any special disincentive that might have Now, on that same logic, would those be -- would those be provisions that further the elimination of discrimination based on gender? accepted the premise, and we don't, that women take more been created by (A), (B), and (C). educational course? MR. HOWARD: I -- I think even if one Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought Justice Alito was trying to help you. JUSTICE BREYER: He was. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He was. JUSTICE BREYER: He was -- he's absolutely (D). This is -- in fact, has two independent reasons, that all -- the miscarriage reason and the Pregnancy Act reason. And so, it isn't just saying go to a health spa. leave for health conditions, that would further dilute the ratio, to have available all those types of leave. Now, I thought, for example, one could imagine -- right, and that's why this isn't a health spa thing, there anyway, because -- but I would appreciate your going on with this discussion in respect to what Justice Alito and I have been talking about, and I'd be interested in what you think. MR. HOWARD: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I'm working from a different proposition than you are in response to this question. I don't think that the actual amount of time that men and women take is relevant. The question is: But I mean, I don't want to put arguments in your mouth, which I just have, which you wouldn't like What is the employer's perception, and did Congress have Official MR. HOWARD: I -- I think that if -- even if because I think the overwhelming themes in the then there was also concern against discrimination against persons with illness. a valid basis, as Justice Kagan pointed out earlier, to believe that employers thought women took more time? that were correct, and -- and I don't think it is legislative record as a whole really were a concern for working families, whether single-income, double-income, and the concern that if a breadwinner falls ill, the family's going to have severe financial insecurity. And But I think that one thing I'd like to emphasize is that your -- your suggestion, Justice Sotomayor, and -- and really almost all of the good social policy. We support it. But I don't think that we've really gotten anywhere near the necessary predicate of unconstitutional State conduct when the constitutional right is defined with some precision. right as -- as disability. And I think also the protections that the Pregnancy Discrimination Act already had in place, when added with the substantive -- to the substantive entitlement, as a matter of Commerce discussion here today, I think, explains why this is And I -- and I think one has to define this Clause legislation, to this leave -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the State of JUSTICE ALITO: But you can waive. Can't you waive your -- your Eleventh Amendment immunity? MR. HOWARD: We could, I believe. MR. HOWARD: Well, that's a good question, and I think we're here mainly on -- we need to defend Maryland thinks this is good social policy, why is it asserting its sovereign immunity? this on principle. number of your opinions, the exercise of the section power alters the Federal-State -- That's this Court's -- without waiving immunity, right? It's a matter of legislation. there -- back to the discussion before about how (D) relates to the others? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you can provide this, the kind of relief that's sought here, MR. HOWARD: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Who do you think MR. HOWARD: Yes, I think that's right, and CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I just get As, Justice Kennedy, you've pointed out in a benefits most from subsection (E), men or women? That's Official MR. HOWARD: I assume -- and I haven't JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was that -- that wasn't part of the original Act, was it? MR. HOWARD: No, it was not. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so, it was -- that based on the demographics of the military, it's like -- the one about armed services obligations at the time the law was passed. studied the history of that, but I assume that, just likely that there are more men in -- in service deployed and that more women and wives benefit from that provision. was -- the concern was a discrete concern for veterans. package that was the Family/Medical Leave Act. or here today. JUSTICE KAGAN: And, Mr. Howard, I -- I do think that the point about the package is that if you look at (D) alone, when you abstract it from everything else, you have a good point, that it seems to be related MR. HOWARD: Yes, and --JUSTICE GINSBURG: In that part. MR. HOWARD: And we have not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: It wasn't part of the MR. HOWARD: No. And we are not suggesting that. We haven't raised that as a point in our briefs Official But when you look at (D) as passed at the women do as workers, then (D) assumes a different kind of aura. to economic security, which is not a section issue; that it seems to be related to discrimination against sick people, which would also put us in a different legal universe. same moment on the basis of the same record as (A), (B), and (C), with the overwhelming purpose of Congress being to protect women from discrimination in the workplace because of unfair stereotypical -- views about what And you can talk about a number of theories for that, but I guess I would just ask for your -- your reaction to that, that (D) is just part of a package which was about telling employers: Get rid of your old stereotypes. Don't act on your old stereotypes. Employ women. MR. HOWARD: Well, I -- I would respond in part -- and I'm going to accept your proposition that I package. But from the standpoint of States, subsection (D) provides a separate claim, a separate basis to sue States, and we think that claim is incongruent and disproportionate to any conceivable unconstitutional should discuss these provisions as part of a single conduct that it might prohibit. Official And I think this is borne out in the case So, I -- I would really emphasize, in law. We've surveyed the Federal cases that we could find under subsection (D). Only two involve pregnancy-related disabilities. Only one of them alludes in passing to headaches arising from pregnancy along with other stress-related conditions. But -- but all of the others really have to do with men and women benefiting from this leave for -- to care for a serious health condition. response to your question, that one could look at it as a package, but from the standpoint of States, it's a separate and independent claim, and it's an extraordinarily broad one. And it is not necessary, not simply because Pregnancy Discrimination Act claims are available, but, Justice Alito, there are Ex parte Young claims available. case at the Joint Appendix pages to , the amended complaint reveals that injunctive relief was sought, albeit -- and on page is the prayer for relief. It's -- it's not clear whether that relief is sought under Title VII or FMLA or both. But the reason why I don't think -- the claim fails separate and apart from any sovereign immunity argument. Of course, Ex parte In -- in response to your question, in this Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's some focus in MR. HOWARD: Yes. There is discussion in job security for them. That wasn't the only group of women, but certainly that -- that affected the -- this Act as it came out, didn't it? Young is not -- does not protect on that ground. the legislative history particularly on the -- the family that has a single parent -- much more often a woman, not a man -- and the devastating impact on that family of the woman getting sick, the sole breadwinner getting sick. So, that was certainly an -- a problem for families with -- with only one breadwinner. And Congress was focusing on those women and wanting to have the record of the disproportionate impact that you say. But what -- what is left out -- well, it -- it is found in other parts of the record that -- the relevant -- legislative record here? Is that a closed record, the way a record of a case is? MR. HOWARD: I -- I am not sure I understand The relevant comparison, we think, is not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that a closed record? MR. HOWARD: Yes. The -- I'm sorry, yes. The record of -- before Congress. JUSTICE SCALIA: You're talking about the the question. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I just find it a strange The -- the relevant comparison we think is about is legislative history. MR. HOWARD: I misspoke. I do mean the MR. HOWARD: Oh, I -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- when what you're talking expression to talk about "in the record" -- legislative history. not between single-parent families who were JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's a question of how Congress would do it. If they -- if they provided only for the woman who's the single head of the family, then that would be vulnerable under equal protection because they didn't provide it for men. as this Court's cases have emphasized, a widespread pattern of unconstitutional conduct in the part of predominantly women, but between working families where it could be two parents with a single income, man or woman; it could be a family with two incomes, but neither one can be lost. So -- and in any event, I think we're talking now about a disproportionate impact, which -- which would not state a -- an Equal Protection violation. MR. HOWARD: I think one would need to find, States. And I think the circumstances, Justice Official how do we remedy that? MR. HOWARD: Well, I -- I don't think by JUSTICE GINSBURG: So, the leave is a remedy for the problem. I think there's really not much MR. HOWARD: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then the question is Ginsburg, that you've described, do not flow from unconstitutional State action. They have their roots in other socioeconomic causes. So -- disagreement about the problem, that there is gender discrimination in the job market. providing the -- the very sweeping remedy of (D), which -- I see that my light's on. May I -- may cover the types of concerns you referred to, but I -- I would emphasize this is a disproportionate, incongruent remedy. It subjects States to far more Amendment should permit. Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Foreman, you have minutes remaining.suits for unrelated health conditions than the Eleventh sentence. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can finish your MR. HOWARD: We think that the remedy in (D) REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL L. FOREMAN Official ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FOREMAN: This is not responsive to disability-based discrimination. The findings and the purpose of the Family/Medical Leave Act make it clear that it is responsive to gender-based discrimination. Hibbs, in fact, found that the FMLA was in response to gender-based discrimination. In making that finding, they did not differentiate between the different leave provisions. And, indeed, if you move to Chief Justice Roberts, I think your question about the military leave portion of the FMLA illustrates that -- what Congress was doing here when they added pigeonhole it into -- this is section legislation. In the circuits at that time, there was considerable debate as to whether that could be justified as proper abrogation of immunity --Tennessee v. Lane, where Justice Rehnquist dissented, drawing distinctions between disability-based discrimination and sex-based discrimination, stated that the task of identifying the constitutional right at issue in the Family and Medical Leave Act was an "easy" one. And that was his word, "easy." It's responsive to gender-based discrimination. that almost years later, they did not simply try to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think it Official provide damages. dealing with -- with subsection (E)? Do you think that MR. FOREMAN: Yes, it should, because -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How? MR. FOREMAN: -- it was passed pursuant to a would be -- MR. FOREMAN: I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think it would be -- how would this case come out if we were should be treated separately than the prior ones? different constitutional power, and they provided in fact a different remedy, recognizing that the -- the Commerce Clause could not -- that Commerce Clause was the appropriate way to deal with this, and they provided a right of action by the United States in order to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If -- if we think that you should look at these provisions separately, where with respect to (D) -- and I'm looking at one of our prior precedents -- has Congress unequivocally declared its intent to abrogate sovereign immunity? MR. FOREMAN: As to -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unequivocally. Not on the basis of implications from -- from how the other provisions work. But if you do look at (D), is there any place where Congress unequivocally declared its Official In terms of my colleague's attempt to distance this case from Hibbs, in all due respect, we Medical Leave Act. And if you go to U.S.C. , intent to abrogate State sovereign immunity? MR. FOREMAN: Well, I -- I think it -- yes, Your Honor. It's in -- they provide that the State is an employer for purposes of coverage of the Family and where it says a public entity is covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act, then -- that damages are available. It -- it specifically includes "State." think that Hibbs did the heavy lifting here. It is the same legislative purpose. It is the same constitutional right. It is the same statutory scheme. As this Court -- MR. FOREMAN: But you do, Your Honor, and that's the -- that's the discussions we had earlier, that it's response to gender-based discrimination, the stereotypes that pregnant women will take leave. And the answer you gave to my request depends entirely on a conclusion that (D) is linked to (A), (B), and (C) because, otherwise, you don't have the argument that it's precisely relief with respect to a discrimination under the Fourteenth Amendment. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but your --so, we think (D) would stand alone. But as the Official gender-based discrimination. above-entitled matter was submitted.) Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the discussion today indicated, we think the appropriate way is to treat this as a comprehensive whole responsive to gender-based discrimination and do as you did in Hibbs, find that it is a congruent, proportional response to OfficialOfficial :,, : :, : : :, : : : : arguments : arising : armed : asked : : asking :, :, : aspect :, asserting : associated : association : : assume : : : : : :, assumes : assuming : : B : : : :, :, :,, :, : : : : : back : : : : : bad :, balance : : Baltimore : based : : : : : : : : basically : basis : : : : : : : bearing : : behalf :,, : : : : : assumptions assumption : believe : : : believed : benefit : : : : attempt : : A abilities : ability : able :, above-entitled : : abrogate : : address : : : : : : : : : addressed : addresses : : : abrogation :, : addressing : :, : absence :, : absolutely : :,, : :, :, : analogous : analyses : analysis : :,, answer : :, : : :, : : answered : Antidiscrimin... : : abstract : accept : : adequate : adoption : anybody : advantage : anyway : adverse : affect : : apart : apologize : : accepted : accommodation affirm : : apparently :, age : : : account : achieve : act : : : :,, : Appeals : : : : appear : APPEARAN... : appears : appendix :, : : agree : aiming : : : AL : : : albeit : :,,, : :, Alito : : : : : applicant : : :, applicants : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :,, : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, :, : acting : : action : : : : : : actual : added : : : adding : addition : additional : Alito's : allowed : alludes : alters : amended : : : : Amendment area : : : argue : :, : : :, argued : : : : argument : :,, :, : : : amount : : application : attempting : applied : apply : appreciate attempts : attended : Attorney : approach : attractive : appropriate :, : : : approximately : : aura : available : :,, : :, : avoids : a.m : : : B benefiting : benefits : : big : : bill : : :, birth : bit : : borne : : breadwinner : : :, break : Breyer : :,,, : : : :, Official brief :, :, : : briefs : : broad : broader : broadest : brought : Bureau : C C : : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : capable : care :, : caregivers : : caregiving : caretaking : case : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, cases : : : Caucus : causes : causing : certain :, : certainly : : :, : : :, cetera : change : changes : Chief :, : colleagues : colleague's : combined : come : : : : :,, :,, :, : Commerce :,, : : : :, : : : :, child :, : : : : childbearing : : children :, child-bearing : : :, chose : Circuit : : circuits : circumstances : cite : claim : :, : :, : :, : :, : : claims : :, Clause : common : comparison :,, : : compelling : complaint : : : completely :, comply : comprehensive : : : conceded : conceivable : concern : : : :,, :, concerned : : concerning : concerns : : : : :, : : : :, conclusion : : : : condition : :, : clear : : : : : clearly : : : client : close : closed :, Coleman : : : : Coleman's : : : : : : conduct : : : : : confusing : Congress : : : course : : : :, : : :, :, Counselor : : : :, couple : :,, : : :,,, : :,, : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, court :,, :,,, : : : : :,:,,,,: : :, : :, : congresspeople : Congress's : : : Court's : : cover : : congruent : coverage : covered : : :, : : : connected : created : :, consequences: : considerable : considered : : consistent : : constitute : constitutional : : : : : contesting : : : correct : :,,: counsel : : : : DD : : : : :: :: :,,: :,:,,,,,: :: :,:, : :, : : :,damages ::,,: :: :DANIEL :dark :day :deal :dealing ::dealt :debate :contrast : conditions : conversation Official decided : : disability-based :, : : : :, : : : effect : : : : : :, : employer's : distinguish : emphasize disability-rela... dismissal : dismissed : : disabled : : : disabling : disadvantage : : : : disproportion : disproportion... :, : : : : : : disagreement dissent : dissented : dissents : discrete : discriminate : distance : : : distinction : : distinctions : :, : : discrimination :, :,, : :, :,,, : : : distinguishable :,,, : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, :, : : dual :, due : duty : D.C : Edoing : : discriminatory double-income drawing : : : : : district :, : discuss : discussion : : : : : : : discussions : disfavor : disincentive E : :, : :earlier ::easiest :easy :,economic ::educationaleither : : :, :, : elderly : Eleventh : : : :, : : eligible : : eliminate : eliminates : eliminating :, elimination : embodies : : : : emphasized : Employ : employee : : : :,, employees : : : : : employer : : :,, :, :, :, :, :,, : : :, :,, : : : : : : employers : : : : :, :, : : : : : employment :,, : :,, : : : enactment : encourage : encouraging : enforce : enforceable : engaged : engaging : ensure : ensuring : entirely : : : entitlement : :, : entity : equal :, : : : : : :, equalizer : equitable : eradicate : erase : ESQ :, : :, et : : evaluate : evens : event : : everybody : :,evidence : Ex :, : :,,, :, : : :,:,exactly : demographics disagree : : decides : declared : : defeat : defend : define : defined : : : demonstrates : : denied : depends : : deployed : Deputy : described : describing : designed : desire : determination : : devastating : difference : different : : :,, :,,, : :, : :, differential : differentiate : difficulty : : : dilute : directly : disabilities : : : : :, : : : disability : : :, : : : : example : : : exceed : exercise : exercised : existed : expanding : :, family's : Family/Medical : : far : fashion : Fast : fathers : feared : Federal : Federal-State : explain : explains : expressed : expression : Fifth : extend : extent :, : : : : fill :, extraordinarily : extremely : F face : fact :, : : : :,, : : :, : : : : factor : fails : fair : : falls : families : : : :, : : :, filled : : fills : financial : find : : :, : finding : : findings : : :, : finish : fired :, : : firm : firms : first : : : : : : : flow : FML : FMLA : : : : : :, Official : : : :, : :,, :, : :,, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :,,, :, forward : found : : : four :, : : Fourteenth : : : : fourth : : frankly : frequently : Frontiero : further : : :, : : : future : G G : gap : : : :, : :, : Garrett : gender : : :, :, : : : : : : : gender-based :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, gender-neutral :, gender-related : : ground : : group : : guaranteed : : guarantees : guess : : H : General : generally : generously : happen :, happened : getting : happens : : :, Ginsburg : : :, head : headaches : : :, : :, health : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : hear : : :,,, heard : : : heavy : :,, give : : held :, : :, help : helpful : : helps :,, gives : giving : : Hibbs : : :, : : : : : : :, : go : : :, : :,, : : : goes : : : going :, : :, : : : : : : : : good : : :, : gotten : governmental highlight : : hire :, :, : :, : :,,, : :, hired : hires : hiring :, : :, historical : : historically : history : : focus : : focusing : following : force : family : : : :,, : : : : :, : Foreman : : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : :, Official inseparable insofar : : : intended : : : intent : : : intentional : interested : interpretation : introduced : involve : issue : :, :, : : JJanuary :job : : : : : : ::JOHN : : : Joint : JR : : : judge : : judged : judgment : : : : : : hold : : : holding : home : : homemaker : honestly : Honor : : : : :, hope : Howard : : :,,, : :, : : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, :, : :,,, : : :,, :,, : :, hypothetical : : I idea : : identifying : ill : illness : : illnesses : illustrates : : imagine : immediately : immunity : : :, :,, : : : : impact :, : :, : implications : important : :,, importantly improper : : : improve : improvement : incentive : : :,,, : : :, : incentives : : : inclination : includes : including : : income : incomes : incongruent : : incorrect : increase : increasingly : : independent : : indicated : indicating : industry : inequitable : inference : : :, injunctive : :, : : : : : insecurity : L : : large : largely : : :, :,,, L : :, : :, : :, : Labor : : :, Lane :,:, : : :, :,, :, : Laughter : :, : : :,:,,,,, : : :, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,,, : : justification law : : : : : :,: : : : : leading : leave : : : :,,:, :, :,,,:, :,, :,,: :: ::, : : :,:, : :, : :,,:,,,:, : : :,:,,,:, : : :: :,,: :,:leaves :left : : legal :legislation ::, : : :legislative :: : : : justified : KKagan : : : : : : ::,,: ::Kagan's ::,,:kind : : : :: ::know :: :: :knowledge:Justice :, : Kennedy ::,, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :, : Official : :, : lessen : let's :, levels : lifting : light's : : maternity-rel... monetary : objective : : : : obligations : Park : : matter : : money :, obtaining : : : : : morning : mean : : mothers : : obvious : occurring : Oh : : : : motivating : okay : : motivation : : oral : :, particularly necessary : order : : parts : : original : need : :, out-and-out : : : : : : part : : : :, : : :, : : : :,, :,, : parte :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, particular : : :, : passage : passed : : :, : : : : passing : pattern : Pennsylvania : people : : : perceived : percent : : : : perceptions: perfect : : : : : : old : : : once : ones : open : operation : opinions : opportunity : : overall : overcome : overwhelming : : over-arching : P P : package : page : : :,, : : : :, perception : :, : : : N N :, : National : limitation : means : line : medical : link : linkage :, linked : listening : litany : little : lives : logic : long : longer : look : :, :, : :, : : :,, : : : : :, motive : : :,, motives : mouth : :,, :, : move : : : : :, : : : : : :, men :, : near : : :, : necessarily : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : merits : MICHAEL : :, : : needing : needs : : negative : : : :, lost : lot : :, : needed : looking : : neither : Nelson : never :, : nonissue : non-monetary : M middle : military : : mind : minimize : minutes : major : majority : making : : : man :, : :,, miscarriage : : : : : : missed : man's : market : : : : mission : misspoke : mitigate : moment : : Maryland : : : : : : note : number : : parameters : pages : : numbers : : : O O : : : perfectly : period : : Pardon : parent : : permit : parental : permits : : person : : persons : parents : Official perspective : predominantly : : : : :, : proposition : : Qquestion :: :: :: :: :: :,: :,: :: :questions ::quite :quote :RR :radar :raised ::range :rate :,rates :ratio :,:, : rationale : : rationales ::reaction :read : : :readily :reading :,: :,: :really :,: ::,,:, : reason :: ::, : reasons :,:REBUTTAL: : recognize : recognized : : : : : recognizing: record : : : :,: : : : : :,:,,,: : reduce : : reduces : reference :: :referencedreferred ::: referring : reflected : :reflective :reflects :refuse :refusing ::regulate :regulating :Rehnquist ::reinstatement:, : :rejected ::related :: : : :: :relates : relevant ::, : relief :, : : Petitioner : : :, : : pigeonhole : place : : : : plaintiff : play : please : : plenty : point : : : : : : : :, : : :,, pointed : : : : points : : policy : : : Political : portion : portions : positions : possibility : : : possibly : potential :, : power : : powers : practical : prayer : precedents : precisely : precision : predicate : predominant pregnancy : : : : : : propriety : protect : :,, :, : :,, :,,, :,, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : protection : protections : pregnancy-ba... protects : :, : : : : : : : pregnancy-rel... provide : : :, : : : : : : : pregnant : : : : : : :, : provided : : :, premise :, provides : prevent : : : primarily : primary : principal : : principle : prior : : : : private :, problem : :,, : :, prohibit : prohibiting : projects : promote : : proper : prophylaxis : proportional providing : : : : provision :, : : :, : provisions : : : : : : : :, public : purpose : : : : : : : purposes : : : pursuant : : : : put : :, :, : Official sickness : : sides : simply :, : : : : : single : : : :, single-income single-parent : : sitting : situation : size : slice : social : : society : socioeconomic : sole : solely : song : sorry : : :, : : specifically : : : : : : spouse : : spouses : stand : standards : standpoint : : stand-alone : Stanton :, starting : state : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, stated : statements : States :, : :, : : : : State-based : Statistics : statute : : :, : statutes : statutory : : stay : step : : stereotype : : : : stereotypes : : :,: : : : : sort : : Sotomayor : State-sponsored: : :, : result : :, : : :, reveals : Richardson : : : : :,, : rid : right : : : sections : : : security : : : : see : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : :, :, : seeing : seek : : : self-care : rights : risk :, : : : Roberts : : : : : :, :, : :, sense : :, : :,, : : rely : : relying : remaining : remedy :,, :,,, : : repeatedly : : reports : request : required : : :, requires : reserve : : : respect : : : : : : : : :, respond : : Respondents : : : responding : : response : :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : responsibility : responsive : :,, : rest : : rests : sentence : separate : : : : : :, : : separately : : :, separating : serious : : :, : : : served : service : services : set : severe :, : : : : : :,, : sought :, : : :, sovereign : : : : : sex : : sexes : sex-based : short-term : sick : : : :, :, :, : speak : :,, : :, :,,,,, : :, specific : special : : : : spa : : role : roles : roots : roughly : : running : runs : SS : : sake :saw :,saying : : : :says : : :, : :SCALIA :: :,scheme :screen :second :: ::section :: : : : : Official stereotypical : Stevens : stop : : stories : strange : stress : stress-related : studied : studies : study : subjectively : subjects : submitted : : subsection : : : : : : subsections : : substantive : :, : : suddenly : sue : suffering : suggesting : suggestion : suggests : suits : support : supported : suppose : supposed : supposedly : Supreme :, sure : : : surveyed : sweeping : T T :,take :, : :,,,: :,,:, : : : : :,: :,:, : : :,: : : taken : talk : : talking : : : :, task : telling : Ten :, tend : : Tennessee : : : terms : terrible : : testified : testimony : Texas :, : : Thank : : : : :, : : theme : themes : theories : : thing :, : : things : : : think : :, : :, : : : :,, :, : : :, :,, :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :,, :,, : : :, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :, : thinking :, : ::thinks : : third :,thought ::, : : :: :,:three : : : :tie :time : : : :: :,:, : : :: :Title : : : ::today :: ::totally : : universe :travel : treasuries : treasury : treat : : : :unlawful :University ::: treated : tried : try : :,, : : unlawfullyunpaid :,::unrelated :upheld :use :trying : :, :, : : :,, U.S.C ::Vunconstitutio... violation :Twelve :,two : : : :,: :: :,type : : :, : types : : typically :U ultimately : :, unattractive : : : : : undermine : understand : : : : :understood :undifferentiat... :unequivocally:,,unfair :unfortunateUnited :,::v : :,, : :: :valid : : :validly :veterans :view ::viewed :views :VII : : : ::: ::violations :voids :,,vulnerable:Wwaive :,waiving :want :: :,: : : : :wanted :: :wanting : wants : Washington : : wasn't : :, : way : : :, : : : : : : ways : : :, : Wednesday : weeks : : : : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :,, We'll : we're : : : : : we've : : widespread : willing : wives : : woman :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, :, woman's : women :, : : : : : : :,, : :,, : :,, :,,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,,, :, :, :,,, : :, :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : :,, : :, : : women's : : : : wonder : word : words : : work : : : : : : worked : : worker : workers : : : workforce : working : : : : : workplace : : worthy : wouldn't : wrong : X x :, Official : : : : : : :,, : Y years : : : young :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : Z zero : : : : - : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,,, : :, :,, :, -week : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, 