Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xMARCUS D. MIMS, : Petitioner : v. : No. -ARROW FINANCIAL SERVICES, LLC. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:SCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner.GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGESCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFGREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFSCOTT L. NELSON, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext this morning in Case -, Mims v. ArrowFinancial Services. Mr. Nelson. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT L. NELSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The Federal question jurisdiction statute, U.S.C. section , broadly grants Federal courtsjurisdiction over all actions arising under Federal lawunless Congress has provided otherwise. That grant ofjurisdiction encompasses rights of action that arecreated and governed by substantive Federal law. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act setsfor forth such a right of action. It provides detailedsubstantive standards, and it grants a private right ofaction to recover for their violation. The TCPA permitsthat action to be filed in a State court if State courtallows such actions, but it says nothing one way oranother about whether the action may also be filed inFederal court. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, do you think Officialthat there is a clear statement rule that applies whenCongress attempts to divest a Federal court ofjurisdiction over claims of this kind? MR. NELSON: Well, sometimes the Courthas -- has talked about clear statement rules in termslike "Congress must make unmistakably plain." I'm notsure it rises to that level, but what the Court has saidis that jurisdiction granted by statute exists unlessCongress has affirmatively displaced it and that theCourt is unwilling to -- to defeat jurisdiction by mereimplication. So, I think it -- it may be something alittle less than -- than what this Court has sometimesreferred to as a clear statement rule, but it is arequirement that Congress act -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have anything morethan implication here? MR. NELSON: No. There -- there's not evenimplication here, Justice Scalia. There's -- there'sreally nothing at all. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you'd have --the same private right of action that could be broughtin State court without subsection at all, right? MR. NELSON: I -- I think that's verylikely, Your Honor. I mean, under -- under Tafflin, and Officialgoing back to the -- to over a century ago in Claflin,there's a presumption that concurrent jurisdiction overa transitory cause of action created by Federal lawexists in State courts. But as the Court pointed out inTafflin, that -- that presumption has sometimes, as inthe antitrust cases, been found to have been displacedby implication from Federal policy. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the basis --you assert that you could bring this -- bring a Federalcause of action in Federal court. MR. NELSON: Pardon me? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think that youcan bring the Federal cause of action in Federal court. MR. NELSON: Yes. I -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what isthe basis for -- putting aside jurisdiction, what is thebasis for the Federal cause of action? MR. NELSON: Oh, you mean the existence ofthe cause of action at all? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. Yes. MR. NELSON: I mean -- the -- you know, whatthis Court has -- has, I think, said in itsinterpretation of statutes is that where a statutecreates a right of recovery from A to B in a court undercircumstances Y, that is a right of action. And the -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But we -- we saidthat years ago. More recently, we've said thatCongress must be fairly express in creating a privatecause of action. And my -- my concern is if you put itagainst that context, that our cases require fairlydirect evidence, express evidence, that Congress meantto give a private right of action, in that context theexistence of an express State cause of action or Federalcause of action that can only be brought in State court,the implication that there isn't one that can be broughton its own in Federal court is fairly strong. MR. NELSON: Well, I think that's notcorrect. I think, Your Honor, that that is actuallyconfusing the concept of whether there's a right ofaction, which is a substantive right of recovery thatcan be pursued in a court, and the question ofjurisdiction, which is in what court may that bebrought. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- Iunderstand that -- that proposition. Assuming thatdistinction is correct and that there is nofree-standing Federal cause of action, what good doeshaving Federal jurisdiction give you? MR. NELSON: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because I take it Officialthat at that point everybody can immediately --defendants can remove -- never mind. Cross that off. What benefit do you have if as soon as youfile your action, everybody says congratulations, youhave Federal jurisdiction, and you're kicked out ofcourt because you have no cause of action? MR. NELSON: Well, what I'm saying, YourHonor, is that -- is that it is not in fact the casethat there's no right of action. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I'massuming that we don't see a cause -- MR. NELSON: If there were no right ofaction that -- that is available somehow in Federalcourt, then, of course, it does no good to be in Federalcourt. But that's not how the Court has -- has treatedrights of action. Limitations on the court in which aright of action can be brought are not part of the rightof action. They're matters of jurisdiction. JUSTICE ALITO: Can Congress create a causeof action that does not arise under Federal law? MR. NELSON: No, I don't really think itcan. Congress doesn't have the power to enact Statelaw. So, if Congress creates a cause of action and --and establishes Federal law that governs it, that isnecessarily a cause of action that arises under Federal Officiallaw. JUSTICE ALITO: And there's no dispute thatthere is a cause of action here that was created byCongress; isn't that right? MR. NELSON: Yes, that -- that's correct. Imean, you know, this is not an implied right of action.It's an express right of action. Congress said in(b)() that if this right is violated, you canrecover X amount, $ per violation or up to threetimes that much in the case of a willful violation. Andthe question is simply whether by saying that it may befiled in State court, the court has -- that Congress hasdisplaced the jurisdiction that would otherwise beavailable -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So, the basicreason seemed to me that it might mean "may," and I'mfollowing up on the Chief Justice here, who withdrewthis interesting part of his question. The -- theCongress seemed to want to have ordinary people be ableto go into small claims court in a State and bring anaction for $ because they were pestered by thesesalesmen on the phone in violation of the Act. Now, if you're right, they could go intoFederal court. But so could the defense. And so, anycase they bring in small claims court, I guess, could be Officialremoved, couldn't it? And how is that -- am I rightabout that? MR. NELSON: It's theoretically possiblethat it could be removed -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- MR. NELSON: -- Justice Breyer, yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't they --I mean, you know, if they're really pests -- I'm notsaying they're all pests; some might be. But if they'repests and they want to drag it out, what they do is theyjust remove it from small claims court. They tell theirlawyer: Remove everything, remove everything. And so,what was Congress's objective, seemingly to provide asimple, clear, easy thing for the average American to dowhen he's pestered, suddenly becomes a major legalproblem since the defense lawyer is instructed removeevery case to Federal court. Now, that's somethingthat's bothering me. So, I'd like to know what yourresponse is. MR. NELSON: Yes, Justice Breyer. Well,there are several -- several parts to the answer. Thefirst is that -- that the strategy itself isself-defeating. If you have a $ claim being broughtby an individual in a small claims court, to pay alawyer, to pay the filing fee to remove it -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, it's notself-defeating, because we keep it up, and the word willget around. MR. NELSON: Well, when you're -- JUSTICE BREYER: And in case, by the way,anyone doubts it, before he even files it -- one of thethings that we'll instruct our salesmen to say is: Ifyou sue us, we're going to remove it to -- you know,there are many ways of it getting around. MR. NELSON: Well, Justice Breyer -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay, what's the second? MR. NELSON: To begin with -- now I want to-- I want to -- I want to stay on this one because -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. NELSON: -- before I go on to the nextone. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. MR. NELSON: The -- the reason that thatstrategy doesn't really work with respect to individualplaintiffs filing in small claims court is they're notnecessarily -- in fact, they're most likely not going tobe repeat players. So, they don't have any real way tofind out about it, absent -- absent the -- thetelemarketer telling them in the phone call that youhave a right of action, which seems even more unlikely. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure I'munderstanding your answer, because I have one of thesame problems as Justice Breyer. Of -- the design ofthis statute, from what I can infer what thecongressional intent was, is for an individual person tobe able to go into small claims court. And thedefendant will usually be the telephone company thatwants to remove it to Federal court and, asJustice Breyer said, instruct the attorneys always go toFederal court; the word will get out. And you'resaying, oh, don't worry about that; that won't happen?That will happen. That's exactly what's going tohappen. MR. NELSON: Justice Kennedy, I think thatword getting out is very unlikely to happen if you'retalking about the individual, uncounseled -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Whether the word gets outor not, they will all go to Federal court. MR. NELSON: But -- and I'd also -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have anyinformation on the -- I mean, there are small claimscourts in State court. Is there any practice ofremoving $ claims and paying much more than the $that's at stake? MR. NELSON: No. No, Justice Ginsburg, and Officialthat was the -- the second part of the answer -- JUSTICE BREYER: But is there any reason tothink before you brought this suit that people thoughtthey could remove it to Federal court? MR. NELSON: Well, in fact, in the SeventhCircuit, defendants have been aware for the past years, I believe, that they can remove these claims toFederal court. And the ones that have been removed arelarge class actions. JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this -- in this case,could -- could this case have been brought in a smallclaims court? Where does it come from? MR. NELSON: It comes from Florida, YourHonor. It could not have been brought in small claimscourt for two reasons. The complaint on its facealleges calls and more, and at -- at the $,,trebled -- the trebled, that would far exceed the$, jurisdictional limit of a Florida small claimscourt. The action also seeks injunctive relief,which is not available. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Aside from theindividual ones, what's actually worrying me, which I'vetried to bring out, is I'm pretty certain Congress inthis statute was trying to protect the average person Officialwho can't afford a lawyer who is pestered with thesecalls. That's their object. And I can think that if you can bring thissuit in Federal court, so can the defendants. MR. NELSON: And -- JUSTICE BREYER: And, therefore, I think,gee, I'm not so sure about this. They don't gain muchadvantage, the plaintiffs, by being able to go intoFederal court, and there could be some advantage on thedefense side to making things more complex, raisinglegal fees. Okay? So, that's where I am at this moment. Now,I'm asking you this because I would like your bestanswer to disabuse me of this notion which cuts againstyour case. MR. NELSON: Well, I think -- I think thefurther thing that cuts against it, Justice Breyer, isyou've received three amicus briefs on the other sidefrom people who participate in the industry, and whatthey all say repeatedly is that there are tremendousbenefits to both plaintiffs and defendants to being insmall claims court in the truly small claims. The defendant -- you know, if the defendantremoves, it's the defendant that's going to be rackingup the legal fees, not the pro se small claims Officialplaintiff. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But why is that?Wouldn't the -- I think you're fighting Justice Breyer'shypothetical. Wouldn't the -- I can imagine if you'vegot a, you know, small claim type case because you gotthe -- one of these calls, and the first thing you getis the notice of removal and this. I mean, you're goingto say forget about it; I'm not going to hire a lawyer.Right? I mean, the idea is they would drop it rightaway. MR. NELSON: Well, I mean, the -- theexperience is, I think -- and there's an interestingarticle in a -- in a publication called the ConsumerFinance Law Quarterly Report from the spring of called "Defending TCPA Actions in San Diego Small ClaimsCourt." And there are some repeat players on theplaintiffs' side in small claims court, and the advicethat the author gives is, whatever you do, don't try toescalate with those people; don't even remove it up tothe -- to the State court of general jurisdiction,because you're just going to find yourself in a morass;it's going to cost you the defendant much more money tomove this claim out of small claims court. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could the -- could these Officialclaims be brought in State court as class actions? MR. NELSON: Well, that depends, JusticeGinsburg, on the State. As the Court probably mayrecall, in the State of New York you probably couldn'tbring this action as a class action because of -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you could remove itto the Federal courts, and then you could. MR. NELSON: Right. In Federal court, Ithink that although there's -- there's actually somedisagreement among the courts of appeals on this pointbetween the Second and Third Circuits over whether Stateprocedural law would apply in Federal court, we thinkthe best answer is Federal procedural law applies whenthe claim is brought in Federal court. Then in someStates, there has been a recent decision in New Jerseywhere a New Jersey court said that a class action wasnot superior for -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's up to -- it's upto the State. MR. NELSON: It's up to the State -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress -- MR. NELSON: -- if it's brought in Statecourt, Your Honor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Congress said you bringit according to your law and your rules of procedure. OfficialSo, the State could make it -- Congress may have beeninterested in the small claims court, but it certainlydidn't limit the States to bringing -- to putting theseclaims in small claims court. MR. NELSON: No. And -- and in fact, numberone, it probably couldn't. Number two, the -- you know,the statute creates rights to recovery and a right toinjunctive relief. That's actually the first listedclaim for relief that the private right of action givesyou. That is -- you know, injunctive relief claims arevirtually by definition beyond the scope of -- ofjurisdiction of small claims courts. So, it created aright of action that in some instances would beappropriate for small claims court. And I think the incentives are that -- thatthose that are really truly small claims court matters,they'll be brought there, they'll stay there. Thosethat are not, cases where it's worth litigating inFederal court or worth litigating in a State court ofgeneral jurisdiction and claims that may be possiblysuitable for class action status will be brought inother types of courts, such -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Nelson, it's an oddprovision, this little clause, "if otherwise permittedby the laws or a court of a State." What -- what is Officialyour account of that provision and what it's doing here? MR. NELSON: Well, I think -- I think whatit does is, principally, it displaces what wouldotherwise be the rule of Testa v. Katt, that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And why did Congress want todo that? I mean, you would think -- and this goes backto Justice Breyer's point -- you know, most of theseclaims, they're small claims, they typically are bettersituated in a State's small claims court, and yet hereCongress says, well, the State doesn't have to entertainthese, in which case they could only be brought inFederal court. MR. NELSON: Well, it's not clear that itmeans, you know, how much freedom it gives them not toentertain them. It may -- and again, you know, that'san issue that the -- that the State supreme courts aredivided on, although it's a theoretical division at thispoint because no State has actually precluded theseclaims at this stage. But, you know, I think that, especially readagainst the backdrop of the general principle that,while States can't discriminate against Federal rightsof action, they're also not required to create courtsthat have jurisdiction over them, that what this statutewas intended to do was -- was recognize the flexibility Officialthat the courts would have to define which courts andunder which procedures it would entertain these actions. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the State thoughtthat its courts were just being overwhelmed by thesecases, even the small claims courts, there were so manyof them, would they be permitted to bar them completely? MR. NELSON: That's a possible reading ofthe statute, Justice Alito. That's what the TexasSupreme Court has held. In fact, the Texas SupremeCourt has held that the State has to affirmativelyauthorize them. Other State supreme courts have saidthat what it means by "if otherwise permitted" is ifthere's a court of general jurisdiction that hears caseslike this and we haven't affirmatively excluded them.And then some State supreme courts such as Illinois havesaid we don't even have the power to exclude them. ButI -- you know, that is one of the readings of thestatute. But -- but what's clear is that the "ifotherwise permitted" does mean -- mean something.It provides a statutory standard for when the action maybe brought in a State court, which is a matter of --it's certainly not superfluous. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is it just whenthe action can be brought in State court or when the Officialaction can be brought at all? It says you may bring anaction -- and that's what I understood your basis forthe Federal cause of action to be -- if it's permittedby the law or rules of -- of a court of that State. MR. NELSON: Well, I think what it says is"may," may bring an action in the courts of that Stateif otherwise permitted. And I think if you think aboutwhat the -- what reason Congress would have to put "ifotherwise permitted by State laws or rules of court,"it's very unlikely that it would use that phrase todenote -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes. MR. NELSON: -- when you have a right ofaction in Federal court -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you canalways -- MR. NELSON: -- as opposed to which Statecourt you would go to. I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, if -- could anindividual -- you say there's a Federal cause of actionin this case apart from the State cause of action that'sprovided. Could that Federal cause of action be broughtin State court even though the State cause of actioncould not be? Official MR. NELSON: Mr. Chief Justice, with all duerespect, I don't think that this statute creates a,quote, "State cause of action." It creates a Federal -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Let's sayyou have two -- MR. NELSON: -- Federal cause of action thatmay be brought in both State and Federal court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Got it, got it. Butjust to follow up. The cause of action could be broughtin both, except if the State courts say it can't bebrought there. The State cause of action can't bebrought in State court because of this "if otherwisepermitted," right? The Federal cause of action, though -- Ithought the State courts couldn't discriminate againstthe Federal cause of action, any Federal cause ofaction. So, you can sue in State court and say: I'mbringing my Federal cause of action; so, the fact thatyou don't permit a State cause of action doesn't bar me. MR. NELSON: Again, I think that the premiseof the question is really not correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: This goes back toJustice Alito's point -- MR. NELSON: The statue does not create -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Alito said this Officialclaim arises under Federal law; the substantive law thatgoverns is not State law. MR. NELSON: Exactly right, JusticeGinsburg. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's fine.That may be exactly right. But the cause of actionunder subsection () asks whether or not this action --it provides an action that can be brought in State courtif otherwise permitted, right? MR. NELSON: It provides an action, saysthat that action may be brought in State court ifotherwise permitted. That is the creation of a Federalright of action over which State courts havejurisdiction if their laws otherwise allow. It's notthe creation of two causes of action, one State and oneFederal. And that's why "if otherwise permitted" maygive the States some leeway, maybe more than they wouldhave under Testa v. Katt, to exclude them. But itdoesn't actually affect the availability of the actionin Federal court. Although even if it did, ChiefJustice Roberts, in this case there has been nodispute -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- Official MR. NELSON: -- that this action isotherwise permitted by Florida law. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about adiversity action? You could not bring this action inState court because it's contrary to the law, the rulesof the court of that State, but there's diversity. Canyou bring that diversity action in Federal court? MR. NELSON: Well, there's a -- there's asplit in the circuits over that question at this point.But my answer is yes, because it's -- it's a Federalcause of action governed by substantive Federal law, asthe -- as the Second Circuit's opinion in Gottlieb held.The implication of that is if there's any basis forjurisdiction, whether diversity or Federal question, youhave the right of action in Federal court, and it's notcontingent on whether State law allows the -- the rightof action. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how is that? I mean,the description of the right of action is that it existsonly if permitted by the laws or rules of court of aState. MR. NELSON: I think, again, Justice -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- MR. NELSON: Justice Scalia, that's --that's a description of the conditions under which it Officialmay be brought in State court. It's not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is adescription of the cause of action then? MR. NELSON: The description of the cause ofaction is that if the statute is violated -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is it in the statute?I mean, I'm reading the section -- MR. NELSON: It's in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- that says -- under"Protection of subscriber privacy rights," subsection() is entitled "Private right of action," and the onlyright of action it describes is that a person who hasreceived more than one telephone call -- blah, blah,blah -- "may, if otherwise permitted by the laws orrules of court of a State, bring in an appropriate courtof that State" actions. Now, even if you say that thatcause of action is bringable in Federal court, whywouldn't it be still governed by the laws of a State? MR. NELSON: Well, it -- it goes to thequestion again -- and back to my answer to Chief JusticeRoberts -- of what you consider "if otherwise available"to modify. And to me, I think the most natural readingis that it modifies "may bring in State court," becausethat is the only thing that it makes sense to have Staterules of court affect. Official JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine. Then where isthe creation of a private right of action bringable inFederal court apart from State laws? Where does thatexist in this statute? I don't see it here. MR. NELSON: It's in the section as a whole.I think you're looking at (c)(). (B)() is the onethat's actually at issue here, but its -- its phrasingis the same. It's at a in the blue brief. And theAct -- the statute as a whole creates an entitlement tobring an action that yields certain recoveries. And, you know, this Court has never lookedat statutory provisions that create rights of action andsay they may be brought in particular courts. It hasn'tread the reference to "may be brought in the courts" aslimiting the right of action. In Tafflin, for example,the RICO statute says you may bring an action in Federalcourt to recover damages for a violation ofthat section. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do youknow -- do you know why the Solicitor General is nothere defending the proposition that Federal law providesa Federal cause of action that can be brought in Federalcourt? MR. NELSON: No, I don't know why. Theydon't tell you, when they're not filing a brief, their Officialreasons why, Mr. Chief Justice. I think -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it because the FCConce took a position that the action was limited toState courts? MR. NELSON: No, the FCC has never taken theposition that it's limited to State courts. They have,in a number of things that they have written about thestatute, said in the words of the statute that an actionmay be filed in State court. They have never stated oneway or another a position on the question whether it maybe filed in Federal court. In the Charvat case, theydid file an amicus brief in the Sixth Circuit, takingthe position that the right of action created by thestatute is in all respects governed by substantiveFederal law. They didn't say anything one way oranother about whether the Sixth Circuit actually hadjurisdiction. It would seem kind of odd if they tookthe view that it didn't, that they wouldn't havementioned it. But -- JUSTICE BREYER: What happens -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you clarify onepoint for me. You indicated that no State has said thatyou cannot bring an action, and yet -- then you saidthat Texas said it has to be specifically authorized.Did the legislature of Texas specifically authorize it? Official MR. NELSON: Yes, it -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't let me misstate whatyou said. MR. NELSON: It's -- the Texas legislaturehas enacted statutes that says a plaintiff may go tocourt and bring an action under the TCPA, in those -- inso many words, in addition to whatever right of actionit may have under Texas law. If there are no further questions, I'llreserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,Mr. Nelson. Mr. Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court: Whether this Court concludes that a(b)() or a (b)() label is the better fit, itshould hold that Congress did not intend for privateTCPA claims to be brought in Federal court under U.S.C. . The private right of action that Congressexpressed is distinct in three different and meaningfulways. And if you look at the right of action, which ison page -- Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, you don't contestthe background rule, do you, which is that when Congresscreates a cause of action, there is Federal questionjurisdiction unless Congress does something to divestthe Federal courts of that jurisdiction? MR. GARRE: We don't, and we haven'tcontested that the action here arises underFederal law. But what you've got is the question of theinterplay between two statutes, and the privateright of action here, in the same way the Court hasdealt with the interaction between section andother private rights of action, for example, the City ofRanchos Palos Verdes v. Abrams case. And in thatcontext, the Court hasn't said, oh, if it's covered by, of course you've got to bring it under -- you canbring it under unless Congress has unmistakablycleared that you can't. JUSTICE KAGAN: But if you say, if you don'tcontest the background principle, then the question iswhether Congress has clearly enough divested the Federalcourts of jurisdiction over this case essentially bygiving jurisdiction to the State courts. And we've hada number of cases going the other way that suggest thatyou don't divest one court of jurisdiction by givingjurisdiction explicitly to another court. And the Officialquestion here is why is this any different, and hasCongress by granting jurisdiction to one court spokenwith the kind of clarity needed to divest the Federalcourts of their pre-existing jurisdiction? MR. GARRE: And all of those cases dealtwith the constitutional presumption of concurrent Statecourt jurisdiction. And, of course, where the questionis whether the -- whether the Constitution has beendisplaced, this Court has required Congress to speakwith unmistakable clarity. This case is the first casewhere this Court is confronted with the question ofwhether there's any similar presumption going the otherway. There's no constitutional foundation for thatpresumption. It's just the interplay between statutes.And for that reason we think the section paradigmis more important. JUSTICE KAGAN: But nobody has ever saidthat Federal question jurisdiction as granted by issome kind of junior sister when it comes tojurisdiction, is some kind of weaker jurisdictionaldefault provision. I mean, once Congress has grantedFederal question jurisdiction by , that's thebackground rule. The Federal courts have jurisdictionin the same way that the background rule is that theState courts have jurisdiction. Official MR. GARRE: Well, no. The backgroundrule -- the -- right. There's a background ruleprovided by a statute which Congress can displace by alater enacted more specific statute, and then there'sthe background rule provided by the Constitution. Andour position is that usually when the Court talks aboutCongress displacing, disrupting the traditional balanceof powers protected by the Constitution, it does requireCongress to speak with unmistakable clarity. It doesn't apply that kind of presumptionwhen you're talking about an earlier more generalstatute and a later more specific statute. In fact, inthat situation, the Court's general rule is that thelater more specific statute trumps the earlier moregeneral one. And I don't think there's any reason tocarve out, as venerable as it is. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, do you haveany example, other than this statute which is odd -- isthere any other example of a claim that arises underFederal law, as this does under Federal statute -- thesubstantive law is Federal -- that one may not bring inState court? MR. GARRE: I can't cite you anotherexample. The Shoshone case is another anomaly. It's alittle bit different. But I think -- I think the Court Officialshould give credit to what Congress did here. And ifyou look at the right of action, it's distinct in threedifferent ways. First, Congress only spoke of bringing suitsin State courts. Petitioner hasn't identified anotherFederal cause of action where Congress has done -- donethat. Second, Congress modified the entire rightof action based on "and otherwise permitted by the lawsor rules of the court of a State." Under the rules ofgrammar, there's no question that that clause modifiesthe "may," not anything else that follows in thestatute. And the third way it's distinct, JusticeGinsburg, is that Congress spoke of the limitations onState courts and State laws before it even expressed theviolation. In the typical way that Congress expresses aprivate right of action -- and I've looked at a lot ofthem in the last few days -- Congress talks about theviolation, and then it at times provides as adescriptive matter where it could be brought. Here, inthe first -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is the law any different,the violation and the governing law, any different thanif the Attorney General had brought suit or if the FCC Officialsought to enforce this law? I mean, the substance ofthe law -- whoever sues, the Attorney General, the FCC,the Federal law that governs is the same, isn't it? MR. GARRE: Well, I think there's separateprovisions that allow the State attorneys general to gointo Federal court, and the FCC has its own enforcementauthority. They aren't conditioned by this limitation.We're talking about this private right of action. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I'm talking about theclaim of the -- the violation, the wrongful conduct isthe same whether the Attorney General is suing, whetherthe FCC is enforcing. MR. GARRE: I think the basic elements ofthe cause of action are going to be the same, but Statelaw can limit the availability of that cause of action,the ability to bring it in a court. And under -- forexample, by a class action rule or just saying you can'tbring those claims at all or statute of limitations. Petitioner's view is that a plaintiff cancircumvent those limitations altogether, authorized byCongress in the most important clause of this privateright of action, simply go into Federal court and begone with those limitations. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, what's the Officiallogic of your position? Congress does a whole studyabout how these harassing calls and e-mails and otherthings are to citizens, and all of a sudden it's goingto limit the rights of those citizens to recover underthe Act to those States that are going to say okay. Whyeven bother passing a Federal law if it was going togive States the option to protect against this kind ofconduct alone? MR. GARRE: Well, it created a publicFederal right. Congress all the time creates Federallegal protections -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But generally it does.You've just admitted -- MR. GARRE: -- but it doesn't give privateright of actions. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've just admitted toJustice Ginsburg nowhere else has it created a Federalright with a private cause of action in which it'slimiting the protections of the Federal law to thoseStates that decide they want to do it too. I mean,generally Congress creates a Federal right because theydon't think the States are doing enough. MR. GARRE: And there's no question thatthey would have a Federal right. And, of course, this-- this private right of action is distinct. My point Officialis only it's not unusual for Congress to create aFederal right and not provide a private right of action;for example, under the provision in Gonzaga v. Doe -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Unquestionably. Butit's -- it is unusual for them to create a Federal rightwith a cause of action and then limit its application tothose States that say it's okay. I go back to myquestion -- MR. GARRE: Well, it wouldn't -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not simply say tothe States, please, do something about this problem? MR. GARRE: I think that -- I would pointyou to the statutory findings and, if you thought itappropriate, look at Senator Hollings' statement aswell. And the reason why it makes sense is Congress isdealing with a situation that, when it acted, the vastmajority of States had passed laws to allow consumers todeal with this problem at the State level. Theyidentified this interstitial void that Your Honor spokeabout in your opinion on the Second Circuit, andCongress acted to close that enforcement loophole toauthorize States to allow consumers to go afterinterstate calls. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, was it reallya loophole? What would -- I mean, if this -- if conduct Official-- if the telemarketers are calling from out of State,but the impact is in the State, the person who is beingcalled, it seems to me that there certainly would bejurisdiction over the out-of-State tortfeasor who'sdoing something out of State that has this impact. Ittargets the State, and it has its impact. MR. GARRE: I've struggled over that, too,Justice Ginsburg, but the one thing I can say is thatCongress perceived that enforcement gap that'sidentified in the statutory findings reproduced in theaddendum here. And Congress, you would presume, actedto fill the gap that it saw, and it did this by keepingit at the State level, keeping in mind that we'retalking about something with an enormous potential forvolumes of claims. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this is the partthat's worrying me. On your side, it's hard, and it'san unusual statute, but the -- certainly -- and I agreewith you that the language of the statute suggesting akind of reverse pre-emption, something like that, andcertainly Senator Hollings' comment, and certainly thefact that they specifically provide for an attorneygeneral to bring an action in State court suggests thatthey wanted the smaller private actions in State -- Imean, in Federal court -- in State court; that favors Officialyou. All right. But then I thought, as you werespeaking, what about diversity jurisdiction? And -- andI don't see why there wouldn't diversity jurisdiction interms of trying to get these out-of-State people. Andif there's diversity jurisdiction, why in heaven's namewould they want to say but there is no "arising under"jurisdiction? MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: So, I'm -- so, I'm pushedthe other way by that. So -- so, what do you think?What do you think? MR. GARRE: Well, ultimately, all of theFederal circuits that have grappled with this problemhave concluded that recognizing diversity jurisdictionisn't fundamentally incompatible with saying there's noFederal question jurisdiction, for a couple of reasons. JUSTICE BREYER: I know. But why, if youwere sitting in Congress and somebody did tell you --Senator Hollings apparently never thought of this -- butsay to Senator Hollings, Senator, there will bediversity jurisdiction here. And he, when he thinksabout it, says, hey, great, that's wonderful, becausethese people are all in State A, and they're phoningpeople in State B. Official Now, if that was his reaction, then someonewould say what about "arising under" jurisdiction? Andwhat I'm thinking is, if I imaginatively put myself inhis position, I think, huh, why not? MR. GARRE: For two reasons, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: What? MR. GARRE: The first is amount incontroversy. Diversity has an amount in controversyrequirement of $,, which makes it more likely,where a plaintiff has that, it would be in a situationwhere it would incur the costs of an attorney and otherexpenses to go into Federal court. Federal question hasno amount in controversy after -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's true. So, there's a"flooding the courts" problem. MR. GARRE: Exactly, and the amount incontroversy checks that. The second reason is that, to the extentthat Congress created this unique Federal right andintended it to behave like State laws, as JudgeCalabresi described it on the Second Circuit, then it'smore natural to think of diversity jurisdiction allowingthe Federal courts to entertain what is in effect aState cause of action than it would be for Federalquestion jurisdiction where you have the anomalous Officialsituation of someone going into Federal court and sayingI'm not bound by the State law limitations, for example,the limitation on the class action, because I can bringthis Federal private right of action under Federalquestion for $ wherever it is. I mean -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about supplementaljurisdiction? Which says it doesn't have an amount incontroversy. MR. GARRE: We would put that in the samecategory of diversity, which is to say -- I mean,ultimately, I think it -- particularly if you look atthis as the private right of action, Congress did notexpress a private right of action for someone to go intoFederal court here. If this Court looked at it throughthe lens of its private right of action jurisprudence,the Court would say, I would think, you did not confer aprivate right of action to go into Federal court in theunique way that you express it here. If the question was, if this private rightof action said you can sue an in-State company and aplaintiff came here saying, well, it says in-State butthey didn't say you can't sue an out-of-State, thisCourt would say, no, Congress said in-State; we --that's the private right of action it created. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Congress -- Congress Officialalso -- it made -- for attorney general suits, it said:And Federal court jurisdiction is exclusive. So, it'sgiven Federal court exclusive jurisdiction to adjudicatethis claim, because the claim, as you -- I think as yourecognize, is the same whether it's brought by the FCC,the attorney general, or private. So, if you use theword "exclusive" there, it said nothing in this privateright of action about the State courts being exclusive. MR. GARRE: And I think on that -- I mean,first, it makes sense that they would authorize Federaljurisdiction for the State attorney generals' actionsbecause they authorized the FCC to intervene there. Italso makes sense that they said "exclusive" therebecause there they were dealing with the constitutionalpresumption that State courts have concurrentjurisdiction unless Congress affirmatively says theydon't. This Court had decided Tafflin a year earlier.And so, it -- to give Congress its due, it would makesense if you presume they're aware of this Court'sdecisions, that it would say "exclusive" there. Theconstitutional -- JUSTICE ALITO: You -- you seem to bearguing for a three-tier standard for displacingjurisdiction. So, if Congress wants to make a Federalclaim cognizable only in Federal court, it has to be Officialvery, very clear. If it wants to displace diversityjurisdiction, it doesn't have to be that clear, butmaybe it has to be certain -- clear to a certain degree.If it wants to displace Federal question jurisdiction,it doesn't have to be nearly as clear. MR. GARRE: But we're not. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what -- MR. GARRE: We're certainly not arguing fora distinction between diversity and Federal question.And ultimately, if pushed, we would take the positionthat because Congress was clear it wasn't authorizingsuit in Federal court, we think diversity should go,too. My response to Justice Breyer was that it --it's a closer call because of the -- the amount incontroversy and the extent to which Congress created aright -- JUSTICE SCALIA: When there is suit inFederal court, let's say these attorney general suits,what are the suit -- what is the suit governed by? Isit governed by State law? MR. GARRE: I think it would be governed byFederal law. I think to the extent there's a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, I -- Federallaw mirroring State law? Official MR. GARRE: No, because the -- the publicright of action isn't conditioned the same way that theprivate right of action is. And -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it's the authority toenforce, right? MR. GARRE: If you look at the public rightof action, it's not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Civil actions brought underthe subsection. MR. GARRE: Right. The public right ofaction isn't brought under (b)(), which is a privateright of action. And the anomalies arise when you thinkof allowing these claims in Federal court -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you have a different --a different -- a different law applied if -- and theState law limitations don't apply if it's a suit inFederal court by -- by an attorney general? MR. GARRE: The State law limitations applyto the private right of action. The Congress didn'tsay, here's the Federal -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it's so weird. Ican't understand that. MR. GARRE: But, Your Honor, it's only weirdif you say they can bring the private right of action inFederal court. If you say that Congress meant these to Officialbe limited to State court, it makes perfect sense.Congress was making clear: States, you have authorityto address this problem; you can address it under yourown law and rules of court. JUSTICE KAGAN: I think, Mr. Garre, whatJustice Ginsburg and Justice Alito were suggesting, isthat this is a momentous thing for Congress to do to, todeprive the Federal courts of jurisdiction over a causeof action that has been created by Congress and a causeof action that has Federal law as the rule of decision.The usual presumption is that, of course, Federal courtshave jurisdiction over those matters under section . And this is one peculiar way of divestingthose Federal courts of jurisdiction. Obviously,Congress knew how to write an exclusive jurisdictionstatute. It didn't here. So, why should we giveCongress the benefit of the doubt and sort of say, well,Congress must have had something else in mind, eventhough Congress didn't articulate that? MR. GARRE: And if Congress has to say"exclusive," then we lose. I'm not arguing otherwise.But I think our position is, is what Congress did herewas unmistakably different and clear enough. And theflip side of what you've just said is to say thatCongress meant nothing when it went out of its way to Officialcreate what all agree is an extraordinarily uniqueprivate right of action. JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I don't think that'sright because this is not superfluous, because of thethat provision that, you know, the Testa provision whichsays that State courts don't have to entertain thiscause of action. So, in the usual case, State courtswould have to entertain this cause of action. Here,Congress is saying, no, if they feel as though thatwould deluge State courts, they have an out. MR. GARRE: And if Congress had intendedthat, Your Honor, I think the more natural way for it tohave said would -- would have been something like, in anaction brought in State court, it may be limited by thelaws or rules of that court. Here Congress cabined theentire right of action: "may" comma -- subordinateclause which modifies the "may." And there's just -- inany other case, I think, Your Honor, the Court wouldread the "if otherwise permitted" clause as modifyingthe "may" and, therefore, the entire right of action. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can Congress create aFederal -- can Congress in effect delegate to the Statesthe contours of a -- a Federal cause of action? I mean,you keep talking about it as a Federal cause of action. MR. GARRE: I think -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's not really, if --if its existence or non-existence depends upon Statelaw; or at least it depends upon State law, you say, ifit's brought in State courts; however, if it's broughtin Federal court by the Attorney General, you have atotally different law applying, a Federal law. MR. GARRE: I think in the Shoshone caseCongress created a right of action whose content was --was supplied by State law. So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: In which case? Ididn't -- MR. GARRE: The Shoshone Mining case.It's -- it's cited in our brief. JUSTICE KAGAN: But that is not this case. MR. GARRE: No -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Nobody thinks that that'sthis case. MR. GARRE: No, but we're not saying thatthis case is on fours with that case, but I think it'san example where State law would fill the content of theFederal right. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why wouldn't the --the problem that Justice Scalia just identified or youwere talking about suggest -- actually favor their side,that that "in conformity with State law" is talking Officialabout procedure? I mean, imagine that State law has a -yearlimitation period or a -year. You see -- I don't knowwhat the limitation period is here. It may be longer.And so, what happens is where you go into -- if theattorney general brings the action, you're going to sayit's years, but if it's in a State court and a privateperson, it would be year? That doesn't seem to me tomake sense. It then seems to make sense if you interpretthat provision as saying what court you could go into inthe State. If the State permits you to go to thesuperior court or the small claims court or the -- inother words, procedural rules. MR. GARRE: Well, and Congress didn't justsay "procedure," it said "laws or rules of court of theState." JUSTICE BREYER: It did, but look what --well, how do you get out of the mess then -- whathappens when the State attorney general brings an actionin a Federal court, as he is permitted to do? Whatstatute of limitation or substantive rule do you apply? MR. GARRE: It would be the general -yearFederal statute of limitations. I mean, the way -- JUSTICE BREYER: But that's now really odd Officialbecause we are then going to get different statutes oflimitations, depending upon whether a State attorneygeneral or an individual -- MR. GARRE: But it's not odd if you giveeffect to the language of (b)(), which in a sense sayswe're going to leave this up to the States. Congresscontemplated through this language that there could be different rules about how private TCPA claims wouldbe brought in State court. I think that's undisputed. The question is whether or not you --plaintiffs can just say I want out of that and go intoFederal court, and conversely whether a defendant canremove any claim brought in State court -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm having -- MR. GARRE: -- into Federal court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Im sorry. I'mhaving trouble, Mr. Garre, figuring out what exactly isat issue here. It seems to me that there are twopossible views on it. First is, is there Federaljurisdiction over one of these actions? The second ofall is, is there a private right of action apart fromthe one that can be brought under subsection (b)(),which is one in State court? MR. GARRE: Right. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, which -- which Officialare we supposed to decide? I can see the Federalquestion jurisdiction issue being straightforward.Federal law creates this cause of action; therefore, youcan say that it is -- under , there's jurisdiction,but then you can't do anything once you're in Federalcourt because the private right of action is limited toState court. MR. GARRE: And our position is ultimatelyboth are at issue. Certainly, the focus of this casehas been on the jurisdictional question, which is the(b)(). But if the Court thinks that there's Federaljurisdiction, then it should say the cause of actionfails under (b)() because both arguments are based onthe same exact statutory language. This Court has recognized, for example, inthe Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals case, that theavailability of a private right of action intersectswith jurisdiction. The Court recognized the same pointin the National Passengers Association case, U.S.. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to the --this -- this claim -- unlike the Shoshone Mining, thisclaim arises under Federal law. There's no questionabout that, is there? MR. GARRE: We don't dispute that, Your OfficialHonor. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. So, Federal lawcreates the cause of action, and when Federal lawcreates the cause of action, the rule has always beenthere's jurisdiction. MR. GARRE: Unless a later-enacted statuteprecludes that rule. And here the later-enacted statutedoesn't win it -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the later-enactedstatute doesn't say that Federal law no longer createsthe cause of action. MR. GARRE: The later-enacted statutecreates the cause of action. Federal -- doesn'tcreate a cause of action. It's jurisdictional only.They need to have a cause of action. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have jurisdictionwhen Federal law creates a cause of action. MR. GARRE: Unless it has been displaced bya later-enacted provision. And I -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, do you have anyexamples of that, places where we've said Congress hasdivested the court of Federal question jurisdiction andby what means? MR. GARRE: I don't have an example in .I have do have section , which I think is a perfect Officialparallel, because there you've got a venerable, generalprovision, section , which is actually older than, and the question comes along from time to timewhether a later-enacted Federal right can be enforcedthrough . And the Court, in that context, saysalthough we generally presume that you can go through, if there's a later-enacted specific enforcementmechanism, we give the facts of that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And how specific does ithave to be? I mean, how vague are we willing to go hereand say, okay, Congress has done a good enough jobbecause somehow we have some idea that they wanted thesecases to end up in small claims court? MR. GARRE: I think, if you look at the Cityof Rancho Palos Verdes case, which I would encourage youto look at, I think it doesn't have to be nearly asspecific as my friend is claiming. I think you look at all signposts ofcongressional intent. Here you've got the languagewhich is unmistakably distinctive. The State-law,State-court-focused. You've got a structure of an actwhere Congress, when it wants concurrent jurisdiction orFederal jurisdiction, it says so. It provides the rulesfor venue and what not. You've got legislativestatutory findings indicating that Congress both was Officialaware of the vast volumes of calls which could createpotential claims, wanting to address a particularproblem of an enforcement gap at the State level. Andthen if you choose to look at it, you've got thelegislative history of the sponsor of this very unusualprovision saying -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: When Congress creates aFederal claim, it usually doesn't. I mean, theassumption is that it's going to be concurrentjurisdiction. MR. GARRE: Yes, and we're not -- I mean,the question is whether or not that assumption should bedisplaced here, and we're saying that Congress'sexpressions of intent displace it here. And, again, Ithink if Petitioner -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go back to your example? Because I was thinking about that, andyou said, well, the later specific statute is anotherFederal statute. You have -- Congress has anotherFederal statute that makes the more general notavailable because you have the more specific Federalstatute. MR. GARRE: And I think that's why theparallel seems apt to us here. You -- instead ofdealing with Congress displacing case -- State court Officialjurisdiction with constitutional presumption, you havean earlier-enacted Federal statute, , and thelater-enacted statute, the TCPA private right of actionhere. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but the difference isthat the cases don't deal with what this dealswith, which is displacement of the jurisdiction ofFederal courts. And we are jealous of our jurisdiction,not only in the constitutional cases that you refer to,but in all cases. And I had thought that the general rule thatyou have to be clear when you take cases out of theFederal courts -- I thought that that applies not justwhere you're dealing with a constitutional jurisdictionbut also where you're dealing with already-conferredstatutory jurisdiction. And why shouldn't I apply thatpresumption? MR. GARRE: But I think this Court has amore generous attitude toward section . And I thinkin your opinion in the Rancho Palos Verdes case, youspoke of a rebuttable presumption that Congress doesn'tmean to -- to displace section , but yet you foundit there because of a specific enforcement mechanism. Ithink the enforcement mechanism here is much morespecific and meaningful than even the one in the Rancho OfficialPalos Verdes -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It didn't deal with thejurisdiction of Federal courts. That's what gets ourhackles up -- MR. GARRE: It did not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- when you're telling uswe have been ousted of jurisdiction. MR. GARRE: It did not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We don't like that. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I -- we'vebeen talking about where this provision fits, basically,into our general jurisprudence in this area. But I'venever seen a statute remotely like this before. Isthere any one, where you have a Federal -- where youhave Congress creating a cause of action that can bebrought in State courts unless the State court says itcan't, saying nothing at all about whether there's aFederal cause of action? This is the strangest statuteI've ever seen. MR. GARRE: We totally agree, but I thinkthe important point from our perspective is eitherCongress meant what it said, and this Court should giveeffect to what it said in its very distinct and unusualway, or it's rendered, you know, largely meaningless, Officialexcept in the most generalized sense, because ifPetitioner's right, you can bring a claim in State orFederal court. The claim that you bring in Federalcourt is in no way limited -- limited by the laws orrules of a State court. And all of the stuff thatCongress said about the State courts and theState-law-focused language at the very beginning of itscause of action is meaningless, because Congress didn'thave to say any of this to authorize people to go intoState court under concurrent jurisdiction conferred bythe Constitution. And our position is, is that this Courtshould give effect to the words in the private right ofaction, distinct as it is, that Congress created, andhold that Congress did not intend for plaintiffs to beable to bring -- to circumvent these limitations bygoing into Federal court under . JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me whyyou seem to be taking somewhat contradictory positions?You seem to be conceding that this is not a Federalsubject matter jurisdiction issue, but the scope of thecause of action that was created. The judgment was onthe basis of lack of Federal subject matterjurisdiction. Aren't you trying to alter the judgment?And didn't you need to cross-petition to do that? Official MR. GARRE: Well, I probably wasn't clearenough, Justice Sotomayor. Our position is thatultimately there is no Federal question jurisdiction;that although it arises under , the specificprovision here was never intended to be enforced through and, instead, was only authorizing State courts. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're saying that aState could, if it chose, say we're only going to awardactual damages, not the $ statutory -- MR. GARRE: No, I don't think the Statecould actually alter what Congress said. It can -- itcan alter, as Congress said, the ability to bring aright of action. Now, I do think this Court could affirm -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it can. It couldchoose not to enforce that Federal right of action. MR. GARRE: And in that case, a privatecitizen would go to a State attorney general and saybring this action on behalf, or go to the FCC and bringan enforcement action. There are public rights --public ways to enforce that. Just to be clear, we think this Court couldaffirm on the alternative ground of (b)(), that thereis Federal question jurisdiction, but this private rightof action doesn't confer a right to go into -- into OfficialFederal court. My friend has said that that positionhas been waived. Under (h) of the Federal Rules ofCivil Procedure, we haven't waived (b)(); we justhaven't asserted yet. It's clear that Federal courts can convert(b)() motions into (b)() motions, and there'd beno reason for this Court to remand simply for us toassert a (b)() -- put a (b)() label on the sameposition that we would be back before the courtsarguing, transforming judicial review into somethingclose to a ping-pong game. JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't that be the oddestcreature that's ever been seen, a cause of actioncreated by Congress that is not a claim arising underFederal law? That's what you'd be saying. MR. GARRE: No, it would be a claim arisingunder Federal law without a private right to bring it inFederal court. And it would be odd, Your Honor, and ourposition -- we agree with our friends -- that this is anodd statutory provision. We ask this Court to giveeffect to its language, which both sides agree is oddbut, we think, points to the conclusion that Congressmeant for these claims to be brought in State court andnot in Federal court under Federal questionjurisdiction. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But I guess that's thequestion, Mr. Garre. If both sides agree it's odd, andall nine Justices agree it's odd, I mean, I think we cansay this statute is odd. And the question is, where dowe go from there? And where -- you know, what's thedefault position? If it's odd and we can't figure itout, the default position seems to be Federal courtshave jurisdiction over Federal questions. MR. GARRE: But I think that thatdeprives -- yes, it's odd, but it's odd in a way thatone must presume that Congress actually meant what --what it was doing in several different ways here. Ithink it gets to a point where you just can't presumethat Congress didn't mean the impact of its words here.So, we would urge this Court to give effect to them. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Nelson, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT L. NELSON ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. NELSON: I want to start where JusticeKagan left off, which is the presumption of theexistence of Federal jurisdiction unless Congressaffirmatively displaces it. Official My friend suggested that that may not applyor may not apply as strongly when we're talking aboutFederal statutory jurisdiction and specifically .But this Court's decision in Colorado River, cited inour reply brief, says exactly the opposite: that asubsequent more specific Federal statute does notdisplace the general grant of Federal jurisdiction under, absent -- absent some clearer indication than themere existence of an optional State court jurisdictionover the claim. As to the oddness of the statute, a point onwhich we all seem to now agree, the point I would makethere is I think that Respondent's position makes thisstatute even odder, because it suggests that somehow"may" means it may only be brought in Federal court, yetit doesn't mean it may only be brought in Federal courtif there's diversity or . But as Judge Easterbrook said in Brill, if"may" really means "may" only, then it wipes outdiversity and as well. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you arguing onlyabout "arising under" jurisdiction or are you arguingalso about a Federal cause of action that can be broughtin Federal court? In other words, I am trying to figureout what we're being asked to decide in this odd case. OfficialI understand the idea -- and I'm sorry to take up yourtime -- I understand the idea that this is a Federalquestion because it's created by a Federal law. Can you go -- get into Federal court, andthen we'll have another case about whether you can bringa cause of action there? MR. NELSON: Well, I certainly hope not,Your Honor. I mean, I think if you look at what thequestion presented is and what the judgment below is,it's a question of subject matter jurisdiction, a(b)() dismissal, and a question presented as to theexistence of . But, you know, our point is not toget people into Federal court so that they can be toldthat they have no right of action. And the answer tothat point is that the -- the reference to State courtsin the provision is not a limitation on the right torecovery. Congress often actually creates rights ofaction that refer to a particular court. It's -- it'sthe Federal court in -- in every case but this one. Butas in RICO, as in the Carmack Amendment that was thesubject of the case of Galveston, Harrisburg, andSan Antonio Railway cited in our briefs, where theCarmack Amendment said that persons damaged might makecomplaint in any circuit or district court of the United OfficialStates. And the Communications Act provisions that wecite on page of our reply say people have certainrights to recover, and they may bring them in Federalcourt. But those references to the courts havenever been considered to be a limit on the right ofaction. Creating the ability to go into a court andobtain a recovery creates a right of action, and it'stransitory; it can be brought in any court of competentjurisdiction. And the reference in the statute to acourt that has jurisdiction over it does not mean thatthe -- that the cause of action somehow does not existoutside of that court. The cause of action exists, and the questionis, is whether there's a jurisdictional basis. Andthat's practically at this point, I think, beenconceded, that this statute arises under Federal law.And there's really no indication whatsoever that merelyby saying "may" be brought in State court, that Congressintended to displace Federal jurisdiction or to create aright of action that, uniquely among Federal rights ofaction, is only available in the State court. Now, it's true, "may" -- or "if otherwisepermitted," as my friend said, modifies "may," but itdoesn't just modify "may" in isolation. It's "may" Officialwhat? May if otherwise permitted bring an action inState court. So, the "if otherwise permitted" modifiesthe conditions on which the action may be brought inState court. But it really makes no sense whatsoever toimport State court rules into whether the action isavailable in a Federal court. Now -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Except that that's the onlysection that creates a private right of action. MR. NELSON: That's right. The privateright of action is created, but the private right ofaction is not contingent on that "if." It's the abilityto bring it in State court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) Aability :: ::able : :: :above-entitled: :Abrams :absent :,:,account :act : :: : :: :acted :,:action :,:,,: :,,:,, ::,,,,:,,,,:,,,: :,,,: ::,, ::, ::, ::,,,,:,,:,,,,:,,,:,,,,:,,:,,,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,:,,,:, ::,,,,:, :: :,,:,,,: ::, ::,,,:,,,:,,: :,:,,:,,,: :: :,: :,:,,,:,,,,:actions :,: :: :: :: :: :actual :addendum:addition :address :,:adjudicate :admitted :::advantage :advice :affect ::affirm :,affirmatively: :,: :afford :ago : :OfficialOfficialattorney ::, :: :,: :: ::, ::attorneys ::author :authority :: :authorize :: :: :authorized: ::authorizing: :availability: ::available :: :: :: :average ::award :aware :: :a.m : :Bb : :: ::,back : :: :: :: :backdrop :background:, :: :,,balance :agree : :: :,:, :Alito : ::, :: :: :Alito's :alleges :allow : ::,allowing :already-confe...:allows :::alter ::,alternative:altogether :Amendment:,American :amicus ::amount : ::,,: :anomalies :anomalous:anomaly :answer :: :: :: ::antitrust :Antonio :apart : :apparently:::application :applied :applies :: :apply :: :,: ::,applying :appropriate: ::apt :area :arguing :: :: :,argument ::,, :,: :arguments:arises : :: :: ::arising :: ::, :Arrow : :article :articulate :aside : :asked :asking :asks :assert : :asserted :Associationassuming :assumption ::::appeals :APPEARAN...attempts :attitude : Officialbar : :based ::basic : :basically :basis :,,: :: :beginning :behalf :,:,, :: ::behave :believe :benefit ::benefits :best : :better ::beyond :bit :blah :,,blue :bother :bothering :bound :Breyer : ::,, :,:,,,:, :,:, :: :,:,,: ::,Breyer's ::brief :,: ::briefs ::Brill :bring :,,:, :: :,:, :,:, :: :: :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :: : ::bringable ::bringing :: :brings :,broadly :brought ::,, :: :,: :,: :,: :,:, :,:, :: ::,,: :,: :,: :,:,,: ::,,:, :Cc : : :cabined :Calabresi :call : :called :,::calling :calls : :: :: :Carmack ::carve :case : : :: : ::, :: :: :: :,:, ::, ::,,,:, ::, :: :: ::,,:,cases : :: :,: :: :,:,category :cause :,,:, :,,: :,,:, ::,,,: :,,:,,,:, :: :,: :: ::, :: ::, :,:, :: :,:,,,: :,:, :: ::,causes :century :certain :: :,:certainly :: :,:, :: :Charvat :checks :Chief :, ::,,,:,, :: :: :,: :,,:,,: :: ::, ::, ::, ::choose ::chose :circuit ::, :: :circuits :: :Circuit's :circumstances:circumvent: :cite : :cited : ::citizen :citizens :,City : :Civil : :Claflin :claim : :: :: :: ::,,: :,: :,:, :claiming :claims : :: :,: :,: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,,,:,,:,,,: :: :: :: :: :clarify :clarity :,:class : :,: :: :clause :: ::,clear :,,: :: :,,:, :: ::, :cleared :clearer :clearly :close ::closer :cognizable:Colorado :come :comes : Official: :comma :comment :Communicati...company :::competent :complaint ::completely :complex :conceded :conceding :concept :concern :concluded :concludes :conclusion:concurrent :: :: ::conditioned: :conditions ::conduct :: :confer ::conferred :conformityconfronted::confusing :congratulations:Congress ::,,, :: :,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:,, ::, :,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,: ::,,,:,,:, :: :,,:,,,:,,:,,,: :: :: :,: :,: ::, ::,,:, :: :,: ::congressional: :Congress's ::consider :considered :Constitution: :,:constitutional:, :: :,:Consumer ::consumers:,contemplated:content :,contest :,contested :context :,: :contingent: :contours :contradictory:contrary :controversy:,,,: :conversely:convert :correct :,: :cost :costs :counsel :: ::,couple :course :: :: :court :,:,,,:,,,,: :,,:, :,:, :,:,,:,,,: :,: ::,,,: :,:,,:,,:,,,:,,,,:, ::,,,:, :: :,:,,:,,,: :,: :,: :,,:, ::,,,: :,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,: :,: :,: ::,,,:, ::,,:, ::, :: :,: ::,,,:, ::,,,:,,,: ::, :: :,:,,,,: :,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,,:,,,:,,,,courts : :: :,:, :: :,,:,,: :,: :,:, :,: :,: :,:, :: :,: :,: ::, :: :: :,: ::Court's :: :covered :create :: :: :,:, :: :created : :: :: :,: :: :: :,: ::creates :: : :: : ::, ::,,,: :: ::creating :: :creation :: :creature :credit :Cross :cross-petition:cuts :,D OfficialD : :damaged :damages :days :deal : :::dealing :: ::,deals :dealt : :decide :: :decided :decision :: :decisions :default ::,defeat :defendant ::,,: :defendants :: :,defending ::defense :: :define :definition :degree :delegate :deluge :denote :depending :depends ::,deprive :deprives :described :describes :description:, ::descriptive:design :detailed :Diego :difference :different :: ::,,:,,: ::, :direct :disabuse :disagreement:discriminate: :dismissal :displace ::, :: ::displaced :: : :: :displacementdisplaces :::displacing :: :dispute :: :disrupting :distinct ::, :: :distinction ::distinctive :district :diversity :,:, :,:,,:, ::,,:,divest : :: :divested ::divesting :divided :division :Doe :doing : :: :doubt :doubts :Dow :drag :drop :due : :D.C :,,EE : :,earlier :,earlier-enacted:::Easterbrookeasy :effect :: :: :: :either :elements :enact :enacted :encompasses::encourage :enforce :: :,enforced ::enforcement: :: : ::, :enforcing :enormous :entertain :: :: :,entire ::,entitled :entitlement :escalate :especially :ESQ :, ::,essentially :establishes :everybody :,evidence :,exact :exactly ::, :: :example :: :,: :: :: :: :examples :exceed :exclude ::excluded :exclusive :,:,,,:,exist : :existence :: : :: :exists : :: :expenses :experience:explicitly :express :,,: :,expressed ::expresses :expressions:extent ::,extraordinarily:e-mails :Fface :fact : :: : :: ::facts :fails :fairly :,,far :favor :favors :FCC :,: :,: :,:Federal :,:,, ::,,,,:, :,:, :,:,,,: : ::, :: :,:,,,: ::, ::,,:,,,,:, ::,,:,,,: ::,,,: :, Official: :,,: :,:, ::, ::,, ::,,,:, :: ::, ::,,,:,,,,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,:, ::, ::,,,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,:,,,,:,,:,, ::,,,:, ::,,,:,,,:fee :feel :fees :,fighting :figure ::figuring :file : :filed :,: :,files :filing : ::fill : :Finance :Financial ::find : :findings :: :fine : :first : :: ::, :: :fit :fits :flexibility :flip :flooding :Florida :,:focus :follow :following :follows :forget :forth :found : :foundation:fours :freedom :free-standing:friend :: ::friends :fundamentallyfurther :::GG : : ::gain :Galveston :game :gap :, :Garre : ::,,:, ::,,:,,:,,:,,: :,:,, :: :,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:, ::,,:, ::,,,: :,: :,: :,: ::,,gee :general :: :: ::,,: :,: ::, :: ::,,: :: :: ::generalized :generally :: :generals :generous :getting ::Ginsburg :: :: :,:,,:, :: :: :,: :: ::, :: :,: :,give :,: ::, :: :: :: ::given :gives : ::giving :,go :, ::,, :: ::, :: ::, ::,,: ::, :: :,: :: :goes : ::going : :: :: :,:, :: ::,, :: :,: ::Gonzaga :good : ::Gottlieb :governed :: :: :,:governing :governs :: :grammar :grant : :granted ::,granting :grants :,grappled :great :GREGORY: : :ground :guess : :Hhackles :happen :,:,happens ::,harassing :hard :Harrisburg:hear :hears :heaven's :held :,:hey :hire :history :hold : :Hollings :: :,Honor : :: : Official: :: :,: :: :hope :huh :hypothetical:Iidea : ::,identified :: ::Illinois :Im :imaginativelyimagine :::immediately :impact :,,:implication ::, :: :implied :import :important :: :incentives :incompatible:incur :indicated :indicating :indication ::individual :: :,: ::industry :infer :information:injunctive ::,instances :instruct ::instructed :intend ::intended :: :: :intent :: :interaction:interested :interesting :interplay :::interpret :interpretation:intersects :interstate :interstitial:intervene :in-State ::,isolation :issue : :: :,:Jjealous :Jersey :,job :Judge ::judgment :: :judicial :junior :jurisdiction:,, ::, :,:, :,: ::, :: :: ::,,,:, ::,,,:,,: :,,,:,,:,,: :,,:, :: :,:, ::,,,:,,:, ::,,,,:, ::, :: ::, :,:, ::,,jurisdictional: :: ::jurisprudence: :Justice :,,:,, ::,, ::, :: :,,:,,, ::,,,: :,,:,,,:,,:, :,: :,:,,: :,:,,:,,:,,,,:, ::,,,:,,,: :,,: :,:,,,:,,:, :: :,:,,:,,:,,:, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::,,:,, :: :,:,,,:, ::, ::,,,: :,: :,,: ::,,: :,:, ::,Justices :KKagan :: ::, :: ::, :: :,Katt : :keep : :keeping ::Kennedy ::, :: :kicked :kind : ::,,: ::knew :know : ::, :: ::, ::,,: :,:, :: :: ::LL : :, ::label : :lack :language ::, :: ::large :largely :later-enacted:,,,,:, :Laughter :law :, ::,, :: :,: ::,, :,:, :: :: :,:, ::,, :: ::,,, Official:,,:, :,:,,,,: :,:,,,:, :::little : ::LLC :logic :longer ::meaningful: :meaningless: :means :: ::,laws : :look : :meant : :: ::, ::, :: :: :lawyer :,: : :leave :leeway :left :legal : :: :legislative ::legislature: :lens :let's : ::level : :: :limit : :: :: :limitation :: :,,:limitations :: :,: ::, :: :limited :,: :: :,limiting ::listed :litigating :: :: ::,,: :looked :: :looking :loophole ::lose :lot :Mmajor :majority :making ::MARCUS :matter :: ::, ::matters :: :mean : :: :, :: :,: ::, :: :: :: ::, :: :: :,: :,: :,: ::: :: :mechanism ::,mentioned:mere : :merely :Merrell :mess :Mims : :mind : :Mining :::minutes :mirroring :misstate :modified :modifies :: :: :modify ::modifying :moment :momentous:Monday :money :morass :morning :motions :,move :NN :, :name :National :natural :: :nearly ::necessarily ::need ::needed :Nelson : :: :,,,:,, ::,,:, :,: : :,: :,:,,:,,:, :: ::,,,:, :: ::,,:,,,:, :,:, ::, :: ::,,:,,: :never : ::, :: ::New :,,nine :non-existence:notice :notion :November :number :,: :OO : :object :objective :obtain :Obviously :odd : :: :: :,: :,,:,,:odder :oddest :oddness :oh : :: :okay :,: :: ::older :once : ::ones :,opinion :: :opposed :opposite :option :optional :oral : :,: :ordinary :ousted :outside :out-of-State: ::overwhelmed:PP :page : ::Palos :: : particular :Pharmaceutic...::paradigm :parallel ::Pardon :part : :: :participate:: :particularly:parts :passed :Passengers:passing :pay :,paying :peculiar :people : :: ::,,: ::perceived :perfect ::period :,permit :permits ::permitted ::,,:,, ::,,:, :: :: ::,person :: :: :persons :perspective:pestered :: :pests :,,Petitioner :: :, :: ::Petitioner's: ::phone ::phoning :phrase :phrasing :ping-pong :places :plain :plaintiff :: :: :plaintiffs ::, :: :players ::please :: :point : ::, :: :: :: :: :,:, :pointed :points :policy :position :,:, :: :: :: :: :,,:, :positions :possible : ::possibly :potential ::power ::powers :practicallypractice :precluded :precludes :premise :presented ::presume :: ::,presumption:, :,: :: ::,,:pretty :pre-emption:pre-existing:principally :principle ::privacy :private :: :, :: ::, :: ::, ::, :: :,:,,,: :,:,,,: : :: :,Official: ::, ::,,pro :probably :,: :problem ::, :: :: :problems :procedural:, :procedure ::, :procedures :proposition :protect :::protected :Protection ::protections:,provide :: :provided :: :,provides :: :,: ::provision :: :: :,: :: :: :: :provisions :: :public : ::, ::publication:pursued :pushed ::put : :: : :putting ::p.m :QQuarterly :question :: :,: :,: ::,, ::,,,: :: ::, :: :,: :,: :: ::, ::, :,:, :questions ::quote :RR :racking :Railway :raising :Rancho ::,Ranchos :reaction :read :: :reading ::,readings :real :really : : Official: :: :: :: :: :reason :: :: :: :: :reasons :: ::rebuttable:rebuttal :: :recall :received :recognize :::recognized:,recognizing:recover : :: ::recoveries :recovery :: :: :refer : :reference :: :references :referred :relief : ::,remainder:remaining :remand :remotely :removal :remove : ::,,,: : :: :: :removed :,:removes :removing :rendered :repeat ::repeatedly:reply : :Report :reproduced:require : :required ::requirement: :reserve :respect ::respects :Respondent: : :Respondent'sresponse :::reverse :review :RICO ::right :,:, :: :,,:,,,:,,,,,: :,: :,: :,,: :,:,,,:,,:, :: ::,,: ::,, :: :,:,,,:,, :: :,:,,,: :: :,,:,,,:, ::,,:, :: :,: : :: :,:, ::, ::, ::,,rights : :: :: :: :: ::,rises :River :Roberts : ::,,,:,, :: ::,,:, :,: :: :: :,: ::, ::rule :, :: :,:,,,: :: :,:rules : ::, :,:, :: :: :,: :: : :SS : :salesmen ::San : :saw :saying : :: :: ::, :: ::, :: ::says : :: :,: :: :: :,: :: :,: :Scalia :,:,,:,, :: :,:,,,: :,: :,,:scope ::SCOTT : :: : :se :second :: :: :: :,:section :: :,: :: :: :,:see : :: : :seeks :seemingly :seen :,:self-defeating: :Senator :: :,:sense :: :,: ::, :: :separate :Services : :sets :Seventh :Shoshone ::, :side :,: :: :sides : :signposts :similar :simple :simply :: ::sister :sitting :situated :situation :: :: OfficialSixth :,small :,:, ::, ::, ::, ::,,:,,,: :,: ::smaller :Solicitor :somebody :somewhat :soon :sorry :: :sort :Sotomayor: :,:, ::,,sought :speak : :speaking :specific :,: :,: :,:, ::specifically:, ::split :spoke :,: :spoken :sponsor :spring :stage :stake :standard ::standards :start :State :,: : :,: :,: ::,,,,:, ::, ::, ::,,,: :,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,,: ::,,,: :,: :,:, :: ::,,,,:,,:, :: ::,,:, :: ::,,,:,,,,: :,:,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,, ::,,: :: :,:,,,stated :statement :,: :States :,: :: ::,,,:,,,: :: :State's :State-court-fo...:State-law :State-law-foc...:statue :status :statute : :: :: :: :,: :,:,, ::, :,:,,,: :: :,: :,:,,,:,,,:, :: ::,,:,statutes :: :: :statutory :: :: :: :: ::stay : :straightforward:strangest :strategy ::strong :strongly :structure :struggled :study :stuff :subject :,:,submitted ::subordinate:subscriber:subsection :: :: :subsequent :substance :substantive :: : :: :: :sudden :suddenly :sue : ::,sues :suggest ::suggested :suggesting: :suggests ::suing :suit : :: :,:, :suitable :suits : ::superfluous: :superior :supplemental::supplied :supposed :supreme :,: :,:,sure : ::TT :,Tafflin : :: :take : :: :taken :talked :talking :: :,: ::, ::talks : :targets :TCPA :: :,: :telemarketertelemarketers::telephone :: :tell : :: :telling :::terms : :Testa : :Texas :,:, ::Thank :,:, :theoretical:theoretically :thing : :: : transitory :Unquestionably: :things :: ::think : :: :,:, :: ::,,,:, :: ::,,,:,, :: :: :: ::,,:, :: :,:, :: :,:,,: :,:,,,:, :: :,: :,:,,: :,: ::,,: ::thinking ::thinks :: :third ::thought :: :: :,:,three : :: :three-tier :time : ::, :times : :told :tortfeasor :totally ::traditional :transforming::treated :trebled :,tremendous:tried :trouble :true : :truly ::trumps :try :trying :: ::two : :: :: ::type :types :typical :typically :Uultimately :: :: :uncounseled:understand :: :,understanding:understood :undisputed :unique :Official: :uniquely :United :,:unmistakable: :unmistakably: :: ::unusual :,: ::unwilling :urge :use : :usual : :usually :: :U.S :U.S.C ::Vv : : :: ::vague :vast : :venerable ::venue :Verdes :: ::view ::views :violated : :violation ::,,: :,: :virtually :void :volumes ::Wwaived :,want : ::,,: :: ::wanted ::wanting :wants :: :,:Washington ::,wasn't ::way : :: :,:, :: :,: :: :,: :: ::ways : :: ::weaker :weird :,went :we'll : ::we're : :: :,: ::, ::,we've : :: :whatsoever: :willful :willing :win :wipes :withdrew :wonderful :word : ::, :words : :: :: :work :worry :worrying ::worth :,wouldn't ::, :: :: ::write :written :wrongful :Xx :, :YY :year : :years : ::yields :York :$$, :$, :$ :, ::, ::$, : :-year : :a :- : : : : : :(b)() :: ::(b)() :: ::,,,(h) :: : : :: :,: :: :,: :: ::, :,: :, : :,: :: :,,:, ::,-year : : :(b)() : : : :: : : :: :, : :-year : : : : : :Official: : : : : 