Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xFEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION, :ET AL., : Petitioners : No. - v. :STANMORE CAWTHON COOPER. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:ERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for Petitioners.RAYMOND A. CARDOZO, ESQ., San Francisco, California; for Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFRAYMOND A. CARDOZO, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFERIC J. FEIGIN, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioners Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argumentnext in Case -, Federal Aviation Administration v.Cooper. Mr. Feigin. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. FEIGIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: If Congress had intended to waive thesovereign immunity of the United States to allowuncapped emotional distress claims under the PrivacyAct, it would have and was required to state that waiverclearly and unambiguously in the statutory text. The substantive requirements of the Actsweep far beyond any pre-existing common law protectionof privacy to impose a detailed set of new and pervasiverequirements on the collection, maintenance, use, anddissemination of millions of Federal agency records.The Act, for example, forbids agencies from keeping toomuch information about an individual; compels agenciesto collect information about an individual, whenpracticable, from the individual himself and not fromother sources; and can require agencies to safeguard Officialinformation about an individual even when thatinformation is otherwise already publicly available. Congress would not have taken lightly thequestion of whether to expose the United States toexpansive damages for intentional or willful violationsof these novel recordkeeping requirements. Indeed, theway in which the district court believed that the SocialSecurity Administration violated the Privacy Act in thiscase is something that never would have been actionableat common law and never would have resulted in emotionaldistress recovery. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then maybe Congressshouldn't have passed this statute. But the injury, theinvasion of privacy, that's not something wherepecuniary damages are -- are prime if they exist at all.I mean, this is -- the -- the tort that this iscomparable to is intentional infliction of emotionaldistress. The -- the person who is subject to this, tothis embarrassment, this humiliation, doesn't haveout-of-pocket costs but is terribly distressed, nervous,anxious, and all the rest. The -- the act that the Congress isreaching, the impact of it is of that nature, not -- Imean, pecuniary damages do not ordinarily attend conductthat embarrasses, humiliates you, causes mental Officialdistress. MR. FEIGIN: Well, first of all, JusticeGinsburg, I'd like to respectfully disagree with thepremise of the question that the Privacy Act iscomparable to common law invasion of privacy. All therequirements I just described that are under the PrivacyAct would not have existed at common law invasion ofprivacy even though common law invasion of privacy was,as you say, compensable with emotional distress awards.In fact, even if we focus just on the disclosure-relatedprovision of the Privacy Act, it itself is much broaderthan common law invasion of privacy. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even if it is -- even ifit is, the damages are -- the damages are not of apecuniary kind. So, you could say that Congress wasmuch more generous than the common law was, but theimpact on the person who is suing is not going to beout-of-pocket business loss, pecuniary loss; it's goingto be the embarrassment, the humiliation. So, it's --it's -- if Congress wanted to do something about theimpact on the person it has given a right, it's notgoing to do something that has to do with pecuniarydamages which it's not likely the person in -- in thisplaintiff's situation is not likely to suffer. MR. FEIGIN: Well, first of all, Your Honor, Officialthere sometimes are, as there were at common law,pecuniary damages resulting from either violations ofthe Privacy Act or invasions of privacy; and thegovernment sometimes pays out very large pecuniaryjudgments. But to get to the core of your questionabout why Congress might not in the Privacy Act haveprovided an emotional distress award, I think the textof the Act demonstrates that Congress thought about thepossibility of providing an emotional distress award,but decided not to do that in the initial version of theAct that it passed in . Instead, that version ofthe Act in section (c)()(B)(iii) assigned to thePrivacy Protection Study Commission the task of making arecommendation as to whether the Act should later beexpanded to provide for general damages. The commission understood its mission todetermine -- was to determine whether the Act ought tobe expanded to provide for dignitary and reputationalharms, such as compensation for emotional distress. Andthe Privacy Commission further understood that the Actas it had been enacted provided only for actual damages,which it interpreted as synonymous with special damages. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's the -- why --is -- is a harm to a dignitary interest, is that an Officialactual injury? MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You describe thatinjury -- I mean, it is an injury, the emotionaldistress, the humiliation. Is that an actual injury? MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, the term "actualinjury" and the term "actual damages" -- those areambiguous terms. Sometimes they might include emotionaldistress, and sometimes they might not. And -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take thiscase. Did the plaintiff suffer an actual injury? MR. FEIGIN: He did not -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: At least, did he allegethat he had suffered an actual injury? MR. FEIGIN: He did not suffer actualdamages within the meaning of the Privacy Act. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I didn't -- I didn't askyou that. I asked you, did he suffer an actual injury,as opposed to someone who is complaining aboutsomething -- an abstract right or an abstract theory?Is there an actual injury here? MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I think mydifficulty with the question is that I don't think theterm "actual injury" has some plain meaning out ofcontext. And the term that the Privacy Act uses is Official"actual damages." I think in the context of the PrivacyAct, as well as in other contexts -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you have to have aninjury first before you can get damages. So, myquestion is, was there an injury? MR. FEIGIN: Well, if Your Honor's questionis whether he suffered an adverse effect within themeaning of -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. MR. FEIGIN: -- section (g)()(D) of theAct, yes, we believe he did suffer an adverse effectsufficient to confer standing. But this Court in Doedescribed the adverse effect requirement as simplycodifying the Article III standing requirements and madevery clear that simply because a plaintiff may havesuffered an adverse effect, that doesn't mean that theplaintiff suffered actual damages. But,Justice Ginsburg -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm a little bitconfused by that because in your brief, the SolicitorGeneral's brief in Doe, it described the earlier versionof general damages in the following way -- and I'mquoting from your brief there: "The general damagesprovision in the Senate bill likely derived from thecommon law of tort of invasion of privacy where general Officialdamages may be awarded as" -- quote -- "'presumeddamages,' without proof of harm." So, I think there in Doe you argued thatgeneral damages presumed injury. But that's verydifferent than, I think, the question Justice Ginsburgwas asking you. It's -- and I read your brief and yourarguments as sort of an -- an assumption that if yousuffer nonpecuniary harm, you haven't been injured. MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's a big differencebetween presumed damages and proven injury. In Gertz,we reference the common law tort as requiring actualproof of injury for emotional distress. Most State lawssay you have to prove the emotional distress. We're notpresuming the injury. So, I guess what I'm saying toyou, aren't you the one confusing what injury is frompresumed damage? MR. FEIGIN: I hope not, Your Honor. Butthe -- the -- I think to get at your question, what wesaid in the Doe brief is that general damages are a typeof presumed damages, and that's correct under the commonlaw, but that isn't all that general damagesencompasses. General damages, as the Court recognizedin Doe, are always presumed in the sense that they'realways assumed -- this is the common law definition of Officialgeneral damages -- are always presumed in the sensethey're always assumed to have taken place and an awardof general damages can be made even without specificproof of harm. But in cases where a -- at common law,in cases where a plaintiff did introduce evidence of theextent of, for example, the emotional distress that hehad suffered -- so, if he wanted to say I'm not happywith the presumed damages that you would give to justanybody who had suffered this invasion of privacy, Ihave a particularly sterling reputation or I amparticularly sensitive to this sort of thing, I suffereda -- an increased amount of harm from what you mightpresume the average person would suffer, the award thatthat person would receive is -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, why is thatdifferent from actual injury? I have -- I'm notsleeping. I have a nervous stomach. I'm not eating.The typical things that juries look at to determinewhether you've proven emotional distress -- MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is that not actualinjury? MR. FEIGIN: So, the award that person wouldreceive for the additional proof of emotional distresswould be classified as general damages. Now, to get to Officialyour question of why that's not actual damages.Sometimes the terms "actual damages" or "actual injury"can be used to include proven emotional distress, butthe term was ambiguous. We cite cases in footnotes and of our reply brief in which the term "actualdamages" or "actual damage" is used to mean exclusivelypecuniary harm. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've looked at thosecases, and in all of them except for two, where thereference wasn't really precise, it was because the useof "actual damages" in the particular statute werelimited to pecuniary harms or the nature of the harms atissue were pecuniary by nature. MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, most of thosecases are cases out of the common law, and sometimesthey use "actual damages" in the same sentence with areference to emotional harm, making clear that theythink that the two types of harms are separate. But, Your Honor, maybe I can try to explainit this way: I think actually Respondent implicitlyagrees with our definition of general damages asincluding proven harm. If you look at footnote onpage of the red brief and then again at page ofthe red brief, the definition of "actual damages" thatRespondent is offering he divides into two Officialsubcategories: special damages and general damages.Everybody agrees that special damages are limited topecuniary harm. And Respondent makes no claim, nor could he,that the type of damages he's seeking are specialdamages. So, to the extent he thinks that he's entitledto recovery under the Act, it's because he thinks thatthe emotional distress harm that he wants to prove aregeneral damages. And if there's one thing we know aboutthe definition of "actual damages" in the Act, it's thatit doesn't include general damages, because, again,Congress separately in the text of the Privacy Actassigned the Privacy Protection Study Commission to makea recommendation about whether the Act should later beexpanded to include general damages. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What does "actualdamages" mean under the Fair Credit Reporting Act? MR. FEIGIN: Your Honor, we don't have aposition on that at this point. I can describe to youhow we think that the inquiry would work. We think thatin some statutes actual damages might in context includeemotional distress awards. But the term "actualdamages" by itself in a waiver of sovereign immunity isnot a clear and unambiguous waiver of the United States'sovereign immunity for claims of emotional distress. Official And as to statutes which do not allow claimsagainst the United States, it would be a question ofcontext and legislative history. And we'd have to dothe same kind of workup of the Fair Credit Reporting Actthat we've done of the Privacy Act in this case. One -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it can mean, and Ithink it has been held to mean, damages to a dignitaryinterest. Mental distress has been held to -- the termhas been held to mean that under the Fair CreditReporting Act. MR. FEIGIN: Yes, Your Honor. Multiplecourts of appeals have held that, and we're notquestioning that conclusion for purposes of this casewith the caveat that we don't think the United States issubject to suit under the Fair Credit Reporting Act. If the United States were subject to suitunder the Fair Credit Reporting Act, then becausethere's ambiguity about the meaning of "actual damages,"we think that the narrower interpretation as limited topecuniary harm would control. One other distinction between the FairCredit Reporting Act and the Privacy Act is, again, asI've said, the Privacy Act specifically carves outgeneral damages as a type of damages that aren't goingto be awarded, and the Fair Credit Reporting Act does Officialnot. The Fair Credit Reporting Act also has amuch more permissive remedial scheme, allowing incertain cases for statutory damages and also allowingfor punitive damages. I don't think the Fair CreditReporting Act, for the various reasons I've justmentioned, is a particularly good analogue for thePrivacy Act. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just to question what theterm means, what the term "actual damages" means. MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, again, aswe've demonstrated in our briefs, I think -- again, I'drefer the Court to footnotes and for how this termwas used at the common law -- the term "actual damages"can mean both things. So, the fact that in the Privacy Act itdoes include -- it may include emotional distress awardsdoesn't mean that that's the sense in which Congressused it in the Privacy Act -- I'm sorry; I may have saidthat wrong. The fact that in the context of the FairCredit Reporting Act it may include emotional distressdoesn't mean that that's the way in which Congress usedit in the Privacy Act. And I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are there -- are there Officialinstances where, if there's an invasion of privacy andthere's a documented trauma from psychosomatic illnesswith medical expenses and lost wages, is that special --is that actual damage? MR. FEIGIN: Yes, Your Honor. If there aredocumented medical expenses that were out-of-pocketexpenses, then we think, even if they arise fromemotional distress, then they would be pecuniary harmand could be compensated under the Privacy Act. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Are youarguing that the emotional distress component can't be? MR. FEIGIN: The emotional distresscomponent itself cannot be, but medical expenses totreat symptoms of emotional distress -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, you're -- under --as I understand the definition of "special damages" incommon law, if you proved any pecuniary harm, you werealso entitled to the mental distress damages as well.So, you want half of the common law award -- award? MR. FEIGIN: I don't think that's quitecorrect about the definition of "special damages," YourHonor. And I don't think there is any dispute on this."Special damages," the term in this context, is alwayslimited to pecuniary harm. Once -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We may have a difference Officialof -- of history there because, yes, special damagesrequired pecuniary harm, but once you prove that, italso permitted recovery of nonpecuniary losses as well. MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, in a commonlaw suit for defamation per quod -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's what yourbrief said, actually. MR. FEIGIN: Well, no, Your Honor. What wesaid in our brief is, in a common lawsuit for defamationper quod, there are two types of damages that could berecovered: special damages and general damages. Unlessa -- special damages were limited to pecuniary harm.Unless a plaintiff could prove at least some specialdamages, they wouldn't be entitled to any recovery atall. If a plaintiff could prove some special damages,they could recover not only special damages -- in otherwords, pecuniary harm -- but could also recover generaldamages; that is, damages for emotional distress orother dignitary -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're not talking anydifferently. That's what I just said. If you -- MR. FEIGIN: Yes, Your Honor. I think tothe extent I was perhaps disagreeing with you is I wasunderstanding you to say that the definition of "specialdamages," the term, sometimes includes emotional Officialdistress awards. The term "special damages" is limitedto pecuniary harm. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sort of odd for Congressto borrow from the defamation context and with a definedterm of art, "special damages," and not use it in thePrivacy Act if that's what it intended. MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And to use a term,"actual damages," which has a much broader meaning than"special damages." MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, as the Courtrecognized in Doe, there's a structural similaritybetween the civil remedies provision of the Privacy Actand the remedial scheme for defamation per quod atcommon law. And I think one reason there might be thatstructural similarity is that defamation per quod atcommon law solves the problem that Congress faced whenit was crafting the Privacy Act, which is trying tofigure out when a plaintiff's injuries are sufficientlyserious and concrete as to justify an award of damages. I think it makes sense if, as the Courtsupposed in Doe, Congress were aware of how defamationper quod had solved that problem, that Congress wouldhave adopted the same limitation -- in other words, arequirement of showing of pecuniary harm -- as the Officialthreshold requirement under the Privacy Act. Now, Congress had very good reason to becautious about extending the scope of liability underthe Privacy Act. As I've said, the Privacy Actregulates a great deal of conduct that wouldn't havebeen compensable at all in common law, let aloneresulted in any sort of emotional distress award. Now, Congress recognized, I think, some ofthe concerns that Justice Ginsburg and Justice Sotomayorhave raised about why plaintiffs might in some instancesdeserve recovery for emotional distress. But itrecognized that there are arguments on both sides -- onboth sides on that issue. And what it decided to do inthe Privacy Act was to defer that issue for later andassign the Privacy Protection Study Commission to make arecommendation about whether the scope of liability thatthe Act -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the -- the PrivacyStudy Commission coming after can't say what the statutemeans. I mean, that would be post-legislative history.I mean, the statute exists, and then we have a StudyCommission to see what amendments might be made. Butthe Study Commission can't decide what the -- what theAct means. MR. FEIGIN: Well, two points on that, Your OfficialHonor: First of all, the reference of the generaldamages issue to the Privacy Protection Study Commissionis in the text of the Act that Congress enacted in .So, the exclusion of general damages doesn't depend atall on anything the Privacy Protection Study Commissionsaid. As to the weight we think the PrivacyProtection Study Commission report should receive, firstof all we think it's very telling evidence that there isat the very least ambiguity about what the term "actualdamages" could mean. The Privacy Protection StudyCommission interpreted the term "actual damages" inprecisely the same way that we do in our brief; that is,as special damages, as that term was understood indefamation torts at common law, which the PrivacyProtection Commission Study report makes very clear atpage is limited to pecuniary harm. I think, if for no other reason than thatthat's a reasonable reading, I think the sort ofjudicial restraint that is embodied in the canon thatrequires courts to construe waivers of sovereignimmunity narrowly requires this Court to adopt thatnarrower reading, because it shows that the narrowerreading is at the very least a reasonable one or, as theCourt said in Nordic Village, is a plausible one. Official I think it would have been very unusual forCongress silently or ambiguously to have decided to openthe door to emotional distress awards under the PrivacyAct. As I've said, the Privacy Act is quite a broad,substantive act that would have exposed the governmentto damages in -- in very new ways. And I think thiscase illustrates -- illustrates that. The district court here concluded that thelaw enforcement-related disclosure of Respondent'smedical information by the Social SecurityAdministration was, in fact, authorized under thePrivacy Act by routine use published in the FederalRegister. But it concluded that Respondent couldnevertheless bring suit against the Federal Governmentunder the Privacy Act because the forms he filled out inseeking Social Security disability benefits didn'tadequately disclose to him that his information might bereleased to other government agencies for lawenforcement purposes. I don't think there's any reason whyCongress would necessarily think that an omission on agovernment form should give rise to a claim foremotional distress damages. There certainly wouldn'thave been any analogue for it at common law. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's just saying Officialthat he didn't have a good claim for relief. But let'stake the worst case, where -- where a governmentofficial spreads all kinds of false information or eventrue but terribly embarrassing information about aperson, does it deliberately. Let's take that case,because your rule covers all of them. MR. FEIGIN: Well, in that case, Your Honor,the plaintiff might have a claim under the Federal TortClaims Act based on a violation of some State lawstatutory or common law privacy protection. So, thecategory of cases that would have constituted invasionof privacy prior to the Privacy Act might still beavailable to a plaintiff, who might then recoveremotional distress damages against the government. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But wasn't that the verything that Congress -- why did they pass this in thefirst place? I mean, Congress was thinking of emotionaldistress injuries. MR. FEIGIN: Well, they passed it, YourHonor, because they wanted, in the wake of Watergate, toimpose a set of detailed substantive requirements aboutFederal recordkeeping. I think the -- you know, lookingthrough the Act, which takes up maybe pages of thepetition appendix, it clearly isn't simply acodification of common law invasion of privacy against Officialthe Federal Government. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's -- MR. FEIGIN: It does much, much more thanthat. Your Honor, even if we look just at thedisclosure-related provision, it's broader than commonlaw invasion of privacy in two very important ways. So,for common law invasion of privacy, a plaintiff wouldhave to prove disclosure of very personal and privateinformation to the public at large. Under the PrivacyAct, however, a disclosure even to a single person wouldconstitute a violation of the Act, and the informationdoesn't even have to be private. Let me give a concrete example. So, if thegovernment has a record that contains information thatsomeone has a criminal conviction, it might be aviolation of the Privacy Act for the contents of thatrecord to be disclosed, even though someone could obtainthe same information by going to the court records orpotentially looking them up on the Internet. And particularly since violations of Federallaw are typically -- typically, the only type of reliefa plaintiff can seek for violation of Federal law isequitable relief under the Administrative Procedure Act.I don't think there's any reason to assume that Congress Officialambiguously or, I think, really silently decided that itwas going to ratchet things up to a serious degree andexpose the United States to uncapped emotional distressdamages under the Privacy Act. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It did set a pretty highbar for the plaintiff to meet, because the plaintiffwould have to prove intentional or willful conduct, notnegligence, but -- MR. FEIGIN: Well, three points on that,Your Honor. First of all, I think if Congress hadthought that the limitation to intentional or willfulconduct was itself a sufficient limitation on theliability of the United States, it wouldn't have been soreluctant to provide for general damages or perhaps evenfor punitive damages. Second, the courts of appeals now generallyinterpret the intentional or willful requirement torequire only something slightly less than recklessnessor slightly more than gross negligence, which inpractice provides district courts and courts of appealswith a great deal of flexibility to find intentional orwillful violations in cases where the Federal Governmentdoesn't believe it should be liable. Third, to the extent the intentional or Officialwillful requirement does impose a limitation on aplaintiff's recovery, what actually winds up happeningin practice is that plaintiffs or courts will look toall the various technical provisions of the Privacy Actto try to find some violation that can be classified asintentional or willful. So, for example, if a plaintiffabout whom information has been disclosed can't show thedisclosure is intentional or willful, he may try toprove that a violation of the -- of (e)(), whichrequires the government to safeguard information, wasintentional or willful. With the Court's permission, I'd like toreserve the balance of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Cardozo. ORAL ARGUMENT OF RAYMOND A. CARDOZO ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. CARDOZO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Embracing the Government's view of "actualdamages" would mean that the very individuals Congresssought to protect in this Act would have no remedy atall for the primary form of harm that was wellrecognized at common law when this Act was passed. To carry out the Act's protective purposes, Officialthis Court need only give the words "actual damages"their common and ordinary meaning that appears inBlack's Law Dictionary: proven, not presumed,liquidated, punitive, or other forms of damages that arenot tied to proof of harm. JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you thisquestion about the damages that your client is seekingin this case? If -- if we affirm the Ninth Circuit,would -- are you claiming all of the damages that -- allof the emotional damages that resulted from his criminalconviction, or are you claiming only the emotionaldamages that would have been suffered by anybody elsewhose records were turned over to the FAA under theOperation Safe Pilot program? MR. CARDOZO: If you affirm, there will be aproximate causation question that arises on remand. TheAct requires the damages to be the result of theviolation. So, he cannot recover for the emotionaldistress that followed from the prosecution. But, as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, we'retalking today not just about Mr. Cooper; we're talkingabout every single person to whom this Act applies: thewhistleblower who the government chooses to silence byembarrassing and humiliating them -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you allege that Mr. OfficialCooper suffered a severe emotional distress when he wasconfronted with the fact that his records had beenturned over. So, you're -- you're saying that thecourt -- that on remand, there would have to be aseparation of the degree of distress that he suffered asa result of simply knowing that somebody in the FAA hadaccess to his Social Security records, but disregard thedistress that somebody in that situation would naturallyfeel when confronted with the fact that a criminalviolation that he had committed had been exposed? MR. CARDOZO: Yes. And that's the kind ofthing judges routinely have to sort through. Forexample, someone suffers emotional distress and thenthey lose their job thereafter, and the injury thatproduces the emotional distress, the job -- the job losswasn't the proximate cause. Judges -- in fact, we ask juries to do that.In this case, it would be a judge sifting through thatand making that determination. As happened inPetitioner Doe's case, the judge could find that theemotional distress claim wasn't sufficient and reject italtogether, but that's the nature of an emotionaldistress remedy. One thing you didn't hear in that argumentalmost at all was any discussion of the text of this OfficialAct, which tells you in at least four separate ways that"actual damages" simply means proven, not presumed,damages. Beginning with the words themselves, that's,of course, the most common meaning of "actual damages,"the one that appears in Black's Law Dictionary. AsJustice Sotomayor pointed out, the term of art foreconomic loss in this arena is "special damages." Ifthat's what Congress meant, presumably it would haveused that term. It's the more common way to express onecategory of damages only. That's economic -- JUSTICE ALITO: But you agree that the Actdoes not allow recovery for what would have beenregarded at common law as general damages? MR. CARDOZO: What would have been regardedat common law as presumed -- the presumed damages, thisAct doesn't allow. That was peeled off for furtherstudy. JUSTICE ALITO: "General damages" -- that'sthe term that they peeled off, right? MR. CARDOZO: Right. But by keeping"actual," the juxtaposition between actual andgeneral -- JUSTICE ALITO: But general damages is aterm from -- from the remedies in defamation cases, Officialright? MR. CARDOZO: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: And there are two types ofdamages in defamation cases, special damages and generaldamages? And if you -- is that correct? MR. CARDOZO: Correct. JUSTICE ALITO: So, you subtract generaldamages, and what do you have left? MR. CARDOZO: But the interesting thing inthis case is they didn't take what you have left,special damages, and they used a different term,Congress did, "actual," a term that suggests we're goingto require proof of the damages. We're not going topresume them. We're not going to allow speculativedamages. JUSTICE ALITO: But the problem is that --that your definition of actual damages and the generaldefinition of actual damages includes some things thatfell within the rubric of general damages. MR. CARDOZO: That's true. But severalother things in the text of the Act tell you, again,that "actual" means simply proven, not presumed. If youlook at the section , where Congress recites findingsand the statement of purposes for the Act, the rightthat's being described here is an individual and Officialpersonal right of privacy, well understood, well settledat the time to be a right that was primarilynonpecuniary in nature. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me just try thisone more time. You -- you say that there's a right torecover actual damages but no right to recover generaldamages. So, what you think is recoverable is actualdamages minus general damages? MR. CARDOZO: No. JUSTICE ALITO: No? MR. CARDOZO: Our position is what isrecoverable is actual damages, the damages you prove,substantiate. A judge can reject it if they find itunsubstantiated as happened in Petitioner Doe's case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but we -- MR. CARDOZO: But you can't presume -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Courts don't -- courtsdon't allow recovery for conjectural or speculativedamages. That's just -- that's just -- or am I wrong?Do Federal courts -- MR. CARDOZO: No, but in this -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- routinely tell juries,now you can come in with conjectural or speculativedamages? That's not the way juries are instructed. MR. CARDOZO: But you can in this arena at Officialcommon law presume damages from the nature of theviolation. That is what was carved out, the ability topresume it, rather than present evidence and subject itto proof. JUSTICE BREYER: Can you tell me what yourresponse is to the Government's argument that thePrivacy Commission which was set up understood the word"actual damages" at the time the way they understand it?What's your response to that? I -- are they right aboutthat in your opinion? MR. CARDOZO: Apart from the obvious thatthe post-enactment report was -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm asking you what -- MR. CARDOZO: But -- but -- yes, on theunderlying point, several things. The commission --this is a -- two paragraphs in a -page report thatdoesn't run through the text of the Act, it's purpose,all of the things one normally does in statutoryconstruction. So, where they draw this conclusion isentirely -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. MR. CARDOZO: -- opaque. JUSTICE BREYER: So, am I right in sayingyour -- you would agree with them that that is how thePrivacy Commission understood the Act, but in your Officialopinion, the Privacy Commission was wrong? MR. CARDOZO: Yes, with one other -- withone other proviso I would add. There's a little bit ofambiguity. You see the Privacy Commission in this twopages was trying to sell Congress on the notion ofexpanding the remedy. So, it wrote on pages of itsreports: "If the rights and interests established inthe Privacy Act are worthy of protection, then recoveryfor intangible injuries such as pain and suffering, lossof reputation, or the chilling effect on constitutionalrights is a part of that protection. There is evidencefor this proposition in common law privacy cases." Surely, Congress knew that very thing. JUSTICE BREYER: And by "pain andsuffering," they mean mental pain and suffering? MR. CARDOZO: Right. Surely, Congress knewthat same thing. So, when it enacted this Act, it didnot mean to cut out the primary form of harm. JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you. MR. CARDOZO: Another -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what the Governmentwould say is -- is that -- and they have their owndictionary definitions. I don't -- I don't think it'saccurate to say that Black's Law Dictionary defines"actual damages" the way you would have it defined. As OfficialI recall, their briefing gives some other definitionsfrom an earlier version of Black's or whatever. But what they say about the commissionunderstanding, which you acknowledge to be contrary toyour understanding of actual damages, what they say isthat at least shows that it isn't clear what "actualdamages" means. And -- and in their estimation, onceyou -- once you establish that it isn't clear, then youtrigger the -- the rule that waivers of sovereignimmunity will not be considered to have any scope exceptthat scope which is clear. MR. CARDOZO: Well, that's why it's criticalto understand the analysis, because you can't saythere's a genuine ambiguity unless you understand howthey arrived at that conclusion. The meaning of "actualdamages" can vary with the context, but it's usuallycrystal clear in each context what you're talking about. In this privacy context, it's fairly clear.We have a provision at page a of the appendix, section(b), where Congress recites of purpose of this remediesprovision, and it states the purpose is to hold theUnited States liable "for any damages which occur as aresult of." The notable thing about that statement ofpurpose, "which occur as a result of," lines up Officialprecisely with proven, not presumed, damages. But "anydamages which occur as a result of" conflicts directlywith the notion of only one category of damages as beingauthorized. That's Congress's statement of purpose forthis very provision. That aligns. Mr. Cooper'sconstruction aligns. The Government creates disharmonyin the statute. JUSTICE BREYER: This would save me sometime possibly, but my guess is, and you may know, thatevery State or many States have statutes or tort laws orsomething against invasion of privacy. Now, you mayknow how many. And -- and if you know how many, that'shelpful. And of those, if you know how many, how manyof them, and perhaps all, provide damages for mentalsuffering caused by a violation of that particulartort-like provision? Do you know anything about those statistics? MR. CARDOZO: Justice Breyer, you've givenme a little bit too much credit. I can't give you anumber of States, but I can tell you that I'm not awareof any State that disallows. It is by far the generalrule, and I think it's universal, that recovery ofmental and emotional distress for invasion of theprivacy. JUSTICE BREYER: Do you know enough to know Officialif they've done so through the use of a term like"actual damages," that one or analogous thereto, orwhether they've had to have some special form of words? MR. CARDOZO: I don't know that. So,I'll -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, you're talkingabout statutes that require that the material have beenmade public, not that, say, establish a violation if oneagency provides the information to another agency? Imean, as the Government points out, this -- this statutegoes far beyond any -- any State statutory or common lawprotections of privacy. It's really very picky, picky. And -- and to say that, you know, whateveremotional harm comes from that is -- is quite differentfrom saying that under State privacy laws emotionaldistress is compensable. MR. CARDOZO: Yes, but we're all here todayonly talking about the narrow category of cases in whichthere's an intentional and willful violation. So, theyknew the law prevented them from doing what they did. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's right. Butall you have to know is that you shouldn't give it tothe other agency, because you're not making it public.You're not doing the kind of thing that constitutes an Officialinvasion of privacy under State law. You've justfailed, intentionally failed, to follow the verydetailed and, as I say, picky, picky prescriptionscontained in the Privacy Act. To say that you get emotional distress forthat as opposed to genuine -- what I would call genuineprivacy incursions, which State law covers, is adifferent question. MR. CARDOZO: But -- but this provision iscovering the range of intentional and willful violationscovered in the Act. The example of the whistleblowerwho you want to silence, so you leak the mostembarrassing details to the press, shaming andhumiliating them in front of friends and family -- don'tleave the house for a month, but you haven't lost yourjob, and you're not out of pocket -- zero remedy, zero.That's the Government's construction. And look at section , how Congressdescribed this Act. They didn't say we're imposing somepicayune technical requirements. They're saying we'redoing this to safeguard individual rights of privacy.They use the very lingo; they analogized it unmistakablyand explicitly to the common law kind of invasion ofprivacy for which emotional distress is routinelyrecoverable. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have anystatistics on the percentage of actions brought underthe Privacy Act in which the plaintiff was able toestablish pecuniary harm? MR. CARDOZO: I don't have any statistics onthat. The one thing I can tell you is that this hasbeen the law in the Fifth Circuit for well over years, and as the Government -- and prior to Doe v.Chao, the rule was, in most circuits, you didn't have toshow any damages. And yet, at that point, a good years after the Act had come into existence, theGovernment stood up here and admitted that far broaderconstruction of the Act than we are talking about todayhad no meaningful effect on the public -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You say that in the FifthCircuit or the Ninth Circuit for -- for many years? MR. CARDOZO: This case is in -- coming outof the Ninth Circuit, but the Fifth Circuit has therule. JUSTICE SCALIA: Has had this for a longtime. Okay. MR. CARDOZO: In the early 's, it firstrecognized emotional distress. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you aware of anyrunaway verdicts based on awards of mental damage proof? Official MR. CARDOZO: The only case that I'm awareof -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I define "runawayawards" as those in -- in six figures or above. MR. CARDOZO: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Or even high fivefigures. MR. CARDOZO: The highest that I can thinkof at the moment was a case out of the Fifth Circuitcalled Jacobs in which a Federal agency revealed --leaked to the press information falsely suggesting abank president was a money launderer. He got , inemotional distress, but that's a pretty extremesituation. The vast majority, it's going to be modest.And I would say he should get $, in emotionaldistress. He's an upstanding member of the communityand he's being called a common criminal; he might nothave suffered any pecuniary loss, but he has sufferedactual damages. One other thing about the text that tellsyou -- again, all of these points -- points align withMr. Cooper's construction and produce disharmony to theother side. Look at the breadth of the languageCongress used to waive sovereign immunity in subsection(g) of the Act. Recall that the Government's Officialconstruction is only one small category of plaintiffs,who are the victims of intentional and willfulviolations, can recover. Yet, the text says in any suitin which a court determines that there's beenintentional and willful violation, the United Statesshall be liable for actual damages. If what we mean is only one small category,economic damages, is serving as a substantial reductionin the category of cases that can be brought, you'dexpect to see that limitation appear after the"intentional and willful" in any suit in which a courtdetermines there has been willful, intentional violationand the plaintiff has suffered economic loss, because itis a substantially narrowing term. However, if "actual damages" simply meansproven, not presumed, this wording is perfectly naturaland flows exactly. Again, every place you look in thetext of the Act, proven, not presumed, aligns."Economic only" is a square peg in a round hole in thetext of this Act. JUSTICE KENNEDY: In -- in your argument, doyou have to avoid the concession that the term might beambiguous? I know your position is that liability fordamages is expressly waived, but then you stop there,and you -- and you say that -- you resist the idea that Officialthe definition of actual damages has to be unambiguous.Is that a fair characterization of your argument? MR. CARDOZO: I would modify it slightly.What the Government is talking about is an ambiguity inthe abstract. They're lifting the two words out of thecontext of the Act. Like any phrase, "actual damages"can mean different things in different contexts. But inthis statute, when you run through the tools ofconstruction, it's not ambiguous. And that's --that's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's a differentpoint. And the question went to whether you acknowledgethe need to be unambiguous. Now, what the Governmentsays is, of course, the -- the waiver of sovereignimmunity, you would acknowledge, must be unambiguous,but the Government says further, moreover, the scope ofthe waiver of -- of sovereign immunity must beunambiguous. Whether you have waived it only withrespect to pecuniary damages or also with respect toemotional harm, that also must be unambiguous. And --and you deny that second step, don't you? You think -- MR. CARDOZO: Actually we don't, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't? MR. CARDOZO: And this is how I wouldclarify it. What the doctrine of sovereign immunity Officialrequires is that the waiver be expressed in text, andthe court can't read it in. It can't add words to thetext. If you -- if your intent is to separate outpresumed liquidated, punitive, other forms of damagesthat do not -- are not tethered to proof of harm,"actual damages" is a phrase that does that preciselybecause that's what "actual" means; it means real. There's no ordinary definition of "actual"where it means pecuniary only, that is -- you get whenyou use it in certain contexts. So, this Court doesn'tneed to add, expand, or read anything into these words,"actual damages." It simply needs to give them themeaning that they have in ordinary English definitions,in Black's Law definition. This definition this Courtgave to actual damages in the Birdsall case over ahundred years ago is the same thing: presumed -- provendamages, not presumed. So, the waiver of sovereignimmunity is here expressed; it doesn't arise byimplication. But the one -- but there's another side tothe sovereign immunity point that the Government nevermentions. The court's obligation is dual here. Whenthere has been a waiver, the court can't expand thatwaiver, but neither can it contract it. You have herethe Government spinning out theoretical -- theoretical Officialpossibilities that actual damages was -- was used inthis more peculiar sense; what it really meant wasspecial damages -- to produce a deconstruction of thestatute that eviscerates it, leaves most of the peoplewho suffer intentional, willful violations without anyremedy at all. And those who happen to have an economicloss do not get compensation for the primary form ofharm from a privacy violation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The argument you'vemade, and I certainly understand it, that this is thePrivacy Act, and so it's precisely these types ofdamages that you'd be concerned about, really cuts bothways. I mean, what you're saying is this is a reallybig chunk of damages, because this is what the whole Actwas about. And it seems to me that that argumentsuggests that there's some weight to the Government'spoint that, well, if you're going to get into that, youreally do need a clear waiver of sovereign immunity. MR. CARDOZO: Absolutely, but -- but thatcircles back to my point that if you're going to -- ifyour intent is to say presumed, not proven, "actual"fits exactly. "Special" is the term that wasn't usedhere. So, to fault Congress for picking a term thatmeans precisely "proven, not presumed," and say youweren't clear enough, that's asking too much, Officialparticularly when they also said -- in their statementof purpose, they spoke to the remedies provision andsaid "any damages which occur as a result of." Theyused the sweepingly broad language. They did multiplethings to say -- reveal no doubt about its intent. And recall the rule from the Morissette andMolzof case when Congress is legislating against acommon law background. The rule is if Congress'ssilence is taken as an indication that Congress intendsto follow established norms, not depart from them, whenCongress says "actual damages" in a privacy context,it's fair to -- it's going to assume that people aregoing to understand that at common law, actual damagesincluded emotional distress for privacy violations. So, rather than assuming that it departedfrom the common law, we typically require a contrarydirection, under Morissette and Molzof, and you don'thave that contrary direction here. And you get the same answer as you rollthrough -- you don't need to look -- go past the text,but you get the same answer as you roll through all ofthe tools of construction: The common law backgroundand the Morisette/Molzof rule points you to the sameplace. The legislative history. This Act, the Act thatemerged, was a compromise between a far broader remedial Officialscheme that authorized punitive damages, did not havethe intentional and willful requirement, had anegligence standard, and a more measured version. The Government's construction of this Actthrows that compromise out the window and rewrites theAct as a one-sided in the Government's favor when whatclearly happened in the legislature was a balance wasstruck. Another thing about the legislative history,both the House and Senate bills originally had the term"actual damages" in there from the start, and they bothhad "actual damages" simply as a counterpart to punitivedamages. Again, another confirmation. Actual damages. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose this were acommon lawsuit for -- for slander per quod, and what wassaid was that Mr. Cooper received Social Securitydisability benefits. Now, he would -- and he claimsthat causes him great distress because of the extrinsicfact that he was known to be a pilot, and, therefore,people who -- who knew that he was flying around anairplane even though he was so severely disabled that hewas entitled to get Social Security disabilitybenefits -- that would damage his reputation. Now, the damages that you're seeking, theemotional distress that he allegedly incurred, what Officialwould that be? Which -- under what category of damageswould that fall? MR. CARDOZO: His -- his economic loss wouldbe special damages. JUSTICE ALITO: And let's -- MR. CARDOZO: The damages he could prove -- JUSTICE ALITO: You don't claim any economicloss here. MR. CARDOZO: Right. The damages he couldprove would be actual damages. JUSTICE ALITO: No. That -- under the --would that be the term that a court -- a common lawcourt would use, actual damages? Wouldn't they askwhether the damages to his reputation and the emotionaldistress that he suffered therefrom were either --wouldn't they ask whether that was special or general? MR. CARDOZO: Well, they could also useactual damages because, of course, in the Gertz case,the Court -- JUSTICE ALITO: No. Gertz came after thecommon law. Gertz was a modification of the common law.What would it be at common law? MR. CARDOZO: At common law, it would begeneral damages, but -- JUSTICE ALITO: General damages here are Officialexcluded by Congress, right? MR. CARDOZO: They were referred for furtherstudy, but what was authorized in the text, thesubstantive provision, is actual damages, not specialdamages. If Congress had wanted to peel off the wholepiece and require only economic loss, the more commonand routine term of art that's used is "specialdamages," which circles back to another important point. JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but -- but elsewherein the statute, it's made very clear that Congress didnot think it was authorizing general damages, right?Because it set up this commission to recommend whethergeneral damages should be included. Now, what would be-- what would be the purpose of that commission ifindeed actual damages already included general damages? MR. CARDOZO: It doesn't include generaldamages. Recall the presumed damages. The presumeddamages. A substantial portion of the compensationordinarily available would be peeled off under ourconstruction. And this was a distinction that actuallyappeared in the Gertz case, where to place FirstAmendment limitations on recovery. The Courtdistinguished between actual damages and presumeddamages. So -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: You would say that actualemotional damages are not -- are not general damages? MR. CARDOZO: I wouldn't say -- I would sayyou could call them general damages. In the context ofthis Act, what Congress does not choose special damagesas the term of what it's authorizing and, instead,chooses the broader term, "actual damages." JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but it -- it does usethe term "general damages" and makes very clear that itdoesn't think this statute covers general damages. So,I think -- I think you have to argue that the term"general damages" includes only "presumed" emotionalharm and not "proven" emotional harm. MR. CARDOZO: That -- that is exactly ourposition. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MR. CARDOZO: And the thing I would add tothat is general damages -- actual damages was in thestatute long before general damages surfaced. Itappeared at the eleventh hour, and Congress just saidlet's send that off to the commission. That's importantto keep in mind, because it creates a huge questionabout what Congress meant to peel off. There's noexplanation of general damages. It isn't defined. Itarose at the eleventh hour. Official But the important thing is the term it keptin the statute was not "special damages," the term ofart that has a pecuniary limitation. It kept thebroader term "actual damages," and the term it keptaligns with its statement of purpose, the breadth of thewaiver of sovereign immunity, and the nonpecuniaryexpression -- a desire to protect nonpecuniary intereststhat's throughout the Act. Let me wrap up with a couple of observationshere. Congress passed this Act to restore the citizens'faith in their government, and it made a solemn promiseto the American citizens that in cases of intentionaland willful violation, the United States shall be liablefor actual damages. Today, the Government is proposing that"actual damages" be read in a way that renders this Actvirtually irrelevant. That makes a mockery of thatsolemn promise. To preserve the vitality of this Act,this Court need only give "actual damages" its mostcommon and ordinary meaning: proven, not presumed. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Feigin, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC J. FEIGIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. FEIGIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Official I just have a few points. First of all,Respondent would like the Court look -- would like theCourt to look to, quote, "the common and ordinarymeaning" of actual damages, and asserts that the term"actual damages" fits exactly here. But no court toconsider this issue has ever thought that the meaning of"actual damages" was plain. You have to look at thecontext. And the context here includes the exclusionof general damages, which I think Respondent conceded,when Justice Alito asked him this question, includes -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you seem to bearguing throughout that "general damages" meant actualdamages when "general damages," in my understanding,meant two things: presumed and actual. So, why is itillogical for Congress to look at what "general damages"meant and pick the meaning that included proven damages,actual? MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I think ifyou look at the sources cited in our brief, as well asthe sources cited in his brief -- in particular, I'drefer you to the block quote on page -- "generaldamages," that term, most typically refers to a class ora type of damages that could be presumed but could alsobe proven. Official And when they are proven -- and I thinkRespondent effectively conceded this -- they remaingeneral damages. And because Congress decided to thinkabout general damages later, because that would havebeen such a great expansion of the waiver of sovereignimmunity, I don't think the Act should be construed toallow those type of emotional distress damages. Now, Respondent would like to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm still confused."General damages" meant presumed or actual? Congresssays we don't want general damages because it includespresumed. So, we're going to use the word "actual."How do you get from that, that Congress meant "onlypecuniary"? I mean, that has its -- why didn't theyjust use that? Instead of "actual damages," why didn'tthey just say "pecuniary damages," if that's what theyintended? MR. FEIGIN: Well, Your Honor, I thinkthat's essentially Respondent's argument. He wants tofault Congress for not using the specific term "specialdamages." But I think that flips the canon ofinterpreting waivers of sovereign immunity on its headand requires Congress to unambiguously not waive itssovereign immunity when, in fact, what I think the Courtdoes is precisely the opposite. Official I also think, Justice Breyer, addressing thePrivacy Protection Study Commission, the commissionincluded two of the Congressmen who sponsored thePrivacy Act. It agreed with our reading, the readingthat we're offering here, of what both "actual damages"mean and what "general damages" mean. And -- and notonly did they agree with that, but there's a statementin the legislative history that adopts our definition,too, that's discussed in our brief. Now, I think what Respondent essentiallywants the Court to do here is to adopt therecommendation of the Privacy Protection StudyCommission that the Act be expanded to allow bothspecial and general damages, in which case emotionaldistress awards would be allowed. Now, there may besome good policy arguments for that, as the PrivacyProtection Study Commission said, but the judicialrestraint that's embodied in the sovereign immunitycanon I think compels the Court not to get out ahead ofCongress on this issue. Congress didn't provide emotional distressawards when it passed the Act in . It never amendedthe Act to include them. And the Act does not providefor them. Thank you. JUSTICE BREYER: At -- wait -- at common Officiallaw, if you have a minute. Suppose a plaintiff proved that thisparticular violation of privacy was so terrible he wasin bed for a week, he couldn't go to his family'swedding. I mean, the absolute -- the clearest possibleproof. Now, would that have been considered generaldamages or not? So, it wasn't presumed. It wasn'tspeculative. It wasn't anything. It's absolute -- tiedup. Definite. Would that have been considered generaldamages, or -- or would it have been considered special? MR. FEIGIN: Emotional distress, evenphysical symptoms of emotional distress, are generaldamages. JUSTICE BREYER: No matter how well proved.No matter how clearly proved. MR. FEIGIN: No matter how they're proved,did you say? JUSTICE BREYER: No matter how clearly theyare proved. MR. FEIGIN: That's correct, Your Honor.They're general damages. JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and I can look -- toverify that, I look at what definition where? MR. FEIGIN: Well, first of all, Your Honor, Officialyou can look at page of the Dobbs treatise, which iscited in our brief, which very clearly defines generaldamages in that fashion. Also, if you look at theSecond Restatement, section and , they definegeneral -- they define general damages and emotionaldistress damages in this context only by reference toproven damages. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAability :able :above-entitled: :absolute :,Absolutely::abstract :,access :accurate :acknowledge: :,act :,,:, :,,:,,,,:,,:, :,:,,,: :,:,,,:,,:,,,,:, ::,,:,,,,: ::,,,,:,,:,,,: :,: :,:,,:, :: :,:,,:,,: :,: :,:, :: : ::,,: :,:,,actionable :actions :actual : :,:,,,,:,, :: ::, ::,,,,:, ::,,: :,: ::, :: :,,: :,:, ::, :: :,: :: :,:, :,,:, :: :,:,,:,,:,,:,, ::,,:,,,,: :,: :Act's :add : :,:additional :addressing :adequately:Administration: : ::Administrative:admitted :adopt ::adopted :adopts :adverse :,:,affirm :,agencies :,: :agency ::,,:ago :agree :: :agreed :agrees ::ahead :airplane :AL :align :aligns :,: :Alito :,:,,:,, :: ::,,,: :allege ::allegedly :allow : ::, :: ::allowed :allowing :,altogether :ambiguity :: :: :ambiguous :: ::ambiguously: :amended :Amendment:amendments:American :amount :analogized:analogous :analogue ::analysis :answer :,anxious :anybody ::Apart :appeals ::,appear :APPEARAN...appeared :appears :appendix :::::applies :arena ::argue :argued :arguing ::argument ::,, :,: :: :: :,: :arguments :: :arises :arose :arrived :art : :: :Article :asked :asking : :::asserts :assign :assigned ::Assistant :assume :assumed :::assuming :assumption :attend :authorized: :: :authorizing: :available :: :average :Aviation : :avoid :award :,:,,:, ::awarded ::awards :: :: :: ::,aware :: ::a.m : :Bback : :background:,balance :: Officialclass :classified ::clear : :: ::,,,: :,: :clearest :clearly :: ::, :client :codification:codifying :collect :collection :come ::comes :coming ::commission:,,: :,:, ::,,,:,,:, ::, ::,,,committed:common :bank :bar :based ::bed :Beginning :behalf :,,: ::believe ::believed :benefits ::,beyond ::big : :bill :bills :Birdsall :bit : ::Black's :: :: :block :borrow :breadth ::Breyer :,:, :: :,: ::, ::,brief :,,:, :,: :,: :,: :briefing :briefs :bring :broad : :broader :: :: :: :brought ::business :CC : :California :call : :called :,canon :: :Cardozo :: :,: :: :,:,,,:,,,: :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :,,:,,: :,,:, :: :,:carry :carved :carves :case : : ::, ::,, ::, :: ::, :: :: ::,cases :,:,,,: :: :: :: ::category :: :: :,,:causation :cause :caused :causes ::cautious :caveat :CAWTHON :certain :certainly :::Chao :characterizati...:Chief :,:, ::, :chilling :choose :chooses ::chunk :circles ::Circuit ::,,,: :circuits :cite :cited :,:citizens :,civil :claim : ::, ::claiming :,claims :: :: :clarify :: :,,,: : ::,,: :: :,:, :: :: ::, :: :: :,:, :: :: ::,,,: :,:,,: :: :community:comparable: :compels ::compensable: : :compensated:compensation: ::complaining:component:,compromise: :conceded ::concerned :concerns :concession:concluded ::conclusion: ::concrete ::conduct :: :,confer :confirmation:conflicts :confronted :: Officialconfused ::confusing :Congress ::,, :: :,: :,:,,,:, ::, :: :: :: :,:,,: :: ::,, ::, ::, :: :,:,,:,Congressmen::Congress's :conjectural:,consider :considered: :,:constitute :constituted:constitutesconstitutional::construction: :: :: :: :: :construe :construed :contained :contains :contents :context : :: :: :: :,: :: ::, :contexts :: :contract :contrary ::,control :conviction ::Cooper : :: ::Cooper's ::core :correct :: :,:costs :counsel :: ::,counterpart:couple :course : :: :court :,: : :: ::, :: :: :: : :: :,:, ::, :: :,,: :,courts :: :,: ::,,court's ::covered :covering :covers : ::crafting :creates ::credit ::,,,:, ::, :criminal :: ::critical :crystal :cut :cuts :DD : :damage :: :: :damages :,: :,: :,,: :, ::,,,:,,,,:,,:,,,:,,,,:, ::,,,,,:,,,: :,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,:,,,:,,:,,,,:,,,: :,: :,: ::,,,,:, ::,,,,:,,:,,,,:,,,: :,,:,,,: :,: :,:, ::,, :: ::,,,:,, ::,,,:,,,:,,:,,,:, ::,,,,:,,,:,,,,:,,,:,,:,,,,,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,,,:,,,:, ::,,,:,,:,, ::,,:,,,deal : :decide :decided :: :: :deconstruction:defamation :: :,:, :: :defer :define : ::defined :: :defines ::Definite :definition ::, ::, ::, ::,,: :definitions: ::degree : :deliberatelydemonstrateddemonstrates:::deny :depart :departed :Department:depend :derived :describe ::described ::, ::deserve :desire : Officialembarrassmentessentially ::detailed :: :details :determination:determine :: :determines ::dictionary :: :,difference ::different :: :: ::,,differently:difficulty :dignitary :: ::direction ::directly :disability ::,disabled :disagree :disagreeing:disallows :disclose :disclosed ::disclosure ::, :disclosure-rel...: :discussed :discussion :disharmony: :dispute :disregard :dissemination:distinction: :distinguished:distress ::, :,:,, :,:, ::, ::,,: :,:,,,: :: :,:, :: :: :,,:,,,: ::, ::, ::, :: :,:, :distressed :district : ::divides :Dobbs :doctrine :documented:,Doe :, ::, :: :Doe's :doing :,::door :doubt :draw :dual :D.C :,Ee : :, :earlier : :early :eating :economic :: :,: ::, :effect :,,: ::effectively :either : :eleventh :embarrasses::embarrassing: ::: :embodied :Embracing::emerged :emotional ::, : ::, :,:, ::, :: :,: :,:,,,:, :: :,:, ::,,:,,,: ::, :: ::, :: :: :,: :::::, :: :enacted :: :encompassesenforcementenforcement-r...English :entirely :entitled :: ::equitable :ERIC : :,: :ESQ :, ::,:establish :: :established ::estimation :ET :Everybody :evidence :: ::eviscerates :exactly :: ::example :: :: ::excluded :exclusion ::exclusively :exist :existed :existence :exists :expand :,expanded :: ::expanding :expansion :expansive :expect :expenses :,:,explain :explanation:explicitly :expose : :exposed ::express :expressed :expression :expressly :extending :extent : :: :extreme :extrinsic :FFAA : :faced :fact : :: ::,,: :failed :,fair : :,:,,,:,, ::fairly :faith :fall :false :falsely :family : family's :far : :: ::fashion :fault ::favor :Federal : :: :,:, ::, :: :feel :Feigin : :: :,, :: :,,:, :,:, :: :: :: :,: :,: :,: :,: ::,,: ::,,,fell :Fifth :,,:figure :figures :,filled :find : :: :findings :first :, ::, :: :: ::fits : :five :flexibility :flips :flows :flying :focus :follow ::followed :following :footnote :footnotes ::forbids :form :: :: :forms :: :four :Francisco :friends :front :further :: ::Gg : : :general :: :,: :,,: :,,: :,:, ::, :: ::,,,:,,,:, ::,,:,,,:,,,,:,,:,,,: :,:, :: :,:, ::,Officialgenerally :General's :generous :genuine ::,Gertz ::,,:Ginsburg ::, : ::,, ::, :: :: :,: :: ::give : :: :: :: :given : :gives :go : :goes :going :,,: :: :,: ::, :: :good : :: ::government ::,,,:, :: :: :: :: :,:,,:, ::Government's: :: :: :,great : :: :gross :guess : :Hhalf :happen :happened :: :happening :happy :harm : :,:, ::, :: ::,,:,,:, :: :: :: :: ::,harms ::,,head :hear : :held :,,,helpful :high : :highest :history :: :: ::hold :hole :Honor : ::, :,: :,: :: :,:,, :: ::, :: :: ::,Honor's :hope :hour :,house ::huge :humiliates :humiliating: :humiliation: : :hundred :Iidea :III :illness :illogical :illustrates ::immunity ::, :: ::,,:, :: :,: :impact ::,implication:implicitly :important :: ::impose :: :imposing :include : ::,,:,,: :included ::, : :includes :: ::, :including :increased :incurred :incursions :indication :individual ::, :: :individuals:infliction :information:, :,:, :: :,:, :: ::initial :injured :injuries :: :injury : ::,,,,,:,, :: :,,:, :: ::inquiry :instances ::instructed :intangible :intended :: :intends :intent :: :intentional :: :,:,,:,,: ::,,,: ::intentionallyinterest :::::::interesting :interests :Internet :interpret :interpretationinterpreted :interpretingintroduce :invasion ::,,, :: ::, :: :,:,invasions :irrelevant :issue ::, :: :JJ : :, ::Jacobs :job :,,judge :,::judges :,judgments :judicial ::juries :: :,Justice : :Official: : :,: :,,: :,,: :,:, :: ::,,:,,:, :,:,,: :: ::, ::, ::,,:,, ::,,,:,,,:,,:,,:,, ::,,:, ::, :: :,:,,: :,: :,:, ::, ::, :justify :juxtaposition:Kkeep :keeping ::KENNEDY:, ::, :kept :,,kind : :: ::kinds :knew :,: :know : ::,,,:,,:,,:knowing :known :Llanguage ::large : :launderer :law : ::,,,,: : ::, :: ::, ::, :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,: ::, :: :,: :: :,:, ::,,,:laws : :lawsuit :::leak :leaked :leave :leaves :left :,legislating :legislative :: ::legislature :let's : :,: :liability :,: :liable :: ::lifting :lightly :limitation ::, :: :limitations:limited :: :: :: :lines :lingo :liquidated :little : :::long : :look : :: :: :: :: :,,:, :: :,looked :looking ::lose :loss :,: :: :: ::, :losses :lost : :M maintenance:majority :making :: ::material :matter ::,,,:mean :,: : :: :,,:,,:, :: ::, :: :: ::, :meaning :,: : :: :: :: :,:meaningful:means :,:, :: :: :,,:meant : :: :,: :,measured :medical :,: :meet :member :mental :: :: :,:mentioned :mentions :millions :mind :minus :minute :minutes :mission :mockery :modest :modification:modify :Molzof :,moment :money :month :Morisette/Mol...Morissette :multiple ::::NN :, :narrow :narrower ::,narrowing:narrowly :natural :naturally :nature ::, :: :necessarily:need : :: :: :needs :negligence :: :neither :nervous ::never :,Official: :nevertheless:new : :Ninth ::,nonpecuniary: : ::,Nordic :normally :norms :notable :notion : :novel :November :number :OO : :obligation :observations:obtain :obvious :occur :,: :odd :offering ::official :Okay : :: :omission :once : ::,one-sided :opaque :open :Operation :opinion :opposed :::opposite :oral : :,: :ordinarily ::ordinary ::, ::originally :ought :out-of-pocket: : :PP :page : :: :: ::pages : ::pain :,,paragraphs:part :particular :: ::particularly:, :: :pass :passed : :: :: :pays :peculiar :pecuniary :: :,: :, ::, :: :,: :,: :,: :: :: ::,peel : :peeled :,:peg :people :: :percentage :perfectly :permission:permissive :permitted :person : ::, ::, :: :personal ::pervasive :petition :Petitioner ::Petitioners :: :, ::phrase : :physical :picayune :pick :picking :picky :,:,piece :pilot ::place : :: ::plain : :plaintiff ::, ::, :: :,:, :: ::plaintiffs :: :plaintiff's : : :plausible :please ::pocket :point :: :: ::, :pointed ::points :: ::, ::policy :portion :position :: ::possibilities:possibility :possible :possibly :post-enactment:post-legislative:potentially:practicable :practice ::precise :precisely :: ::, :premise :prescriptions:present :preserve :president :press ::presumably:presume :: ::,presumed :,:,,,:, ::,,: ::, ::, :: :,: :: :,:, :presuming :pretty ::prevented :pre-existing:primarily :primary :: :prime :prior : :privacy :,:, :,,:,,, ::,,,:, :,: :,:,,:,,,:, :,: :,,:,,:,,,,:,,,:,,,:,,,: : ::, :,:, ::, :: :,,:, ::, :: :,:, :private :,problem :: :Procedure::produces :program :promise ::proof :,:, :: :: ::proposing :propositionprosecutionprotect ::::protection :: :: :,,:, ::, ::,protections:protective :prove : ::,,: : :: :,proved ::,,,:proven :: :,: :: ::, :Officialproduce :::, :: :,: :provide :,: ::,provided :,provides :providing :provision :: :: :,:, :: :provisions :proviso :proximate :psychosomatic::public ::, :publicly :published :punitive :: :: :,purpose ::,,: :: :purposes :: ::p.m :Qquestion : :: : :,:, :: ::, :: ::questioning:quite : ::quod :,:,,:quote : ::quoting :RR :raised :range :ratchet :RAYMOND: : :reaching :read : :,:reading ::, ::real :really :: ::,,,reason :: :: :reasonable:,reasons :REBUTTAL: :recall : :: :receive :,:received :recites :recklessness::recognized :: :,: :recommend :recommendat...: :: :record :,recordkeeping: :records :: ::,recover :: :: :,:recoverable:, :recovered :recovery :: :,: :: :: ::red :,reduction :refer ::reference ::, ::referred :refers :regarded ::Register :regulates :reject ::released :relief : ::reluctant :remain :remaining :remand ::remedial :: :remedies :: ::remedy :: :: :renders :reply :report :,:,Reporting ::,,,:, ::,reports :reputation: :: :reputational:require :: :: ::required ::requirement: :: :: :requirements:, : :: ::requires :: :: ::requiring :reserve :resist :respect :,respectfully :Respondent: : :: :Official: ::, :,:Respondent's: :response :,rest :Restatement:restore :restraint ::result :: :,: :resulted :: :resulting :reveal :revealed :rewrites :right : ::, :: :,,: :,: :: :,rights :,:rise :ROBERTS :: :: :roll :,round :routine ::routinely :: :rubric :rule : :: :,:,,run : :runaway ::SS : :Safe :safeguard :: :San :save :saying :: :: :: :says : :: ::SCALIA ::, :: :,: :,:scheme :: :scope :,:, :second :: :section :: :: ::Security ::, ::,see : ::seek :seeking :: ::sell :Senate ::send :sense : :: ::sensitive :sentence :separate :: :separately :separation :serious ::serving :set : :: ::settled :severe :severely :shaming :show : :showing :shows ::side : :sides :,sifting :silence :: :silently :similarity :::simply :,: :: :: ::single ::situation :: :six :slander :sleeping :slightly :,:small :,Social : :: ::,solemn :,Solicitor : Officialsolved :solves :somebody ::sorry ::sort : :: :: :Sotomayor :: :,: :,: :,:, :: :,:, ::sought :sources ::,sovereign ::, :: ::,,:, :: :,: :special : ::, :,:, ::,,,:, ::, :: :,: :,:, :,: :: ::specific :specifically::speculative: :,:spinning :spoke :sponsored :spreads :square :standard :standing :,STANMORE:start :state : :: :,:, ::statement :: :: : :states :,: : ::,,:, :: :,: :statistics ::,statute :: :,: :: :: :,:statutes :: ::statutory :: :: :step :sterling :stomach :stood :stop :struck :structural ::study : ::,,,:,,,,supposed ::: ::,,subcategories:subject ::, :submitted ::subsection:substantial :substantiallysubstantiate:::substantive :: ::subtract :suffer : ::, :: : :suffered ::,, ::, ::, :: ::suffering ::, :suffers :sufficient :: :sufficiently:suggesting:suggests ::suing :suit :,: ::,suppose ::Supreme :,Surely :,surfaced :sweep :sweepingly :symptoms :synonymous::TT :,take : :,taken : :::takes :talking ::, ::, ::task :technical ::tell : :: ::telling :tells : :term :,,,:, :: :,:, :: :,,:,,:,,,:, ::, :: :: ::,,,:,,, :: :terms : :terrible :terribly :tethered :text : :: :: :: ::,,:, ::Thank :: :,: :,theoretical:,theory :therefrom :thereto :thing : :: :,: :,: :: :: :: :things :: ::, :: :: :think : :: : :,: :,:, ::, ::, ::, ::, ::,,,:,,,: ::, :: :: :: :,: :,:,,,,: :,: Officialthinking :thinks :,Third :thought :: :three :threshold :throws :tied : :time : :: : ::today :: ::tools : :tort : :: ::torts :tort-like :trauma :treat :treatise :trigger :true : :try : :,trying :turned ::::two :,,: :: :: :: ::type : :: :: :types :: ::typical :typically :: ::Uunambiguous: :,:,,unambiguously: :uncapped ::underlying:understand: ::, ::understanding: :,:understood :: :: :,United :,: : ::,,:, :: :universal :unmistakablyunsubstantiated::unusual :upstanding:use : :: :,: :: ::, ::,uses :usually :Vv : : :various ::vary :vast :verdicts :verify :version :,: : :victims :view :Village :violated :violation ::,,:, :: :: :,:, :: :violations :: :: :: ::virtually :vitality :Wwages :wait :waive :: :waived ::waiver ::, :: :,:, :: :waivers :: :wake :want :: :wanted :: ::wants :: :Washington ::wasn't :: :,: :,,Watergate:way : :: :: :: :: :ways : :: :wedding :Wednesday:week :weight ::went :weren't :We'll :we're : :: :,:,,: :,: :we've : :whistleblower: :willful : ::,,:,,,: ::,,,: ::window :winds :word : :wording :words :: :: : ::,work :workup :worst :worthy :wouldn't :: :: :,:wrap :wrong :: :wrote :Xx :,Yyears :,,:Zzero :,$$, : : :: :- : :, :: : :: : : : :: :, :: :(b) : : : : : : Official : : :: : : : : :(c)()(B)(iii):-page : : :a :s : 