 The above-entitled matter came on for oral Petitioner v. Washington, D.C. Monday, October , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x FANE LOZMAN, : : No. -: THE CITY OF RIVIERA BEACH, FLORIDA: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, California; on behalf of Petitioner. Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ. CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ. Beach. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) please the Court: To be a vessel, a structure must be MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Mr. Fisher. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument next in Case -, Lozman v. The City of Riviera practically capable of maritime transportation, and this case turns on how to assess such practical capability. And that's a question this Court answered over a century ago in Cope and Perry, explaining that practical capability depends not on any physical attribute the structure might have, but rather, on "its purpose," that is, whether its function is to move people or things across water. times before and since, across decades, providing stability and overall coherence to general maritime law. And of course -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You should have phrased the And that test has been applied numerous test that way then, because it really -- Official MR. FISHER: Well, I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The test is whether it's, MR. FISHER: Well, that's not what this MR. FISHER: Practically capable. JUSTICE SCALIA: Practically capable. Well, MR. FISHER: Pardon me? JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't seem to me a very felicitous description of what -- of what the test is -- is enunciated to be. what, practically able? you could be practically capable of doing something, even though the purpose of -- of setting the thing up has nothing to do with that. Court -- case is saying -- think that's correct. In Evansville in , this Court used that exact phrase, practical capability. And it assessed that practical capability by looking at "the JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand. I'm just saying we ought to get a different test, and let's --let's get rid of this. If we agree with you, let's get rid of this practically capable test, because practically capable, frankly, would make us come out the other way in this case. MR. FISHER: With all due respect, I don't function of the structure." Official Again and again, in Evansville and other CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Capable is in the statute, purpose is not, right? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that just has -- I understand that argument. It's got no cases, this Court asked, was the function of the structure to carry people or things across water. connection whatever to the statutory language, right? MR. FISHER: Well, I think the word capable obviously is in the statute. And what this Court said as recently as Stewart is that capable -- capable means practically capable, not theoretically can be. single time this Court's been confronted with that question, it's used the term function to describe whether or not something is practically capable of carrying people or things over water. cases with this purpose -- or function, the briefs cited the district court decision, Sea Village Marina, that MR. FISHER: Correct. And what this Court said in Stewart is that capable. There's a range of how broad the word capable says floating homes like the one here that can be towed And again, going back over a century, every JUSTICE GINSBURG: You -- you described MR. FISHER: Justice Ginsburg, I think that I hope I can straighten out at the outset. The term floating home is generally and are not in the business of carrying people or goods, but can be towed miles across the water, that those constitute vessels. Sea Village Marina, cited many, many cases. And you say that that district judge got it wrong, or the cases were wrong? there's a confusion of terminology that I hope I can -- described to mean a residence that is designed to sit still and is not designed to carry people or things over water. self-propelled, generally moves people or things over water. case, to my understanding, is the Court simply used the houseboats, as we describe a houseboat as something that is designed to move its owner and the owner's things from here to there, are vessels. And we don't dispute that.wrong term. It cited a lot of cases that held that The term houseboat is something that is What happened in the Sea Village Marina Official And this district court decision, But on the other hand, you have something Official utilities work, none of the power, no equipment is aboard to do anything -- called floating homes, which the brief filed by the Seattle and Sausalito floating homes associations give a very thorough description of what a floating home is and how it's different. And a primary way that it's different is that, as opposed to a houseboat, which is doing its function, it's doing its job when it's moving things from place to place, a floating home can't function when it's out in the water being towed. None of the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but in -- in your brief, I really lost count, but I think it's six times on the first two pages, you talk about indefinitely quite clear of the facts, but let's assume that this magnificent structure is -- which was mercifully destroyed -- let's assume that it was attached to the that it could leave within minutes notice. Is that indefinitely moored? And if the answer is yes, is that because of subjective intent of the owner? dock by a rope, a garden hose and an extension cord, and MR. FISHER: Justice Kennedy, it would be indefinitely moored. That's the term this Court used in moored. Now, the facts are in dispute, and we're not Official The importance of indefinite mooring, It had said -- I have to emphasize that some Stewart to describe whether something was being used to transport people or goods. of the assumptions we do in fact dispute in your hypothetical. But the fact that it sat still for three years performing its function as a stationary residence shows that it was indefinitely moored. though, I want to emphasize, is actually less important in this case than it might be if this were a dead ship case, where you had something that was concededly a vessel -- MR. FISHER: It would still not be a vessel. And you don't have to look any further than this Court's Evansville case. moored, in your view? the term indefinitely moored at that point, but it certainly wouldn't be transformed into a vessel because look at this Court's Evansville case. The structure -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose -- MR. FISHER: -- in the question --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- you know the law school game, suppose it was moved every month. JUSTICE KENNEDY: That would be indefinitely MR. FISHER: Well, I'm not sure if you'd use Official MR. FISHER: I think that's right if you moves around more frequently. Its mooring -- I mean, if you have a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get to Evansville, let's say it moved around, which is one thing, but also it had a raked bow; it wasn't square. Then -- then it starts to look more like a boat. It sailboat and you pull it up to a dock, you hook up for water and plug in for power. It doesn't seem to me to be terribly significant. start with something that is a vessel; the fact that you simply leave it at the dock for a long time doesn't take away vessel status. That's what this Court held in Stewart. But if you start with something that isn't a vessel -- and I give you the Roper case, which did have a raked bow; it was an old Liberty ship that everybody agreed had been decommissioned and turned into a non-vessel. Then, they brought it in, they towed it -- Justice Ginsburg, they towed it -- they loaded it up with grain. Towed it again, let it sit still for a couple years, towed it back, unloaded the grain. And this Court said, it's not a vessel. vessel? And I will quote from the opinion. It said: And why did this Court say it's not a Official As I see our cases, I'm -- I'm not quite "Because unlike a barge, the Harry Lane was not moved in order to transport commodities from one place to another; it served as a mobile warehouse performing its function of storing grain." In the Evansville's case --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counselor, can I -- can I -- I have been lost even as I have read the briefs, because there's a lot of terminology that I'm not sure -- and standards that have been proposed that -- what concepts they're tied to, okay? sure where indefinitely moored came from. I've seen the word permanently moored. between the two things, and I'm not sure where you get to the concept of purpose. Does it -- does the permanent status or indefinite mooring of a vessel not make it -- of a structure not make it a vessel, and/or does purpose get question. The way where -- whether something is permanently moored or floating on the latter, indefinitely moored, from, and how that ties You seem to be suggesting a difference layered on top of mooring? MR. FISHER: No. Purpose is the overall JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it applies to the sea? Official MR. FISHER: That helps you determine its JUSTICE ALITO: I just don't see how you can as a means of transportation on water. How does purpose get in there? Whose purpose are we talking about? purpose. So the word -- where the word indefinite comes from, Justice Sotomayor, is from the Stewart case, where this Court cited the Fifth Circuit's Pavone case with approval, which had held that an indefinitely moored floating casino was not a vessel. get purpose into this statutory language. It says nothing about purpose. It says, capable of being used objective purpose, Justice Alito --talking about purpose; you're talking about function, right? You're just using purpose as a kind of strange synonym for function. either the homeowner or the manufacturer of the boat. You're just saying what does this -- or what does this thing, this floating home, do. can just say this directly, I'm trying to do exactly what this Court did in Cope and Evansville and Roper. The exact analysis this Court applied in those cases is MR. FISHER: Exactly. And I'm doing -- if I MR. FISHER: We're talking about an JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, then you're not But you're not talking about purpose of Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Can I ask about that Construction Act, right -- MR. FISHER: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what meaning of precisely what we want this Court to apply here. But I think what we're -- definition? That definition comes from the Rules of MR. FISHER: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which provides the meaning of all -- of the word vessel as used in the United States Code. Okay? vessel in the United States Code is at issue here? Lien Act, which is what provides the Federal forum, assertedly, for the plaintiff, the City, to bring this case. So the word vessel is -- is its jurisdictional and substantive hook. question about indefinite mooring, the importance of something that was not a vessel to begin with, is simply to ask whether it's been transformed into a vessel, exactly as this Court asked in Roper. So is it being used for its function for which it was created and --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Aren't you just MR. FISHER: The word vessel in the Maritime Justice Sotomayor, if I can return to your indefinite mooring in this case, where you have Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't your MR. FISHER: I hope not. I'm trying to MR. FISHER: I'm not trying to beg the question; I'm just trying to describe our argument to begging the question? You keep saying it was not a vessel to begin with. Why -- doesn't it just restate the question? you. There are some cases where -- argument beg the question? distinguish between two lines of cases, one being where you have things that were -- like the Roper case, that were made as boats, as vessels undisputedly, and now the question is whether they've been pulled out of navigation; as opposed to another set of cases, which we whether this was ever a vessel. In those kinds of cases, the indefinite mooring shows that it's being used for its function. hypothetical, maybe it would help, imagine a piece of floating dock. Now, under their test, that would be a vessel because you can unhook the dock, load it up with stuff and tow it around, if a company wanted to use that as a makeshift barge.believe this falls into, where the question itself is It hasn't -- for example, if I could give a But no maritime case has ever held that a Official the definition? floating dock is a vessel. But if somebody did that, then it would no longer be indefinitely moored and would be using a different function and might be transformed into a --JUSTICE ALITO: I think you may -- you may very well have a good argument, but if you're relying either on purpose or on indefinite mooring, then you've lost me. I don't see how they get -- how you get those into the words of the statute. Suppose you have a boat, and it's tied up at the harbor here in Washington. It hasn't been moved for five years. It's indefinitely moved -- or years or years. But if it's capable, if you could untie it and sail it out into the river, doesn't it fall within function of a boat is to move people or things over water. So when it's sitting still, Justice Alito, it's not performing its function. talking about a function test. And you are using strange words, because they come out of our opinions -- kind of not your fault. But you're really saying that what should apply here is a function test. MR. FISHER: It absolutely does because the JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. So you are really We are looking at this floating home. What Official during that time it is a boat? MR. FISHER: No, this Court in Stewart Isn't that your test? MR. FISHER: Yes, it is. In addition --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it changes -- one does it do? Is it just a thing that sits, or is it a thing that transports things over water. -- the same thing is not a boat sometimes, and it is a boat. You've got a casino that's tied up for a month. During that time, it's not a boat. And then they move it around to go to the other side of the river, and rejected the snapshot test that I think is what you just described. or not. Now, some casinos go up and down the river -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But -- but I'm just -- the hypothetical -- the hypothetical I've posed was meant to pose the question, well, sometimes things do MR. FISHER: If it actually does the latter and is performing its function while moving, then it is a vessel. And that's what this Court held in Stewart. There's not a primary purpose test. The question is whether what -- whether it has the function of moving people and things over water both, and how do we tell which it is -- If one of its purposes is to move people or Official JUSTICE KAGAN: How do we know that, Mr. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how do we know that. MR. FISHER: But you could tie it up and things over water, then it's a vessel. But that's not the purpose of a floating home. That's not the purpose of a floating restaurant or something else that might be float -- move it. Fisher? I mean, maybe these floating homes are just a poor man's houseboat, right? That the point of getting a floating home is actually to have a home that you can hook up to a boat and move from place to place, and so you don't have to, you know, have the motor running all the time or have the capacity to move it all the time, but when you want to move it on water and when you want to move your possessions on water, you have the capacity to do so. Justice Kagan, that's not why people have floating homes. The amicus brief explains that. Don't look at -- but you don't have to look any further than the history of this. The only two times it moved any significant distance were: One, when it changed ownership; and two, when a hurricane struck, so it had MR. FISHER: Well, with all due respect, to be moved. daily basis to accord with the stages of the river. And again, applying this Court's well settled function test, this Court said that's not a vessel. which this Court cited with approval in Stewart, that structure moved hundreds of miles over several years. This Court said not a vessel. The structure in Evansville moved three different ways. It moved up and down the Mississippi-Ohio River as it changed ownership several times over the course of years. It also moved every winter to avoid the ice that would come in. And thirdly it was repositioned on literally almost a still tied to the land with roads and ramps and so and the rope. MR. FISHER: Well, the important -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And it seems -- and it seems to me, suppose you -- you want us to make some universal definition of we know what a floating home is. Suppose this -- suppose there were -- another owner of a structure like this, and it moved to a different slip every week to get more shade or more wind or something. Then that would be different?forth. Here you've got the hose and the extension cord JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it was still -- it was Official And look at your own cases. In Pavone, MR. FISHER: It would sound to me just like Official MR. FISHER: If it's simply being JUSTICE KENNEDY: And suppose it moved --a vessel. And that's exactly what this Court -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I have the same suppose it moved up and down the canal to get better or the floating warehouse and office in Evansville as I just described that case. But Justice Kennedy, let me say one more thing before I reserve my time. worse weather during different seasons. repositioned and not being used for a transportation purpose, that is to move people or things, then it's not problem Justice Kagan says. The whole point is that it can move. That's the whole -- that's the reason you have it. Justice Kennedy, with all due respect. There's a difference between a floating home and a houseboat, and I urge you to look at the briefs on this point. floating home, what other structures would be kept out of your definition of purpose or function and the city's definition of practically capable? Can you imagine any other function that's out there floating around? MR. FISHER: That is not the point, And this comes right back to your question -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, outside of your floating trampolines and play structures. And, Justice Kennedy, if I could just answer JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I know. But -- MR. FISHER: Floating commercial MR. FISHER: Other floating commercial -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because they disavow water skis and garage doors and say they're practical, capable tests with -- actually disavow that on their tests, but -- establishments, floating pieces, floating docks, your question and reserve the rest of my time. The importance of the connecting of the utilities and the water hose, which was actually a specialized water hose, connections is found in State codes across the country that distinguish between floating homes and houseboats, asking whether they're dependent on those connections to operate. A floating home cannot function if it's not tied to land. It doesn't matter how many amps we want to fight about, it's whether it needs that power from land, whether it needs those connections to land. A houseboat, like any other vessel, can fully function not a garden hose, but the importance of those Official MR. FISHER: Well, I'm not sure they can away from port. Official FOR UNITED STATES, I think if I could start with Justice AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice and may it If I can reserve the remainder of my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Gannon. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON, please the Court: Kagan's questions, the government's position is that this is an objective function test and in evaluating when a structure is practically capable of being used as a means of transportation this Court has repeatedly recognized that function is important to that inquiry. It did so as recently as Stewart, when it recognized that the function of the dredge there was to carry crew and equipment across Boston Harbor in the course of dredging a trench. Evansville, Roper -- interrupt you just there on the dredging? You say the function of the dredge was to carry people and equipment. I would have said the function of the -- the It also did so in the cases that Petitioner's counsel has already talked about, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I -- can I Official they carry crew and equipment across" -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know what it MR. GANNON: Well, the Court in Stewart said MR. GANNON: Well, the Court -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right? And so -- dredge is to dredge in the middle of the river. and I don't know which of us would be right, so it seems to me that that function test is a very difficult one to apply. that "dredges" -- and I'm quoting from page -- "serve a waterborne transportation function, because said. I guess I would say, obviously, it serves a waterborne function, but I'm not sure the first thing I would say when I see one of these dredges in the middle of the river is its purpose is to move people and equipment. I would say its purpose is to dredge. MR. GANNON: Well, but in general, it needs to dredge not just in one place, because it's not just dredging a hole, it's dredging a trench. It usually CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I know but that's saying that it has to be able to move, and I agree with that. But its purpose is still to dredge, not to move.needs to move in order to do that. MR. GANNON: Well, I think that the Court -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You could use it if them over and drop it off. you had a -- you know, a transportation boat, right? Any equipment you need to move, you put it on another boat and drop it off. The people who work, you bring MR. GANNON: Yeah, I think that you could do that. I think that's typically not the way the dredges that -- not the way the superscoop works in Stewart and it's not the way historic dredges worked in the case CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure it is, isn't it? I mean, the superscoop doesn't go to the -- maybe it does -- go to the shore every morning, then come right out again? They move people back and forth with MR. GANNON: Oh, but I -- what I meant is that there are people and equipment on the superscoop when it is moving across Boston Harbor. They didn't sort of take it out there all empty every morning and then load other things on to it that they -- that they brought out there. the wharf boat there, which is a large structure -- it was feet long, feet wide -- it served as an office, a warehouse, and a wharf on the side of the And in Evansville, the Court recognized that of --other boats, don't they? Official built so that if they did, it would -- it would function JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose someone builds a replica of an historic watercraft, a Viking boat, the river, and the Court said that it performed no function that might not have been performed as well by structures permanently attached to the -- kind of outrigger canoes that the Polynesians used throughout the Pacific Ocean, and the purpose of this is to display it in a museum, no one has any intention whatsoever of ever putting it in the water, but it's just like its historic antecedent, is that a vessel? MR. GANNON: I think that that would be a vessel, because it really -- its objective function, if you look at its design and its natural function -- professor amici used. They acknowledged that the function and purpose test is appropriate if it takes account of the craft's own design and natural function. JUSTICE BREYER: What about the -- I thought there was a -- a kind of caveat in one of these cases, maybe Stewart, that said take a thing that looks just like a boat, the Queen Mary, but if it is permanently -- they use the word "indefinite." I think they mean "permanently."that's just the phrase that the -- even Respondent's law MR. GANNON: Well, the Court -- Official then it is, is that right? MR. GANNON: That's true. That's because it's no -- JUSTICE BREYER: But if it is permanently moored to the shore and is never going to sea again, then it isn't a vessel. JUSTICE BREYER: Then if the Polynesian boat is permanently in the museum, there's a lot of objective evidence of that, it would not be a vessel. But if it's something they really could well take out on the sea, MR. GANNON: It is true that the Court recognized in Stewart and the Coast Guard's craft routinely operated dockside policy is based upon the presumption that something that used to be a vessel can indefinitely moored. That's the phrase that the Court quoted in Stewart. And the Court recognized that even something that's anchored to the seabed could -- and used as a hotel. a -- is essentially behind a cofferdam. It doesn't have ready access to open water. It's connected to shore in all sorts of permanent ways. We don't think that that's That concerns the Queen Mary being sent to Long Beach cease to be a vessel if it is semi-permanently or JUSTICE BREYER: That doesn't come up here. MR. GANNON: And the Queen Mary is behind Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I was right. So that permanent mooring is a different inquiry in your mind? MR. GANNON: Well, permanent mooring is the type of case that we have here, because nobody is saying that this once was a vessel and it is now no longer one just because it's tied up to the dock in the way that it was tied up here. And so, Justice Kennedy, we think that this isn't really a case about indefinite mooring as making the difference. This is a case where you need to start with the question of was it ever a vessel. And if the -- usually going to be relevant to the question of whether something ceases to be a vessel, as it's no longer transportation. That's the way the Court discussed the point in Stewart. And -- and that's true even for a case like Roper, which was a former Liberty ship that was towed up and down the James River. a somewhat easy case, because the hull, I think, was removed or something was removed that made it -- had been removed when it had been decommissioned originally. But if the court of appeals test were used practically capable of being used as a means of MR. GANNON: Well, there were things that JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's a -- that's Official the seven years before that suit began. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Gannon, you think because the Evansville wharf boat was towed at least ten here and the court were to conclude that something is a vessel, if it is merely capable of being towed across water even to its detriment, then you can't explain the answer in cases like Evansville or in Roper where -- times, as described in pages and of the Court's opinion, and nobody was asking whether it had all the office furniture and light fixtures and things like that removed when it was towed at least twice a year for that even at the moment that the thing is being transported, and let's say that the thing has, you know, various furniture and things on it, you think even at be a vessel? true, yes. If the purpose of the structure, the function, the objective function of the structure is to it's not going to be a vessel even when it's being towed behind another vessel. There may still be rules about how it needs to be lit at night and things like that, but --that moment under section , it's not a -- it might not JUSTICE ALITO: What if it was more MR. GANNON: That's generally going to be operate, just to be stationary beside the dock, then Official MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I understand the And the reason why it was built that way was so that when the person moves the person wouldn't have anything damaged. Would it be the same? What would be seaworthy so that it could be towed miles without suffering any damage, even if there are, you know, small waves, let's say? to hire a moving company to come with a van and take out all the person's personal belongings and ship those by -- by land. This -- this is capable of moving and moving all the stuff that's in it without having the result there? point. I think that, under a case like Evansville, that there does seem to be a difference between relocating people and things. But under an objective function test, if it really is designed to be mobile, and we look at it and we say it really looks like a boat and it's designed to move through water efficiently, it would probably look different from this particular craft. function of it, then -- then the answer could well be different.the structure and using the structure to transport But if ultimate mobility is part of the But, for the most part, I think my answer is Official JUSTICE ALITO: I really just don't JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. Well, that's MR. GANNON: Well, I -- JUSTICE ALITO: It can be moved. MR. GANNON: There is a question about the same as I was trying to give to Justice Kagan, which is that this is either going to be a vessel all the time until it becomes so permanently moored that it should no longer be deemed a vessel. understand your answer. Mobility surely was a -- was a purpose of this because it was moved. practical capability of being used and -- something different. MR. GANNON: And before, you were asking about the hook in the statute here. We do think that the word contrivance does indicate that it's something that has a function that's determinable. And there are lots of other areas in maritime law where the function of a vessel is a inquiry. The court uses purpose and function when it's deciding whether somebody is a Jones Act seaman -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Gannon, would you have said sounds like this structure is not a vessel, relevant question, and this is not an unanswerable period. But your bottom line in your brief is that, if Official MR. GANNON: We think that the record here of the vessel. And -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what would we tell we disagree with the Court of Appeals, we shouldn't say this contrivance is not a vessel, we should send it back -- for what? What finding? was not really compiled with an object of answering these questions, the things that we think are relevant, because the district court and the Court of Appeals flatly rejected any inquiry into the purpose or function them they should look into? purpose and function of the vessel. They should also consider whether it would be damaged when it was towed. That was something that petitioner tried to get. He was proceeding pro se in the district court, offered to present evidence about -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: On the first question, purpose or function, what did they know that we can't know by looking at this picture and listening to these arguments? hear more about -- MR. GANNON: That they should look into the JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, I would be willing MR. GANNON: Well, I think that they could JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want to be fair to the purpose and function is. MR. GANNON: And I -- if -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't we know that? MR. GANNON: Well, I think that you -- in -- to stipulate they are better at this than we are, but let's -- let's assume. somebody -- if somebody -- I can't tell everything about the structure. We have these pictures, and we know that it has a ten-inch draft, but we don't really know how -- how well it is that -- Court of Appeals, well, now, you tell us what the this is going to be a somewhat idiosyncratic case. I surveyor on page J- of the Joint Appendix found that there were no comparables for sale in the state of Florida. And so I think that most cases aren't really going to -- to be like this. that, I would probably compare -- decide whether this is more like the floating homes that are described in the Seattle floating homes brief, that are really designed just to function in place near the shore. I think that think that this is an unusual structure. That's why the But if I wanted to put on evidence about Official MR. GANNON: Well, I -- I think that there would be more evidence about its capabilities Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. FREDERICK: Thank you Mr. Chief Justice, The City brought this In Rem action against Mr. Lozman's uninsured houseboat to enforce maritime CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel. Mr. Frederick. while it was actually out on the water and things like that. and may it please the Court: liens. The houseboat was in violation of the wet slip agreement, and it posed a hazard to other vessels in the marina if, because of its flimsy moorings, it came unmoored during a storm. The houseboat was located very close to the navigable channel of the Atlantic Intercoastal Waterway and next to a yacht-building facility next to the marina. So the city faced a very real specter of being sued if the uninsured houseboat came unmoored and caused Our position is that the houseboat is a vessel under section because it floats, moves, and carries people or things on water, as the statutory -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just like an inner damage. tube, right? Official MR. FREDERICK: No. An inner tube actually CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Floats, can be MR. FREDERICK: The test would be what's the does not -- towed, can carry a person. MR. FREDERICK: Well, a person actually -- most of the body parts of a person would be underwater and would be through the water, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One of those inflatable rafts where most of the parts of the practical capability, and a raft that has a bottom actually could very well be a vessel under the appropriate standard of practical capability. cup? doesn't float. door? JUSTICE KAGAN: Take the inner tube and, you know, paste a couple of pennies on the inner tube. Now it carries things. There are things on the inner tube, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. How about a garage JUSTICE BREYER: This cup. What about the JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, well, this is lighter than you think. people -- MR. FREDERICK: Cup is not because a cup Official MR. FREDERICK: Justice Kagan, I -- I think litigation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, practical But what the Court in Stewart said was practical and it floats. we could imagine all kinds of de minimis types of hypotheticals that would satisfy the basic criteria. capability as viewed in a real world sense. And I'm not aware of any case -- and they've certainly not pointed to anything -- that identifies anything with those kind of practical attributes that would be subject to capability viewed in a real-world sense -- and you're about transportation -- you're talking about things that were built for transportation, right? that is true in the sense that one of the purposes, as manifested through its physical characteristics, is the ability to be moved across water. And just as Mr. Lozman's houseboat here was moved miles in the first towage after the hurricane wiped out every other vessel in the docks in the north bay marina, and he had it towed with a speed boat miles to the city of Riviera Beach, those physical characteristics and attributes were recognized by the Court of Appeals when it applied the practical MR. FREDERICK: You're -- yes. You're -- Official then demonstrated that mobility here. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under your definition, MR. FREDERICK: Evansville is a case with And it said on page (a) of the petition capability test. appendix that certainly living, a domicile, is a purpose of a floating home, but mobility is also a purpose, and how do you deal with Evansville? many layers, but let me just start first start with the saying, we reached the wrong conclusion because the wharf boat floated, and it regularly was moved, and there was nothing to suggest that it couldn't carry people or things. It happened not to because they would empty it, I understand, before they moved it, but it could have. fact that the Court announced a practical capability test in Evansville itself. That's what it applied. It reviewed a district court record that had found no practical capability on the basis of the driveways and the more permanent connections to the utility system of the city, and it reviewed that factual record for clear error, which, of course, it didn't find, by -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you are basically So if it was practically capable of floating, whether it was semi-tied to land or not, it Official MR. FREDERICK: No. In Stewart you said Now, I would like to just step back for a was released from land on somewhat of a regular basis. So are you suggesting that in Stewart we change the Evansville rule? what the holding of the case was, which was that it was not practically capable of movement at the time that it sank. second because I think Evansville needs to be understood in the time in which it was decided. At that time, many courts, including this one, at times, applied a snapshot test, what is happening to this particular watercraft at the moment in time where an admiralty tort occurs, where the contract ensues, and the like. snapshot test; but, in Stewart, what the Court did was to describe Evansville and Cope as cases about not practically capable of movement or carriage because of their connections to the land. In Evansville, the owner of the wharf boat also owned the adjoining land and had control over the dock and built driveways so that trucks could come on and off, and had an eight-inch concrete lining on the houseboat which are not typically -- sorry, on the wharf boat, which are not typically attributes one would think This Court subsequently disavowed the Official JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I got stopped here, of as ordinarily for vessels. back at Stewart. "Practically capable of maritime transport." Now, those are words I thought you have to interpret with some degree of common sense, and the reason for that is because each of us can of course imagine all kinds of things, from Styrofoam sofas to -- to just dozens of absurd things that have nothing to do with ships or vessels and really could be used theoretically to carry something on the water. capability means that there must -- this must really have as a function, as one of its functions -- I'd like to say purpose, but some people apparently don't like other implication that I don't understand. Okay. things, and not just accoutrements like nails in its walls, but -- but things from place to place to some significant degree, okay? So I've just taken the words of the test and through voice -- and trying to focus (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: -- because it - it has some your mind, I've said you have to do that really as a -- So call it the function or the capacity, and it really does as a significant matter of carrying So what we think of is that practical that -- Official MR. FREDERICK: It was carrying his personal So you see what I'm trying to do, and really it has to be some significant degree there, which this one doesn't seem to have, all right? it's a way of getting you to respond to that. MR. FREDERICK: I think it certainly did have that. It had that capability, Justice Breyer, because it was actually moved on multiple occasions. JUSTICE BREYER: But it wasn't carrying things. effects. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's true. And of course a Styrofoam sofa is -- is carrying the holes, or it's carrying the -- you know, the -- the coffee can or that carries itself, that isn't good enough. MR. FREDERICK: I -- JUSTICE BREYER: It has to be something to do with transporting a thing, transporting some stuff. computers; it transported his clothes. Except for the fact that his guns were confiscated before the marshals took it --something that is on top. But when you have a thing MR. FREDERICK: It transported his JUSTICE BREYER: That's what part of the house. it carried two people as part of the crew for the Boston Harbor, and then they start to work, and they dredge. And so you'd say, well, I see one of the purposes of this boat is to carry those people out there. they're not part of the house. They're part of the personal effects, just as someone had personal effects in his or her dwelling. And when the marshal towed it, transit between -- JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Think of what it's doing and compare that with the dredge that every day the workmen get on, they go into the middle of of a normal house which has nothing to do with transporting things on water. Fisher conceded that if this had a motor and it was a vessel. distinguish -- I see where you're -- you're just saying my distinction is not going to work, and so then I'd ask carrying exactly the same personal effects, it would be Now think of this one. This one is carrying things, but that which it carries is just what is part MR. FREDERICK: Well, actually, I think Mr. Official MR. FREDERICK: -- it was moved, that -- no, JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. How do you then you to say what one you want to come up with that will Official JUSTICE BREYER: The floating sofa? The (Laughter.) MR. FREDERICK: I think that a vessel that get rid of all the absurd examples that are lurking in the back of my mind, which I will avoid -- and yet include -- has practical capability, a watercraft that has practical capability to float, move and carry goods or people, that's a vessel. floating sofa? Somebody is retired, he likes to see it float around in the water, and you know, and it carries a cushion. I mean, really that's absurd. So -- so how do you distinguish -- I gave you an absurd example. I don't need to think of more. MR. FREDERICK: I think I've given up the absurd hypos because there are no litigation on them. Frederick, this. Suppose we had a trial on the question was a vessel, and we found out that actually percent of people who buy floating homes move it exactly once. They purchase the floating home and then they move it to the place where they want the home to be, and then it sits there. And this was just a clear evidence that, JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose, Mr. of whether these floating homes or this floating home Official vessel? MR. FREDERICK: Yes, if it has the practical you know, except if there's a hurricane or a tornado, people do not move floating homes. They buy it, they move it to where they want to live, and then it sits. In that case, do you think the thing is a capability. That's what the statute says, Justice Kagan. It depends on if you want to rewrite the statute to have subjective intent --JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's a statute -- MR. FREDERICK: -- of lots of vessel owners. JUSTICE KAGAN: You're reading the statute -- you're reading the statute as if it says something can be transported over water. But the statute doesn't say that. It says something can be used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water. So that -- that the question is whether this thing is transporting other things over water, and whether that's its function; and in my hypothetical it's not its function. Its function is to serve as a house. That house happens to be on water, but it's just a house. a vessel only moves once doesn't mean that it's not a vessel if it has -- if it meets the attributes of the statute, as explained by this Court in Stewart, of MR. FREDERICK: Justice Kagan, the fact that Official And the casino -- practical capability. The Titanic, of course, is a perfect example of that. The fact that a person may choose mobility as a -- as one of the attributes and not exercise that attribute of course goes to subjective intent, and as the Maritime Law Association's brief points out here, you do not want to apply an intent standard that goes to what the owner intends to -- which function the owner intends to exercise, because that leads to manipulation. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, the city's position, it is whatever we want it to be. That is the first time Lozman was sued by the city. It was not under admiralty jurisdiction, it was a plain old exceptions and if -- I will let you finish your question. is, is it -- is it a vessel when you want it to be, and just an ordinary landlord/tenant situation when you want it to be that way? question as no.landlord/tenant suit in State court, right? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, well, my question MR. FREDERICK: Yes, but there are some MR. FREDERICK: No. I would answer that JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, let's take this Official United States courts. MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why not? MR. FREDERICK: Because it's a vessel and very incident, that is he failed to comply with the revised rules and he was behind in his payment of dockage fees. Could the city have brought that case in an ordinary State court for the arrears? the exclusive admiralty jurisdiction of the United States courts means that it has to be litigated in the JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about -- MR. FREDERICK: That's why in the first one, if I could just explain about the State court, because I think that there is some misapprehension about what ordinances, and he was not complying with the city ordinances; that's why -- that's why the city brought the in personam action against him in State court. all of his dockage services and fees. It became an in rem action when the lien was not being discharged through his payment on the dockage fees, and the city had a basis under the wet slip agreement to assert a There was no admiralty basis there. He was still paying happened. His dog was not complying with the maritime lien, which is a classic admiralty action under Official So they are very different actions. Under Federal jurisdiction. the State court action he could still stay at the marina, but he had to be on a houseboat that complied with the marina's rules. He had two house boats at the marina, and this one was not in compliance, and that is why the city brought action against it. It was the only one of the -plus vessels and boats in this marina that wasn't in compliance with the rules. JUSTICE KENNEDY: We -- we want I suppose to give the courts of appeals a test that works. I -- see if this is, sums up your argument, or your position. characteristic, the physical capacity of the -- of the structure, and then you look not to purpose but to its objective function: Does it carry goods under the statute. And then I suppose you could under that say that this is a vessel, but that this presumption is overcome if it's permanently moored in a way the Evansville dredge was. Is -- is that your argument? MR. FREDERICK: I think that sums up in a nutshell what we would regard as a proper statement of the law, of what this Court has already said, and that is that if it's got practical capability, those practical characteristics, Justice Kennedy, will You look to see the objective Official moving and carriage -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's where - that's manifest itself in the functions. If somebody wants to buy a domicile on land, one buys a house or a condo. If you buy a floating home, that has the attribute, the physical characteristics of floating, movage -- and exactly -- I mean, I think that works pretty well; and you think that works pretty well, but I don't agree with you at the moment hypothetically. So something's wrong somewhere. And what I'm thinking is that you could have very odd things, you know, like an advertising sign, floating advertising sign and tow it around. Is that floating advertising sign a vessel? No, it doesn't carry goods but it does carry, say, the eyes on the figure which might move around; and then it does -- and Justice Kennedy said carrying goods. All right. Does this structure, this houseboat have a function of carrying goods? You're tempted to say yes, because his personal effects are in it. I'm attempted to say no, because there is nothing special about those personal effects that isn't exactly similar to their being in a similar structure on land. distinction. That's -- do you see what I -- what's That's where I am wondering if there is a bothering me? Official nautical or maritime as opposed to -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's nothing -- MR. FREDERICK: -- household effects or MR. FREDERICK: Justice Breyer, there is no basis, I mean, with all due respect, there is no basis in your cases to -- to hold that there is something about transportation that makes it somehow uniquely other goods or services or people that are transported over land. And that's why when the normal definition of transportation is to convey a person or a thing from one place to another, that's perfectly satisfied under the facts of this case. And it is an undisputed record as Petitioner says, on page of the cert petition, they ask for cert here for you to decide whether Mr. Lozman's state of mind about his indefinite mooring is somehow relevant to the definition of a vessel. It clearly isn't. the list of absurdities that they point to, not the least of which is a dry dock, which you talk about whether it's permanently moored or not, but most dry docks are held in place by, you know, heavy ropes but you can cut them and you can stick something on them and they can float away. Under -- so how do you -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the problem is MR. FREDERICK: I don't accept the premise Official MR. FREDERICK: They are simply physical structures -- of your argument. The -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For the -- MR. FREDERICK: The dry docks with which I am familiar are anchored to the bottom so that they can stay in one place and they don't carry anything, so they don't meet the part of the test that requires carriage. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you do with the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- trampoline and the other examples your adversary gave? Is a trampoline that floats on water capable of moving -- it's moving the trampoline. practically capable of carrying anything. Trampoline. whether I attach something permanently or temporarily to the top of the floating thing, the floating board, the floating whatever? MR. FREDERICK: And again --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is the difference MR. FREDERICK: Well, it would not be subject to towage. Here the houseboat had -- this is MR. FREDERICK: I don't think it's JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's carrying the Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, your example of the towing cleats highlights one of the important because the houseboat under the testimony Mr. Lozman elicited at trial had four towing cleats that were welded into the structure of his houseboat so that it could be towed without torquing and twisting the houseboat and causing it to sink. The hypotheticals that the other side has suggested don't have that additive feature of towing cleats that are used for the purpose of being able to convey the houseboat -- difficulties I have; one, because obviously the question of, well, what if they didn't have the towing cleats, and then what if they had the towing cleats and then took them off, what if they were temporary towing statute and we like jurisdictional statutes to be clear and easy of application. Why do you think your test is easier than your friend's test? attributes of being a vessel. It floats, it moves, it carries. It's got nothing to do -- doesn't have -- the thing that makes something look most like a boat in my view is a raked bow. That tells you cleats. One of the things, this is a jurisdictional MR. FREDERICK: Because the physical characteristics of this houseboat all point to the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's got -- it Official MR. FREDERICK: Well, Mr. Chief -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't have a --what are the things called on the side, the elevated MR. FREDERICK: We would submit that time of Cleopatra. The fact that it is flat-bottomed and it floats and it moves and it carries things does not make it not a vessel. that that's what they want to use it for, to move through the water. This is straight up and down. sides that you'd look for in a boat. Congress did not intend a you-know-it-when-you-see-it test. House barges, barges have been vessels since the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, this is kind of an idiosyncratic case. There are many cases I think in the courts now about floating casinos. I take it on your definition the floating casino would be a vessel subject to maritime jurisdiction. physical impediment that takes it out of one of the stays in one place and the gambling goes on in one place, then it may be towed to a different location, and it stays there. You -- you say because it is able to be three attributes that doesn't make it a vessel. If -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: As long as the vessel moved from one place to another it qualifies as a MR. FREDERICK: Yes, unless it has a on the Hudson River --work in order to move it. Official MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Even if it's rather vessel? permanently moored with a, with a -- like the Intrepid MR. FREDERICK: I'm not familiar -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: With about -- aircraft carrier. But it's really fixed in there with regular walkways and so forth. Very -- it would cause a lot of MR. FREDERICK: We suggest that the way the court should think about that problem is as a physical impediment. Are physical impediments preclude its moat movement or carriage or floating capacity -- the case, then your test really comes down to how securely is something fastened. I mean, you have to deal with Evansville's wharf boat and you have to deal with Cage's dry dock, and you have to deal with all these floating casinos and restaurants. And you're saying that in all these cases we are supposed to look to is it a rope or is it a cable, how many cables, how quickly can it be disengaged, and that that's going to end up being the test that you would have us adopt which is how easy it is to get out of the port. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Frederick, if that is Official MR. FREDERICK: Well, I think that as a practical matter, this arises in only a couple of JUSTICE KAGAN: That really does become a jury question -- a question of fact for everything, MR. FREDERICK: I think that's a fair way to view it, Justice Kagan, and it's a perfectly appropriate one. The Belle of Orleans case -- right? You know, are there six cables, are there nine cables, what are they made of, you know, how long is it going to take to rip up the -- the I-beams, whatever? instances and those are the casino boats, many of which were vessels and they traversed the rivers allowing people to gamble because that's how state laws required them to perform. And they have since stopped trying to be vessels because of state law changes that they were able to make. And so the question as a practical matter is are there physical impediments to the ability of that boat to -- to use the capability to move? The Star of India, which was referenced in the Belle of Orleans case, was not -- was a vessel, a sailing vessel from the th century. In they took it out of commission as a sailing vessel and they towed it to San Diego, where it sat for years tied to the dock, and for the bicentennial, they decided let's get the boat out and sail it and they sailed it for the bicentennial. The Official United States -- the USS Constitution, the famous USS Ninth Circuit held that's a vessel because it has the capability of being used as a vessel. And the fact that something is moored for a long time, if it has the physical attributes to be a vessel, it is a vessel. The Constitution would be shocked to have heard Mr. Gannon's statement about vessel because there are Navy service members who service the USS Constitution and take it out periodically for sail. JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any problem here, which I think maybe the Coast Guard and the other people who are responsible for vessels, say once we start thinking that everything in the house is a vessel -- I overstate -- we're going to have an impossible time some kind of a log next to a beach somewhere and somebody's going to start calling it a vessel. We've got to limit this somehow to things that really are used as vessels. so, how would you deal with it? MR. FREDERICK: If it were a problem the Coast Guard would have signed the Solicitor General's brief in this case which they have done in other cases MR. FREDERICK: Yes -- JUSTICE BREYER: Is that a problem, and if doing our job. I mean, you know, you are going to see Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is not very CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but, I mean, MR. FREDERICK: And the statute underlying compelling in this case because they have regulations in which transportation and vessel status have been relevant like in Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine, United States v. Locke, in which the Coast Guard -- that pretty much echo what the Solicitor General is saying, so it's not as if they were going to take a different position. The Solicitor General is basically saying follow the Coast Guard regulations. those regulations, Justice Sotomayor, is found at USC , and it provides the secretary very broad discretion on what to include within the regulations and what not to. After this court decided the Stewart case, vessels until the Coast Guard could issue new regulations. There is a hint, there is a suggestion that there might be a problem, but there is not anything that is really given in practical terms. there is some easy things to visualize as a problem. If this is a vessel, then the maid that comes on twice a week is a seaman under the Jones Act, right? the secretary suspended many regulations for dockside MR. FREDERICK: No. And the reason why is because as this court recognized in Stewart, the in Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, taken out MR. FREDERICK: No. But no -- and in fact, I think the question of who is a Jones Act seaman is a navigation requirement is something that has been used for limiting the reach of Jones Act seamen in those circumstances in which a vessel is taken out of navigation. So I think that it would be appropriate in a case like this where this is a classic instance of a maritime lien, dockage -- of navigation, but not every time it's docked, right? different test that this Court last discussed in the Chandris case, in terms of its substantial connection to the mission of the vessel. And that -- I think that the Court could safely leave the Jones Act issues aside, focuses on the worker's connection to the vessel as opposed to the definition of vessel itself. The definition of vessel itself here is, as Justice Scalia pointed out, part of the Dictionary Act, and it is something that does apply more broadly. But as we briefed in this case, there are two provisions that take that definition and then they add an intent requirement as specific language in different parts. So that if that idea, function, or intent or purpose is because they bring in an entirely different regime that something that is germane to that particular statutory Official function, than that is a question that becomes a question for jurisdiction. But I'd also like to point out that both, I think, the district court and the court of appeals here assumed that there was jurisdiction here because there had not been evidence that contested the basic principles that the City brought when it profiled this in rem action. merits phase, the district judge here initially denied the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction without prejudice. And then as the evidence came in, revisited the question to provide a fuller explanation, and at that time made the ruling that Mr. Lozman had not put in of the test. court of appeals as a reason for error was that because he intended to live there indefinitely, even though he had no contractual or property right to do so, and he had signed a wet slip agreement that provided the marina complete discretion to move his houseboat within any of the slips, or to order of the houseboat to leave on days' notice, the question of whether or not there was any record of evidence on practical capability got to record evidence that affected the practical capability And because the case then moved into the The only thing Mr. Lozman argued in the Official They initially asked you in the cert petition, grant cert because the Fifth Circuit and the the Eleventh Circuit, and the Eleventh Circuit, in applying a practical capability test, said the things that Mr. Lozman had argued, he didn't offer record evidence. So, Justice Kennedy, to your point, I think that with respect to the Court of Appeals and how it did do its job here is an important facet of the case as it comes. Seventh Circuit have applied an onerous intent test. They've not defended that test. And it is abjectly erroneous because you can't have vessel status be so easily manipulated by an individual's intent. And now by trying to morph it into some kind of function or objective purpose standard, they've essentially done exactly what the Eleventh Circuit said they had offered no evidence in the district court to try to prove. If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Fisher, you have minutes left. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. FISHER: Thank you. I think Mr. Frederick's best argument that Official In Evansville, this Court dealt with I've heard, and some of this Court has echoed it, is that this is a vessel because it was moved around and it carried his personal effects. The difficulty is that argument runs absolutely headlong into Evansville and Roper; it cannot be squared with those cases. And I would be willing to rest my entire case on simply this Court reading and applying those cases. something that carried around the effects of a business office. In Roper, this Court dealt with something that carried around grain and was far more seaworthy than the structure in this case. vessels because the function was not to carry those incidental relocations. Circuit simply cannot be right when it says that function is irrelevant. And the City can't be right on its test either. The only way the City has proposed to deal with those cases is to look at how securely the structure is fashioned. you want a recipe for disaster on jurisdictional questions, start asking whether it's chains or ropes. And Justice Kagan, you're exactly right. If Both instances, the Court said they're not things around, it was merely -- they were merely Now -- so for that reason, the Eleventh Official out of maritime jurisdiction. And not only that, if you want something that's utterly manipulable, just tell the yacht owner who has his yacht down in the harbor that all he has to do is hook it up to the dock with chains instead of ropes and now he's So this Court's cases for almost a century have applied the exact test we're asking this Court to apply. And even if you're not percent persuaded that that's what the statute is best read as doing, that is what we have done for over years, and that is how maritime law has built up and guaranteed on those -- on those understandings. And it's not just the questions we've been talking today -- it's employment law, tort law, all the rest are built on this test. And we're asking this Court simply to reaffirm what it's done in the past. So I think that leaves the question of, when you know the Eleventh Circuit applied the wrong test and you know the City's test can't be right, do you vacate think -- Justice Kennedy, we think that you can simply reverse. You have everything in the record you need, most notably in the surveyor's report. or do you send -- or do you simply reverse? And we And you can look at four things. Look at the -- look at the materials used, the shape of the Official And the next thing is the shape. Exactly as CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That is -- what was used in the Higgins boats in World War II. structure, its equipment and the utilities. The materials used were plywood and ordinary land-based structures. MR. FISHER: I'm -- I'm not saying any of these are determinative, Mr. Chief Justice, but it's a totality that tells you what it is. you referred. This is a rectangle that sits inches under the water, is not meant to be moved around. Look at the -- look at its features. It has French doors on three sides a few feet above the water line. That's not what a vessel -- not how a vessel is designed. Appendix , for example, it says this thing has no batteries. It is utterly dependent on being hooked up to land. That's the only way it can function. revisit this Court's prior cases and reassert the rule that this Court has always applied. Counsel.now and casting its vote and writing its opinion, And finally, its utilities. Again, at Joint So if this Court does nothing else between CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. Official (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial A ability : : abjectly : able : : : : : aboard : above-entitled : : absolutely : : absurd : :,,, absurdities : accept : access : accord : account : accoutrements acknowledged : : Act :, : : :,,, action : :,, :, : actions : add : addition : additive : adjoining : admiralty : : :, : adopt : adversary : advertising :,, ago : agree : : : agreed : agreement : : : aircraft : Alito :, :, : : :, : allowing : amici : amicus : : : : amps : analysis : anchored : : and/or : announced : answer : : : :, : : answered : answering : antecedent : apparently : appeals : :, : : : :, : APPEARAN... : applying : : : appropriate : : : : approval : : areas : argued : : argument : :,,, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : arguments : arises : arrears : aside : asked : : : asking : : : : :, assert : assertedly : assess : assessed : Assistant : associations : Association's : : appendix : assume :, : : application : applied : : : : : : :, : applies : apply : : : : : : assumed : assumptions : Atlantic : attach : attached : : attempted : attribute : : : attributes : : : : : : : : avoid : : aware : a.m : : B back : : : : : : : : barge : : barges :, based : basic : : basically : : basis : : : :, : : batteries : bay : beach : : : : : beg :, began : begging : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : Belle :, belongings : best : : better : : bicentennial :, board : boat : : :, : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, boats : : :, : : body : Boston : : : bothering : bottom : : : bow :, : Breyer : :,, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : :, : : brief :, : : : : : briefed : briefs : : : bring : : : broad : : broadly : brought : : : :, : : builds : built : : : : :, business : Official : buy : : :, buys : C C : :, : : cable : cables : :, Cage's : California : call : called : : calling : canal : canoes : capabilities : capability : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : capable : : :,,, :,,,, :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, capacity : : : : : carriage : : : : casino : : : : : carried : :,, carrier : carries : : : : : : : carry : : casinos : : : casting : cause : caused : :, : causing : caveat : : : cease : : : ceases : : : century : :, : : : : : carrying : : : : :, cert :, chains : changes : : : : channel : characteristic Chandris : change : changed : : : : :,, :, : certainly : : :, case :, : : : : :,, : : : : :, :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : Chief :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :,, choose : Circuit : cases :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : characteristics :,,, cited : :, : : : : Circuit's : circumstances : : : city : : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, city's : : : classic : : company : comparables : : compare : compelling : compiled : complete : compliance : : complied : comply : complying:,computers: : : clearly : cleats :,, clear : : conceded : concededly : concept : concepts : concerns : Cleopatra : conclude : close : clothes : Coast : :,, conclusion : concrete : condo : confiscated : :, : :, Code :, codes : coffee : : confronted : confusion : :, : cofferdam : Congress : : : connected : coherence : come : : connecting: : : : : : : connection : :,: : : : commercial comes : : connections :,,: : consider : constitute : Constitution commission :, : commodities : :,,Construction : common : contested : contract : contractual : contrivance : : control : convey : Cope : : : : cord : : correct : : : counsel : :, : : : :, Counselor : count : country : couple : : : : : : : :, court :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, course : : curiae : : : dependent : : depends : : describe : : : : : described : : : : : : : damaged :description : : CURTIS : : : cushion : cut : DD :daily :damage :::DAVID :: :day :days :de :dead :deal : : :, : : dealt :, decades : Official detriment : Dictionary : Diego : difference : :, : : : : : : : : dockage :, : : docked : :, : : docks : :, : : :, : : : : :,, difficult : difficulties : : : dog : doing : :, dockside : : : : :, decide : :, : decided : :, : : : : :,, deciding : :, : : :, decision : : : : : decommission... different : : courts : :, : : Court's : :, : : : : craft : : : : deemed : defended : definition :, : : :, : :, : :,, degree :, craft's : created : crew : : : criteria : cup :,, denied : Department demonstrated : : : : difficulty : directly : disagree : disaster : disavow :, disavowed : discharged : discretion : : : disengaged : dismiss : display : dispute : : : discussed : :,: : : : domicile : : door : doors : : dozens : draft : dredge :, :,,, : :, : dredges :, dredging : : :,driveways : : drop :,dry :,: : due : : : : dwelling : D.C :,,EE : :, : : :easier :easily :easy : : design :, distance : designed : :, : : : : : : distinguish distinction destroyed : determinable determinative : : : : : : district : : : :,: :,: determine : dock : :, Official : : facts :, : factual : failed : fair : : fall : falls : familiar : : famous : FANE : far : fashioned : fastened : fault : feature : features : Federal : : fees :,, feet :, : felicitous : Fifth : : fight : figure : filed : finally : find : finding : finish : first : : : : : : : : floated : floating : flimsy : float : : :, : five : fixed : fixtures : flatly : flat-bottomed :, : Frederick : : :,, : :,, :,,, : :, : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, : :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, :,,,, : :, Frederick's :, : :,,,, French : frequently : : :, friend's : :, : fuller : :,,, fully : : : function : :,,, :,, :, : : : floats : : : : : : Florida : : : : echo : echoed : effects : :,, :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, Evansville's : : everybody : efficiently : evidence : eight-inch : either : : : : : :, : :, :, : : elevated : Eleventh :, : : : elicited : emphasize :, employment empty : : : enforce : ensues : entire : entirely : enunciated : equipment : exact : : : exactly :, : : : : :, : : : example : : : : : examples : : exceptions : exclusive : exercise :, : :, : explain : : :, : explained : erroneous : explaining : explains : error : explanation : ESQ :,, :,,, essentially : : establishments : evaluating : Evansville : : :, : : : : : : :, : extension : : eyes : Ffaced :facet :facility :fact :, : : :: :: :: :,, :, : : :, : : :, :,, :, : :, : : :, :,, :,, : :,,, : :,:, : :, : :, : : :,:,,: : : : : : focus : focuses : follow : former : Fisher : : : :,, :,,,, :, : : forth : :,, : : forum : : : found : :,, : : :,, :, : : : :,, :,, four : : frankly : Official :, : go :, : functions : furniture : : : further : : : G : : goes :, : : : : help : helps : : : :,,,, :, houseboats : going : : Higgins : : : :, highlights : household : : :, : : : :, : : Hudson : hull : hundreds : hurricane : hint : hire : historic : :, good : : history : goods : : : : :,, : hold : holding : hole : holes : home : :, hypothetically : :, : : : hypos : hypothetical : India : indicate : individual's : : including : indefinite : : : :, : : : : : indefinitely : :, :, : :,: :,: : inflatable : initially : : inner : : :,,inquiry : : : : instance : instances : : intend : intended : intends :,intent : : :, : : :,intention : Intercoastal : interpret : interrupt : Intrepid : irrelevant : issue : : issues : I-beams : JJames :Guard :, homeowner G : gamble : gambling : game : Gannon : : :,, :,,, :, : : :, grain :, : :, : : :, : grant : :,,, guaranteed :,, :,, government's : : Gannon's : garage : garden : : : general : : : :, generally : : : :,, Guard's : guess : : guns : Hhand : happened : : : : : General's : happening germane : getting : happens : harbor : Ginsburg : : : : : : : : : :, Harry : : :, :, give : : : : : given : : hazard : headlong : hear : : heard : : heavy : held : : : : : : :,, : :, : : :,, : : homes : : : :, : :, :, : hook : : : : : hooked : hope :, : hose : : :,, hotel : house : :, : :, : : : : houseboat : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : hypotheticals : : Iice :idea :identifies :idiosyncratic: :II :imagine :: ::impediment: :impediments: :implication:importance :: :,important :: :: :impossible:inches :incident :incidental :include : Official :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :, L L : :, : : land : : :, : : :, : :, : : landlord/tenant :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :, : : :, :,, : :,,, :, : :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, : : :,, J- : K : :, land-based : Lane : language : : : large : Kagan : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : Laughter : :, : Kagan's : keep : Kennedy : : :, : :, :,,, : : :, : : :, : :, : : law : : : : : : : :, : laws : layered : layers : leads : leave : : : : leaves : left : let's :,, kept : kind : : :, : : : : kinds : : : :, : : : :, : : know : : Liberty : lot : : : : lots : : Lozman : : : : :, : Lozman's : : : lurking : Mmagnificent:maid :makeshift :making :manifest :manifestedmanipulablemanipulatedmanipulationmanufacturer:::::man's :marina : : : :,: :,,:marina's :Marine :maritime :: :: :: :: :: :: :,marshal :marshals :Mary ::,materials ::: lien : : : : liens : light : lighter : likes : limit : limiting : line : : lines : lining : list : listening : lit : literally : litigated : litigation : : live : : living : load : : loaded : located : location : Locke : log : long : : : : : : longer : : : : look :, : :, : : : :, : : :,: : : : :,,:,looking : : : looks : lost : : : : JEFFREY : :, : : job : : : Joint : : Jones : : :, : judge : : jurisdiction : : : : :,, : jurisdictional : :, : jury : Justice : : :, :,, : :,, : :, :,, : : :, :,,, :,,, : : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, Official matter : : : :, : Monday : : : : : : : : : mean : : month : : moving : : :, overall : : : obviously : : : :, : occasions : :,, : :, moored :, : :,, :,,, : : : multiple : museum : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : meaning :, means : : : : : : : meant : : : mooring : : :, : : : : :, : : moorings : morning : : meet : meets : members : morph : mercifully : motion : Mercury : motor : merely : :, : merits : middle :, : miles : : : :, mind : : : : minimis : minutes : misapprehens... : : mission : Mississippi-O... : moat : mobile : : mobility : : :, : movage : move : : : :, :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,, :, : : : : : moved : : : :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : movement : : : moment : moves : : overcome : overstate : owned : owner : : : : :, : owners : ownership : : owner's : PP :Pacific :page : : : ::pages : : Pardon :part :,: :,,: ::particular :: :parts :,:paste :Pavone ::paying :payment ::pennies :people : : : :,,: ::, : : :: :,: :: :: ::, : : :occurs : Ocean : October : odd : offer : offered : : office : : : : Oh : : okay : : : :,: old : : once : : : : onerous : open : operate : : operated : opinion : : : opinions : opposed : : : : oral : :,, : : : order : : : : ordinances :, ordinarily : ordinary : : :originally :Orleans :,ought :outrigger :outset :outside : NN :, : nails :natural :, nautical : navigable : navigation : :,, Navy : near : need : : : : needs :, :, : : never : new : night : nine : Ninth : non-vessel : normal : : north : notably : notice : : numerous : nutshell : O O : : object : objective : : : : : Official providing : provisions : quite : : : questions : : : : : quickly : quote : quoted : quoting : RR :raft : rafts : raked :,:ramps : range :reach : reached :read : : reading :: : ready : reaffirm : real : : really : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :,:, : : :,: ::perform : picture : performed : pictures : : phrased : physical : provide : provided : provides :, : pulled : purchase : :, : : : : : :, : : practical : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : pull : :, : : :, :, : purpose : piece : pieces : :, : : :, place :, : practically : :,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, :, : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : plain : precisely : plaintiff : play : preclude : please : : prejudice : premise : present : presumption : : pretty :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : plug : plywood : point : : : : put : : purposes : : : : : percent : : perfect : perfectly : : : performing : : : : period : periodically : permanent : : :, : permanently :, : :, : : : : : : : Perry : person :, :,, : : :,, : : : : : : pointed : personal : : :, : :, points : policy : : : personam : Polynesian : person's : persuaded : petition : : : Polynesians : poor : port : : pose : posed : petitioner :, : :,, : : : : : Petitioner's : phase : phrase : : : : position : : : : : possessions : power : : prove : : primary : : principles : prior : pro : probably : : problem : : : :,, :, proceeding : professor : profiled : proper : property : proposed : : : putting : p.m : Q qualifies : Queen : :, question : :real-world: : : : :,,,, : :, reason :: : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : :,,, reassert : REBUTTAL: :recipe :recognized: :: :: Official : :, : :, : respect : : : : : : record : :, : respond : :, : Respondent : : : : rectangle : Respondent's referenced : : roads : ROBERTS : : : : : : : :, : : serves : service :, services : : says : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : set : :, : setting : : :, settled : : :, :, :, Scalia : :, seven : : :, : : : : :, Seventh : shade : shape : :, :, : : : responsible rest : : : : restate : restaurant : restaurants rope : : : Roper : : : : : : : : :, result : retired : return : reverse :, ropes : reviewed : : : : : ship : : school : se : sea : :, : :, seabed : seaman : : : seamen : seasons : shows : : Seattle : : side : : seaworthy : ships : shocked : shore : : : : : : : referred : regard : regime : regular : : regularly : regulations : :,,, : rejected : : released : relevant : : : : : : relying : rem : : : remainder : removed : :, : repeatedly : replica : report : repositioned : : required : requirement :, requires : reserve : : : residence : relocating : revisited : relocations : revised : revisit : routinely : rule : : rules : : : second : secretary : sides : : sign :,, signed : : : :, ruling : running : rewrite : rid :, : right :, : runs : S S : : safely : sail : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, sale : San : : : sank : sat : : satisfied : satisfy : Sausalito : saying :, rip : river : : : :, :, : : : rivers : Riviera : : sailboat : sailed : sailing :, : : section : securely : : : : see : : : : : :, : :, : : seen : self-propelled semi-permane... : : semi-tied : send : : sense :,, : : significant : : :, : similar :, simply : : : : : :, :,, single : sink : sit : : sits : : : : sitting : situation : six : : skis : slip : : sent : serve : : slips : served : small : : : Official :, : straighten : :, :, sofa : : : sofas : Solicitor : : :, somebody : : :, : : somebody's : something's : starts : state : : : :,, : : :, statement : : States :,, : :, : :, : : somewhat : stationary : : : : sorry : : status : sort : : : sorts : : Sotomayor : strange : supporting : : : : suppose :, : :, : :, : :, :, struck : structure : : : : : : : :, supposed : : : : :, Supreme :, :, : sure : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : surely : structures : surveyor : : : : : surveyor's : stuff : : suspended : : : : :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, sound : sounds : special : specialized : specific : specter : speed : Sprietsma : square : squared : stability : stages : standard : : : standards : Stanford : Star : start :, : : : : : statute :, : : :,,, :,, : : : : statutes : statutory : : : : Styrofoam : : : subject : : : subjective : : : submit : submitted : : : : : substantial substantive subsequently stay : : stays :, step : Stewart :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : suffering : suggest : : :,, : : :, stick : stipulate : stopped : suggested : suggesting : : suggestion sued : : : : storing : storm : straight : : suit : : sums :, superscoop : : synonym : system : TT :,take : : : :: :: :: : : :taken : : :takes ::talk : : talked :talking :,:,,: ::tell : : :, : tells : : temporarily:temporary:tempted : ten : ten-inch : term : : :, : : terminology : : terms : : terribly : test :, : :,, : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : : :,: : :,,,testimony : tests :,Thank : : : :,: theoretically: : thing : : : :,,: : : :,:, : : : : : : :,things : : : :,: : : : : :,,: : Official transports : traversed : undisputedly trench : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : transported : :, : : transporting :, : : : trial : : tried : trucks : true :, : : : : try : trying : :,, : : : : : : van : understand : various : : : : undisputed understandings unhook : uninsured : understood : underwater : : : vessel : : : : :, : understanding :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : : : :, : : :, :,,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,, : : : : :,, : :,, : : : : : : :,,, : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : : :, universal : unloaded : unmoored : unusual : urge : USC : : :, : :, : : uniquely : United :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : think :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, thinking : : thirdly : thorough : thought : : three : : : : tie : tied : : : : : :, : ties : time : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : times : : : : : : Titanic : today : top : : : tornado : torquing : tort : : totality : tow : : towage : : towed : : : :,, : : :,,, : : : : : : : : :,, trampoline :,,, trampolines : transformed : : : transit : transport : : : : transportation towing :,, two : : tube : : untie : :,, turned : turns : twice : : use : : twisting : : : : : : :, uses : : : : USS :,, usually : type : types : typically : :, Uultimate :unanswerable: underlying : utilities : : :, utility : utterly : : Vv : : :, vacate :vessels :, : : :, : : :, :, : : view : : : viewed :, Viking : Village : : : violation : visualize : voice : vote : W walkways : walls : want : : :, : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : wanted : : wants : War : warehouse : : : Washington : :, : wasn't : : : water : : : :,, : : : : :, :,, :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :,,, : : :, waterborne :, watercraft : : : Waterway : waves : way : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : ways : : weather : week : : welded : wet : : : We'll : we're : : : : :, we've : : wharf :, : : :, : whatsoever : wide : willing : : wind : winter : wiped : wondering : word :, : :, :,, : : words :, :, work : : :, : worked : worker's : workmen : works : : :, world : : worse : wouldn't : : writing : : : : : : : -plus : : : : Official wrong :,, : : : X x :, Y yacht :, yacht-building : Yeah : year : years : : :,, :, : : : you-know-it-... : : : : :, - : : : : : : : : (a) : th : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 