Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Wednesday, October , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x FLORIDA, : : No. -: JOELIS JARDINES : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. HOWARD K. BLUMBERG, ESQ., Assistant Public Defender, Miami, Florida; on behalf of Respondent. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD K. BLUMBERG, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) In the three prior cases in which this Court Mr. Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Florida v. Jardines. and may it please the Court: has held that a dog sniff is not a search, this Court has emphasized that a dog sniff is unique, both in terms of the manner in which information is obtained and the nature of the information revealed. emphasized that a drug detection dog reveals only the presence of contraband, and that no one has a legitimate expectation of privacy in that. Nobody under that view has an interest in contraband in their home. The question is, can you find out the contraband? It's just a circular argument. And if -- and in the -- was it the Caballes case that talked about that, if I have the right name? a proposition that we can accept across the board. MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, As to the latter point, this Court has JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, that just can't be Official MR. GARRE: Well, Justice Kennedy, in the In the home case, we're not saying that you That was where the contraband was visible; it was almost like the smoking gun falls out. Well, of course, there's no interest in the smoking gun when it falls out in front of you. So I just don't think that works. Caballes case, the contraband wasn't visible before the dog alerted. don't have a legitimate expectation of privacy in the home. Of course, you do. The question is whether you have a legitimate expectation -- that what's in your home that's not visible to the public has an expectation of privacy as well? Your Honor. And we think that the Kyllo case helps -- circular. Then why do you need a search warrant? If you have no expectation of privacy in the contraband, MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, when you have a search warrant and you go into a home, there's going to be a lot of private information that you're going to come across, even if your expectation is MR. GARRE: Not when it comes to contraband, finding evidence of a crime. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So doesn't that mean JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that -- that is why bother even with a search warrant? Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, does your Is that -- I gather that that is your MR. GARRE: Your Honor, they could do that, argument mean -- you say minimally intrusive, and that the dog will detect only contraband, that the police then are to go into a neighborhood that's known to be a drug dealing neighborhood, go into -- just go down the street, have the dog sniff in front of every door, or go into an apartment building? position. just like the police could go door to door and then knock on the doors and hope that they will find out evidence of wrongdoing that way. of community hostility. Here, the police were combatting a serious epidemic of grow houses, hundreds of houses each year that were a scourge to the community, not only in terms house had on the lawn, no dogs allowed? Your Honor. It would be -- and that's a way in which But the two responses this Court has always pointed to is the restraint on resources and the check the house is different than a car. Homeowners can just of the drugs that they were growing -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose -- suppose the MR. GARRE: I think that would be different, Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's right. of a house. As I understand the law, the police are MR. GARRE: That's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: But if they can't see restrict access to people who come up to their front door by putting gates or a sign out front. And there's such a thing as what is called the curtilage entitled to use binoculars to look into the house if -- if the residents leave the blinds open, right? clearly enough from a distance, they're not entitled to go onto the curtilage of the house, inside the gate, and use the binoculars from that vantage point, are they? MR. GARRE: They're not, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why isn't it the same thing with the dog? This dog was brought right up -- right up to the -- to the door of the house. think that, as this case comes to the Court, the police established by the courts below, and we don't think that they've challenged it here. police officer. The police officer could go up to the front door and knock and detect the smell of marijuana, were lawfully present at the front door. That was That's at least true with respect to the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, first of all, I Official portion of the house that -- as to which there is MR. GARRE: Well, I think the way you would -- JUSTICE SCALIA: -- in that space. MR. GARRE: I think the way that you would just like Officer Pedraja did. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then we've taken an unrealistic case, if that has been conceded, because it seems to me crucial that this officer went onto the privacy, and -- and used a means of -- of discerning what was in the house that -- that should not have been available -- answer that question, Your Honor, is, of course, there's a curtilage that extends around the house and protects, in which the homeowner has a reasonable expectation of privacy. It's well established, we think, going back to the common law, that there is an implied consent for people, visitors, salesmen, Girl Scouts, the door -- consent for the policeman to come up with the dog. The only purpose of the dog is to detect contraband.trick-or-treaters, to come up to your house and knock on JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but not implied So you can say, yes, there's an implied Official MR. GARRE: Well, Justice Ginsburg, first of I don't think the subjective -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: This is not any dog. invitation to the Girl Scout cookie seller, to the postman, even to the police officer, but not police officer with dog, when the only reason for having the dog is to find out if there's contraband in the house. all, I think, if the Girl Scout or the salesman or the trick-or-treater brought up a dog with them, there would be complied consent for that too, at least as long as the dog was on a leash. This is a drug detecting dog. think it changes the subjective purpose of why they consent? That's a huge assumption. At least in the cities that I've lived in, you have to have a dog on a leash. And you don't give implied consent. If you're allergic to animals, you don't want dogs walking around at your door. "No Dogs Allowed" sign out front. And there, there would not be implied consent. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. But tell me MR. GARRE: No, that's right. But I don't brought the dog with them. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why is that an implied MR. GARRE: Well, you can certainly put the Official MR. GARRE: Well, we start with the MR. GARRE: Well, certainly not in the at the front of the door. He didn't go in -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think homeowners freely let dogs just come into their apartment? I mean, why that you presume that there's implied consent? proposition that -- there might be some homes that do. apartment, Your Honor. This search took place, the dog walked up the same way that a salesman would and alerted JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we're going to treat it like a human being now? You're invited to knock on my door because you're a dog? neighbors can bring their dog up on the leash when they knock on your front door, and I think that's true in most neighborhoods in America. that's putting a fence around it to say, no dogs -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now we tell -- MR. GARRE: -- allowed. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- all the drug dealers, Homeowners that don't like dogs and want them off their property have a way to combat that, and MR. GARRE: No, I think -- and certainly this is true in my neighborhood, Your Honor, is put up a sign that says "No dogs." Official MR. GARRE: Well, they could, Your Honor. MR. GARRE: And I think -- Your Honor, I think the reason why that doesn't work here is that if But with respect to the question -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't it fair just to There are certainly houses that have that. assume that -- what's logical? I -- I let people knock on my door because they have to say something to me. I don't let a dog come up to my door -- I don't willy-nilly invite it to come up to my door. you ask that question with respect to the officer, I think it's well settled or accepted that police officers can walk up the front path, absent a sign or something, knock on the door -- Your Honor. I think that we're talking about going up there, knocking on the door. The police officer cannot just -- there to knock on the door, but I thought you've conceded that police officers can't come there to look does that include them coming up and -- up to your porch and sweeping stuff into a garbage pan? JUSTICE SCALIA: Police officers can come JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That implied consent, MR. GARRE: I don't think it would, into the house with binoculars, right? JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but if you're MR. GARRE: With binoculars -- JUSTICE SCALIA: When the purpose of the officer's going there is to -- is to conduct a search, it's not permitted. officer here, for example, was to walk up to the house, hope that they answered the door, or hope that once they were up there, that they would smell the odor of marijuana, as Officer Pedraja did, that would not convert it into a search. There was no invasion, physical invasion. looking at expectation of a reasonable homeowner, imagine you have a home, a long driveway. You do expect people to come up and come into the house, knock on the door, maybe even with dogs. Do you expect them to sit there for to minutes, minutes, not knocking on the door, doing nothing? I mean -- and not knocking. MR. GARRE: -- I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: Anyone coming to your door MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor --JUSTICE BREYER: -- is that something I wouldn't -- would you be nervous about that? Official MR. GARRE: If the purpose of the police MR. GARRE: I think what -- I think what Official I don't think there's a constitutional difference when the person has -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, there is in this sense. themselves of their God-given senses, whether it's JUSTICE BREYER: Just sniffing. MR. GARRE: Well, I think everyone accepts happened here -- when someone comes to your door, they can avail looking into a window without binoculars, taking -- breathing in and smelling the air, as Officer Pedraja did. Justice Scalia just said it. He said, you do have an expectation of people coming into your door, perhaps even with animals, perhaps even with binoculars, but not looking into the house, not looking into the house from the front step with the binoculars. it's very unusual that someone would do that, and a homeowner would resent it. MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: Would a homeowner resent someone coming with a large animal sitting in front of the front step on his property and sitting there sniffing for to minutes? Now, why is that unconstitutional? Because Forget the sniffing. Just talking, loud Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's not what the JUSTICE BREYER: I thought what happened sniff in a matter of seconds, not minutes -- JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Is that what happened noises. Is that something that you invite people to do? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, what I think you can say there is implied consent to is a dog accompanying a person on a leash walking up to the front door, taking a here? record says, Mr. Garre. here was to minutes. JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, the record suggests that he put the dog on a very long leash, the dog goes back and forth, tries to figure out where the smell is was you go up to the door, the dog barks once, and that's it. But you read the record, this dog is there for some extended period of time, going back and forth greatest concentration of the smell is. record, to be, you know, a lengthy and obtrusive process.and back and forth, trying to figure out where the It's not just -- you know, my first thought coming from. It actually seemed, from my reading of the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think what the Official Walking up to the front steps, sniffing, I think in thinking about reasonable physically what's happening in these houses. These people are growing drugs in the houses with the aid of electricity and light and heat. And they need -- they need air conditioning in order to control the heat. record shows is, is that the dog was on the scene, i.e., at the curb, walking up, going back into the car, and then leaving, for a total of to minutes. alerting and leaving is a matter of seconds or minutes. It's not -- the dog isn't up there for to minutes. It happens very quickly. expectations of privacy, it is important to keep in mind know that. They know that. We know they know that because they use mothballs, which Officer Pedraja found here at the front of the house, outside of the house. And so what you're talking about, although happening here is odor of illegal contraband is being blown out into the street and someone is coming up to it and using their God-given senses in a way that humans and dogs have used for centuries and detecting that. And that air conditioning is blowing a very strong odor of drugs out into the public, and the people we talk about what's going on in the home, really what's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we've had a Official MR. GARRE: That you need probable cause And the dog sniff itself clearly is not a come up to the door and sniff, not with respect to -- lot of -- we've had a lot of discussion about whether it's minutes or minutes or whether it's mothballs. I understood the issue before us to be whether or not under the Fourth Amendment it is a search for a dog to we're not making a judgment, I thought, on the probable cause in light of the totality of the circumstances, but the ground of decision below was this is a search when the dog sniffs. just for the dog to sniff. No, that's absolutely right. physical invasion in the same way that looking is not a physical invasion under the common law. And the dog, we JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't just the sniffing in the abstract. It's the sniffing at this point, the sniffing at a person's front door, right? I mean -- to walk up there and sniff and report smelling live marijuana, then it wasn't a search when Franky walked up there and alerted to the presence of an illegal narcotic.but I think if it wasn't a search for the police officer JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I didn't say it think -- MR. GARRE: Well, that's true, Your Honor, Official MR. GARRE: I think it's been conceded in JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Garre, this is what we said in Kyllo. And I'm just going to read it. We said, wouldn't be a search if the police officer himself did that if he went there with the intention of -- of smelling at the door. He's going there to search, and he shouldn't be on the curtilage to search. this case, at least it was below, that the officer could walk up there, knock on the door, report the smell of marijuana, and that that was not a search. "We think that obtaining by sense-enhancing technology any information regarding the interior of the home that could not otherwise have been obtained without physical intrusion into a constitutionally protected area technology in question is not in general public use." So what part of that do you think separates your case from this one? In other words, what part of that language does not apply in this case? MR. GARRE: Well, first of all, Franky's nose is not technology. It's -- he's using -- he's availing himself of God-given senses in the way that dogs have helped mankind for centuries. JUSTICE KAGAN: So does that mean that if we invented some kind of little machine called a, you know, constitutes a search, at least where, as here, the Official case. JUSTICE KAGAN: So your basic distinction is officer could not come to the front door and use that MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think the smell-o-matic and the police officer had this smell-o-matic machine, and it alerted to the exact same things that a dog alerts to, it alerted to a set of drugs, meth and marijuana and whatever else, the police machine? contraband rationale would be the same. It would be different in that you don't have technology in this And I think that's an important distinction because, as we read Kyllo, the Court was very concerned about advances in technology, and that's just not true for a dog's nose. the difference between like a machine and Franky. understand Franky as kind of a sense-enhancing law just like a guy. MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think that's true for two reasons. One is Franky is using the same sense of smell that dogs have used for centuries. So this MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE KAGAN: That we should not enforcement technology, but we should think of him as isn't a case where if you allow a dog to sniff today, he Official And the other thing is that Franky -- that JUSTICE GINSBURG: Not this -- not this used to find culprits. But to use it in this way I think it was only since the seventies. MR. GARRE: Well, to use it for drug might use x-ray vision in the future. That's not going to happen. the use of dogs for their sense of smell, which everyone agrees is extraordinary, mankind has been using them for law enforcement type purposes for centuries. purpose. You said centuries, but I think you recognize that it wasn't until the seventies when the dogs were detection purposes, that's right. But they've -- we've been using dogs to track thieves for centuries going back before the founding. Scotland Yard -- Scotland Yard used dogs to track Jack the Ripper. That's the same type of way in which they are being used here. drugs in this context, but -- dispute that dogs can smell what human beings can't; is that correct? It's not that we can find a machine to put it on a human being to enhance their sense of smells; dogs can do something human beings can't. MR. GARRE: They have a much better sense of The fact is today they're looking for JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, there's no MR. GARRE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He's not augmenting what MR. GARRE: He's -- the dogs, no doubt, have an enhanced sense of smell compared to the officer. But smell, that's right. But I think if you look at -- like a guy, to think that he is not like technology in terms of augmenting what a human being can do. a human being can do. He's substituting what a human being can do. I think that's really not functionally different than using an airplane to look into the house, like in Florida v. Reilly. And in that sense, I think this case is a lot like that. helicopter to fly over the drug house, and they saw exposed marijuana. Here, you're using the drug detection dog to smell the odor of marijuana that is being pumped out of the house into the street. And the people who use the house know that. They know that, and we know they know that because the mothballs were present. Mothballs are a masking agent. People don't have a legitimate expectation of privacy, this Court has held, in things that they In Florida v. Reilly, the officers used a Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you have to treat him knowingly expose to the public, even in the home. Official And I think, here, one way to resolve it is That's what the Court said in Florida v. Reilly. It's what it said in Katz itself. to say people who live in grow houses with a distinct odor of marijuana, who know that that is being pumped out into the street because of the air conditioning that they need to run the grow houses, there is no invasion in their -- in their expectation of privacy when either a man or a dog, when lawfully present on the property, please the Court: I'd like to go right to two points that respond to the Court's questions. The first is the question of whether the officer and the dog were lawfully in place, whether they could approach the front door, was conceded below. And, as the court -- as the case comes to this Court, that is not an issue before If I could reserve -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. GARRE: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Saharsky. MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice and may it uses their God-given senses to detect that. ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: I didn't -- I didn't Before the Florida Supreme Court at oral to the door with the dog, the sole purpose of the dog the Court. And I want to make sure that the Court has -- understand the concession to be that the police had come being to detect contraband. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, let me give the Court specific citations on that. The court of appeals, the Florida Court of Appeals, found that the dog and the officer were lawfully in place. That's JA pages , , , and . argument, Respondent conceded that there was no reasonable expectation of privacy in the porch, and the Florida Supreme Court accepted that concession. That's Petition Appendix page , also noted by the dissent in pages to . Respondent said that the police could approach the front door for a knock and talk, and made no separate argument about the dog's presence there making it not lawful. So as this case comes to the Court, it is with the dog and the officer lawfully in place at the front door, approaching the front door just like any Girl Scout, trick-or-treater, or anyone else could. In the brief in opposition to cert, Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're agreeing with And just to respond, Justice Ginsburg, to every house on the street, every apartment in the building? the questions that you raised, the police officer's purpose in approaching the front door does not mean that the officer can't come to the door. The Court has said in many contexts that officer purpose doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter if the officer is looking for a lost child or thinking that that -- Mr. Garre that the police could take a dog and go down police can lawfully be in the place that they are going with the dog, which is conceded here -- MS. SAHARSKY: If they are approaching the front door using the normal path, because the dog only detects contraband, yes, they could be used in those that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, so any home, any home anywhere, and we should say that that's okay, and we can say it's okay because the government won't use circumstances, but that's not happening. There have been justices who've warned about MS. SAHARSKY: Well, assuming that the JUSTICE GINSBURG: A house just like this house? Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: This Court has dealt with MS. SAHARSKY: But in Caballes, where car. They have not dealt with the dog sniff in the context of a home that's not seized. it? MS. SAHARSKY: There are justices that have warned about this for over years, and these problems have not come to fruition. There are restraints on police resources. There's the potential for community hostility. If you look at the cases that have arose in the courts of appeals -- an item that was seized before, a piece of luggage, a admittedly the Court did not decide this specific issue, it distinguished the case of Kyllo as saying that that was finding out about lawful activity in the home, and that a person -- the critical distinction between Kyllo and the dog sniff in Caballes is that a person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in contraband. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just -- again, as I told the case. The argument we're having about whether there is a reasonable expectation in society generally, whether or not the police because of limited resources are not going to have -- that's all fine. But Mr. Garre, I just can't accept that as the premise for this idea that, oh, well, if there is contraband, Official cause -- What we're talking about here is a JUSTICE KENNEDY: Fine -- MS. SAHARSKY: -- to get a warrant. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- but don't ask me to then all the -- all the rules go out the window, that's just circular, and it won't work for me, anyway. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I wanted to be sure to respond to that, Justice Kennedy, because I would hate for the Court to have the impression that all the rules go out the window. That's not the case. sniff that would allow the police to go to a detached and neutral magistrate to say that, we have probable write an opinion and say, oh, we're dealing with contraband here, so we don't need to worry about expectation of privacy. There is simply no support for that because Caballes cited Jacobsen, and Jacobsen was where the contraband fell out of the package and it was in plain view. So that just doesn't work, at least for contraband -- in Jacobsen, though, the Court said that the rationale, the reason for its decision in Place, is because when you're talking about people's reasonable me, in this case. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the reasoning in expectations of privacy, they have both a subjective and Official So it's not just that you want to keep And the Court has said over and over, in Place, in an objective component. something private; it's that you need to have a legitimate expectation that you can keep that private. Caballes, in Jacobsen, that you do not have a legitimate expectation with respect to contraband. That doesn't mean that the -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, I don't think the cases go that far because those were cases in which the contraband -- Jacobsen -- was in plain view. Everybody knows that it falls out of the package. At that point, you don't have any --contraband in the house, then you have no legitimate expectation of privacy. That, for me, does not work. MS. SAHARSKY: What we're trying to say, Justice Kennedy, is not that you lack any privacy expectation in the home. That's why you need to get a to try to go to a magistrate and establish probable cause to get a warrant. What you're saying is, oh, well, if there is JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's fine. We can talk about reasonable suspicion. That's all okay. warrant before going into the home. All the dog sniff allows is for the police Official JUSTICE KAGAN: How does what you're saying, MS. SAHARSKY: I think that my answer Ms. Saharsky, square with Karo? Because in Karo, the only thing that the beeper alerted to in the home was the can of ether, which was clearly an item that was being used for drug manufacture. And there was nothing else other than that item, which you might not call it contraband, but it was evidence of illegality, this can of ether. There was no thought that it was used for anything else. And that was the only thing that the beeper alerted it to; and, yet, nonetheless, we said, you know, of course that's a search. touches on the point that you made, which is it was not contraband. The police thought that it might be contraband. oral argument, where defense counsel made very clear that ether has many lawful uses. That makes it came after the Court's decision in Place. somebody's house. I mean, maybe lawful uses in a factory or in an operating room, but nobody has cans of evidence of a crime, but the Court did not say it was ether in their house unless they're making drugs. And, actually, there was a discussion at the different from what the Court considered in Place. This JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, not lawful uses in Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, with respect, like. He actually had an expert that came to the So I think, as the argument came to the that was contraband or evidence of a crime. The government was just saying, oh, it's very limited information, because we had already -- we had already tracked the ether to the house, so you weren't finding out much. Your Honor, the defense counsel I think correctly suggested in the Karo oral argument that, in fact, there are lawful uses in photography labs in houses and the suppression hearing in that case and testified about the various lawful uses of ether in a house. Court, the government was not making an argument that Kyllo, which is, it might not be much, but it's still about lawful information, activity in the house, and that's protected. house, but your interests in protecting contraband are different; those are not legitimate interests. And the Court has said that again and again and again. But in Caballes, the Court came back and said, sure, we've said Kyllo, lawful activity in the JUSTICE KAGAN: But in Kyllo -- and I think this was what Justice Kennedy was saying. In Kyllo, And the Court said basically what it said in because there is no legitimate expectation of privacy. And just to be clear, the question about there was already a seizure that had happened, and the Court just said, this is no -- this is really no greater an intrusion. look at the -- when we look at the language in these cases, in Caballes and the like, you know, the Court wasn't saying, oh, it's not a search because this has already -- this had already been seized and nothing more was happening. The Court said it was not a search whether folks have a reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to contraband in their house has to take into account two facts: First, that we're only talking used and known for centuries for their sense of smell. curious about, and it's an unanswered question for me, is we are considering whether the dog sniff is front door involves. And at page , , of the joint appendix, with which you are familiar, it explains that. It isn't just going up and (indicating); that's it. It's a process called bracketing.permissible, so I wanted to know what a dog sniff at the about contraband; but, also, that dogs have been JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but I -- what I'm Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, with respect, when we They describe it at length. The officer, Official MS. SAHARSKY: This sniff occurred very JUSTICE BREYER: It was to minutes and the animal -- they don't knock. They behave in the page the dog officer, said he was in a rush that day and it didn't take more than to minutes. And my question really is whether an ordinary homeowner expects people to walk down the curtilage and, with a big animal, and , , way. I subjectively think, well, that's pretty unusual behavior, whether it's a policeman or anybody else. So what do you respond? quickly, and it -- it's -. of bringing the dog up to the door, et cetera. The sniff happened very quickly. But putting that to the side, what the dog is doing is sniffing things that have been exposed to the public from inside the house, smells in plain smell. And the Court has said in other cases, like in Place, that what the dog is doing is very limited in scope; it happens very quickly; there is no physical invasion; it's something that actually this Court has MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I think the to minutes, like counsel said, was the whole process of --that the officer himself could smell, could smell in -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could I follow up on MS. SAHARSKY: The to minutes as I read the record was the whole process. The -- the dog sniff said in Florida v. Royer is something that we want officers to do, because it -- Justice Breyer's question, because it strikes me as a little confusing. Does the dog, as soon as he or she is at the door, sniff and sit or sniff and not sit, or does the dog -- I mean, you've talked about the sniff is immediate. What -- what is the to minutes? I think took seconds or maybe a minute or minutes -- process is -- is what? met at the front gate, that they were walking up to the -- to the door, that the dog did the sniff, that the -- that he talked to the other officer, and then he went back to his car, which was parked I think some -- some length of time away. So -- to find the strongest source of the odor. So he starts sniffing right away. He sniffs around for a few CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't take the to minutes to walk to the door. So the officer walks to the door, the dog sniffs right away and then? MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the dog sniffs. He has CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the whole MS. SAHARSKY: That they were -- that they Official point? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MS. SAHARSKY: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Blumberg. seconds; he finds the strongest source of the odor and he sits down at that place. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where -- where in the -- where in the record do I find the few seconds MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think the -- probably the cites that -- that Justice Breyer gave are the cites that describe it. So I'm not sure that there is something more specific than that. please the Court: dog up to the front door of a house is a Fourth Amendment search for two distinct and separate reasons. a home which an individual seeks to keep private, that is a Fourth Amendment search and that is exactly what a narcotics detection dog is doing, revealing details in the home the individual seeks to keep private. MR. BLUMBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD K. BLUMBERG ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT Police officers taking a narcotics detection First, when police reveal any details inside JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's your first reason Official That seems to me a proposition that's that you have no interest in contraband. The police and I don't want you to be deterred from giving us the second, but if we can concentrate on that for a minute. equally unacceptable to what the government is saying, often, when they have ordinary conversation with people, want to find out the details of what that person is doing, where the person lives, what goes on in the house. "Hello, have you had a nice time at the -- at the park today? I see you're coming home with your children; is this where you live?" This is all routine conversation that we always have in order to try to find out what people are doing, what they are like, where they live. So I -- I think the statement, and you -- you repeated it quite accurately from what you have at page of your brief -- just goes too far. Our decisions "establish that police action which reveals any detail an individual seeks to keep private is a search" -- that is just a sweeping proposition that in my view, at least, cannot be accepted in this case. I think it's just too sweeping and wrong. MR. BLUMBERG: Justice Kennedy, I would add a few words to the end of that statement: Anything that an individual seeks to keep private in the home, and Official MR. BLUMBERG: Certainly, but in that hypothet -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then your broad that's the difference. Your hypothet about conversation, certainly a police officer can talk to someone and ask them questions about -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the police officer talked with somebody at the police station, or walking down the street about what their occupation is, do they work at home. They're -- they are trying to get information. That's perfectly legitimate. statement simply does not work. someone who, who has been guilty of a crime. He has --he has the body. He has committed a murder and he has the body in the home. He certainly wants to keep that private, right? And he foolishly and mistakenly leaves the blinds open in the room where -- where the corpse is lying, and the policeman at a great distance has a the corpse. Can the police go into the home? MR. BLUMBERG: In that situation, the person inside the home has knowingly exposed what is inside the home to the public.telescope and he looks through the blinds and he sees JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh -- he hasn't knowingly. JUSTICE SCALIA: Suppose you -- you have Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you could say the JUSTICE SCALIA: He certainly wanted to keep MR. BLUMBERG: Well, certainly; and the He was careless. MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but I -- I understood under your hypothetic that he knowingly left the blinds open. it -- he wanted to keep it private. defendant in Reilly wanted to keep the marijuana private. same thing here. They wanted to keep private the fact that they were growing the marijuana, but they -- they used a means of suppressing the heat that made it impossible to keep it private. anything in the record to indicate that the air conditioner was blowing the smell of marijuana out from fact -- and Detective Bartelt, the dog handler that was standing MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: They were careless. MR. BLUMBERG: I -- I don't believe there is JUSTICE SCALIA: There were the mothballs. MR. BLUMBERG: There were mothballs there, the house in a very strong manner. As a matter of at the front door as well, testified without Official So if -- if Mr. Garre's representation about marijuana outside the house so that anybody would smell CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What were the MR. BLUMBERG: The mothballs presumably were there to -- to mask the smell of an odor coming from the contradiction or without hesitation he didn't smell anything. an air conditioner basically blowing the smell of it -- mothballs there for? house. expectation of privacy. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's my question. Are we talking about the expectation of privacy in the marijuana or the expectation of privacy in the odor? house. that can't be right, because if you're letting smoke out that -- that -- I don't know, from the burning of a body CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay, then -- MR. BLUMBERG: It's manifesting an MR. BLUMBERG: The expectation of privacy on the -- in the details, what's going on inside your or something, you don't say, well, because he's trying CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- well, no, Official MR. BLUMBERG: But that's knowingly CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So I guess the privacy in the odor, because you're emitting it out, out to conceal that you can't rely on the smoke. exposing what's inside the house. question here is, if you appreciate the fact that the odor is coming out to the extent that you're going to put mothballs all around the house, it seems to me that you -- you may have an expectation of privacy in the marijuana plants, but you don't have an expectation of into the world, and it's the odor that was detected. MR. BLUMBERG: But assuming that's what the mothballs were there for, that's to keep the odor inside the house, so that the public cannot find -- cannot you put the -- the drugs in a -- in a bag to protect them from observation on the outside, but you use, you know, a clear bag rather than a, you know, opaque one or something. You didn't -- you weren't very successful. And -- when you began you said assuming that's what the mothballs were there for. That is what they were there for, isn't it? There is no other reason -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's like saying MR. BLUMBERG: There's -- there is really no evidence in the record as to -- the only people who detect that odor, unless you go up there -- Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I think your first MR. BLUMBERG: Well, the -- when a police so broad, you ought to go on to your second reason. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, I was going to door of the house, that is also a Fourth Amendment search because that is a physical trespass upon the constitutionally protected area of the curtilage of the home. testified at the hearing on the motion to suppress were the two police officers. reason is -- is so broad, it is clearly incorrect. It's ask for your second, your second point. officer takes a narcotics detection dog up to the front of years of trespass cases in this country and in England. Has there -- do you have a single case holding that it is a trespass for a person with a dog to walk up to the front door of a house? citations -- but there are cases in the s that established that basically a dog running on to someone else's property is a trespass. back to the -- I'm sorry, I don't have the, the JUSTICE ALITO: You know, we've had hundreds JUSTICE ALITO: That really wasn't my question, was it? MR. BLUMBERG: Well, there are cases that go MR. BLUMBERG: If it was without the consent JUSTICE ALITO: What is the case that says Official MR. BLUMBERG: I thought your question JUSTICE ALITO: If a dog on a leash is MR. BLUMBERG: I do not have the case. JUSTICE ALITO: You don't have the case. JUSTICE BREYER: You're assuming the was if a dog comes on to private property -- brought up to the front door of a person's house, was that a trespass at the time when the Fourth Amendment was adopted? of the homeowner, yes, it was a trespass. conclusion in these things. I mean, I thought since reasonable expectation of privacy in -- which is infringed or violated or interfered with when the government acts. So it's a question of does he have that reasonable expectation. So now we're back to no reasonable expectation of privacy -- MR. BLUMBERG: Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- to protect a person with a dog coming up to the door and going (indicating), all exactly where we were. Your opponents say, no, there is Katz the rule has been whether the homeowner has a that? right? Now, your response to that is what? Official MR. BLUMBERG: My response to that is that JUSTICE BREYER: And then the question was, MR. BLUMBERG: My response to that is that does violate the resident's reasonable expectation of privacy. as Justice Alito put it, why? He says, we go back to the th century, as far as you want, and there is no law that says there is any kind of expectation in a homeowner that a person won't walk up to the dog -- to the door with a dog on a leash and sniff, which, as he says -- which your opponents say is what happened here. And your response to that is? any entry onto private property in the 's was a trespass, was the tort of trespass, unless it was with the government cited many, many pages in the record, I just took the first one, petition -- appendix to the petition, and . The court said, the officer and the dog were lawfully present at the defendant's front door, and we were told that that was conceded by you a number of times. Justice Ginsburg. What I -- what I said in the Florida Supreme Court, I was given a hypothet about an officer consent. JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about, Mr. Blumberg, MR. BLUMBERG: Absolutely not, Official much in Kentucky v. King. JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So that's MR. BLUMBERG: If the police officer is clearly -- you do concede if the police officer walks up coming up by himself without the dog to knock on the front door and talk to the homeowner. And I said that I conceded that would not be a violation of a reasonable expectation of privacy, and this Court has stated as And then the Court said to me, what's the difference? And I said the dog. And that's exactly what I'm saying here. to the door, smells it himself, no problem there; is that right? perform -- is knocking on the door, part of a knock and there's no problem there. difference does the dog make? ten-minute bracketing that Justice Breyer was talking about. Suppose this really were a very simple procedure. The dog comes up, takes a sniff, barks, sits down. And, you know, to make it even more, the dog is not a scary-looking dog, the dog is a Cockapoo. talk, yes; but, if the police -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But smells it himself, so So the difference is the dog. So what Suppose the dog were not doing this Official JUSTICE KAGAN: The dog does what your JUSTICE SCALIA: But, Mr. Blumberg, I think was just the officer alone without the dog, it would be So just like, you know, your neighbor with his Cockapoo walks up to your door all the time, that's what this police officer has done. Why do you win then? MR. BLUMBERG: Well, whether it's a Cockapoo or Franky, who, from all the pictures, appears to be a very cute dog, it's not what the dog looks like, it's what the dog is doing on the front porch, which is -- neighbor's dog does. MR. BLUMBERG: Well, no, this dog -- the neighbor's dog does not search for evidence on your front porch. That's the key distinction. you're, with respect, misguided to concede that if it perfectly okay. that, and I was going to say that. your -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would assume you would say that if the officer walks up there with no intention to knock and talk, but just walks up to the door with the intention of sniffing at the door, you JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought you did. MR. BLUMBERG: I was about to return to MR. BLUMBERG: I did not mean to concede Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, our Fourth Amendment cases are very clear that they don't CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you just said it depends on whether or not he's going up to the would consider that to be a violation, wouldn't you? MR. BLUMBERG: And that was the point I was going to make in response to Justice Kagan's question. turn on the subjective intent of the particular officer. MR. BLUMBERG: And I am not arguing that. I am arguing -- door to sniff or going up for something else. MR. BLUMBERG: It depends what the officer does at the front door, not what his state of mind is. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, sure, if he's down on his knees; but, what if he goes up to the front door and sniffs? I mean, he's -- I don't understand. He's going up to drop off, you know, tickets to the Policeman's Ball, and he breathe. I mean, how do you tell whether it's different? If the officer goes up to the front door and starts sniffing around the cracks and crevices -- MR. BLUMBERG: That's --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- he's got to smells marijuana. What is that? Is that a violation or Official MR. BLUMBERG: It is not because he is not CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it depends JUSTICE ALITO: What if he goes to -- MR. BLUMBERG: -- and starts searching around, looking in the windows -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- he goes to deliver the on -- but if he's going up to sniff, it is a violation? MR. BLUMBERG: Not going up to sniff. If he not? performing any type of search. goes up there and does sniff -- tickets, and he sniffs? He doesn't intend to sniff before he goes, but he goes the deliver the tickets, and he smells the marijuana. Is that a search? performing any kind of search. And this Court has repeatedly held that an officer -- same thing. Two officers go up to two identical houses. other one goes up with the subjective intent to drop off the tickets to the Policeman's Ball. Your answer is one is a search, one is not a search. MR. BLUMBERG: No, and I am not in any way, shape or form tying it to the subjective intent of the One goes up with the subjective intent to sniff. The JUSTICE ALITO: Well, he doing exactly the MR. BLUMBERG: No, because he's not Official JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. Again, I think MR. BLUMBERG: I believe the language -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And it's fine to say -- I don't think it's true that the intent of the officer is officer. you're wrong not to accept that. I think our cases support it. I think you cannot enter the protected portion of a home, which is called the curtilage, with the intention of conducting a search, that that is not permitted. I think our cases establish that. never relevant. It is relevant in that context. The reason for the officer going onto protected property, if he's going on just to knock on the door to sell tickets to the Policeman's Ball, that's something else. opinion in Jones is for the purpose of conducting a search. in the equivalent of plain sight, plain smell? In other words, the officer goes up to drop off the Policeman's Ball tickets, the door is open, he sees the dead body. The officer goes up to sell the Policeman's Ball tickets, and he sees -- he smells the marijuana. Okay fine. If he's going on to conduct a search, that's MR. BLUMBERG: The language in this Court's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can odors be in -- MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So this depends upon his ordinary senses when he is there for a lawful purpose such as a knock and talk is fine. in both cases, right? how strong the odor is. establish that a police officer does not have to close his eyes when he goes up to the front door of a house to do a knock and talk. He does not have to hold his nose to prevent. Anything that he naturally observes using CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the -- let's say it's a townhouse that goes right up to the sidewalk. If the police go by with their dog intending to sniff, and the dog alerts, on the sidewalk but two feet away is the front door, that's okay, right? trespass. That would not be a search because a trespass -- respectfully, because the dog would still be revealing details inside the home that the officer could not reveal using his or her ordinary senses. That's our CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's okay? MR. BLUMBERG: No, it's not okay, MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that would not be a Official MR. BLUMBERG: This Court's decisions first argument in this case. Official detection dog up and down the street. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. MR. BLUMBERG: A dog that he knows is CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He's walking the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let me make sure I understand you. The policeman is walking down the sidewalk with his dog, the dog stops and alerts. That doesn't constitute sufficient probable cause to get a search warrant to go into the townhouse. There's been no entry onto the property, just a policeman walking with his dog. MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but I assume on your hypothet it's a policeman walking with his narcotics trained --dog. He's not out searching. He's walking the K- dog, and the dog alerts on a house without any trespass. You think that's still bad? would basically be the same thing as a police officer walking up and down the street with a thermal imager that's turned on. an easier case. MR. BLUMBERG: This is an easier case, of course, because the police officer in this case -- and MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. And I would submit that JUSTICE SCALIA: But you do say that this is Official But that's not true of dogs. Dogs were around. They have been around for , years. MR. BLUMBERG: Dogs were around, not necessarily -- was not -- much of it was not not only the facts of this case, but the question presented is going up to the front door of a home. JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the relevance of technology was that the technology that we have now was available at the time when the Fourth Amendment was adopted, so we can't tell what the -- what people in would have thought about it. Justice Alito -- used -- and they've been used to detect scents for available for that purpose in , weren't they? been trained to detect criminal activity within a house -- not -- I'm sorry -- people --, -- for thousands of years. Certainly, they were the police were using -- or somebody was using a MR. BLUMBERG: But in , dogs had not JUSTICE ALITO: -- and they've been JUSTICE ALITO: But they had been trained to track people, had they not? MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. Dogs have been tracking JUSTICE ALITO: So in , if someone -- if Official a trespass? MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, I believe it still would JUSTICE ALITO: And what's the case that bloodhound to track -- someone who was suspected of a crime, and the bloodhound -- and they used the bloodhound to track the person to the front of -- to the front door of a house, would that have been regarded as have. says that? MR. BLUMBERG: Well, the -- I do not have a case that says that taking a bloodhound up to the front door of a house would be a trespass. But if you analyze it under the definition of what a trespass is, it's an unlawful entry onto private property without consent of up to the front door of his house with a bloodhound, even though everybody knew they could do that. say that the implied consent exists only where the person is coming to the door for a purpose that the JUSTICE ALITO: Without implied consent. MR. BLUMBERG: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: Actual or implied consent. MR. BLUMBERG: I don't believe a homeowner, back in the 's, impliedly consented to police coming JUSTICE ALITO: Well, are there cases that the homeowner. And there is no -- Official MR. BLUMBERG: The specific doctrine is it customary for people to accept in terms of people JUSTICE KENNEDY: How is that different from homeowner would approve, if the homeowner knew the purpose of the person coming to the door? implied consent by custom. And so you look to what is coming onto their property. what Justice Breyer I think correctly indicated, our inquiry as to whether there is a reasonable expectation of privacy? In a way, that's circular because if we say there is, then there is, if we say there isn't, then there isn't. general, isn't it a reasonable expectation of privacy? MR. BLUMBERG: It's very similar. The two doctrines are very similar. Whether you're saying it's a violation of a reasonable expectation of privacy, as Justice Breyer -- have little microphones on so they can talk into their radio, the microphone on their lapel. Suppose the policeman goes to the homeowner and he has the microphone in his lapel on so his partner can hear the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask this. I think I know what your answer would be. Suppose the policemen conversation, and they can -- the two of them talk about But if we're looking at community values in Official MR. BLUMBERG: If the homeowner chooses to conversation is overheard on the microphone -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It doesn't occur to him MR. BLUMBERG: But, again, when you talk to You don't have -- that's not a reasonable expectation of privacy, that if you talk to a police officer, that that might be going out to another police officer that's in the car down the street. But there's no -- a homeowner does not --JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but maybe it is a it later. They're talking to the homeowner. Is that an unlawful search? engage in conversation with that officer and his that that mike is on. the police officer, that's a reasonable possibility. MR. BLUMBERG: But, again, this particular case is not -- the question presented does not hinge on whether or not a normal officer could smell it, because reasonable expectation, maybe it isn't. I frankly think that might be harder than the dog case or that you can make a stronger case for a reasonable expectation of privacy. If the -- if the homeowner is making a lot of marijuana with -- with odors coming out, he knows that a dog or a person might smell it. this officer, Detective -- I'm sorry -- Detective Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: It does hinge on what is a MR. BLUMBERG: It does. JUSTICE BREYER: I'll look at this later, Bartelt said he did not smell it. reasonable expectation of privacy. MR. BLUMBERG: It does. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's what we're trying to find out. but I'm rather surprised. My understanding of the case law was the Chief Justice's, and I thought what you're supposed to look at is the behavior of the individual, the police officer, who comes to the door or looks into the house, not his subjective motive. what in Jones changed that. Jones was the case where the police did in fact go to a person's car and physically put something in it. That's -- something that tracked. That's behavior. definition -- JUSTICE BREYER: So what is it in Jones that said what we're supposed to look at is not behavior, but the subjective intent of the officer? Now, as we just heard, you said, and with support here, that Jones changed that, but I don't know MR. BLUMBERG: Correct. But the MR. BLUMBERG: It's the language in Jones Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the MR. BLUMBERG: In this case, the curtilage of the home. that says one of the elements in determining whether or not a physical trespass constitutes a search under the Fourth Amendment is, is there a physical trespass, onto a constitutionally protected area, for the purpose of conducting a search. Those are the three elements of the -- constitutionally protected area in this case? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though it's the sidewalk where people -- there's an implied license for people to walk up to -- It's the front door. of the home here. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But there is an implied license to walk up to the front door, right? MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that was your --JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it may be a search. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not the sidewalk here, is it? It's the front part. MR. BLUMBERG: No, no, it's the front door I see that. MR. BLUMBERG: It's not a sidewalk here. MR. BLUMBERG: Only -- only to do certain Official JUSTICE SCALIA: There's -- there's an MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: The curtilage is -- is not things. implied license to -- to go on to the curtilage for most people. sacrosanct. MR. BLUMBERG: To do certain things such as to try to and sell Girl Scout cookies, to knock -- even a police officer can go on to the curtilage, to knock on to the door -- I'm sorry -- to knock on the front door, to try and engage the person inside the home in a conversation. the Florida court or didn't? Have you conceded that the police officer sans dog, if he had come up to the door and knocked, that that would have been permissible, that that was not a search or seizure? was doing at the front door was a knock and talk. That was the law -- have a right under the facts of this case? He had been told that in this house they were growing marijuana by a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we go back to the concession that was asked of you, what you conceded in MR. BLUMBERG: If what the police officer JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did he have -- did he Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So you are the door and ask questions. MR. BLUMBERG: A police -- there's implied MR. BLUMBERG: Without the dog. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's -- sans dog, yes. MR. BLUMBERG: Yes, yes. That's Kentucky v. confidential informant. Assume that's all that he had. Would he have had a right to walk up to the door, knock on it, and start asking questions? King, I believe. conceding that he had license to walk onto -- or walk to consent for a police officer to go up to the front door, knock on the door and attempt to engage the person in the house in conversation if they open the door. JUSTICE ALITO: So why is that? Why is that? If you took a poll of people and said do you want -- do you want police officers who suspect you of possibly engaging in criminal conduct to come to your front door and knock on the door so they can talk to you and attempt to get incriminating information out of you, would most people say, yes, I consent to that? it's implied consent by custom. And I think at this point it's customary for people to expect that police officers may come to your front door and knock on your MR. BLUMBERG: In terms of consent? Again, Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I guess the bottom line MR. BLUMBERG: Absolutely. Absolutely. And JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're -- Mr. Garre said differently, that there is an implied consent for your front door to try and talk to you. You don't have to talk to them. is that are you taking -- it sounds to me like you're saying there's no implied consent to bring a dog on to my property. certainly not a narcotics detection dog. neighbor to bring the dog up for anyone else but a police officer. Is that what you're saying? There's an implied consent for anyone else or there is no implied consent, period? be made that there is no implied consent for anyone to bring a dog up to the front door of your house, because, as you pointed out, a lot of people don't like -- don't like dogs and -- and some people are allergic to dogs. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you were talking about a dog trained to detect contraband -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- not just any old dog. MR. BLUMBERG: We are, but I believe the hypothet was just any dog. But certainly, when it's -- MR. BLUMBERG: I think a strong argument can Official expectation of privacy that that's not going to happen. when it's a dog trained to detect contraband, there's no question that no one impliedly consents to that happening and there's no question, as Justice Breyer pointed out, that a homeowner has a reasonable JUSTICE ALITO: You draw a distinction between dogs that are not drug detection dogs and ordinary dogs. Would you draw the same distinction between a police officer who is not expert at detecting the smell of methamphetamine and a police officer who is expert at detecting the smell of that drug? officer to come up to the house and knock on the front door? yes. MR. BLUMBERG: No, there -- there wouldn't be any distinction to that. You impliedly consent and you have no reasonable expectation of privacy that any your front door and try and talk to you. JUSTICE BREYER: Not a police officer. If we start -- policemen have to know how to behave. And in this area, they can behave the same way as other type of police officer is going to come and knock on people can behave, and we expect them to behave, even MR. BLUMBERG: In terms of the right of that JUSTICE ALITO: To knock on the front door, Official I've been trying to figure out just what you though their motive differs. They're always trying to find crime. That's what I thought the law was. say, but in a slightly different form. Do people come up to the door with dogs? Yes. Do the dogs breathe? Yes. Do in fact policemen, like other people, come up and breathe? Yes. Do we expect it? Yes, we expect people to come up and breathe. But do we expect them to do what happened here? And at that point, I get into the question: What happened here? And I'd be interested in your view on that. MR. BLUMBERG: And -- and just to clear up the factual, I don't believe that -- that what happened here in terms of the use of the drug detection dog took to minutes. It didn't take to minutes. It certainly took, I would say, at least or minutes, because what happened -- and again, this is on , and -- the officer goes from the street over the basically dragging him up to the front door of the house. the home is -- is in the appendix to the brief -- and then the dog crosses the -- into the alcove, the area curb, up to the front door of the house, with the dog They go up this walkway -- and a picture of Official that, and then the process finally stops, he sits down. So that's factually what happened. right in front of the house. And once he gets in that area, the dog starts violently bracketing back and forth, pulling on the leash. The dog handler testified that the other officer had to stay back, because it was so violent that people could get knocked down by what's happening. And for a period of time the dog goes back and forth, back and forth, and then at some point goes to the crack on the bottom of the front door, sniffs Florida appellate court, yes, the court of appeals, did say that that the officer and the dog were lawfully MR. BLUMBERG: Well, that's -- I did not make that concession and -- no, I certainly did not concede that, but the court found that. And that's the point I wanted to make. The courts, both courts in Ginsburg. There is a whole section in the opinion in the Third District Court of Appeals saying the officer and the dog were lawfully present. They didn't -- that section doesn't go, defense counsel concedes that issue. That -- that issue -- that part of the opinion goes: We Florida, squarely addressed that issue, Justice JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Blumberg, the present. But you say you didn't make that concession. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Do we not have to accept MR. BLUMBERG: I'm sorry. I didn't hear the find that the officer and the dog were lawfully present. So it's squarely before this Court. accept that? Don't we have to accept that as a beginning of your -- that as a statement of Florida law? MR. BLUMBERG: No. JUSTICE ALITO: No? MR. BLUMBERG: The issue is whether or not that's a violation of the Fourth Amendment. And -- and just because the Third District Court of Appeal found --that's -- that's what's before the Court today. That's why the issue is squarely before the Court. The Third District Court of Appeal decided the officer had the right to go up and be there on the front porch with the dog. The Florida Supreme Court disagreed. There is a passage in the decision of the Florida Supreme Court that says an officer going up to the door -- can go up to the door and do a knock and talk, but when the officer goes up with a narcotics detection dog, that is a qualitatively different matter. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, don't we have to statement of Florida law? So that issue is -- Official that? MR. BLUMBERG: I think that would lead more CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe this is the same question Justice Alito asked earlier, but people have different senses of smell. So what if there is some person who has, you know, the best sense of smell in the department, and they say, well, let's use him to go do the knock and talks when we suspect drugs; that way, he may discover the odor of marijuana when other people wouldn't. Is it -- is it -- is it wrong for them to select the person with the best sense of smell to do to a determination that there was a trespass because they selected the officer who had the best sense of smell to go up to that door. So they weren't talk. You said knock and talks are okay. and talks are okay; but, under your hypothet, it appears officer was going up there for. They picked the officer with the best sense of -- slippery slope with that answer. There's dual motives that the knock and talk was -- was not really what the really going up there to do a knock -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To do a knock and MR. BLUMBERG: Well, but there's -- knock JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're on a really in everything police officers do. motive. So you're suggesting what? somebody with a sense of smell because they have gotten Official MR. BLUMBERG: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They knock to hope the MR. BLUMBERG: No. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In terms of our rule -- MR. BLUMBERG: I don't -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that if they select person comes to the door and that they can see something from the door. They knock -- they always have a dual a tip of drugs in a house, that we give up, in that situation, the assumption that they went to investigate? MR. BLUMBERG: No. But the rule I'm asking this Court to adopt does not rely on the subjective Court to adopt -- to the neighbor, who are you? I've gotten a report, and I'm smelling drugs, so I know you have drugs in there. MR. BLUMBERG: That -- that would be fine. That would be -- that would be plain smell in that. But if -- and asks the question second, that's not okay?intent of the police officer. The rule I'm asking this JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He knocks, and he says JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But if he smells first MR. BLUMBERG: No, no. What's not okay is Official question what that officer is doing. That officer is curtilage of the home, and performed a search. If you just -- you follow the test set forth if he goes up there to perform a search, or if he conducts a search -- and, again, back to the facts of this case, when a police officer goes up to the front door with a narcotics detection dog, there is no performing a search. And, therefore, if you go to Jones, the officer and the dog have entered -- have physically trespassed, because there is no consent to do that, onto a constitutionally protected area, the in Jones and apply it to what happened here and the question presented here, it is a trespass. that it is a search if it was a trespass. very first question I asked you, do you have any trespass? Any case that says this is -- any trespass case in the last five hundred years in any English-speaking country? JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the reason -- I thought the rationale in Jones, what Jones added, was MR. BLUMBERG: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: And so I come back to the MR. BLUMBERG: I don't believe any court has faced this issue as to whether or not taking a police authority for the proposition that this would be a Official REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor. First, with the question of how long they CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. BLUMBERG: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre, you have dog up to the front door of a house is a trespass under the common law. three minutes remaining. were at the scene, the record says that they were at the scene for five to ten minutes. That's -- that includes in the car; walking up to the door, which my friend conceded was a minute or two; and, then back in the car With respect to the bracketing, bracketing just means that the dog is getting excited, moving his head around. This is a passive alert dog. They get a little bit excited and then sit down. It's no different than what a neighbor's dog would do when they get to the front door. think it's important. And Florida has a decision, State v. --and leaving. Second, with respect to state law, we do JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought what the dog Official does, according to the police officer's testimony, is he gave him a long leash so the dog would lead him to the drugs. And what the dog did, I thought, according to what I read, was go past the motorcycle to make sure --I mean, the officer said this -- you don't know if the drugs are in the motorcycle, you don't know if they're in the garage, you don't know where they might be. So the dog is permitted to roam around until he catches the scent. Is that accurate? MR. GARRE: Yes. They're walking up the common path, and you can see it from the picture at the -- appended to the brief, and then up to the front door. It's near the front door where he alerted by sitting down. he's sniffing all the way around to see -- That's right. State v. Morsman, So.d at , this was a case that came up during oral argument in the Supreme Court. It says that, under Florida law, there is no reasonable expectation of privacy in a porch, taking into account JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. MR. GARRE: With respect to state law, that visitors and salesmen can come up to the front JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the point is that MR. GARRE: He's sniffing; he's breathing. Official Justice Kennedy, if you don't like the We know that they knew about that because door. And I think that that's pertinent here. contraband rationale, then I hope you would consider the knowingly exposed to the public rationale. Here, the record does show that they -- drug houses do vent the stuff outside. It's page A- of the joint appendix. That's in the warrant, where they talk about what the air conditioning unit does to the scent of marijuana in the house. Officer Bartelt came across the moth balls -- that's on page of the joint appendix -- outside of the house. The mothballs were outside of the house, which means -- that the odors were outside the house. have to concede that this is a case about police use --call it a technology, call it whatever you want to call it -- of something that enhances what normal people can sense. And then the question becomes, do you have a reasonable expectation of privacy in, basically, people just having their normal senses, rather than some technique or method or technology that enhances those JUSTICE KAGAN: I think, Mr. Garre, that you JUSTICE KAGAN: But I think, Mr. Garre, that the -- MR. GARRE: -- which means that they knew Official So that your implied consent or expectations You might say, no, that's -- I'm -- I'm not MR. GARRE: Well, and I think that gets back if the neighbor brings his magnifying glass and his senses? about your neighbor might differ fundamentally, you know, if the neighbor comes and knocks on your door, or microscope and everything else and starts testing everything around it. there for that. to our point that this is a dog that's been used by humans for centuries by scent. And in that respect, it's quite different than the helicopter that was used for aerial surveillance in Florida v. Reilly. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) A above-entitled : : absent : absolutely : : :, abstract : accept : : : : :,, accepted : : : accepts : access : accompanying account : : : accurate : accurately : action : activity : :, : acts : Actual : add : added : addressed : admittedly : adopt :, adopted : : advances : aerial : agent : agreeing : agrees : Ah : aid : air : : : : : : : airplane : alcove : alert : alerted : : : :, :, : : appears : : alerting : appellate : alerts : : appended : appendix : :, apply : : : : :, Alito :,, :,, : :,, :,,, appreciate : : :, :, : approach : :, :, : : :, : :, approaching : : allergic : : allow : : allowed : : : allows : Amendment : :, : : : : : : America : amicus : : : analyze : animal : :, animals : : answer : : : : : answered : anybody : : approve : area : : :, : : : : arguing :, argument : :,,, : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : : arose : asked : : : asking : :, asks : Assistant : : assume : : : : anyway : apartment : :, : Appeal :, appeals :, : :, assuming : :, : assumption : attempt : : : OfficialOfficial APPEARAN... augmenting :, authority : avail : available : :, availing : A- : a.m : : : Bback : ::, :: :: :: :: ::,,, :: ::bad :bag :,Ball : ::,,balls :barks ::Bartelt :: :basic :basically :: :: ::beeper :,began :beginning :behalf :,:,, :: :behave ::,,,behavior ::,,beings :,believe :: :,: :: :best :,,:better :big :binoculars :: :: :,:bit :blinds : :: :bloodhound:,,,,blowing :: :blown :Blumberg :: :,: ::, :,:,,:,,:,,:, :,:, ::,,: :,:,,:,,,:,,,,:, :,:, ::,,:,,:,,,:, :,: :,:, ::,,,:,, ::,,:,,:, ::, : :, : : :,, :,, :, : : : call : : :, called : : Official : : cans : car : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : :, : : cetera : challenged : changed : : :, concentrate : : concerned : concession : combat : combatting : concentration come : : :, : :,,, :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : :, conclusion : changes : check : careless :, case :, :, Chief :, :, : : conduct : : : : : : : : : : : conditioner : : : :, comes : : conditioning : :, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, :, :, :, child : children : : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, chooses : circular : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : common : : : : conducts : confidential coming : committed : : : : conducting : board : body :, : : bother : bottom : : bracketing : : : :, breathe : :,, breathing : : Breyer :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, Breyer's : brief : : : : bring : : :, bringing : brings : broad : :, brought : :, : building : : burning : C C : : Caballes : : :, : : confusing : consent :, :,,, : : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :,,, : : : community : : : : compared : complied : component : consents : conceal : consider : concede : consented : : :, : considered : : conceded : : : : : : : : :, : considering : constitute : constitutes : : constitutional : constitutionally cases : : :, : : :, : : :, : : catches : cause :, : : : centuries : : : :,, : : century : cert : certain : : certainly : : : : circumstances : : citations : : cited : : cites :, cities : clear : : : : : clearly : : : : : close : concedes : Cockapoo : conceding : Official : : :, : context : : : contexts : contraband :,, : :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, :,, :,, :, : : : : : : contradiction : control : conversation :, : : :, : : convert : cookie : cookies : corpse :, correct : correctly : : : counsel : : : : : : : :, country : : course :, : : : court :, : :,, : : : : : D :day :dead :dealers :dealing ::,,, :,,,,, cute : :, : D:, : : : :, : :,, :,, : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,,, :, : : : : dealt :,decide :decided :decision :: :: ::decisions :courts : : ::, Court's : : : : crack : cracks : crevices : crime : : : : : : criminal : : critical : crosses : crucial : culprits : curb : : curiae : : : curious : curtilage :, : : : : : : :,, : custom : : customary : defendant :defendant's:Defender :defense :: :definition ::deliver :,department: :depends :: ::describe ::detached :detail :details :,: ::detect : : : :: ::, : :detected :detecting :: :,detection : : : :, : : : : : : : Detective : :, detects : determination : determining : deterred : differ : difference : : : :,, different : : : : : : : : : : : : : differently : differs : disagreed : discerning : discover : discussion : : dispute : dissent : distance : : distinct : : distinction :, : : :, : distinguished : District : :, doctrine : doctrines : dog :,,: :, : : :,:,,,,,:, :, : : : :,,,:, :, :,,:, : :, :, :, : :, : : : :, : :,,:,,,:, : : : :,,:,, : :, :, :,,,:,,:,,,,,:, : :, : :,,,:,,:, : :, :, :,,,: : :,,:,,,,:,,:, :, :,,:,, : dogs : : : :,,: : : : : :,:,,, : : :,,, : :, dragging : :,, :, draw :, doors : doubt : dog's : : driveway : drop : doing : : : :, : drug : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : drugs : door :,, :,,, : : : :, :, :,,, :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : :,, :, dual : : D.C :,, E E : :, earlier : easier :, either : electricity : elements :, else's : emitting : emphasized :, enforcement : : engage : : : engaging : England : English-speak... : enhance : enhanced : enhances : : enter : entered : entitled :, Official entry : : : epidemic : equally : equivalent : ESQ :,, :,,, establish : : : : established : : : et : ether :,, : :, everybody : : evidence : : :, : : : exact : exactly : : : : example : excited :, exists : expect :, : : :,, expectation : :,,, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : expectations : : : expects : expert : : : explains : expose : exposed : : : : finding : : : finds : fine : : : :, : : first : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : five : : eyes : Fexposing : extended : Florida :, extends : : :, extent : : :, extraordinary : : : : :, : :,,: : : fly : folks : follow : faced :fact : : :, : : :factory :facts : : : : :factual :factually :fair :falls :, : familiar :far : : :feet :fell :fence :figure :,:finally :find : : : :,: ::, : : : : foolishly : Forget : form : : forth :,: :,,: found : : : : founding : Fourth : :, : : : : : : frankly : Franky : :,, : : Franky's : freely : Official : : : : :, God-given : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : :,, :,, :,, :, goes : : : :, :,,, :,, :, : : : : :, : : :, friend : front : : : :,, : :, : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,,, :,,, getting : :, : Ginsburg :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, fruition : functionally Garre's : gate : : gates : gather : general : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : generally : Girl : :, : : give : : : fundamentally : going :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, gotten :, government : future : G G : :, :, : garage : garbage : Garre : : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, : :, :, :, :, : :, :,, :, :, : :, : : : given : giving : glass : go : :,,, great : greater : greatest : GREGORY : :, : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : ground : grow : : : growing : : : : guess : : guilty : gun :, guy : : Hhandler :happen :::happened ::, : : ::,,,: :happening:, : : : : happens ::harder :hate :head :hear : : :heard :hearing :heat :,::::held : : helicopter :Hello :helped :helps :hesitation :hinge : : hold :holding :home : : :,,: :: ::, : : :,: :,:, : :,,,: : : : :, : : : homeowner : : :, : :, : : :,:,, : :,,: homeowners : :,homes : Honor :,:, : : : : : :,,: : :, : :, : : : hope : :, : : hostility : : house :,:,,, : :,, : : :,:, : : :,:, : :, : :, : :,,: : : : : :,: :,: :,: : : : :,,: : : : Official : :, : : : :, :, houses :, : :, :, : : : HOWARD : : : huge : human : :,, :,, humans : : hundred : hundreds : : hypothet : : : : : : hypothetic : I idea : identical : illegal : : illegality : imager : imagine : immediate : implied :, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, : impliedly : :, important : : : impossible : impression : include : includes : incorrect : incriminating : indicate : indicated : indicating : : individual : : :, : informant : information :, : : :, : : infringed : inquiry : inside : : : :, : :, : : intend : intending : intent : :,, : : : intention : :, : interest : : : interested : interests : : interfered : interior : intrusion : : intrusive : invasion : : :, : : invented : investigate : invitation : invite : : invited : involves : issue : : : :, : :, : : item : :, i.e : JJA :Jack :Jacobsen ::, : :Jardines : : JOELIS :joint : : :Jones ::,,,: :,:,judgment :Justice : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : :,,: :,,: :,: :,:, : :,,:,,,: :,:, : : :,:, : :, : :,,, : : :, : :, : KAGAN : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : Kagan's : :,,, Karo :, :,,, :,,, Katz : : :, :, keep : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, :,,, :,,,,:,, : :,,, Kennedy : :,,,, :,,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, key : :, : :,,, kind : :,,, : : :,, : : :,,, King : : :,,, :, : :, :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : :,: knees : knew : : knock : : Kentucky : :,: : :,:,,: : : : :, : : :,:,,,:,,,:,,: :,:,,, justices : : Justice's : KK : : Official :, knocked : : knocking : :, : knocks : : know :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : knowingly : :, : : : known : : knows : : : Kyllo : : : :, :,,, K- : L labs : lack : language : : :, : lapel :, large : law : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : lawful : : :, : :, :, : lawfully : :, : : : : :, : lawn : lead : : leash :, : :, : : : : leave : leaves : leaving :, : left : legitimate : :, : :,, : : : length : : lengthy : letting : let's : : : license :, : : light : : limited : : : line : little : : : : live : : :, lived : lives : logical : long : : : : : look : : :, : :, : :,, looking : :,, : : : : : looks : : : lost : lot : :, : : : loud : luggage : lying : M machine : :,, : magistrate : : magnifying : making : : : : : man : manifesting : mankind : : manner : : manufacture : marijuana : : : : : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : : mask : masking : matter : : : :, : : : mean : : :, : : :, : : motion : motive : : : motorcycle : : : : motives : : : : : : : : : : :, : : moving : murder : : Nmeans : : : :, met : meth : methampheta... : method : Miami : microphone :, : microphones: microscope : mike : mind : : minimally : minute : : : minutes : : : :, :, : :,:,,:,,,:,,:,misguided : mistakenly: morning : Morsman : moth : mothballs : : :, N :, : name : narcotic : narcotics : : :: : : :naturally : nature :near : necessarily :need : : : :: : :,neighbor :: ::,, neighborhood:, : neighborhoods:neighbors :neighbor's : : :nervous :neutral :never :nice :NICOLE : : :noises : normal :: :, Official nose : : : noted : number : O O : : objective : observation : observes : obtained : : obtaining : obtrusive : occupation : occur : occurred : October : odor : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : odors : : : officer :, :, :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :,,, : ordinary : : :, : : :, :,, : : :,,, ought : : : outside : :,, :,,, : : :,, :,,, : :,, overheard : : : : Pofficers :, : : : : : : :, : officer's : : : oh : : : : : : okay :, : : : : : :, : :, :, old : once : : : opaque : open : : : : : operating : opinion : : :, opponents : : opposition : oral : :,, : : : : : : : order : P :package ::page : : : :: :,pages :,:pan :park :parked :part :,: ::particular ::partner :passage :passive :path :: :Pedraja : : : :people : : : :: ::, : : :: :,: :,: :,:, : :,,:, : :,, : :, : perform : plain : performing : please : : : people's : perfectly : : : performed : : : period : : : permissible : : permitted : : : person : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : person's : : : pertinent : petition : :, Petitioner : :, :, : : : : photography : physical : :, : : : :, physically : : : picked : picture : : pictures : piece : place : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : plants : : point : : : : : : : : : : :, : : pointed : : : points : police :,,:,,,:, :, :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : : :, : : :,,: :,:,,: :,:, : : :,: :,:,,:,,,: :,:, : : :,: : policeman : : : :,, : Policeman's : : :,, :, : : : policemen : probable : : : poll : porch : : :, : : : : : : probably : problem : : procedure : process : : : :, : portion : : problems : position : possibility : possibly : postman : potential : premise : presence : : : present : : : : :, proposition : : : : : : : : : : : : property : presented : : : presumably : : :, : protect : : protected : presume : pretty : prevent : prior : privacy : : protects : : : :, :, : protecting : pumped : : : : : : : : :, :, public : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, pulling : :, : : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : purpose : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, purposes : : :, : : private : Official put : : : : :, : : reason : : resident's : : : : :, : : resolve : resources : :, putting : : reasonable : respect : : Qqualitatively:question :: : : : :: :,: :: :: :,: : : : :,: :: :,: ::questions :: : : :quickly ::,,quite ::RR :radio :raised :rationale :: ::,read :: :: :reading :really :: :: :: ::,,: : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : reasoning : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recognize : record :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : respectfully: respond : : : : Respondent: : :, : response : :,,: responses : restraint : restraints : restrict : return : reveal : : regarded : regarding : revealing : Reilly :, revealed : : : : : relevance : relevant : : rely : : remaining : repeated : repeatedly : report : : : representation : resent :, reserve : residents : reveals ::right : :, :,, : : :,: :: ::, : : :: ::,,: :: :,: :: ::Ripper : Official : shows : second : : side : :, : : seconds : : : :, section :, see : : roam : ROBERTS : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, says : : :,, :,, :,,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : Scalia :,, sidewalk : : : :,, sight : sign : : : : similar :, simple : simply : : single : sit : :, sits : : sitting :, situation : : : : : slightly : slippery : slope : smell : : :, : : :, :,, : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, :, smelling : : : : smells : : :, : : : : smell-o-matic :, smoke : : smoking :, sniff :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,,, : : : :,, :, : sniffing :, : : :,, : : : : :, sniffs : : :, : : : society : sole : Solicitor : somebody : : : somebody's: soon : sorry : : : : : SOTOMAYOR :, : : :,,: :,: :,:, : : :,: :,:, : :,sounds : source : : So.d : space : specific : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : seeks :, : :, :, : sees : : :, : : : : :, : seized :, seizure : :, : : scary-looking : : select : : scene : : selected : scent : : : : scents : scope : Scotland : : scourge : Scout :, : : Scouts : search : : :, : :, :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : :,,, : :, : : : : : :, : :,,,, searching : sell :, : seller : sense : : :, : :, : :, :, : : senses : : : : :, : : : sense-enhanci... : : separate : : separates : serious : set : : settled : seventies : : shape : show : room : : routine : Royer : rule : : :, rules :, run : running : rush : S S : : sacrosanct : Saharsky : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, :, salesman : : salesmen : : sans : : saw : saying : : : : :, : : : : square : squarely : :, standing : start : : : starts : : : : : state : substituting : successful : sufficient : suggested : suggesting : suggests : support : : : supporting : : : :, : suppose :, : :, : :, stated : statement : supposed : : : :, States :,, : : station : stay : step :, steps : stops : : street : : : : : : :, : : strikes : strong : : : : stronger : strongest : : stuff : : subjective : : : : :, : :, : subjectively : submit : submitted : : : suppress : suppressing : suppression : Supreme :, :, : :, : sure : : : : : :, : surprised : surveillance suspect : : : suspected : suspicion : sweeping : :, TT :,take : : : ::taken :takes : : talk : : : :Official :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : talked : : : : talking : : : :, : : : : : talks :,, technique : technology :,, :,, : :, :, telescope : tell : : : : ten : ten-minute : terms : : : : : : : : test : testified : : : : testimony : testing : Thank : : : :, :,, : : thermal : thieves : thing :, : :, : : : things : : : : :, think :, : :, :,, : :, :, : :, :,, :,, :, :, : :, :,, :,,, :, :, :, : : : :,, : : :, : :, : : :,,,, : :, : : : : : :, : : thinking : : Third : :, thought : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : thousands : three : : : tickets : :,, :,, time : : : : : : : times : tip : today : : : : told : : : tort : total : totality : touches : townhouse : : track :, : :, tracked : : tracking : trained : :, : : treat : : trespass : :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : trespassed : trick-or-treater : : trick-or-treat... : tries : true : : : : : :,: : try : : :, : : trying : : : : : Official : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,: :,: :,: :, : : : : : :- : : : : : ::: Xx :,x-ray : YYard :,year :years : : :, : : :, : :, : :,, :,: : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : :,: :: :, :th :s :'s :: : : : : : : : :, turn : turned : two : : values : : : vantage : : : :, : various : :, : vent : : :,, : : wants : warned : : : : :, works : world : worry : warrant :, wouldn't : view : : : : :, : : : : : : write : : : Washington : wrong : : : : wasn't : : wrongdoing :, tying : type :, : : U unacceptable unanswered : : : unconstitutio... understand : : : : : understanding : : unique : unit : United :,, : : unrealistic : unusual : : : use :, : violate : violated : violation : :, : : : violent : violently : visible :,, vision : visitors : : : : : : way :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : WWednesday : went : : : : : : weren't : : : : : : : : :, : We'll : :, we're : : : : : :, : : : : :, we've : : : walking : : :, : : :,,,, : : : understood : walk : : unlawful : walked : walks : : : : : who've : : : :,,, : : : : : : uses : : walkway : window : :, : want : : : : :, willy-nilly : : win : :, : : : windows : :, : :, : V v : : : wanted : words : : : work : : :,, : 