Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Wednesday, December , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x JEFFREY LEE CHAFIN, : : No. - : LYNNE HALES CHAFIN, : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. STEPHEN J. CULLEN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of MICHAEL E. MANELY, ESQ., Marietta, Georgia; on behalf of v. Petitioner. Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN J. CULLEN, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MANELY, ESQ. NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MANELY, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) Mr. Manely. MR. MANELY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it United States courts have the power to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MANELY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER effectuate relief in the Hague Convention cases under circumstances presented here in this international treaty. this morning in Case -, Chafin v. Chafin. please the Court: because reversal of the district court's judgment could grant Sergeant Chafin relief in three ways, each sufficient to preclude mootness. district court or court of appeals should order Ms. Chafin to bring the child back to the United States and overturn the monetary award. And, third, it would effectuate relief in the ongoing Alabama case and the States is the child's habitual residence. Second, the Sergeant First Class -- First Class Chafin's appeal from the district court's decision is not moot Scottish case by, one, letting Alabama courts proceed to First, a reversal would mean that the United MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. Under the UCCJEA, which is what the State of Alabama would use, determine custody and, two, cause the Scottish court to stay or dismiss its proceeding. difference? Once -- once the decision -- the district court decision is vacated, then the State court can go forward. There is nothing that inhibits it from doing so. There is no Federal court order. So your third point, I think, is -- there is a home State requirement that the child must be presently -- six months before the action is commenced. Not so much from the district court order, but coming down from the Alabama Supreme Court, but determined that Alabama was not the home State of the child. So it's sort of like the traffic light that we talk about in our brief. It would allow the Alabama courts to say -- months be satisfied? MR. MANELY: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So how would these six JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, I don't understand that. The child is now in Scotland. premised upon the original district court order, it was Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would it make any MR. MANELY: It would toll because the Official Convention order. You -- you're not inhibited by MR. MANELY: Except for the fact that there is an error in the determination of habitual residence. child, we would argue, is wrongfully in Scotland based upon an errant district court -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you can argue that on the basis of the vacation of the district court's Hague anything, as far as I can see, that the Federal court has done. Since it's been vacated, it's as though it never happened. And I understand what you're saying, but the -- the res of the controversy needs to be brought back here. That -- that would be the appropriate remedy here, so that we have not only the habitual court -- or habitual residence determination in the district court because of reversal, but that we have the child brought back here. And then that six -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you don't have -- you don't have that individual -- the residence -- habitual ability to grant a remedy here, and that is the reversal of that determination, so that we go back to habitual residence in the United States. That's what avoids residence determination because it's been wiped out. MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. I understand. What our argument is, is that there is an Official MR. MANELY: Bring the child back. Yes, would be seized of jurisdiction sufficient then to determine the habitual residence. MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whatever the State -- JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't the Alabama -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you're saying is the return of the child, essentially, back to Alabama? mootness in this case. There is a remedy that can be provided here. It is not impossible. Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so once the child is back in Alabama, that's the remedy, then the State court well, presumably, the child only comes back if you win. the child would come back, and the Alabama courts could then seize the custody determination. MR. MANELY: The Alabama -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that what you're saying? MR. MANELY: No, the Alabama court would MR. MANELY: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So presuming you win, MR. MANELY: Right. Proceed under --JUSTICE SCALIA: And the Alabama court would not have jurisdiction if the child had been wrongfully removed? Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, wait, wait. The habitual residence was -- was in the U.K. MR. MANELY: Yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SCALIA: That being the case, the have jurisdiction under the UCCJEA presently, unless this Court should determine that it is moot when a child is removed from the boundaries of our -- of our nation. The Alabama -- opinion below has been vacated. MR. MANELY: Yes, sir. JUSTICE SCALIA: So there's -- there's nothing which says that this child -- this child's only question is will the Alabama court proceed, even -- assuming that it finds the child's habitual residence been taken out of the jurisdiction? And I understand that it would. district court determination in the first place, hasn't been. It's been vacated. It's as though it never happened. MR. MANELY: The posture below is that the Eleventh Circuit vacated the opinion in February; but, was in Alabama, would it proceed, even if the child had MR. MANELY: If there never had been a certainly -- JUSTICE SCALIA: There hasn't been. There Official What we hope to do is, by going back down to the Eleventh Circuit, obtaining a reversal -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's bad law. I MR. MANELY: Yes, sir. It goes -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was their reasoning that as recently as July of this year, the Alabama Supreme Court said, well, since the matter was determined moot, then only the divorce can proceed. mean -- you mean the Alabama court is bound by a vacated decision of a Federal court? My goodness, I never heard of anything like that. the child was initially removed properly because there had been an order permitting the mother to go? is, since the case is moot, nothing has vacated the MR. MANELY: Correct. And by reversing, then we're going back to what was argued to make the case moot in the first place. We can bring the child back, and we'll reverse -- MR. MANELY: At that moment, yes. And by -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what they're saying MR. MANELY: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So it was a lawful JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you say, "bring the removal at that moment. order, but it didn't make her action illegal? Official mother have -- wasn't this mother deported? MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. Absent -- and she was present at the trial in the district court. So there are provisions that would allow her to return for that particular reason. And, of course, she can reapply, I think, after something like five years. She was deported because she had overstayed her visa. child back," there's an impediment to that because now this court in Scotland has told her don't -- the child stays here. There's an order that the child not be removed from Scotland, and there is also -- doesn't the MR. MANELY: The mother -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if she -- she -- if she -- the mother comes back into the United States, she's committing a criminal offense. of the court in Scotland? Scotland, we would refer to on a State level, as being a standing order. And what it does is tell Sergeant First Class Chafin that he can't remove the child. There is no prohibition to the mother. There is no sense that Scotland has assumed authority over this child -- should But -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about the order MR. MANELY: The order of the court in become a ward of the country. Official It's more that, since the mother has filed a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's a stand-still order there. residing in Scotland? MR. MANELY: October th of last year, I custody action there, it's a -- Dad, you can't remove the child from Scotland. MR. MANELY: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How long has the child been -- now since -- since the return, pursuant to the Federal court's order, how long has the child been believe, so approximately months now. JUSTICE ALITO: What if the Alabama courts were to conduct a custody proceeding? Since the child consider the child's habitual residence to be Scotland? wouldn't they defer to the Scottish courts for custody so. Again, applying UCCJEA, which all of the States have, but for one, they are to look at Hague orders in the same way that they would apply UCCJEA, and there is MR. MANELY: The Alabama courts -- JUSTICE ALITO: And if they did that, has now been in Scotland for over a year, would they a tolling provision. If a child has been wrongfully determination? MR. MANELY: No, Your Honor, I don't think Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is a judgment against your client, isn't there, for $, removed from that jurisdiction, then the child is still presumed to have retained a home State status with Alabama. or so? that figure? proceedings been dismissed? Or are they in suspense? MR. MANELY: Neither, Your Honor. Where attorneys' fees, but, also, within the Hague, there is a mandatory provision for costs; not just costs of court, but the costs of mother's flying over here from Scotland, staying here for approximately a week and a rental car. So while that isn't the predominant share of the $,, it was a substantial portion of that. they are is the trial level court is waiting to grant a divorce, but that is kind of effectively held up by the parties, in hoping that we can use Alabama Rule of Civil Procedure (b)(); that, if we get a reversal from the Eleventh Circuit saying habitual residence is the United MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you break down MR. MANELY: The lion's share of it is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: So have the State Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it would be your MR. MANELY: Certainly, if the Eleventh monies you have to pay? MR. MANELY: It still is, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you win on this States, we can reopen the custody matter. position that the Alabama courts still have jurisdiction over the child and the mother? Circuit reverses, yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, that cost that you have to pay for the mother, even though the case was mooted, that judgment is still outstanding for the appeal, is that wiped out? residence determination reversed and bringing the child back; but we think that when -- the provision of ICARA that allows for the costs, the travel costs and the attorneys' fees to be awarded, is also obliterated. So separate judgment? The -- case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: And is there any problem MR. MANELY: We believe that it is. The energy of our case is thrust into having habitual that is also -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that done in a MR. MANELY: It's a separate order, same Official MR. MANELY: We don't think so, but, again, Our energy, all along, has been spent exclusively on that to avoid mootness. MR. MANELY: Your Honor, I believe I about the time to appeal from that having run? that's not the thrust of our case. I understand the government's argument, and we certainly agree with that. reversing habitual residence determination. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But, as far as mootness is concerned, if you have not appealed from that order and the time has run from your appeal, you can't rely on understand your question, and I -- and I think you're correct. If we're talking about a determination that the United States loses power over children when they're removed from our borders, then the rest kind of falls in line. happens -- understand that answer. Are you -- are you saying that -- that your failure to appeal that in a timely MR. MANELY: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SCALIA: What is your -- I don't fashion makes it impossible for the Court of Appeals to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, what's -- what JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand your answer. Official MR. MANELY: I apologize. And it may be JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then retain MR. MANELY: No, sir. And it may be -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's -- that's what your tunnel vision. And don't say that the case remains non-moot simply because of this other issue. The other issue is either in the case or out of the case. Now, is it part of your case? obliterate that award? I thought the question was. just the -- the tunnel vision that we have in this case. We're solely focused on reversing the district court order on habitual residence and returning the child. The rest is -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you -- if you could take an appeal and got a reversal of the decision -- of the order removing the child to -- allowing the child to be removed to Scotland, wouldn't that undermine the -- the judgment for costs? I don't understand why that would be a separate order -- why that would be something MR. MANELY: We agree with the government's position that it keeps this case alive, and it is not moot. But I certainly understand the -- the issue, particularly since our focus on the case is otherwise. that has to be appealed separately. Why wouldn't that Official removes the costs. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I mean, that's MR. MANELY: I'm saying I trust that that is the resolution of this; but, again, our focus is on the be included with the final order in the case? MR. MANELY: Yes, Your Honor. I agree. And the -- allowing the child to leave was the linchpin that allowed the costs. Removing that impediment also lovely, but -- so you are saying that you don't have to appeal that separately; is that what you're saying? child, not costs. question. correct that if the -- the basis for the award is removed, then the award is removed; but, if the basis for the award remains, then it would be difficult to separately or not? If -- if the way you answered Justice Alito's question was -- was the way you did, you are saying that it's unnecessary to appeal that monetary aspect of the judgment separately, that it goes -- it goes with the rest of it. Is that -- is that your position? JUSTICE SCALIA: But you've got to answer my MR. MANELY: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have to appeal that MR. MANELY: Your Honor, I think that it is MR. MANELY: The Scottish court has no need JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that order has been Official I don't think there is any great answer. JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you're saying it MR. MANELY: Yes, sir. Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me what's to determine habitual residence because that was determined by the -- by the district court. assert that there is some reason to appeal that award. doesn't have to be appealed separately. happening -- what is the status? Given the vacated return custody order -- return order, will the Scottish court ever determine habitual residence? vacated, so can they revisit that question is really revisit within the context of a Hague proceeding, unless a Hague proceeding were brought there. Within the context of their own custodial determination, like the determination of -- of jurisdiction over the child. proceeding there, right? MR. MANELY: We could bring a Hague proceeding there. the -- the issue. MR. MANELY: I don't -- they wouldn't Alabama court would in the divorce, there is a JUSTICE SCALIA: But you could bring a Hague Official For our Hague -- actually, the mother's mother's Hague proceeding, the time period that we're looking at was February of until the child left in October of , that is the time frame we'd really like to stay with. That's an important time frame. JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say -- you know, there having been no decision in the United States, we want you to decide what habitual residence is, and we think it's the United States. You could do that. MR. MANELY: We could do that. The problem with that is that we're talking about different points in time. Hague proceeding, she's the one that filed it -- for the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you said that that time period was tolled -- the period that she was in Scotland would be tolled. yes. Yes, Your Honor. it would be a custody proceeding. Forget about the Hague. The child is there. The mother is bringing a custody proceeding. And the question for that court is If we go to Scotland, we're talking about a different time frame. It's a different animal. MR. MANELY: From a United States perspective, more specifically an Alabama perspective, JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in Scotland, it's -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And at the Hague, it's MR. MANELY: Yes. Yes. And -- and the the Federal district court in Alabama. where is the child's habitual residence now? what was it then. Scottish court -- our -- our briefs are filled with the citations of authority, but the Scottish court -- there is no reason to believe that the Scottish court wouldn't honor what the United States court has said about habitual residence, the case brought by the mother in So that if that was the linchpin to allow -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was only for determining the Hague Convention; and, if the Hague Convention is out of it, then there is a custody get the case to a forum that's an appropriate forum to decide the custody question, right? crucial element of the Hague Convention as well. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Saharsky. ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, If -- if there are no further questions, I'd like to reserve the balance of my time. proceeding. The idea of the Hague Convention is just to MR. MANELY: Yes. Custody is the second and Official SUPPORTING PETITIONER child. MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Put simply, this case is not moot because an appellate decision on the merits would matter. What the please the Court: Court has been discussing today is there are various ways in which the appellate decision might matter. There are ways that there would be a judgment that the father either did or did not wrongfully retain the Part of the wrongful retention determination is the -- or the $, in money damages. There is a question of whether the child might remain in the U.K. or be brought back to the U.S. And then there's the question of which courts are going to decide custody, Alabama or Scottish courts. this Court doesn't need to figure out all of the different details of Alabama State law or of custody law under the Scottish proceedings. All the Court needs to decide is that the appellate court's decision would make a difference here. And it's -- it's just not the case that you could say it's moot because it doesn't make a difference. And we don't need to know precisely -- and JUSTICE SCALIA: But we don't know it'll Official right? make a difference without answering those questions. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I'm glad -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you want us to -- to say it might make a difference, and that's enough, MS. SAHARSKY: Well, this Court has said that, as long as there's any possibility of effectual relief, that the case is not moot. So -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you should put it that way, then. It doesn't -- you don't know that it makes a difference, but you don't have to know, right? MS. SAHARSKY: That's what I would say is that you don't have to know. declaratory judgment that the father either did or did not wrongfully retain the child in the U.S., that is a piece of paper in the world that has consequences to these parties. It has consequences in terms of the money judgment that's been entered, and it has consequences in terms of where custody will be determined. Convention case is to get the child in the place of habitual residence, so that those courts, under their But just, if there is nothing else but a The whole point of bringing a Hague own law, can decide custody. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Saharsky, not to -- I district judge wouldn't give a stay, you're -- what States, and we -- we start over. The whole object of the return procedure is so that you get the child to a place that's a proper place to determine custody; isn't that right? mean, the whole object of the Hague Convention is to stop this shuttling the child back and forth. But, because of this unfortunate situation we have, where the you're -- what you're urging is exactly what this Convention was meant to stop. This child has been in Scotland for months. Now, you say bring it back to the United forth. And we think that the way to accommodate those concerns are by stays in appropriate cases, where the four factor test that -- with respect to a likelihood of success on the merits and a balancing of the equities is appellate proceedings, that those proceedings be expedited, the decisions made quickly. and say that, if a stay is not in place, that that still does not deprive the Court of Appeals of jurisdiction to MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. We share your concerns about not wanting the child to be shuttled back and met; and that, when stays are put in place pending JUSTICE KENNEDY: And would you go further Official But if the case for a stay has not been made argument that the other side has put forth for a stay. resolve the case on the merits? MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. That's what we would say, that the case is not moot. The court of appeals should be able to go forward with the case. by the losing party, then the child should be returned to the country of habitual residence because a determination has been made that that's the country where the child should be, and there's not a good JUSTICE GINSBURG: You agree that the ideal -- the ideal procedure would be, and I quite agree, that you have a very fast track stay pending appeal and an expedited appeal. But there is no rule that -- that requires that, so how -- how could that sensible procedure be put in place? under the normal court appellate rules, that that effectively is what happens using the American stay a stay in every case, but, when the showing -- the appropriate four factor showing is made for a stay, that then a stay would be appropriate, and an expedited appeal would be appropriate. But you can't ---standard for a four factor test, not that there would be MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we think that just, Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the district court MS. SAHARSKY: Well, then, if that's the appeals, so we don't know -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So presumably, a stay would MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And do we even know that a JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's lovely, but there wasn't a stay here. So what do you do when that procedure hasn't been followed? That's the issue that we're presented with. stay would have been appropriate here? denied a stay, and Petitioner did not go to the court of not have been appropriate. case, but -- but it -- but this decision actually went reversed on the merits. It would be up to the district court on remand to determine how to fix its prior erroneous decision. And it would use the equitable authority that it has in every case to fix a wrong to what should have happened, that is, the district judge applying the four factor test -- or did the district -- there was an application for a stay. It was to the court of appeals, and the court of appeals decision and determine what the right thing is -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But we wouldn't go back denied, right? Official moot, correct? MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right. The MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. And the district court entered a brief order; so the district court did not go through the various factors, but, presumably, that is the standard the district court would have used. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask a question? Does it matter? Meaning, whether a stay is granted or not, you are, I don't think, taking the position that only if the stay is granted is the court of appeals seized of jurisdiction. You're saying the case is not mootness question and the stay questions are two separate questions. And you don't want to have to say the person has to get a stay in every single case; appeal. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Now, under the Convention, if the child -- if it goes back to the district court now to fashion a remedy, it could order bringing the child back after months presents a great risk to the child under the Convention and not order the return, correct? addresses that; but the district court could make that otherwise, their case becomes moot. They lose their return, it could decide under the Convention that MS. SAHARSKY: We don't think the Convention Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they have the power, if they choose it, but they don't have to choose it; that's the bottom line, correct? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we just don't know determination using its equitable discretion. what the court's going to do, but some form of relief is possible. That's why you used the word "possible." MS. SAHARSKY: That is exactly -- that is exactly our position. We don't know what the courts would do. We're glad to discuss the possibilities with the Court; but the standard is the possibility of relief, it doesn't need to -- MS. SAHARSKY: That's exactly right. The position of the other side is that there is absolutely nothing that the courts can do in these circumstances once the child leaves. And we just think that the Convention doesn't say that. It doesn't mandate that. It's a question of U.S. mootness law. And this Court has said, as long as there's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you aware of -- I happen to be because I know this area very well -- the English courts have an amici filed with us yesterday, and they are sort of sensibly keeping track of what we're doing and trying to adjust their proceedings accordingly and in the manner they think is most helpful Official MS. SAHARSKY: Well, in the Convention, to us. Whether it is or not, I can't comment on. Is this common in the custody area? Is there discussions between courts about what they're doing and the why of it? there is kind of two aspects of this. One is in child custody proceedings, under the UCCJEA, and one is in the context of the Convention. The UCCJEA, which deals with competing States and potentially competing countries' custody determinations, has specific provisions that address cooperation and communication. They are, like, Section , , and -- that. cooperation typically occurs through the Central Authorities. Each country has a Central Authority that communicates with each other. So, for example, if the U.K.'s Central Authority would like something to be brought to the U.S. courts' attention, it might enlist the help of the U.S. Central Authority in, for example, MS. SAHARSKY: There is a whole system for In the Convention, that type of comity and JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it's required. There is a whole system set up now, right? getting the parties to -- MS. SAHARSKY: Well, the question is just what -- what might happen in this case, in terms of if nice. What does that have to do with this case? I don't understand that. there would be competing court orders or whether the courts would -- what the courts would do in response to each other. And I think the point, at least, that I was getting from Justice Sotomayor's question is that there is a measure of cooperation here, so that the Court need not be particularly concerned about parallel proceedings or competing proceedings in other countries. has been litigated in Federal court, the Alabama custody court has appropriately stayed its hand, as it's required to do under Article of --agree with your -- with the Petitioner, just reading a sentence from its brief, that "mootness requires that relief be impossible"? Do you think that's the right standard? Court essentially said that in Knox, that it said -- The way that, for example, this case has played out is that, while the Hague Convention dispute CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, do you Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, that's very MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we -- we think that the Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What this Court --Court has always said, if it's an Article inquiry that asked whether there is a possibility of relief, if the question is one of literal impossibility, we don't think that the Court needs to ask -- under standing, and it said that it's not supported by injury that is speculative or conjectural. It seems to me, when you start talking about, well, the Scottish court might do this or the Alabama courts might do this, that -- that sounds pretty speculative and conjectural. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think the Court has made those comments more in the context of the standing inquiry at the beginning of a case, as opposed to the mootness inquiry after a case has gone on for a while, At the standing -- at the beginning of a case in the standing inquiry, the party coming into court really has a burden of showing that this case -- that there's something to be adjudicated in court. As the case continues, it's the party who doesn't want the case to be in court anymore to show that there's nothing the court can do; that even though the court has put those resources --different, but I don't agree that the standard changes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the burden is and the burdens there are different. Official You know, we don't interpret that to be a -- MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And our position with you know, literal impossibility standard. We just understand that to be asking the question, is there something the courts can do, even if it's not complete -- It's just who has to prove it, one side or the other. But I -- respect to the standard is simply from language taken from this Court's decision, going back to Mills, but also repeated in Church of Scientology and Knox, is there any effectual relief, whatever; is it possible to grant relief? Relief can be partial, it doesn't need to be complete. That's things that the Court has said. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So do you think it's -- I mean, I know you've got a laundry list of things, but, as I understand it, you think it's enough that, if the Court issues an opinion, the Scottish court might do something as a result of that? MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think that the Court issuing an opinion has effects in America, regardless of what happens in Scotland, because you have a declaratory judgment that sets out the rights of the parties. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought one of the arguments, maybe it was the Petitioner's and not yours, Official Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Cullen. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN J. CULLEN was that one reason it wasn't moot is because the Scottish courts might look at the case differently. MS. SAHARSKY: Well, that's -- I think it's a set of interrelated reasons. I mean, they're really all connected because -- can I finish the sentence? -- you have a judgment in the United States about the rights of the parties. It affects the money judgment. It affects what might happen with custody. I mean, it's all part and parcel of the same dispute. appeal court could give would be zero in the Scottish court, nothing. There is nothing a court can -- can do mother to come back with the child? Because the Scottish court stops her? There is competing orders all the time. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why can't they order the ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. CULLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: Mr. Chief Justice, the effect that any in this judicial process --MR. CULLEN: Which -- well, they can't, of the case? MR. CULLEN: Well, the case did end because JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't matter. The question is, isn't she seized -- doesn't the court first. The answer to that is, no, they cannot. She submitted to the court's jurisdiction. Doesn't her -- jurisdiction over her now continue until the end there is one remedy, and one remedy only, in this treaty, and that is return. have jurisdiction over her until the case ends? The case doesn't end until there has been an appeal and a judgment and the judgment affirmed or reversed. That hasn't happened. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are suggesting that the Convention deprives a party, after the remedy's been ordered and effected, of the right to appeal; not because of mootness, but because the Convention takes away a fundamental right to appeal? can't agree with that because then we're ignoring Article and the constitutional doctrine of mootness because that's where the constitutional doctrine comes into central --MR. CULLEN: No, that's not correct. I Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not? She was here. MR. CULLEN: No, the Convention says you Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not going to explicitly and stop removals until appeals are finished, works. It works for the countries, Justice Sotomayor, that do immediate enforcement, and it works for the countries that don't do immediate enforcement, pending an appeal. must exercise the most expeditious remedies available because -- suggest all those countries that permit appeals that those -- that those those treaty -- contracting treaty parties are breaching the Convention, are you? MR. CULLEN: No, they're not. There are countries, and this is a very, very good convention. It court in the Hamlet of Airdrie is seized with jurisdiction because what this treaty has done is -- has taken jurisdiction from the United States and said, Scotland, you now have jurisdiction. was very -- But the -- the question presented here is what a court could do in this country once the sheriff CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He has no -- his ability to challenge the propriety of the order that he CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One thing -- one thing the Court can do is give him back $,. MR. CULLEN: No, it cannot. It cannot. I Official MR. CULLEN: It's gone in this case, on page , an appeal was taken off those fees. If you go on -- I believe it's page of dismissed, there is nothing left for any appeal court now to do with respect to fees. pay $, is gone? Mr. Chief Justice, because, in the Joint Appendix, pages and , you'll see -- I believe it's docket entry , the Joint Appendix, docket entry , you'll see that the Petitioner voluntarily dismissed his appeal of the fees. So having taken an appeal of the fees and having assumed that the issue of fees would still be alive if the Eleventh Circuit ruled on the merits. trying to have a single appeal. Court would apply in -- in that hypothetical fees appeal court would apply in looking at habitual residence. All it would look at is, is it -- the time have issues where they apply different MR. CULLEN: Right. So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And he -- he was just determination is totally different from the test the JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, appellate courts all standards to multiple issues in the case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, except he might have MR. CULLEN: Right. But the test that the Official you're just assuming your own premise. MR. CULLEN: Well, the premise, though, is What this treaty does is it exercises a one-way return. MR. CULLEN: Right. So if we assume that the fees survives -- they can pursue the fees issue. The problem, Justice Kennedy, is that there -- there is no habitual residence to be determined back in time. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that, of course -- on your premise, that's right. On their premise, it's wrong, that -- the issue of custody is still alive under their perspective. That's what we are arguing about, so based in the purpose of this treaty because, back in the 's, before this treaty, Justice Kennedy, there was chaos. And, in fact, the government is suggesting we between Scotland and Alabama, but -- you've won a judgment in lower court that says that the habitual residence of the child is Scotland. So if they appeal, they might win one that says that was wrong, the habitual residence was the United States, but the child is in Scotland. but they are also bound by this treaty. So I would imagine a Scottish court, just as we would do, when they should go back to possibly competing custody orders JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think that's -- You understand Scottish law better than I, Official They are not absolutely bound by it. But just as we, in the last case we had, were very Wouldn't it matter to a Scottish court, after all, are trying to decide what's the habitual presumptive then, and now, what's the habitual residence, they would look at what the United States courts decided. interested in what the Chilean courts said. Of course, it was relevant to us what the Chilean courts had held was the proper law of Chile in respect to that child. Wouldn't the Scottish courts do the same? that an American court had decided that the residence was not bound? I'd certainly give it – won’t they give it consideration? Justice Ginsburg said, there is no opinion. There is nothing. There's -- JUSTICE BREYER: I'm assuming they win. The reason that they want to appeal is they want to win. If I were looking at the case as you present it, I would say, of course, you'll win, don't worry. What are you worried about? they think they are going to win. Now, it means nothing if they lose. But if they win on appeal, they then have respect to the lower court's opinion, there is, as MR. CULLEN: With -- Justice Breyer, with But -- but they have a different view. So Official judge, please read this paper. Of course, he will read it, and I would MR. CULLEN: Justice Breyer, the sheriff in their order that says that this child's habitual residence was the United States. And my question is where we started, armed with that piece of paper, they walk into the Scottish court and they say, oh, Scottish think that that judge would take it into account in his decision. That's what we do with the foreign -- similar foreign orders of other foreign courts, and I think we should do that, and I think the Scottish courts should and will. Now, you tell me where I'm wrong in that. Airdrie would say, why are you handing me a finding about what habitual residence was years ago? The child's habitual residence years later is clearly Scotland, and we -- we don't look back in time with respect to that. why they shouldn't give in to this hypothetical American judgment. That isn't my question. My question is won't they consider it and give it -- and the Scottish courts, to my knowledge, are not so narrow-minded. I think they would pay attention to what other courts have said. JUSTICE BREYER: Or -- then argument as to JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're -- I think you're -- you're -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right or wrong? I JUSTICE GINSBURG: We -- we have a brief JUSTICE BREYER: They would? JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because what her habitual want to know if I'm right or wrong. in -- in the case telling us that the question Justice Breyer is posing, would they look at it; they would say it's irrelevant. residence was then doesn't matter one whit to us. We want to know where she is residing now, and that's the reason why the Scottish court would say it's not relevant to the question before us. Their question is not a treaty question. Their question is custody of this child. Ginsburg's answer. She is quite helpful. same thing, that the reason -- understand it as fully, and now, I do. (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought he had said the Justice Breyer -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, thank you for Justice JUSTICE BREYER: I was there, but I didn't MR. CULLEN: Justice Ginsburg, that's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, good. Official bearing on custody. (Laughter.) MR. CULLEN: Justice Breyer -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I am -- I am quite surprised that you would say that prior residence can never bear on present residence. In custody disputes, this happens all the time. The child spent years in this country, years in that country; now, for the last years, the child has been in this country -- the previous experience of the child has a tremendous To say that it's only now, prospective only, after the child has been removed, I just think is wrong, as a matter of custody law. law versus Hague law, Justice Kennedy, there -- there is a difference. The relevance of the Hague determination years in the past is not, Justice Breyer, helpful, but I agree. accommodation here, what worries me is this: If you win this case, it's not going to be better. Maybe for your client, it will be, but for others in your position, it's not going to be better. table, so you can respond, is that, in similar MR. CULLEN: Well, with respect to custody JUSTICE BREYER: Unless there is some And what's worrying me, to put it on the Official And so instead of being able in these are wrong, and they know there is a right to appeal. situations, district judges will think this child belongs in England; this child belongs in France; this child belongs in China, wherever they belong. But in the back of their mind will be the possibility that they border cases -- borderline cases, instead of being able to send the child back home, they will think, I've got to keep the child here, so that the other party has the right to appeal. Now, it seems to me, in general, that would be bad for the child. It would be -- and it's bad for our system. that you can send the child back, and then if you're country's courts. MR. CULLEN: But, Justice Breyer, if -- we say, as you know, you can't have conditional returns, but you can have, with respect to stays, there is a panoply of different types of stays. Now, what's happened in the district court in this instance -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, that -- that actually is not accurate. The Convention is full of conditions for the return, the safety of the child, the support of the parent who is returning -- there is a And it would be better to work out a system reversed on appeal, it does matter to the other Official that -- that one could argue that returning back to the imposed. MR. CULLEN: We don't -- we don't agree with MR. CULLEN: Justice -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I happen to think whole set of conditions that have to be met before the child is returned. court that had -- was making the decision after an appeal is raised, that that's an inherent condition of a return order. But that -- you're arguing against that. But there are plenty of conditions that could be that, Justice Sotomayor. There are affirmative exceptions that can be asserted by a respondent, but there are no conditions. In fact, Article of the step into any sort of custody determinations at all. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. You can't -- the Court can't order custody issues, but it can set conditions for the nature of the return. It could say certain expenses in the country the child is being sent to. Those kinds of conditions can be imposed. MR. CULLEN: Those would be limited undertakings. As you know, Justice Sotomayor, those treaty, as you know, says you cannot, as a Hague court, the father pays the cost, the father has to pay for limited types of undertakings came about because of the Official So why is this case any different from -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cullen -- Mr. Cullen, it's often true, in international litigation, that do whatever it wants, but nothing is going to happen B exception and the B exception only, where a judge felt there was some risk in the return, but the risk did not rise to the great risk. enforcement is very difficult. I mean, take a commercial litigation case where somebody is going after assets and the assets are not in the United States, and somebody looks and says, well -- you know, a court can afterwards. you know, a very frequent problem in international litigation, which is, sometimes, judgments are difficult may -- may never be enforced, but we don't put courts to the job of saying, oh, well, let's check out the various enforcement options and make predictions about who's going to do what. obvious, but this is different because it's a child. It's a child in question, and that has to be a consideration in this treaty. to enforce? And if you look at it practically, it MR. CULLEN: Justice Kagan, not to state the JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's different -- that might be -- it's certainly different in terms of the Official in terms of the law, what is different? The -- the district court was presented with a single request for a stay in this case. The request was we may or may not file an appeal. We haven't filed a notice of appeal, so give us a stay, so we can decide what we want to do. interests at stake, and that might be a very good reason for Congress to step in and try to fix this system, so that you don't have children shuttling back and forth. But -- you know, at the risk of sounding hard-hearted, MR. CULLEN: Well, what is different is -- and I need to answer the question -- two Justices have asked me about these stays, and I need to answer that, so I can answer your question. What should have happened and what usually happens is you say, give us a stay, but if you're not going to give us a stay, give us a temporary stay. Give us hours, to see if we can get a stay from the appellate court. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not quite fair to say we -- we haven't decided whether we're going to appeal. I mean, the -- the stay motion was made immediately upon the determination of the merits by the district court, and the district court said no. So, I mean, didn't they do everything they could have done Official MR. CULLEN: No. It was a peculiar MR. CULLEN: Right. And this was a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's out of to -- to get a stay? halfhearted request for a stay. The stay was we don't even know if we're going to appeal this. respect to the district judge, who's just issued a ruling on the merits. I mean, saying -- you know, we have to consider your -- your ruling, not -- you know, we're taking you up right away. The notion presented to -- to this Court that there was some rush to justice here is not what happened on the ground in Alabama. That is not what and I may be taking the opposite position from one of my colleagues, but the -- the best thing is to hold things up briefly, so that the child doesn't go overseas and then have to be brought back, particularly if you have Wednesday. And what should have happened is, at a minimum, a -hour or -hour request for a temporary stay. And, Mr. Chief Justice, this happens all the time in Hague cases. Hague practitioners ask for stays and, if a stay is not going to be granted, ask for a temporary stay. happened. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me -- Official It seems to me, if you -- if you're correct that the decision is moot, it's not going to be a -- situations where there can be an expeditious appeal. And I think most appellate courts would appreciate the -- the benefit of that. there is going to be a rush to judgment by the individual that wants to take the child away. MR. CULLEN: No, we don't agree with that, Mr. Chief Justice, because that doesn't take account of the four factors any district court judge is supposed to exercise in her discretion, in determining whether a stay should be granted or not. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, again, you're just assuming that the district judge is right, but that's the whole issue. And as the Chief Justice indicates, under your position, we give a premium to the very sort of precipitant action that the Hague Convention is designed to avoid. convention and the implementing legislation in this country. "forthwith" is used. It means right now. Time and MR. CULLEN: Justice Kennedy, no, what we're doing is we are following the letter and the text of the again, the treaty tells us you must act expeditiously Time and again, this peculiar word MR. CULLEN: Yes, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you think the -- the mere word "forthwith" in the statute is enough to alter our normal process of appeal? because the idea, Justice Kennedy, is we avoid competing litigation in countries. We must have one country that is deciding this. And it's --effect of the statute implementing the treaty, which uses "forthwith" and all of this, is to, in effect, require that, unless there is a motion for a stay pending, the decision of the trial court be carried out? MR. CULLEN: It's the -- as a treaty, it's the supreme law of the land. It says, if you decide to issue a return, the child is to be returned forthwith. And the plain meaning of those words is you must act immediately. understand why you want a treaty where the best interpret it in a way that the court of one nation with the child, where you have parents from both nations, pays no attention at all to what courts in other nations are saying. interest of the child is what's at issue, and you JUSTICE BREYER: But I can't -- I don't Official JUSTICE SCALIA: So are you arguing that the I mean, my experience out of that is Chile, Official And similarly, I think the Scottish judge I don't see how we're going to get harmony, in other words, unless you let appellate processes go forward, too. And -- and I don't know what the treaty drafters would have had in mind if they wanted some other regime. where, of course, we wanted to know what the law of Chile was and how the Chilean domestic relations judge understood the relations between the parents. That was important. should want to know the same thing about the courts deciding in the United States. And the same thing is true of the United States judge wanting to know about Scotland and so forth. the United States saying, we are going to ratify it with the United Kingdom or Scotland or Brazil, we are saying much more than there's no comity here. We are saying we trust this other country to do the right thing. And that's, Justice Breyer, why we lodged the Scottish papers because the Scottish papers should satisfy you that Scotland was very satisfied there was a MR. CULLEN: Justice Breyer, it's not that we enter into these communications and agreements with any country. By ratifying this particular treaty and by Official Scotland, and now, one court can proceed. And in fact, by continuing -- Justice MR. CULLEN: But the -- but it doesn't American judges have decided. That's all. And the valid return. JUSTICE BREYER: I trust Scotland to do the right thing. And I think, to help Scotland do the right thing, it would be nice for Scotland to know what reverse is equally true. matter, Justice Breyer, because there's been a vacatur. There is no underlying decision. The child is back in Breyer, by continuing the litigation, the effect of that is to undermine the treaty because the idea behind the treaty, particularly for military families, was to And by having ongoing litigation in the United States, the only thing we can guarantee this Court is this child is not coming to America until the litigation is over. So now, we're talking two, three, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me, can I just -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cullen, may I ask -- I'm trying to figure out what exactly your argument is. So let me give you two options, and you tell me what your argument is, all right? enable mobility. four years. Official One -- you can tell me it's neither, I suppose. But one is this case is moot because there's no practical way to enforce any relief that's ordered by the Eleventh Circuit, all right? That's what I came in thinking your argument was. The second is -- is just no, it's just improper for the Eleventh Circuit to enter any order granting relief. So which is it? Is it that it's improper to enter any order at this point? Or is it -- you know, you can enter an order, but it's just not going to be enforced, and, therefore, this case is moot? MR. CULLEN: Justice Kagan, I'm going to take your third non-offered offer. (Laughter.) MR. CULLEN: And the answer is because the Constitution tells us there is no case. We cannot -- we cannot -- and I see Justice Alito --JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't understand the third option. MR. CULLEN: Because -- because Article says we have to be able to grant some effectual relief in the judicial process. And since the Mills case in , right up to the Knox case this year, this Court has always said it's effectual relief in this judicial process. Official MR. CULLEN: It is a mootness question So I have to pose the question, Justice -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, then you seem to be saying that if the -- if the law does not permit the issuance of a particular kind of order, and that's what the -- THE plaintiff is seeking -- or that's what the appellant is seeking, then the case is moot. Is that your argument? I thought that's a merits question, not a mootness question. because it goes -- it's not -- it goes to the heart of Constitutional mootness. It goes to the issue of this may be uncomfortable, and this may be inconvenient, but once we've effected a remedy -- the only remedy, Justice Alito, under this treaty -- and once it's been carried out and once that child is home in Scotland, no matter what another court does in this judicial process, it can have no effect on the Scottish custody proceeding -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cullen, are you saying that the -- under the treaty, there can be no rereturn order? Is that what you're saying? Whether the -- whether the return order was wrong or right, there can be no rereturn? MR. CULLEN: There can be no rereturn. There was a lawful order returning the child to the jurisdiction of Scotland. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: And there could be no MR. CULLEN: Well, it is -- it is very in Janakakis. Now, they tried to deal with this, Justice Kagan, in this footnote in their brief saying, well, we touched briefly on this point before. They didn't touch briefly on it. rereturn by the terms of the treaty. So this is an argument that hangs on what the treaty's terms say; is that correct? textual, which is, of course, what surprised us so much in the government's position in this case because, as you know, Justice Kagan, the last time the government presented this position, they said exactly the opposite about the text, and we may give some compelling deference to -- to the government on text, but we don't give any deference to them we say or what the founding fathers meant. They said, in absolute terms, that nothing in the Convention -- so this is our government talking But with respect to this Janakakis case, the government said nothing in the Convention requires courts or other authorities -- and this was in Greece --to give binding effect to any judgment -- JUSTICE BREYER: It does equate, but now, you've got me -- I think I'm on the same wavelength. Official see the point of her answer now. MR. CULLEN: Good. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: And I think it was back they have been there for months is a question of what's been happening over these months, and what happened before the months has absolutely nothing to do with it. just as well, let me see, because Justice Ginsburg -- I It's really fact-specific to this case that you're talking about. So it just happens that the child has now been in Britain or in Scotland for months. And so the question of current habitual residence where say is that it was resident in America months ago, and that's no more relevant than saying that the cow jumped over the moon or some other thing. Is has -- is that the point? Is that the point? Is that the point? that is the point. Okay. If that's the point -- because the Convention says it's the point. And the most that the court of appeals could JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought -- I thought that's what you were saying. JUSTICE BREYER: If that's the point -- yes, MR. CULLEN: I would say it is the point JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the Convention Official to the -- JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but you have doesn't know whether it's months or months or what counts as habitual residence, does it? MR. CULLEN: The Convention says you look to the place where the child was located immediately prior to decide whether that's the habitual residence. And it seems to me that you're adding a factual thing, that what happened in months earlier has nothing to do with whether the child is now a habitual resident of Scotland. And what I want to know -- and I'm not going to find this in the treaty, I don't think, because it's not going to say whether it's months or -- but I want to know what source I look to, to show that you're right and that what happened months previously has nothing to do with the child's habitual residence as of the place where he has lived for months. know what I look to, to find out that fact. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Fact. MR. CULLEN: Right? JUSTICE BREYER: Yours is fact. I want to MR. CULLEN: Well, habitual residence being fact and law --MR. CULLEN: You look to , you look to Official of habitual residence months ago is dead. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So everything turns, until the U.S. proceedings are done. the Mills decision, and the Mills decision that tells you, under Article , a case is moot when the issues presented are no longer live and the parties lack a legally cognizable interest in their -- the live issue under your view, on whether or not the district court gives the losing party the -hour stay or whether the mother in this case decides to stay in the United States The incentives if you prevail are for the custodial or the parent with control over the child to leave immediately. Even after a motion has been filed -- if a motion for a stay has been filed, that's not a stay. Get on the first plane out, and then you're home free. That seems, to me, to be a very unfortunate result. agree, and here's why: We don't agree because, initially, the district court judge did not order the instantaneous departure of this child. She only did that after considering the motion to stay. It was not -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I know, but the point is that the other side says that the decision MR. CULLEN: Mr. Chief Justice, we don't Official (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there has to be at least a period before somebody can go up to the court MR. CULLEN: And it's -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And -- you know, was wrong. most -- not most, but many district judges don't like to immediately say, after they have issued a decision, well, there is a good likelihood that I'm wrong, and therefore, I'll issue a stay. of appeals and get a stay, and if you're right, what's happening during that hours or hours is that the parent with control of the child is trying to find the first flight out, and once she does, it's all over. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if I understand your answer to Justice Kagan, your argument is dependent on the proposition that, under the Convention, that once the child has left this country, a U.S. court no longer has any power to order the child to come back; is that right? MR. CULLEN: It is all over once -- once the doors close on that plane and that child arrives back in Scotland, unless the plane turns around and comes back again, it is all over. And it --MR. CULLEN: Yes, Justice Alito. Official the -- how the Convention -- what the Convention says on JUSTICE ALITO: And I don't see where that was decided, either by the court in this case or in the Beckier case that the Eleventh Circuit panel here cited. There is no discussion in either of those opinions of this question. MR. CULLEN: Well, the Beckier case goes back to Mills and relies on Church of Scientology and Mills -- what makes constitutional mootness uncomfortable because it's an answer that Justices and judges typically don't want to hear, but it is the answer. The answer is there is nothing left to be done. The one remedy has been effected, Justice Alito, and what -- what brings all this into sharp contrast now is what we lodged last JUSTICE ALITO: No, no. This is not a --this is not a question about our general standard of mootness. This is a question of the meaning of the Convention. As I understood your argument to Justice Kagan, your position is dependent on a particular interpretation of the Convention. And I don't see any discussion of that interpretive issue in either of those opinions. MR. CULLEN: Well, this is the -- this is week. MR. CULLEN: Right. And there would be a other sending countries involved could order the child MR. CULLEN: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: And you -- but you say that once the child leaves, there can't be an order requiring their return. fully participating in the Scottish proceedings. JUSTICE ALITO: If the -- if the Convention said explicitly that a court in this country or whatever back, this case would not be moot; is that correct? the Convention, in effect, says exactly the opposite; problem, Justice Alito, if we didn't have the motion to stay concept, if we didn't have all of the alternatives for district courts to enter different types of motions to stay. What -- what at least will happen from the Chafin case, I'm sure, will be everyone will know that you need to ask for a motion to stay, everyone will know you need to ask for different types of motions to enough. MR. CULLEN: Well, ask -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because the mother can get on the plane the moment she hears that someone's Official The Petitioner, Justice Alito, himself, is stay -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But asking is not Official MR. CULLEN: The mother can get on the plane under humanitarian parole, there was considerable asked. when she is allowed to get on the plane, and in this particular case, probably because she had to come in urgency in this case. And it was a very young child, and the Scottish court was ready to beseize the jurisdiction. Why would Judge Johnson not do what the treaty was telling her to do? Get the child back to Scotland, I found habitual residence in Scotland, and let's let Scotland move forward. First of all, these courts have inherent authority to reversing the wrong decision of the district court. When we are talking about the object of the Convention, it is, in part, rapid return, but that is kind of putting the cart before the horse. MR. MANELY: Thank you, Your Honor. With that, I'd like to touch on four points. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Manely, you have four minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL E. MANELY ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER order the child be brought back. It is a way of The critical issue is where is the Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what he says is that, after months in Scotland, the Scottish court will appropriate habitual residence of the child, and that is the place that then needs to make the custodial decision -- decide where is the habitual residence of the child. We are now in August of year , and what happened before January of year is now totally irrelevant. So even if the American courts decided prior to January of year the correct habitual residence was Alabama, when the -- when the Scottish courts decide what is his habitual residence as of months later, they won't pay any attention at all to that American decision because it is not relevant. argument. I disagree with it entirely. As was pointed have to transfer from one place to another. The closest case on point I can think of -- of the Convention, was to cut that out. That's the whole reason for the Convention, that they wanted to That, I take it, to be his argument, which depends on the long time, months. So what is your response? out earlier, courts are quite used to having children MR. MANELY: I think that may well be his JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was the purpose wrong. And then the father, armed with that, can go and authorized, assuming that there was a valid return order, at least valid when it was entered and when the child was returned -- stop the shuttling of children. Your -- your thesis is that the -- that, now, the court of appeals could tell the district judge, you were get a rereturn order from the Scottish court under the Convention. Convention, was this question of rereturn -- is rereturn MR. MANELY: There are no cases because we don't run into this problem, quite frankly. And -- and rereturn is a catch phrase that was created here. Bringing the child back would be a part of the court's inherent authority -- part of the district court or the court of appeals' inherent authority, and it's the basis upon which Scotland has the child in the first place. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there a Spanish case? MR. MANELY: Your Honor -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is the incidence of rereturn under the Hague Convention? Official Do you -- are you aware of rereturn? Have there been instances under the MR. MANELY: I'm sorry? Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there a Spanish MR. MANELY: There is a Scottish custody JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where the child was, in fact, returned when -- MR. MANELY: The child was sent to Poland JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not a Scottish, Spain, a MR. MANELY: A Spain -- a Spanish case, yes, case? case pending -- case from Spain. Your Honor, there is. based upon the trial court's decision in that case, and the child returned from Poland, based upon the Supreme Court of Spain's decision in that case. So there is a JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was the child returned? Or was it just a decision that the appeal could not be avoided? Was the child returned by Poland? Supreme Court -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's -- see, that's the whole problem, is that you -- you're going to have rival decrees of two countries, which is what -- exactly what if the child was returned from Poland, so much as the MR. MANELY: Well, I don't know, ultimately, confusion between --the Convention was meant to avoid. Official amici brief here that says that the Scottish courts will MR. MANELY: Except that we never have. I mean, this is a fairly young convention. We haven't had it that long. But we never have had that problem before. It's been easy enough -- Ohlander v. Larson out of the Tenth Circuit is a great case to look at, for where the United States has been very giving in sending children back. We have not had this problem before. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, there is an not pay attention to the habitual residence of a child at the time of the removal. The amici brief that was filed with us yesterday, if I'm reading it correctly, suggests that the court believes that hasn't been well, Your Honor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That that -- so that proposition is not as settled as the amici suggests? MR. MANELY: Correct. I think they are So you've got Villamonte v. Marquez, where the issue there is it's not moot because it's possible an extradited person could one day voluntarily return, settled in English law; is that correct? MR. MANELY: That's my reading of it as waiting to see what -- what we want to do. so it's not moot. Official But in this case, there is nothing survive this -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that sounds to be the sort of concrete injury that's required. MR. MANELY: The concrete injury has to do preventing the mother, who filed the case before the district court and is still a party to the case, from voluntarily returning. That enough is -- is enough to awfully speculative and conjectural. That doesn't sound -- whether you're analyzing it under standing in the first instance or mootness later, that doesn't sound with the habitual residence determination in the district court, which switches if the appellate court reverses and grants habitual residence here and orders interest. above-entitled matter was submitted.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the the child be brought back. That is the concrete OfficialOfficial A ability : : able : :, : above-entitled : : Absent : absolute : absolutely : : : accommodate accommodation account : : : : accurate : act : : action : : : : adding : address : addresses : adjudicated : adjust : affirmative : affirmed : ago : : : agree : : : :, : : : : : : :, agreements Airdrie : : : Alabama : : :, :, :,, :,,, :,, :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : Alito : : : : : :, :, : :, : :,, Alito's : alive : : : allow : : : allowed : allowing : : : allows : alter : alternatives : America : : : American : : : : :, amici : :,, amicus : : : analyzing : animal : answer :, : : : : :,, : : : :,, answered : answering : anymore : apologize : appeal : : : : : area : : argue :, : argued : arguing : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : :, argument : : : :,,, : : : : :,,,, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, appealed : arguments : : : appeals : armed : : arrives : : : : :, Article : : : : : : ::, : : :, :APPEARAN... asked : :: appellant : appellate :, : : : : : : : : asking :::aspect :aspects :assert :asserted :Appendix :, assets :,application : apply : :,, applying : : appreciate : appropriate : : : :, : :, : appropriately : approximately Assistant :assume :assumed ::assuming :: :: :attention :: :: :attorneys ::August :authorities: :authority :: ::,,: :,authorized:available :avoid :: ::avoided :avoids :award : ::,,:awarded :aware ::awfully :a.m : ::Bback : ::, :,,:, :,: :,: ::,,: :,: :: :,: ::,, :: :: ::,,: ::, :: :bad : :,balance :balancing :based : ::,basis : :: : Official : :, : : bring : : :, : : : :,,,, : : :,,,, cases : : bear : bearing : Beckier :, beginning : bringing : : : : : brings : Britain : brought :, central :, :, : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : : : :, believes : belong : belongs :,, burden :, benefit : beseize : best : : better : : : : : : : : Chafin :, : :,, : : : : : : : certain : certainly : catch : cause : burdens : Chafin's : challenge : changes : chaos : check : Chief :, : : clearly : close : closest : cognizable : colleagues : come : : :, : :, : client : : : : :, : : :,, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : comes : : : : : :, coming : : :, : : :, : comity : :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : : comment : comments : commercial commenced : : : children : : : : : committing : common : communicates : CC : : car :carried ::cart :case :,,: : : : :,: ::,,,:,,: :,:, : : :,,:, : : :,: :,: :,:,,,: :,,: :,:, : : :,: :,:,,: :,: :,:,, : : :,: ::, : binding : border : borderline : borders : bottom : bound : : :, boundaries : Brazil : breaching : break : Breyer : :, : : :,, :,, :,, : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : brief : : : : : :, briefly : :, briefs : : communicatio... communication child's : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, :, : Chile : : compelling: :, : :, Chilean :, :,, :, : :, China : choose :, competing : : :,: : : : : : : child : : Church : complete : Circuit : : : : : : :, : : :, :, :,,,, : :,, :, :,, :, :, :,, : : : :, citations : :,, cited : :, : :, : Civil : : :, Class :, :,,, circumstances : : concept : concerned : concerns : : : concrete : :,condition : conditional : conditions : :,,, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : conduct : confusion : Congress : conjectural : cooperation Official cow : created : criminal : critical : crucial : : : : : : :, : : court's :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :,,,, :,,, : : :, :, :,, :,,,, : :, :,,, : :,, :,,, :,, :,,, Cullen : : :,,, :,,, :,, : : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :,, :,, :,, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :,, :, : : : : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : courts :, curiae : : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, :, : : : : current : custodial : : : custody : : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : cut : DD :Dad : damages : day : dead : deal : deals : December : decide :: :,: :: :: ::, decided :, : :: :decides : deciding : : decision : :, : : : :,,:,,: : : : : : :,, : : :, :,, decisions : declaratory: : decrees : defer : deference :: denied :,Department : : connected : consequences :,, consider : : : considerable : consideration : : considering Constitution : : constitutional :, : : context :, :, : correct : : : :, : : : : : : : :, correctly : cost : : costs :, : :, : :, : counsel : : : : :, : : : : : : : continue : continues : continuing :, countries : : :, :, : : : contracting : country : contrast : :, : control : : :,, : : : :, : : controversy : convention : country's : : counts : :, : : : : :, :, : course : : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : court :, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : discussing : departure : discussion : dependent : : :, dispute : discussions : dismiss : : : depends : deported :, dismissed : deprive : deprives : designed : details : determination :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : disputes : district :, : :,, :,, : : : : : : :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : determine : : : : : : :, determinations determined : divorce : : : : : determining : : difference : :, : :, : different : : : docket :, doctrine : : doing : : : : domestic : doors : :, : drafters : :, : D.C :,, : : : :, :, : : :, differently : difficult : E : :,, :,, : earlier : : E :, disagree : discretion : : discuss : easy : effect : : : : : : : Official effected : : : effectively : : effects : effectual : : :, effectuate : : either : : : :,, element : Eleventh : :,,, essentially : : exactly : : : :,, : : : : example : : : exception :, exceptions : exclusively : : : : Excuse : exercise : : :, : : families : far : : fashion : : fast : father : : :, : fathers : February : : Federal : : : : : : fees : : :,,,, : :, exercises : expedited : felt : figure : enable : ends : energy : : : enforce : : enforced : : extradited : finding : :, expeditious : expeditiously expenses : experience : explicitly : : : Ffact : : : ::,,,:factor ::, : factors ::factual :fact-specific:failure :fair :fairly :falls :: : file : filed : : : : :, : : filled : final : find :, : finds : finish : finished : first :,,: : : : : : : : : five : fix :, : flight : flying : focus : : focused : followed : following : : enforcement :, : : England : English : : enlist : enter : : :, : entered : : : entirely : entry :, equally : equate : equitable : : equities : errant : erroneous : error : ESQ :,, Official :,, : : : : :, Ginsburg's : give : : grant : : : : : granted :, : : granting : grants : : :, great : : :, : :,,, Greece : ground : : : guarantee : :,, : : found : founding : four : : glad : : Given : gives : giving : footnote : foreign :,, Forget : form : forth :, : : : forthwith : :,, forum :, forward : : : : : : : : :, frame :, : France : frankly : free : frequent : full : fully : : fundamental further : : : G G : general : : : Georgia : getting : : Ginsburg :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : hypothetical : : IICARA : idea : : : ideal :, ignoring : illegal :imagine : immediate :,immediately: : : ::impediment ::implementing: : important :imposed :: :impossibility: : impossible :: : improper :,incentives : incidence :included : inconvenient:indicates :individual : :inherent : : :,inhibited :inhibits :initially ::injury ::,inquiry :,hangs : happen : : : : : : happened : : : : : : :, : : :, : happening : : : happens : : : : : : : hard-hearted : harmony : hear : : heard : hears : heart : held : : help : : helpful : : : hold : home :, : : : : honor : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : hope : hoping : horse : hours : :,humanitarian : H habitual : :,,,: : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, :, :, : : : :,, :, : : :, :, : :, Hague : : : : :,,, :,,, :,,, : : : : :, : :, : : HALES : halfhearted : Hamlet : hand : handing : go : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : goes : : : : :,, : going :, : : : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : good : : : : : : goodness : government : :, :, government's : : : Official interrelated : :, instance : : instances : instantaneous : interest : : : interested : interests : international : :, interpret : interpretation interpretive : : : : involved : irrelevant : : issuance : issue :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : issued : : issues : :, : : issuing : it'll : J J : : Janakakis : : : January :, JEFFREY : job : Johnson : Joint :, judge : : :, : : :, :,, : : : judges : : : : judgment : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : judgments judicial : :, : July : jumped : jurisdiction :, :, : : : : : :,, :,, : : justice : : : :,, :, :,, :,,, :,,, : :,,, :, :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, :,, leave : : leaves : : : :,, :,, : : : :, LEE : : keep : keeping : kind : : : : : kinds : :, :, Kagan :, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, keeps : :, : Kennedy : :, : :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,,,, :,,, :, : :,,, Kingdom : know : : :, : : :, :,,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :, : :,, :, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : : :,,, :,,, : : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :,,,, : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : Llack :land :language :Larson :Laughter :Knox : : knowledge : Justices : : K: :: :laundry :law : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : lawful : : left : : : : legally : legislation : letter : letting : let's : : level : : light : likelihood : : limited :, linchpin : : line : : lion's : list : literal : : litigated : litigation :, : : :,, live :, lived : located : lodged : : long :, : : : : longer : : look : : Official :,,,, : : :,, moon : moot : : :, : : : opinions :, needs : : opposed : opposite : : : neither : : :,, never : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : nice : : : :, : : : NICOLE : :, : : mooted : mootness : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : morning : mother : : :,,, : :, : : : : : : : mother's : :, non-moot : non-offered normal : : : notice : notion : OO : : object :,:obliterate :obliterated:obtaining :obvious :occurs :October ::: : option : options : : oral : :,, : : : order : : :, : :, :, :, :, : : :,,: :,,:,,: : : :,:,,:,,,: : :, : :,ordered : : orders : : : : : : original : outstanding: overseas : overstayed : overturn : P: : : : : :, :,, : looking : : : looks : lose : : loses : losing : : lovely : : lower : : LYNNE : M : :, : : : : : : : : : mean : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : meaning : : : means : : meant : making : : : mandate : measure : mandatory : Manely : : mere : merits : : : : : : : : met : : MICHAEL : :, : : : :,, :,, : : :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, : : :,, :,,, :,, : manner : Marietta : Marquez : matter : : offense :offer :oh : : Ohlander :Okay :once :, : : ::,,:,,, P :: military : motion : Mills : : :, :, : :, : :, mind : : motions : minimum : minutes : move : mobility : multiple : moment :, : NN :, : narrow-minded : monetary : : : money : : : monies : months :,: : : :, :,, nation : : nations :, one-way : nature : ongoing : need : : :, : : : opinion :, :, : page : :, pages :panel :panoply :paper ::, papers :, parallel : parcel : parent : : : parents : : : : : : : : : Petitioner's : : phrase : parole : piece : : part : : place : : : : possibly : posture : potentially : power : : : : practical : : : :, partial : participating : particular : : : : : particularly : : : : parties : : : : : : : party : : : : : : : pay :, : : : : : pays : : peculiar : : pending : : : : : period :, : : permit : : permitting : person : : perspective :, : Petitioner : :, :, : :, practically :, : :, : : : : : practitioners precipitant plain : plaintiff : plane : precisely : :, : preclude : :, predictions played : please : : : : plenty : point : : : : : :, :,,, present : :,, : : : : pointed : points : : : : : : : : Poland :, presently : :, portion : pose : posing : position : : : : :, : : : : :, : possibilities : possibility : : : : possible :, : presents : presumably : : : presumed : presuming : presumptive : pretty : prevail : preventing : previous : previously : Official prior : : put : : : : probably : problem : : : : : : : :, procedure : : :, : proceed : : :, : : : :, : : : putting : Q question : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :,, : :, :,,, : : :, : : questions : : :, : : : predominant proceeding : : :, :, : :,, : : proceedings : : :, : : :, premised : : : premium : process : : :, quite : : : : : : : presented : premise :, quickly : :, processes : prohibition : proper : : properly : proposition : : propriety : prospective : prove : provided : provision : : : provisions : purpose : : : pursuant : pursue : R R : raised : rapid : ratify : ratifying : read :, reading : :, ready : really : : : : : reapply : reason : : : : : :, Official : : reasoning : reasons : REBUTTAL : : refer : regardless : regime : relations :, relevance : relevant : : : : request :, :, require : required : : : requirement : requires : : : : : : response : rest : : : : result : : retain : : : retained : retention : return : : relief :,, requiring : rereturn : :, : :,,,, : res : : :, reserve : : : :,, :, residence : :,,, :, relies : : : : rely : : : remain : : : remaining : : : : remains : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,,, : : : :, reverse : remand : remedies : remedy :, :, : :, : : : remedy's : removal : : : : : : :, :,, returning : removals : remove : : resident : : : residing : : removed : : : : : : : :, resources : : resolution : reverses : resolve : : reversed : : : : respect : : : :, : : : : : respond : respondent : reversing : : : : revisit :, right : : : :, : :, : :, removes : removing : : rental : reopen : repeated : rise : :, : : :, : :, risk : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : returned : rival : ROBERTS : : : : : returns : reversal :, run :, : rush : : Scientology : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, :, : : : :,, : : : :, : : : rights : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, rule : : ruled : rules : ruling :, Ss : : : safety :Saharsky :: :,: :,,:, : : :,: :,: :,:, : : ::, : satisfied ::satisfy : saying : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, says : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : Scalia :, :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, :,, : : Scotland : : :,,,: :,:, : : :,: : : : :,,: :,: :,,: :,: : : :,: : : Official Scottish : : : :, :,, : : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : second : : : Section : see : :, : : : :, :, : : seeking :, seize : seized : : : : send :, sending : : : separate : : : : separately : :,, : Sergeant : : : set : : :, sets : settled :, share :, sense : sensible : sensibly : sent : : sorry : sentence : : : : : sharp : sheriff : : show : : showing : : : shuttled : shuttling : : : :, : :, : :,, : : Sotomayor's : sound :, sounding : sounds : : source : side : : Spain :,, Spain's : Spanish : : : similar : : similarly : simply : : : single : : : sir :, : : : : situation : situations : : six :, : solely : Solicitor : somebody : :, specific : specifically : speculative : : : spent : : stake : standard : : : : : :, : standards : standing : :,,, : someone's : stand-still : start : : started : state :,, : :, : :, : : sort : : : : : Sotomayor :, :, : :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, States :,, : :,, : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : supreme :, : : : :, sure : surprised : status : : statute :, stay : : :, : :,,, survive : survives : :, : suspense : :,,, switches : :,,, :,,, system :, :,, :, : :,,,, : : : :,, :, : : :, :, TT :, table : take : : : :,: : stayed : staying : stays : : : :, : : step : : STEPHEN : : : stop :, : : stops : submitted : :, substantial : success : sufficient : : suggest : suggesting : : suggests : : support : supported : supporting : : : suppose : supposed : taken : : : :, takes : talk : talking : :, : : :: : tell : : : :: :telling :::tells : : temporary: :,Tenth : terms :, : :: :,,test : : : :,text : : :textual : thank : :, : Official typically : U.S : : wavelength : :, : : : way : : : UUCCJEA :: :, :, ultimately : uncomfortable Vv : : :, vacated : : :,, : : :,: : vacation :underlying : vacatur :undermine valid : : : : :understand : various :: :versus :view : : :, : :,,, :, : :, : Villamonte: : : : :visa :understood : vision :,: undertakings :,unfortunate: :United :,,: :,,: : : : :,: :,: :: :: : : :,,,: ::unnecessary:urgency :urging :use : : :uses :usually :U.K : : voluntarily :: :Wwait :,,waiting ::walk :want : : : ::, : : :: ::,,: :wanted :,:wanting :wants :::ward :Washington ::,wasn't : : :: : : : : : : ways : :, Wednesday : : week : : went : we'll : : we're : : : :,: : :, : : :,: : : we've : whit : win :,: ::,,,: :wiped :: won :won’t :word : : words :::work :works :,:world :worried : worries :worry :worrying :wouldn't :: :,: :: : :, : thesis : thing : :, : : :, : :, : : : things :, : think : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : thinking : third : : :, thought : : : : : :, three : : thrust : : time :, : :,,, : : : : : : : : :, : : : timely : today : told : toll : tolled :, tolling : totally : : touch : : touched : track : : traffic : transfer : travel : treaty : : :,, : :,, : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : treaty's : tremendous : trial : : : : tried : true : : : : trust : : : try : trying : : : : : tunnel :, turns : : two : : : : :, : type : types : : :, : :, wrong : :, : :, : : : :, : : wrongful : wrongfully : : : : : X x :, Y year : : : : :,, years : : : :,, : : yesterday : : young : : Z zero : $ $, :, : : : :, : : : : - : : : : : : : : B :, th : : : : Official : :, :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : -hour : : : : : : : : : : -hour : : : : : : : : (b)() : s : : : 