 v. Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Wednesday, October , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x ABIGAIL NOEL FISHER, : : No. -: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN, : ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x The above-entitled matter came on for oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: BERT W. REIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents. Petitioner. Respondents. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondents For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN, ESQ. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S ORAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. REIN: Mr. -- Mr. -- General Suter Mr. Chief Justice, and members of the Court, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I get to say (: a.m.) MR. REIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court -- that this is Case Number -, Fisher against the University of Texas at Austin. And you get to say -- trained me too well. and may it please the Court: approving that its use of race as an admissions-plus factor in the consequent denial of equal treatment, which is the central mandate of the Equal Protection Clause, to Abigail Fisher met the two tests of strict First -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, before we get to that, because the Court is supposed to raise it on its own, the question of -- of standing. The injury --if the injury is rejection by the University of Texas, The central issue here is whether the University of Texas at Austin can carry its burden scrutiny which are applicable. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you get past Texas v. Lesage with that injury -- MR. REIN: Lesage -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- which says that mere MR. REIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the first injury that was before the Court was the use of a system and the answer is, no matter what, this person would not have been accepted, then how is the injury caused by the affirmative action program? which denied equal treatment. It was a Constitutional injury, and part of the damage claim was premised directly on the Constitutional issue. use of race is not cognizable injury sufficient for standing. merits, and the question was whether Lesage could carry his case when -- on summary judgment, when it was apparent that his complaint, which was that he was denied access to the graduate program at the University As I said -- and there are several factors in this case that are quite different. First, there is a Constitutional injury as such, and the Court has recognized it. Second, the fact premise, she could not have MR. REIN: Lesage was litigated on its of Texas, was not sustainable. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go to another side? She's graduated. and get in automatically, and she didn't, correct? MR. REIN: No, that's not correct, MR. REIN: Correct. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She disclaimed the been allowed in under any circumstance, was never tested below, wasn't raised below. It comes up in a footnote in -- desire, after her application, to go to the school at all. She was permitted to apply for the summer program Your Honor. She -- she was not automatically admitted. She was considered for the summer program and rejected. You are talking about the CAP program, where Texas system, and had she been able to achieve -- get or will she be entitled to? bifurcated, and we've reserved the ability to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But she's graduated. MR. REIN: She has graduated. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Injunctive relief, she's JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you have to claim an injury. So what's the injury --she could have attended a different university in the not going to get. So what measure of damages will she MR. REIN: Well, that issue, of course, is Official MR. REIN: The -- the denial of her right to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You still haven't answered how Lesage gets away from that -- MR. REIN: Well, Lesage -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- but if there's a -- MR. REIN: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that you're claiming that would sustain a claim of damages? equal treatment is a Constitutional injury in and of itself, and we had claimed certain damages on that. We -- we started the case before it was clear whether she would or wouldn't be admitted. give me another -- MR. REIN: Well, I think --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- damages question. MR. REIN: On the -- if we then, on remand, were to assert damages contingent upon the fact that she should have been admitted to UT and was not admitted, we would then have to prove that, but for the use of race, something you can't tell on this record. It's merely asserted. And I would point out that Texas said below, there was no way to determine that issue without --she would be admitted. That's the thrust of Lesage. Whether we can prove it or can't prove it is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What damages -- Official gotten the contract otherwise, have we? MR. REIN: No, sir. JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's been enough JUSTICE SCALIA: We've had cases involving alleged discrimination in state -- state contracting. And we haven't required the person who was discriminated against because of race to prove that he would have that there was a denial of equal protection. MR. REIN: That is our correct, and that is our first premise. And I would say that the same issue was raised in Bakke. And in Bakke, the contention was he couldn't have gotten into the medical school; therefore, he has no case. The Court said, in footnote to Justice Powell's opinion, that's a matter of type of contention was made with respect to the Louisville class plaintiffs, whose son had been admitted to the school of his choice, and the Court said damages are enough to sustain standing. There is a live damages claim here, and I don't think there is a question of standing. necessarily that she would have been -- would have been admitted, but that she was denied a fair chance in the merits; it is not a matter of standing. I think in -- in Parents Involved, the same JUSTICE SCALIA: Her claim is not Official MR. REIN: Yes, Justice Scalia, I agree with that. admission lottery. Just as when a person is denied participation in the contracting lottery, he has suffered an injury. JUSTICE BREYER: If you are going to the -- to the merits, I want to know whether you want us to -- or are asking us to overrule Grutter. Grutter said it would be good law for at least years. And I know that time flies, but I think only nine of those years have passed. (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: And so, are you? And, if so, why overrule a case into which so much thought and effort went and so many people across the country have depended on? carefully, we were not trying to change the Court's disposition of the issue in Grutter. Could there be a legitimate -- a compelling interest in -- in moving -- in using race to establish a diverse class. throughout the case is there are varying understandings, not of the legitimacy of the interest, but how you get there; is it necessary to use race to achieve that MR. REIN: Justice Breyer, we had said, very What -- the problem that we've encountered Official JUSTICE BREYER: So your question is MR. REIN: We litigated it on that basis, JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how do you want to interest; what does a critical mass -- whether -- your point is does your case satisfy Grutter? Is that what you're arguing? yes. argue it right now in the next ten minutes? I'm interested because I have a very short time to get my question out, and I need to know how you are going to argue it. argument is we can satisfy Grutter if it's properly read. What we've seen -- under Grutter, would this plan be acceptable? MR. REIN: Well, I think that there would be flaws under Grutter, even if you assumed away something specifically, let's take away the percent solution. Suppose the only plan were the one that is before the Court now, no percent. This is the exclusive way that the University is attempting to increase minority enrollment. that can't be assumed away because it is a matter of MR. REIN: Well, Justice Breyer, our JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you on that Then, if we had no percent solution, Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, then the -- the MR. REIN: Well, I don't agree with that, In order to satisfy Grutter, you first have this program is certainly no more aggressive than the Texas law, that is, there is a top percent program, and that -- question is can you have both? But it seems to me that one in -- in Grutter; it's more -- in fact, more modest. and let me explain why. to say that you are not just using race gratuitously, but it is in the interest of producing a critical mass of otherwise underrepresented students. And so to -- to be within Grutter framework, the first question is, absent the use of race, would we be generating a got to examine in context the so-called soft factors that are in Grutter -- you know, are -- is there an isolation on campus? Do members of minority feel that JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The one social studies that this University did said that minority students, overwhelmingly, even with the numbers they have now, are feeling isolated. So what do -- why isn't that even critical mass? To answer that question, you start -- you've they cannot speak out? under your test? reinstitute racial -- MR. REIN: It was done after MR. REIN: Well, the survey was -- a random survey. It's not reported in any systematic way. They evidence is adequate, is necessary, or not. Why does their test fail? evidently interviewed students. And it was all about classroom isolation. It wasn't about -- before or after they announced the decision to President Faulkner had made the declaration they were going to do it. It was done before -- day. JUSTICE SCALIA: And by the way, do you think that Grutter -- this goes to Justice Breyer's no more affirmative action in higher education after ? MR. REIN: No, I don't. JUSTICE SCALIA: Was that the holding of JUSTICE SCALIA: Which came almost immediately after our decision in Grutter. MR. REIN: On the -- I believe, on the same question -- do you think that Grutter held that there is Official We can go back to whether substantial JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it -- was it done Grutter? two-court rule. And two courts have found, it seems to me, Official MR. REIN: That was -- that was not -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a scary -- that's a JUSTICE BREYER: I agree it might, but I want to get to the question, so, what I'm trying to scary -- pinpoint, because we have such a limited time, and to me, the one thing I want to pinpoint, since you're arguing on that this satisfies Grutter, if properly understood, as you say that. In looking up, we have a that here, there is a certain thing -- there is no quota. It is individualized. It is time limited. It was adopted after the consideration of race-neutral consideration, and race did not become the predominant factor. to know what precisely it is that Grutter required in your opinion that makes this different from Grutter, in that it was not satisfied here? The ones I listed, two courts say are the same. So maybe there's some others. MR. REIN: I'm not sure we agree with those courts in their method of analysis. JUSTICE BREYER: But we have a rule that if means. Each applicant receives individual So I take those as a given. And then I want Official JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: There are facts, and there are facts, aren't there? MR. REIN: Well -- and -- particularly in the case of considering alternatives that have worked two courts say it, we're very reluctant, on something connected with facts, to overturn it, so -- so that's why I mention that. about as well, I think that's a legal question this Court is free to act on. MR. REIN: So if I might try to answer your question, there was no effort in this case to establish a -- even a working target for critical mass. They simply ignored it. They just used words, and they said, predicate question, which Grutter asks: Absent the use of race, can we generate a critical mass? think is in Grutter. We think it's necessary for this Court to restate that principle. Now, whether that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's a normal fact that we accede to two-court holdings on, whether there is -- is or is not a critical mass? MR. REIN: No. I --JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a weird kind of a we've got to do more. So they never answered the So -- I mean, that's -- that's a flaw we Official MR. REIN: Well, Justice Scalia, that is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No -- putting aside -- I JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So could you tell me MR. REIN: And I'm -- I'm not saying -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an estimation, isn't fact. it? A judgment? correct. And in addition, the courts didn't find whether a critical mass -- what a critical mass was? I'm looking at the number of blacks in the University of Texas system. Pre-Grutter, when the state was indisputably still segregating, it was percent. Today, under the post-Grutter system, it's percent. The percent increase is enough for you, even though the state population is at percent? Somehow, they've reached a critical mass with just the percent increase? MR. REIN: Well, we don't believe that demographics are the key to underrepresentation of critical mass. don't -- I'm not going to quarrel with you that, if demographics alone were being used, I would be somewhat concerned. But you can't seriously suggest that demographics aren't a factor to be looked at in combination with how isolated or not isolated your or at least ought to be. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why don't you Official MR. REIN: Well, I think, if you start to student body is actually reporting itself to feel? split out subgroups of minorities, you mistake, I think -- what I think is the proper thrust of Grutter, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It might be insulting -- it might be insulting to some to be thrown into a pot. seriously suggest that? Why don't you seriously suggest position because it seems, to me, right. balancing is not a permissible interest. And we have permissible interest. And that is something we certainly agree with. Trying to respond to Justice Sotomayor and -- and in the framework of Grutter, what you're that demographic -- that the demographic makeup of the state has nothing to do with whether somebody feels isolated, that if you're in a state that is only percent black that doesn't mean that you're not isolated, so long as there's percent in the class? MR. REIN: Certainly -- racial balance -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I wish you would take that looking at is, do you -- does this person, member of a MR. REIN: Well, Justice Scalia, racial constantly -- this Court has constantly held not a Official And I think we've always said, if you have a very large number, as Texas did in , when they so-called underrepresented minority -- it's a concept we don't necessarily accept, but it's Texas' concept -- are they isolated? Are they unable to speak out? ostensibly made the decision to reinstitute race, they had a percent admission percentage of what they called the underrepresented minorities. They also had about an percent admission ratio of Asian Americans. So on campus, you're talking about -- about percent of the class being minorities. JUSTICE BREYER: Now, but the test is -- the test is, in your opinion -- I have to write this in the opinion, let's say -- the proper test of critical mass That's the test. And that wasn't in Grutter or was in Grutter? And in your opinion, it was in Grutter? MR. REIN: Yes. It said expressly in Grutter -- MR. REIN: In Grutter, the Court assumed that the very small number of admissions -- minority admissions, looked at as the whole -- and it was looked at as a whole, only as a whole in Grutter -- would have is, is the minority isolated, unable to speak out. JUSTICE BREYER: Isolated. And the reason it was satisfied there and not here is? Official MR. REIN: We -- it's not our burden to yielded about or percent minority admission in a class of , which means about to students -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what are you telling us is the standard of critical mass? At what point does a district court or a university know that it doesn't have to do any more to equalize the desegregation that has happened in that particular state over decades, that it's now going to be stuck at a fixed number and it has to change its rules. What's that fixed number? establish the number. It was the burden of the University of Texas to determine whether -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, they told -- they told the district court. They took a study of students. They analyzed the composition of their classes, and they determined in their educational judgment that greater diversity, just as we said in Grutter, is a goal of their educational program and one that includes diversifying classes. So what more proof do you require? MR. REIN: Well, if you are allowed to state all the grounds that need to be proved, you will always prove them, in all fairness, Justice Sotomayor. The question is, they have --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but given it was Official saying? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's enough now. MR. REIN: And --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what you're in the evidence, what more do you think they needed? I think I hear all you saying in your brief is the number's fixed now, they got enough, no more is necessary. MR. REIN: What we're saying in the brief was they were generating, in fact, a very substantial number of minority presence on campus. MR. REIN: No. And that immediately thrust upon them the responsibility, if they wanted to -- you know, essentially move away from equal treatment, they had to establish, we have a purpose, we are trying to generate a critical mass of minorities that otherwise could not be achieved. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me -- all right. Tell me what about their use of race did not fit the narrow tailoring -- not the necessity prong as you've defined it, but the narrow tailoring that Grutter required? How is race used by them in a way that violated the terms of Grutter? MR. REIN: And for this purpose --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming that the need Official First of all, if you think about narrow what critical mass means, you can't tailor to it. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you have to set a is there. I know you're challenging the need. MR. REIN: Well, put -- put aside whether this was necessary and whether it was an appropriate last resort in -- in a quest for diversity and critical mass because Grutter's not without limits. But I'll put that aside, and let me come directly to your question. tailoring, you can't tailor to the unknown. If you have no range of evaluation, if you have no understanding of quota for critical mass? MR. REIN: No. There's -- there's a huge difference, and it's an important one that is not well put out by the University of Texas. Having a range, a view as to what would be an appropriate level of comfort, critical mass, as defined in Grutter, allows you to evaluate where you are -- shouldn't have. MR. REIN: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I think it's very important to distinguish between the operative use of that range. In other words, that's where we are, quota, we'll call it a goal, something Grutter said you and we're going to use race until we get there, every JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we won't call it a Official doing, that you shouldn't be setting goals, that you Tell me how this system doesn't do that. MR. REIN: This system doesn't -- I mean, year, in consideration of each application, which was a problem -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Boy, it sounds awfully like a quota to me, that Grutter said you should not be shouldn't be setting quotas. You should be setting an individualized assessment of the applicants. it's not narrowly tailored because it doesn't fit. There are certain forms of Grutter that it follows. It -- JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Rein, do you understand what the University of Texas thinks is the definition of the language of Grutter. They have no definition. They can't fit -- relying entirely on the percent is enough. They don't -- they got minorities through the percent, so they don't need any more. And I tried to get you rigidly to focus on -- forget the percent plan. This JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. -- Mr. Rein, it seems to me that, in your talking about critical mass, you are a critical mass? Because I don't. MR. REIN: I -- well, it simply reiterated is the entire plan. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because of the MR. REIN: Well, let me tell you that, if you look outside the top , at the so-called AI/PAI admits only -- forget the top for a minute, they were generating approximately percent minority admissions outside the top , which is in -- above what the target was in Grutter. So this is not Grutter on its facts. It's vastly different. This is a -- percent. MR. REIN: No, it was -- I'm talking about only the non-top percent admissions. percent of those were so-called underrepresented minorities. This is without the top . Now, the top is also a major generator of admissions for underrepresented minorities. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And this was -- and this was before the adoption of the plan. numbers -- the one that was arrived at with the percent plan. MR. REIN: No. With the percent plan, it's much higher. In , it was percent for just Hispanics and African Americans, and these are the categories they used. If you add in Asians, it was over MR. REIN: That is correct. Those are the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm sorry. Now, I'm confused. I thought the percent figure was Official very close to that over time. But I'm isolating -- in response to Justice they tried to accommodate to their loss of the ability to use race directly, which came up in Hopwood. percent. Ginsburg, I'm isolating to the non-top admissions. Those are over percent in that year, and they average So the -- the total generation of minority presence is a combination of the two in fact, but the AI/PAI system -- which was adopted in response to Hopwood, it was -- as Texas says, it was the first thing So that was their first response, to look at a more balanced admission program between Academic Index and Personal Achievement Index. So it is not a system this -- and then I hope we can get back to Justice Alito's question. achieve a diverse student body because it admits so few people -- so few minorities. And I had trouble with that, reading the brief. I said, well, if it's so few, then what's the problem? You argue that the University's race-conscious admission plan is not necessary to which just excludes minorities. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you comment on MR. REIN: Well, it's a question -- Official MR. REIN: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see an inconsistency MR. REIN: Well -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it -- are you saying JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then -- let's assume -- MR. REIN: Excuse me, Justice. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that it resulted in the admission of many minorities. Then you'd come back and say, oh, well, this is -- this shows that we -- we were probably wrongly excluded. I -- here. that you shouldn't impose this hurt or this injury, generally, for so little benefit; is -- is that the point? The second is the question of reasonably available alternatives. If we take Texas at its word, and it says they are satisfied, they are happy going on with the way they apply race today, we tried to measure, well, what thing with a reasonably available race-neutral alternative? That's a question that was asked in Grutter. They were supposed to analyze that. They didn't look at it. But it -- MR. REIN: Well, yes, that's part of it. difference is it making? And could you achieve the same percent plan was to increase minority enrollment. MR. REIN: Well, we say -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it -- and that -- the JUSTICE GINSBURG: But is the -- the race-neutral alternative is the percent plan? MR. REIN: The race-neutral alternative includes an extension of the percent plan because it's a major generator of minority admissions. And right now, that ranges at . okay because it's -- it's race-neutral. But is it really? The -- the only reason that they instituted the only way it works is if you have heavily separated schools. And worse than that, I mean, if you -- if you percent plan, you go to the low-performing school, you don't take challenging courses, because that's how you'll get into the percent. MR. REIN: But, Justice Ginsburg, let -- let me say that -- that a lot of that is speculative. There is nothing in the record to support it. We don't know. They've never surveyed the top admits, the minority So maybe the University is concerned that that is an inadequate way to deal with it. want to go to the University of Texas under the Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you say, and that's admits, to see, well, did you -- Official MR. REIN: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- to say this -- this is percent of any school in the state gets into the MR. REIN: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Anybody who is in the top JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. The percent plan is not imposed by the University. It's not their option -- not good for education because people will take easy courses. It's imposed by state law, isn't it? University of Texas. MR. REIN: Yes. And even the Fifth Circuit said you can't disregard its consequences because it's a matter of law. I'm simply saying they could choose to extend it beyond where it is because it's capped today at percent. But that's not the only option. That's not the only alternative. And -- and certainly, one simple alternative is they could look at the yield, that is, actually encouraging and -- and enrolling. JUSTICE BREYER: Or they could -- this is what is underlying my thing here. I want to get you directly to answer it. I did look up the figures. And before Hopwood and the percent plan, it looked on the what percentage of the admitted minorities are they Official African American side, that it averaged about -- percent per year, really, pretty steadily. Then after Hopwood and percent, it went down a little bit, not a lot, but it went down to about and a half percent -- percent, maybe. And then they introduced Grutter, and it's back up to percent. MR. REIN: No -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, is that a lot? Is that a little? There are several thousand admissions saw the numbers. answer your question. I'd like to reserve a little time. officers in the United States, several thousand universities, and what is it we're going to say here that wasn't already said in Grutter, that isn't going to take hundreds or thousands of these people and have Federal judges dictating the policy of admission of all these universities? You see why I'm looking for some certainty? MR. REIN: Well, Justice -- JUSTICE BREYER: I saw what happened, you Sorry. Go ahead. MR. REIN: Justice Breyer, just -- I will JUSTICE BREYER: You can answer it later, if you want, or not answer it at all, if you don't. Official I think that the increase in African American admissions that you're looking at was (Laughter.) MR. REIN: No, I am perfectly happy to -- to answer your question. pre-Grutter. It -- it was generated before . JUSTICE BREYER: Uh-huh. MR. REIN: So I just want to make clear the record doesn't depend -- they don't depend on race to do tell the universities how to run and how to weigh MR. REIN: It's not the job of the Court to tell them how to do it. It's their job to examine the alternatives available to them and see if they couldn't achieve the same thing.it. It's minimal change with the use of race. And that's why we say there is an alternative, which would serve it about as well in increasing yield or, indeed, in reweighting the -- the PAI, which is a critical element here, so that you put more emphasis on the socioeconomic factors and less emphasis on the essays, which are an academic measure within the PAI. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me, So there are lots that they could do -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now, we're going to qualifications, too? Official And I think, Justice Kennedy, just to answer alternatives. And if you look at Parents Involved, that -- that was the critical question. The out -- the outcomes were so small, that there were readily available alternatives. again, how race and their use of race overwhelms those other factors in their system as it's created? MR. REIN: I -- the question is not whether it overwhelms them. They're --but they -- they say --they admit, it is effective. There are admissions that would not have taken place, but for; somebody else would have had that place, but for the use of race. your question fully, you have to analyze race-neutral view, this plan fails strict scrutiny on one or two or both levels, A, because the objective is inappropriate or ill-defined, and, B, because of the implementation is defective. Which or both of those are you arguing? MR. REIN: We have argued both, and we continue to argue both. It is not a necessary -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in what respect does this plan fail strict scrutiny under either of those -- under both of those categories? JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, perhaps you could summarize by saying -- by telling us, from your point of MR. REIN: Okay. Under the category -- the Official It was a first resort. That's, in a nutshell, that first category, was it a necessary means of pursuing a compelling interest, we don't believe they've shown any necessity for doing what they were doing. And certainly, it -- race should have been a last resort. prong of it. And in order -- and they failed in every respect. If you go to narrow tailoring, what we are saying is they didn't consider alternatives, and their treatment of, as we have pointed out, Asian Americans and Hispanics makes a -- an incomprehensible distinction. They say, we don't worry about Asians, there are a lot of Asians, it's a demographic measure, which is a forbidden measure. Texas population. But if you are trying to find individual comfort levels, if you are breaking it down between African Americans and -- and Hispanics, the --who, in your brief, has assumed that they are valuing different races differently. But Asian numbers have gone up, under however they have structured this PAI. And as I understand their position, race is balanced against other issues like socioeconomics, the strength of the classes people took. It's never a standalone. They are in excess of their share of the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you are the one Official I say that this -- the white student president of the class in an ethnically different school is a measure of leadership. So even a white student, I presume, who goes to an -- an entirely black or an entirely Latino school, who becomes class president, would get some points because he has or she has proven that they foster or can deal in a diverse environment. That's how I understood their plan, that it's not just giving you a plus because of race. It's combining that with other factors. MR. REIN: There is a plus because of race. There are many other factors in the decision. And might Leadership is an independent factor in the PAI. It isn't -- he is not getting that point because because of his leadership. That's a race-neutral criteria could work for anybody. is something they can use to boost the PAI score, the contextualize it. And we've said it's not necessary, it's not narrowly tailored, it ignores available alternatives, it treats -- gives disparate treatment to Asian Americans because they are minorities as well.PAS element in any way they like, because they say they And to the extent it depends on the he's -- because of his race; he's getting that point So race is an independent add-on. It -- it Official there is just no correspondence there. MR. REIN: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre. ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE classroom factor, there is simply no way to relate or fit what they are doing to the solution of the problem which they used as a major foundation of their proposal, which is the nondiverse classroom. That -- certainly, I see my time is up, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will afford you rebuttal time, since our questions have prevented you from reserving it. admissions plan before you is Constitutional under this Court's precedents. First, it is indistinguishable in terms of how it operates in taking race into account as only one modest factor among many for the individualized considerations of applicants in their totality from plans that this Court has upheld in Grutter and plans that this Court approved in Bakke and the Harvard plan --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I put that in the ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: For two overriding reasons, the -- the Official MR. GARRE: That's right. And so that's the narrow tailoring category, that it is narrowly tailored the way Grutter did -- said, not the necessity prong and not the need prong -- not the necessity prong. I think most of his argument has been centered on that, so -- second point I was going to make, which is that the holistic admissions process at issue here is a necessary counterpart to the state's top percent Law and works to systematic -- to offset the systematic drawbacks of that law in achieving an interest that is indisputably compelling, the university's interest in assembling a broadly diverse student body. In the interest -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, before -- I need to figure out exactly what these numbers mean. Should someone who is one-quarter Hispanic check the Hispanic box or some different box? multiracial box. Students check boxes based on their own determination. Now, this is true under the Common Application -- person who is one-quarter percent Hispanic, his own determination, would be, I'm one-quarter percent CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose a MR. GARRE: Your Honor, there is a Hispanic. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They would check MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that was -- they -- MR. GARRE: I don't think -- I don't think CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would it violate the honor code for someone who is one-eighth Hispanic and MR. GARRE: Then they would check that box, Your Honor, as is true of any -- that box. What about one-eighth? they would make that self-determination, Your Honor. If -- if anyone, in any part of the application, violated some honor code then that could come out -- says, I identify as Hispanic, to check the Hispanic box? it would, Your Honor. I don't think that that issue would be any different than the plan upheld in Grutter any way, the racial identification? college in America, the Ivy Leagues, the Little Ivy you have percent African American -- Hispanic or percent minority? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, the same way that that determination is made in any other situation, I'm or the Harvard plan or in Bakke -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't check, in Leagues, that I'm aware of. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how do you know MR. GARRE: We do not, Your Honor, and no Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say it's "the admitted. JUSTICE SCALIA: And how do they decide? on that form. JUSTICE SCALIA: Do they have to MR. GARRE: Well, the persons self-identify MR. GARRE: They do not, Your Honor. Every aware of, where race is taken into account -- same way." What is that way? self-identify? year people do not, and many of those applicants are You know, it's -- they want not just a critical mass in the school at large, but class by class? How do they figure out that particular classes don't have enough? What -- are they -- somebody walks in the room and looks them over to see who looks -- who looks Asian, who looks black, who looks Hispanic? Is that -- is that how it's done? MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, and let me try to be clear on this. The university has never asserted a compelling interest in any specific diversity in every single classroom. It has simply looked to classroom diversity as one dimension of student body diversity. And after --JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you are Official This Court in Grutter recognized the obvious talking about. I mean, it is either a factor that is validly in this case or it isn't. Now, do they look to individual classroom diversity or not? And if so, how do they decide when classes are diverse? MR. GARRE: This Court in Grutter, Your Honor -- and maybe the most important thing that was said during the first minutes is, when given an opportunity to challenge Grutter, I understood my friend not to ask this Court to overrule it. fact that the classroom is one of the most important environments where the educational benefits of diversity are realized. And so the University of Texas, in determining whether or not it had reached a critical did they look to the classroom? require everybody to check a box or they have somebody figure out, oh, this person looks /nd Hispanic, and that's enough? that took into account the same considerations that they MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor -- JUSTICE SCALIA: On their way in -- did they mass, looked to the classroom, along with -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Fine. I'm asking how. How MR. GARRE: They did a study, Your Honor, did in discussing the enrollment categories -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: What kind of a study? What MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, it's in the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, there are student CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are student JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. It doesn't explain to lists in each classroom that -- that have race identified with the students? kind of a study? Supplemental Joint Appendix. me how they go about, classroom by classroom, deciding how many minorities there are. lists in each classroom. The student lists -- each classroom -- the university knows which students are taking its classes. And one can then, if you want to gauge diversity in the classrooms, go back -- what they checked on the form? question. You go back to what they checked on their application form in deciding whether Economics has a sufficient number of African Americans or Hispanics? MR. GARRE: That is information that is MR. GARRE: No, no, Your Honor. Of course, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, you go back to MR. GARRE: Your Honor, this was part of CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a yes or no a -- Official university looked to. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on the classroom qualified as small, and the total number of African Americans and Hispanics who were admitted under the part of the plan that is challenged was just a little over . available to the university, Your Honor, the race of students, if they've checked it on the application. But I do want to be clear on this classroom diversity study. This was only one of many information points that the diversity, how does the non-top percent part of the plan further classroom diversity? My understanding is that the university had over , classes that increase classroom diversity? MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, first, I think that number is erroneous. There have been many more minority candidates in -- basis. JUSTICE ALITO: Per class? MR. GARRE: No, not -- not on a per-class So how does that -- how does that -- how can that possibly do more than a tiny, tiny amount to JUSTICE ALITO: In an entering class. MR. GARRE: I think in looking at the classrooms, Your Honor, what the university found was Official JUSTICE ALITO: How many -- how many non-top MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we didn't look study before the plan at issue was adopted, and at that time, there were no holistic admits taking race into account. shocking isolation against -- percent members of the two minorities at issue here are admitted in each class? specifically at that determination. What we did -- in other words, to try to find whether there were holistic admits or percentage admits, we did conclude in -- and, again, this was before -- we did the classroom if you looked at African Americans, for example, in participatory size -- JUSTICE ALITO: I really don't understand your answer. You know the total number of, let's say, African Americans in an entering class, right? Yes or number who were admitted under the top percent plan? MR. GARRE: We do, Your Honor. But, again, MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor. JUSTICE ALITO: And you know the total no? at the time -- And what we concluded was that we simply -- percent of the classes of the most common And so that determination wouldn't have been per class? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't know the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, at the time -- JUSTICE ALITO: And what is the value of C was conducted, it was before the holistic admissions process at issue here was adopted in -. you'll get C, right? answer to that question, and let me try to explain why the university didn't look specifically at -- to that. Because at the time that the classroom diversity study as important as just finding out are African Americans or Hispanics, underrepresented minorities, present at the university in such numbers that we are not experiencing racial -- racial isolation in the classroom. What is the critical mass of African Americans and And -- and this Court in Grutter -- supposed to tell whether this plan is narrowly tailored Hispanics at the university that you are working toward? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we don't have one. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is that number? Official JUSTICE ALITO: If you subtract A from B, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how are we to that goal? Official MR. GARRE: To look to the same criteria of JUSTICE ALITO: Does critical mass vary from MR. GARRE: It certainly is contextual. I first say that my friends have -- throughout this litigation, not in this Court, asserted percent as a critical mass, and that's lumping together different minority groups. this Court in Grutter. This Court in Grutter specifically rejected the notion that you could come up with a fixed percentage. Now -- -- from group to group? Does it vary from state to state? think it could vary, Your Honor. I think -- let me University of Texas think about those questions? University of Texas dependent on the breakdown of the to -- to the educational benefits of diversity on MR. GARRE: No, it's not at all. JUSTICE ALITO: It's not. MR. GARRE: It's not at all. It's looking JUSTICE ALITO: No. But could you answer my question? What does the University of Texas -- the MR. GARRE: We -- JUSTICE ALITO: Is the critical mass for the campus, and I think we actually agree on what that means population of Texas? Official and what Grutter said it meant, in terms of -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, could you explain -- I think you were trying to before -- what seems to me the critical question in this case: Why didn't the percent solution suffice? There were a substantial number of minority members admitted as a result of the percent solution. Why wasn't that enough to achieve diversity? MR. GARRE: Well, let me make a couple of points, Your Honor. First, if you just looked at the numbers -- we don't think it's the numbers, but if you looked at the numbers, after years, racial diversity among these groups at the University of Texas had remained stagnant or worse. , African American one part of it. The other part of it is, if you look at the admissions under the top percent plan, taking the -- the top percent of a racially identifiable high but it doesn't guarantee you diversity that produces educational benefits on campus. And that's one of the considerations that the university took into account as well.school may get you diversity that looks okay on paper, enrollment had actually dropped to percent. That's JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that. Official MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, as is true JUSTICE SCALIA: What kind of viewpoints? I would want representatives and different viewpoints from Why? Why -- why doesn't it? for any group -- and the Harvard plan that this Court approved in Bakke specifically recognized this, you individuals within the same -- the same racial group, just as you would from individuals outside of that. mean, are they political viewpoints? MR. GARRE: Well, anyone's experiences, where they grew up, the situations that they -- that they experience in their lives are going to affect their viewpoints. about something else. impacts the educational benefits of diversity in this sense, that the minority candidate who has shown that -- environment, has shown leadership, community service, the other factors that we looked at in holistic review, is precisely the kind of candidate that's going to come -- come on campus, help to break down racial JUSTICE SCALIA: This -- this has nothing to do with, with racial diversity. I mean, you're talking MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think it directly that he or she has succeeded in an integrated barriers, work across racial lines, dispel -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Also, the kind that is MR. GARRE: , Your Honor. But, but with respect to your -- your stereotypes -- likely to be included within the percent rule. And, incidentally, when -- when was the percent rule factual point, that's absolutely wrong, Your Honor. If you look at the admissions data that we cite on page of our brief, it shows the breakdown of applicants under the holistic plan and the percentage plan. And I don't think it's been seriously disputed in this -- this case to this point that, although the percentage plan certainly helps with who are admitted tend to come from segregated, racially-identifiable schools. whole purpose of affirmative action was to help students who come from underprivileged backgrounds, but you make a very different argument that I don't think I've ever seen before. African Americans -- lots of Hispanics and a fair number minority admissions, by and large, the -- the minorities JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I thought that the adopted? The top percent plan admits lots of of African Americans. But you say, well, it's -- it's Official the top percent of earners in the country, and they have --parents both have graduate degrees. faulty because it doesn't admit enough African Americans and Hispanics who come from privileged backgrounds. And you specifically have the example of the child of successful professionals in Dallas. Now, that's your -- that's your argument? If you have -- you have an applicant whose parents are -- let's say they're -- one of them is a partner in your law firm in Texas, another one is a part -- is another corporate lawyer. They have income that puts them in They deserve a leg-up against, let's say, an Asian or a white applicant whose parents are absolutely MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. And let me -- let me answer the question. First of all, the example comes almost word for word from the Harvard plan that this Court approved in Grutter and that Justice Powell JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how can the answer to that question be no, because being an African American or being a Hispanic is a plus factor. average in terms of education and income? held out in Bakke. MR. GARRE: Because, Your Honor, our point is, is that we want minorities from different Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: So what you're saying is MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, what counts is backgrounds. We go out of our way to recruit minorities from disadvantaged backgrounds. that what counts is race above all? different experiences -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's the necessary -- that's the necessary response to Justice Alito's question. MR. GARRE: Well, Your Honor, what we want is different experiences that are going to -- that are going to come on campus -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want underprivileged of a certain race and privileged of a certain race. So not race. It's just the opposite. I mean, in the LUAC decision, for example, this Court said that failing to take into account differences among members of the same JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the -- but the reason you're reaching for the privileged is so that members of that race who are privileged can be representative, and that's race. I just --MR. GARRE: It's -- it's members of the same that's race. MR. GARRE: No, Your Honors, it's -- it's race does a disservice -- Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand my job, background or perspective, you would want people from interests that -- that the Harvard plan specifically adopts and lays out -- racial group, Your Honor, bringing different experiences. And to say that -- if you took any racial group, if you -- if you had an admissions process that only tended to admit from a -- people from a particular different perspectives. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel -- MR. GARRE: And that's -- that's the interests that we're discussing here. It's the under our precedents, to determine if your use of race is narrowly tailored to a compelling interest. The mass of minority students at the University of Texas, but you won't tell me what the critical mass is. How am I supposed to do the job that our precedents say I should do? Court's precedents say is a critical mass is an environment in which students of underrepresented -- but when will we know that you've reached a critical compelling interest you identify is attaining a critical MR. GARRE: Your Honor, what -- what this CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know what you say, mass? Official interest at all. reached a critical mass? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, this question, of MR. GARRE: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Grutter said there has to be a logical end point to your use of race. What is the logical end point? When will I know that you've course, implicates Grutter itself. And, again, I understood my friend not to challenge that. They haven't challenged that diversity is a compelling What -- what we look to, and we think that courts can review this determination, one, we look to feedback directly from students about racial isolation that they experience. Do they feel like spokespersons conduct a survey and ask students if they feel racially isolated? for our Constitutional determination? things that we looked at. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's the basis for their race. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you, what, you MR. GARRE: That's one of the things we looked at. MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that's one of the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. What are the Official MR. GARRE: Another is that we did look to the University of Texas dropped to percent in CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At what level will MR. GARRE: Well, I think we all agree that percent is not a critical mass. It's -- it's well others? enrollment data, which showed, for example, among African Americans, that African American enrollment at under the percentage plan. it satisfy the critical mass? beyond that. level will it satisfy the requirement of critical mass? MR. GARRE: When we have an environment in supposed to decide whether you have an environment within particular minorities who don't feel isolated? to make, but you would look to the same criteria -- you tell me, that's good enough. MR. GARRE: Your Honor, part of this is a --is a judgment that the admin -- the educators are going MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor, not at all. You would look to the criteria that we looked at, the -- the which African Americans do not -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When -- how am I CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but at what CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, I say -- when Official JUSTICE ALITO: But would percent be MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't think it All of -- I think many key facts are enough in New Mexico, your bordering state, where the enrollment data, the feedback from the students. We also took into account diversity in the classroom. We took into account the racial climate on campus. African American population is around percent? would. I mean, our concept to critical mass isn't tied to demographic. It's undisputed in this case that we are not pursuing any demographic goal. That's on page of the Joint Appendix. undisputed here. It's undisputed that race is only a modest factor. It's undisputed that we're taking race totality. This is a -- the issue that my colleagues are asking is, at what point and when do we stop deferring to the University's judgment that race is still necessary? That's the bottom line of this case. And you're saying, and I think rightly because of our cases, that you can't set a quota, because that's what our cases say you can't do. So if we're not going to set a quota, what do you think is the standard we apply to make a into account only to consider individuals in their JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, I think that Official And the reason why the University of Texas MR. GARRE: I think the standard you would judgment? apply is the one set forth in Grutter, and it comes from Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke, that you would look to whether or not the University reached an environment in which members of underrepresented minorities, African Americans and Hispanics, do not feel like spokespersons for their race, members -- an environment where cross-racial understanding is promoted, an environment where the benefit -- educational benefits of diversity are realized. concluded that that environment was not met here, it laid out in several different information points that JUSTICE SCALIA: But that -- that -- that holds for only -- only another what, years, right? Sixteen more years, and you're going to call it all off. looking at this -- Grutter, and that's what it said. Grutter as establishing that kind of time clock. We are MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we don't read this Court can review and -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're appealing to MR. GARRE: Well - well, Your Honor, Grutter is this Court's precedence. We're guided by it here. Official agree with. MR. GARRE: Well, I don't know that I've But we also take into -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre. Mr. Garre. JUSTICE SCALIA: Some of the stuff that At least the advocates are. And -- and what we would look to is once -- we're looking at this every year, we're looking at it carefully. And once we reach that point, of course, we're going to stop. Grutter says -- some of the stuff that Grutter says you agree with, some of the stuff that it says you don't disagreed with anything it said. It -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Garre, before your time is -- runs out, the other point that I'd like you that the gain is just too small to warrant using a racial criteria. the argument of the gain is too small? own concessions, that the consideration of race has increased racial diversity at Hispanic and helps with minority enrollment. That's on page of the Joint to answer is the argument based on Parents Involved, MR. GARRE: Your Honor -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Once you have the percent, you don't need more. So how do you answer MR. GARRE: First I'd point to my friend's Official Americans? Secondly, I'd point to the fact that African MR. GARRE: Your Honor -- JUSTICE ALITO: Cambodian Americans -- Appendix. American and Hispanics' admissions did increase. African American admissions doubled from the period of and . So this has had a real important impact on diversity at the University of Texas. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in terms of diversity, how do you justify lumping together all Asian Americans? Do you think -- do you have a critical mass of Filipino Cambodian Americans? MR. GARRE: -- the common form that's used has Asian American, but also, next to that, has a form that says country of origin where that can be spelled out. mass as to all the subgroups that fall within this whether or not we have a critical mass of underrepresented minorities, which is precisely what the Grutter decision asks us to do.enormous group of Asian Americans? MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we've looked to JUSTICE ALITO: And do you have a critical I think -- if I can make a quick point on see how close they are coming to this numerical -- MR. GARRE: No. No, Your Honor, and we MR. GARRE: I'm sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we -- that you, in jurisdiction -- to that. your experience identify a numerical category a numerical standard, a numerical designation for critical mass: It's X percent. During the course of the admissions process, can the admissions officers check to don't. On page of the joint -- happened in Grutter; it allowed that. of the things -- MR. GARRE: No, Your Honor. It was one of the things that you pointed out in your dissent. What I'm saying is we don't have that problem, because -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you cannot do that? MR. GARRE: We -- we wouldn't be monitoring the class. I think one of the problems -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But isn't that what JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you saying that Grutter is incorrect? MR. GARRE: It did, Your Honor. It was one Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I could, before we get JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm -- I'm asking whether Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They don't -- they MR. GARRE: Well, all the holistic factors are taking into account on the application, and they're or not you could do that. And if -- MR. GARRE: I don't think so, because the Grutter majority didn't understand it to be monitoring for the purposes of reaching a specific demographic. don't monitor, but race is the only one of your holistic factors that appears on the cover of every application, right? listed at various points on the application. question was whether race is the only one of your holistic factors that appears on the cover of every cover of the application. little more time. MR. GARRE: Thank you. The fundamental problem with jurisdiction is this: First of all, they definitively cannot show that she was injured by any consideration of race. That's at If -- could I make one point on jurisdiction? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will give you a little more time since I'm going to give your friend a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. The application. MR. GARRE: That -- that is true on the Official your brief in one footnote, right? We have an MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor. And I think -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You address that in pages and of the Joint Appendix, where it makes clear that Ms. Fisher would not have been admitted to the fall class at University of Texas no matter what her race, because her --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to be clear, are you arguing that she doesn't have standing in an Article III sense? obligation to consider it in every case, and what you gave us is one footnote in which you said it's hard to see how she could establish cognizable jurisdiction. MR. GARRE: And there is another part of Honor, which goes to the relief that she has requested. The declaratory and injunctive release -- relief that this case began with, that request has fallen out, and that's undisputed. So the only thing that is live in request is on page of the Joint Appendix, and it's focused exclusively on a request for the return of admissions fees. And the reason why that is not enough to confer standing is that she would have paid the admissions fee no matter what policy the university that that comes from the brief in opposition, Your this case is a request for monetary damages. That Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about -- what race-conscious evaluation? MR. GARRE: Texas v. Lesage says that cases, they involved forward-looking claims for declaratory injunctive reliefs where people who were going to go out and get contracts again. So Texas -- admissions had. about our Jacksonville case that said it is an injury to be forced to be part of a process in which there is that -- that injury is not sufficient in a backward-looking case like this, where you only have monetary damages. In Jacksonville and all the other friend -- your friend told us that these remedial issues process and are still available for remand. answer to jurisdiction for this reason: It's true that it is bifurcated in the sense that we could go and prove damages, but the complaint makes no doubt that the only request for monetary damages is a request for admissions fees. That -- it says that explicitly. And this Court has said that relief that does not remedy the injury suffered cannot bootstrap a plaintiff into Federal court. That is the very essence of the redressability CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your and damages issues had been segregated out of the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that is not an Official money back? MR. GARRE: The reason why the payment of MR. GARRE: And the reason why --JUSTICE SCALIA: Why shouldn't she get her MR. GARRE: It's the only -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But she -- she had to pay requirement. That comes from the Seal Co. Case. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's part of the injury she suffered. It's -- it's not the only injury perhaps. an admissions fee for a process in which she was not treated fairly. that fee doesn't redress the injury, Your Honor, is that she would have paid it even if Texas didn't consider application fee back doesn't remedy the injury that she is complaining about. this is easy, do it; if not, don't. discovered -- I wanted to find out how many universities actually used a Grutter-type process last year or the year before, etcetera. And one of your amici, the admissions officers, according to our library, is the only place that has that information, though it's race at all; and, therefore, the payment of the JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you to get -- if I wanted to use accurate numbers, and so I Official I can use pre-Grutter numbers which are public and MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I don't have And this Court recognized in Grutter that the best universities, many of the best universities in America, have been using these plans for years or more. JUSTICE SCALIA: Since we are asking public, and I didn't want them to do it because they are an amici of yours. And you are both here, both sides, so if you can agree on -- simply, roughly -- what that number is, I would like to know it; otherwise, I will -- available. specific numbers. Obviously, the Ivy Leagues and Little Ivy Leagues that have filed amicus briefs are using it. questions about just curiosity, I am curious to know how many -- this is a very ambitious racial program here at the University of Texas. How many people are there in the affirmative action department of the University of Texas? Do you have any idea? I mean, there must be a lot of people to, you know, to monitor all these classes thing. There would be a large number of people be out of a job, wouldn't we, wouldn't they, if we suddenly went to just percent? and do all of this assessment of race throughout the MR. GARRE: Your Honor, one of the things that the University of Texas does monitor is the racial Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MR. GARRE: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General Verrilli. JUSTICE SCALIA: How many people? MR. GARRE: I don't --JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't. MR. GARRE: -- have a specific number of climate on campus. It does that to improve the experience for all students on campus. people, Your Honor, but it is -- it is an important part of improving the educational experience for all students at the University of Texas no matter what their race. may it please the Court: focus on what is, or more precisely, what is not at Petitioner is not challenging Grutter's reaffirmation of the principle of Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke that student body diversity is a compelling interest that can justify the consideration of race in university admissions. Colleges and In resolving this case, it is important to ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and issue. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Does the United States agree GENERAL VERRILLI: I understand that The core of our interest is in ensuring that universities across the country have relied on that principle in shaping their admissions policies, and it is of vital interest to the United States that they continue to be able to do so. the Nation's universities produce graduates who are going to be effective citizens and effective leaders in an increasingly diverse society, and effective competitors in diverse global markets. with Mr. Garre that African American and Hispanic applicants from privileged backgrounds deserve a preference? what is going on with respect to the admissions process in the University of Texas, and I am going to address it directly. I just think it needs a bit of context to do so. produce some ethnic diversity. Significant numbers get in. The problem is the university can't control that diversity in the same way it can with respect to the percent of the class that is admitted through the differently, Justice Alito. Here's how we understand The top percent plan certainly does holistic process. Official decisions about applicants who will directly further the Greek. They can also look for people who have a demonstrated track record of -- So my understanding of what the university here is looking to do, and what universities generally are looking to do in this circumstance, is not to grant a preference for privilege, but to make individualized educational mission. For example, they will look for individuals who will play against racial stereotypes just by what they bring: The African American fencer; the Hispanic who has -- who has mastered classical who are absolutely the same in every respect: They both come from affluent backgrounds, well-educated parents. preference, the other doesn't. It's a marginal case. It's the last -- the last position available in the class. Under the Texas plan, one gets in; one doesn't get in. Now, do you agree with that or not? the -- JUSTICE ALITO: Do you agree with -- do you agree that that is an incorrect statement of the facts, or do you agree that that's an incorrect understanding GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I think the -- in JUSTICE ALITO: If you have two applicants One falls within two of the groups that are given a of the Equal Protection Clause? Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's both. I process as saying, "An applicant's race is considered hypothetical is that the two applicants are entirely the think the -- there is no automatic preference in Texas. And I think this is right in the -- it says at page a of the Joint Appendix -- the -- they describe the only to the extent that the applicant, viewed holistically, will contribute to the broader vision of diversity desired by the university." same in all other respects. give a racial preference means anything at all, it hypothetical given -- given by Justice Alito, the minority student gets in and the other one doesn't. Justice Scalia. What the -- Texas, I think, has made clear -- and I think this is a common feature of these kinds of holistic approaches -- that not everyone in an underrepresented group gets a preference, gets a plus factor. GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. But the point -- JUSTICE SCALIA: And if -- if the ability to JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not a matter of not everyone; it's a matter of two who are identical in all JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but -- but the certainly has to mean that, in the -- in the GENERAL VERRILLI: I disagree, Official JUSTICE SCALIA: But, they're already situation the minority applicant wins and the other one GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: And what does the racial other respects. preference mean if it doesn't mean that in that loses? GENERAL VERRILLI: There may not be a racial preference in that situation. It's going to depend on a holistic, individualized consideration of the applicant. talking -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just don't understand this argument. I thought that the whole point is that sometimes race has to be a tie-breaker and you are saying that it isn't. Well, then, we should just go away. Then -- then we should just say you can't use race, don't worry about it. GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think it's a tie-breaker. I think it functions more subtly than more subtly in every case. We have findings by both courts below -- and I'm reading from the court of appeals opinion at Petitioner appendix page .that, Justice Kennedy. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It doesn't function "The district court found that race is Official We've heard a lot about holistic and all doesn't make a difference. The supposition has to be indisputably a meaningful factor that can make a difference in the evaluation of a student's application." If it doesn't make a difference, then we have a clear case; they're using race in a way that that race is a determining factor. that. That's fine. But unless it's a determining factor, in some cases they're using race when it doesn't serve the purpose at all. That can't be the situation. GENERAL VERRILLI: It can make a difference. It just doesn't invariably make a difference with respect to every minority applicant, and that's the key here -- Justice Alito posited in the hypothetical -- the same would be true in -- of the Bakke plan, that in some cases it's going to make a difference. The same would be true under Grutter. The same would be true GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, it does. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. GENERAL VERRILLI: But it doesn't CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to agree that it makes a difference in some cases. necessarily make a difference in the situation that JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's the same -- Official a mechanical factor. Now, with respect to the implementation although the Petitioner says she's challenging implementation, that this plan meets every requirement of Grutter and addresses the concern of Justice Kennedy that you raised in dissent in Grutter. Whether Texas had to or not, it did address that concern. under the policies now in existence at the military academies. GENERAL VERRILLI: That -- that is exactly right, Justice Ginsburg, but the point is that it's not of -- and the narrow tailoring inquiry, with respect to the University's implementation of this -- of its compelling interest, I do think it's clear that, everyone else. Race is not a mechanical automatic factor. It's an holistic individualized consideration. And because of the way the process is structured, they do not monitor the racial composition on an ongoing take your answer, is that the supposition of Justice Alito's question is truly impossible under this system. There are not two identical candidates because there are not identical mechanical factors that -- There's no quota. Everyone competes against basis. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, I think, as I Official Under the PIA, the factors are so varied, so GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. They JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because no two people CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to get back to what we're talking about, you -- as I understand it, race by itself is taken into account, right? That's the only thing on the cover of the application; they take race into account. except the percent plan. contextually set, that no two applicants ever could be identical in the sense that they hypothesize. make specific individualized judgments about each applicant -- can be the same -- And the district court found -- and you're not challenging -- that race makes a difference in some cases, right? Mr. Chief Justice, is the way it makes a difference. of the individual applicant in a particular light, or the potential of an individual applicant in a particular light. And it makes a difference by casting the accomplishments What -- what universities are looking for principally with respect to this individualized GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. But the key, Official consideration is what is this individual going to contribute to our campus? And race can have a bearing on that because it can have a bearing on evaluating what they've accomplished, and it can have a bearing for the reasons I tried to identify earlier to Justice Alito on what they can bring to the table, what they can bring to that freshman seminar, what they can bring to the student government, what they can bring to the campus environment -- trying to make a simple point here. Neither --JUSTICE BREYER: All right, so. But it is the correct answer to Justice Alito's -- if there are ever two applicants where the GPA, the test -- the grades, the SA, SA, leadership, activities, awards, work experience, community service, family's economic status, school's socioeconomic status, family's responsibility, single-parent home, languages other than English spoken at home, and SAT score relative to school's average race, if you had a situation where those -- all those things were absolutely identical, than the person would be admitted on the bounds of race. GENERAL VERRILLI: Not necessarily. (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: Because -- because -- I'm JUSTICE ALITO: General, if you don't Official GENERAL VERRILLI: -- neither -- neither JUSTICE ALITO: Let me withdraw my prior question if you don't like that. Before your time runs out, let me ask you Your ROTC argument -- you make -- you like -- might get in. another question. make -- you devote a lot of attention in your brief to the military. Could you explain your ROTC argument to me? GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure. JUSTICE ALITO: Why is it important for the ROTC program for commissioned officers that Texas have effectiveness depends on a pipeline of well-qualified and well-prepared candidates from diverse backgrounds who are comfortable exercising leadership in diverse just -- I don't want to cut you off, but -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. JUSTICE ALITO: -- because the time is about to expire, so you've got a marginal candidate who wants this other plan on top of the top percent plan? GENERAL VERRILLI: Our -- our military JUSTICE ALITO: Oh, I understand that. And settings, and -- Official GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Justice Alito. JUSTICE ALITO: Then I don't understand the to go to the University of Texas at Austin and is also interested in ROTC. Maybe if race is taken into account, the candidate gets in. Maybe if it isn't, he doesn't get in. How does that impact the military? The candidate will then probably go to Texas A&M or Texas Tech? Is it your position that he will be an inferior military officer if he went to one of those schools? argument. GENERAL VERRILLI: The point of educational diversity, the point of what the University of Texas is trying to achieve is to create an environment in which everyone develops an appropriate sense of citizenship, everyone develops the capacity to lead in a racially diverse society, and so it will benefit every ROTC applicant from the University of Texas. military leadership. is your view on how we tell whether -- when the University has attained critical mass? And percent of the Officer Corps comes from the ROTC. It's a very significant source of our CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, how -- what GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think critical -- Official GENERAL VERRILLI: May I answer, Mr. Chief Justice? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. I'm hearing a lot about what it's not. I'd like to know what it is I agree with my friend that critical mass is not a number. I think it would be very ill-advised to suggest that it is numerical. So -- because our responsibility is to decide whether this use of race is narrowly tailored to achieving, under this University's view, critical mass. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, yes. GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you. I think -- I don't think that this is a situation in which the Court simply affords complete deference to the University's judgment that it hasn't yet achieved the level of diversity that it needs to accomplish its educational mission. make its own independent judgment. I think the way the Court would go about making that independent judgment is to look at the kind of information that the university considered. That could be information about the composition of the class. It could be information about classroom diversity. It could be information about retention and graduation rates. It can be information I think that the Court ought to -- has to Official And then what the Court's got to do is identified as a compelling interest. And I will say, I do think, as the number of about -- that's specific to the university's context in history. Is it a university that has had a history of racial incidents and trouble or not? A series of factors. satisfy itself that the University has substantiated its conclusion based on that -- based on the information it's considered, that it needs to consider race to further advance the educational goals that Grutter has minority enrollees gets higher, the burden on the university to do that is going to get harder to meet. But I don't think -- I don't think there is a number, and I don't think it would be prudent for this Court to suggest that there is a number, because it would raise exactly the kind of problem that I -- that I think Justice Kennedy identified in the Grutter dissent of creating hydraulic pressure towards that number. calling it critical mass then, because mass, you know, assumes numbers, either in size or a certain weight. GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree. JUSTICE SCALIA: So we should stop calling JUSTICE SCALIA: We should probably stop it mass. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree. JUSTICE SCALIA: Call it a cloud or (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: I agree that critical something like that. mass -- the idea of critical mass has taken on a life of its own in a way that's not helpful because it doesn't focus the inquiry where it should be. If I may just add one word in conclusion. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you. I think it is important, Your Honors, not just to the government, but to the country, that our universities have the flexibility to shape their environments and their educational experience to make a reality of the principle that Justice Kennedy identified in Parents Involved, that our strength comes from people of different races, different creeds, different cultures, uniting in a commitment to freedom, and to trying to do with its admissions policy, and it should be upheld. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. more a perfect union. That's what the University of Texas is Official There's just three things I want to touch That's more than I expected. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just keeping the ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. REIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. for Abby Fisher. So it's most apt at this point. Mr. Rein, minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN playing field level. MR. REIN: Well, that's what we're seeking in this case, Mr. Chief Justice, a level playing field on. First, there's been a lot of back and forth on standing, but, as we have pointed out, that really relates to merits. And I just want to make clear that we do not accept the premise of that footnote, that she would not have entered under any circumstances; that they've asserted that, but, in fact, she was considered for the summer program, which is -- As written, is that what it's limited to? other damages," at the point when we were writing it, which was -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is your complaint limited to injunctive relief and the return of the $? MR. REIN: No, because it said, "any and all JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In Arizonans and Alvarez Official Did you ask only for injunctive relief and the $, specifically? MR. REIN: The only specific number in the MR. REIN: And what I'm saying is that we never had the opportunity to develop the full damages -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In -- MR. REIN: -- because of -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In Arizonans and Alvarez we said any all -- any and other -- all damages is too speculative. Is what you actually see what I said: Injunctive relief and the return of the $. we said you can't manufacture standing after the fact. complaint, because of the point in time when it was filed was the application fee, which we believe -- MR. REIN: You would have paid the fee in return for a fair processing of the application, which she did not receive, and we think that is a claim that will be sustained. It is not tested at this point. And the second thing is, because of the way the case was bifurcated, with the agreement of all and the district court as well, we did not develop the additional damages here. We reserved the right to JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you would have paid that no matter what; under any system of admission you would have paid the same $. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For what, nominal MR. REIN: Because as -- as in the BIO, what MR. REIN: No --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then how do you get amend, and as things have progressed -- damages? around Arizonans? UT pointed out was there are other kinds of financial injuries which were not ascertainable at the time the complaint was filed because we were trying to put her into the university. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: She was going to get a better job because she went to a different university? suggested. There are differences in cost between the -- what she paid at LSU and what she would have paid at UT. I'm just saying, these are all reserved questions and they don't go to standing. The Court made that clear in Bakke. think I never completed my answer to Justice Breyer. Where we stand on what you should do about Grutter is as follows. We recognize, as in the words of -- that the Solicitor General just issued -- that there is an MR. REIN: That's one of the things they Let me go to another issue that, you know, I Official And as long as you don't cross two lines, determinative points and fixed quotas -- "quotas" interest which is cognizable in diversity. That is -- that was the root question in Grutter, could you recognize it at all. But what we are concerned about, as you are seeing here, is universities like UT and many others have read it to be green light, use race, no end point, no discernible target, no critical mass written, you know, in circumstances reduced to something that can be reviewed. meaning we will fill this quota exclusively with who we deem to be under-represented -- you are okay. We don't think that's the way Grutter was intended. Grutter was intended to say this is an area of great caution; using race itself raises all kinds of red flags, so before you use race make a determination whether really, your interest in critical mass -- that is, in the dialogue and interchange, the educational interest, is that -- university got into only the physical education program; and in this particular university that -- that physical education program includes all the star athletes; so every star athlete in the school happens to be black or Hispanic or Asian or something else, but they have now JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are not suggesting that if every minority student that got into a Official nature of the hypothetical. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it's just that every diversity in its other departments? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the holistic way that MR. REIN: Well, if you are saying there's a reached the critical mass of , , percent -- that the university in that situation couldn't use race? MR. REIN: Well, I think you are talking about -- Grutter permits? -- a differentiated department of physical education, which is like a separate college, you have changed the one of their students who happens to be a minority is going to end up in that program. You don't think the university could consider that it needs a different MR. REIN: Well, if that were the case, remember the factor that is causing it, and you are assuming, is choice. You have a critical mass of students. They choose to major in different things, and diversity concept. They never asked the question why, if percent of our students are minorities, are they not in the small classrooms? Why does that happen? Statistically you would say that's an aberration. You might ask the question what's causing it? Because in that's one of the base problems with the classroom MR. REIN: No. Because they don't take into is a -- that minority student who is a nuclear major -- major in physics. And when it comes time in the UT system to allocate access to different majors, they do that in a way that is basically premised on academic index. order to fit -- same thing when they say, when we are looking at the holistic measure, we are looking for that student who scientist? account your interests, they don't ask you, are you going to join ROTC, they don't ask you are you going to So they have a two-tiered admission system. They are only here focused -- their preference goes to admission as such, it doesn't go to sorting people out by majors. And if I might then say to Justice Breyer, I think our answer is, when we see what UT is doing, what we that -- Grutter's -- you know, it has been perceived as a green light; go ahead and use race, race which is otherwise really a highly questionable, an abominable kind of sorting out. That unchecked use of race, which we think is -- has been spawned by misreading of Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Aren't they saying the Grutter, needs to be corralled. So what we -- Official mission. This is not what is going on at UT. This is not an individualized, I will look JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it any more unchecked than the Harvard plan which -- that started all this off in , decided by Justice Powell? Is it any different from how race is used in our military academies? MR. REIN: Well, I mean, they are two different questions. The Harvard plan is a very different world. It's a plan of wholly individualized admission comparing individuals one on one, to establish the platonic ideal of the class as the educational at you. I will score you. I will score you individually. But as they keep saying, at the point of admission, I am not admitting people; I am admitting question. was entirely fair, because in the way they do their system, in the PAI scoring, you can figure out that two people would have had the same PAI score but for race. It's an add-on. It allows them to boost the PAS component of the PAI score. So -- it is not infrequent. There are many, many candidates who will score the same PAI, may even have the same AI, and then you boost some categories, boxes; and that relates to Justice Alito's I thought your hypothetical, Justice Alito, of them. Official we think will improve, in our view, dialogue. That is But it's purely race, and it comes to the ultimate question then, which, Chief Justice, you were Now, what UT says is, well, we don't boost all the minorities. And that -- as they've stood here today, and they said in their briefs, we want to boost the ones we like. We want those affluent minorities who contrary indeed to the fact that they give points in the same system for socioeconomic disadvantage. It's at odds with itself. asking: Where is the end point? If you have nothing to gauge the success of the program, if you can't even say at the beginning we don't have critical mass because we don't know what it is and we refuse to say what it is, there is no judicial supervision, there is no strict scrutiny and there is no end point to what they are doing. back to Justice Breyer, how would you write it, you can requires you to do A, B, C, and -- and we've said in our brief that would be satisfactory. But to the extent that you then have it surviving side by side, there could be enormous confusion. JUSTICE BREYER: So what you want me to do So what we have said, and it comes right clarify it, you can say Grutter properly applies, Official is go read back what we wrote in Grutter, go look what the underlying determinations of critical mass were there, go look exactly how it is being done in Texas -- which I have charts that help me see that -- and I will then find enough of a difference that I can write some words that can be administered by , or , -- a thousand Federal judges as they try to deal with programs like this, in -- that's the point, is that right? MR. REIN: Well, I'm saying if you clarify the needs and the necessity point, if you then look at some of the other deficiencies and clarify the -- the consideration of reasonably available alternatives as a necessity, if you then attribute that -- you attribute the weaknesses of the Texas program to the absence of those factors, I think you can fashion a result in this case which may or may not have to, quote, "overrule" Grutter. of this odious classification? That's what we are talking about, it's a narrow window; and it should be stated as a narrow window. It's really a matter, what do you -- do you want to clearly restate what it is that allows the use JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you don't want to overrule Grutter, you just want to gut it. Official MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor, I don't want to gut it. And the only way one could reach that MR. REIN: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now you want to tell MR. REIN: Excuse me? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You just want to gut it. You don't want to overrule it, but you just want to gut it. universities that once you reach a certain number, then you can't use race anymore. conclusion is to assume that Grutter is an unlimited mandate without end point to just use race to your own satisfaction and to be deferred to in your use of race. That is unacceptable. That is the invasion of Abigail Thank you. counsel. above-entitled matter was submitted.) The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the Fisher's rights to equal protection of the law. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, OfficialOfficial : : : :, : : Americans admits : :, : :, agreement :,, : ahead : : : AI : admitted : :,,, :, : AI/PAI : : : :, : : : : : admitting : : adopted : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, amici : : : AL : Alito : : :, : :, : : :, :, : amicus : : : : : :,, : :, : amount : analysis : : : analyze : : :, :,,, :, : : advocates : affect : affirmative : Alito's : : : : : : : : analyzed : announced : answer : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : alleged : allocate : allowed : : : allows : : : alternative : :, :, : adoption : adopts : addresses : advance : add-on : A Abby : aberration : Abigail : : : ability : : : able : : abominable : above-entitled : : absence : absent : : absolutely : : : : academic : : : academies : : accede : accept : : acceptable : accepted : access : : accommodate : accomplish accomplished : : : accomplishme... account : : : : : : :, : : :, : : accurate : achieve : : : : : : : achieved : Achievement : : : achieving : act : action : : : : activities : add : : addition : additional : address : : : : adequate : admin : administered : admission : :, : :, : : : :, : : admissions :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : admissions-plus admit : : : : affluent : : afford : affords : African : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : answered : alternatives : : : :, anybody : : : : : : Alvarez : anymore : anyone's : apparent : ambitious : appealing : amend : appeals : America : APPEARAN... : appears :, appendix : : : : aggressive : agree : : :, : : : :, : : :, American : :, : : : : : : : : Official : : : Arizonans : automatic : : : arrived : Article : ascertainable : Asian : :, : : : :,, : : automatically :, available : : : : : : : : : : Asians : average : : : averaged : aside : : awards : aware : :, : asked : : : awfully : asking : : A&M : a.m : : : : : : :, : : applicable : applicant : :, : :, : :,, : applicants : : : : : :, : : : applicant's : application : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :, applies : apply : : : : approaches : appropriate :, : asks : : assembling : assert : asserted : : : : approved : assessment : : : approving : approximately assume : : : : assumed :, : : : : : assumes : assuming : apt : area : argue :, : : argued : athlete : arguing : : athletes : attained : attaining : attempting : attended : attention : attribute : argument : :,,, : : : : : : :, : : :, : Austin : : : balancing : barriers : base : based : : :, basically : basis : : : : : boxes : : Boy : break : breakdown : : breaking : bearing :,, Breyer :, began : : :,, beginning : :, : behalf :, :, : :,,, :,, : : : : : believe : : : : : : :, : Breyer's : brief :, benefit : : : benefits : : : : : BERT : : : : : best :, better : beyond : : bifurcated : : : BIO : bit : : black : : : : blacks : body : : : : : boost : :, : : bootstrap : bordering : bottom : bounds : box :,,:,, : : : :, : : briefs : : bring : : :,,bringing : broader : broadly : burden : :, : CC : : :, :call :,: :called :calling :,Cambodian:,campus :: :: :: :: :,:,candidate :: :BB : : : : ::back : : : ::,,:, : : ::background : backgrounds : : :, : : : backward-loo... : Bakke :, : : : : : : : : balance : balanced : : :, candidates : : : : CAP : capacity : capped : carefully : : carry : : case : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, cases : : : : :,, : casting : categories : : : : category : : : : caused : causing : : caution : centered : central :, certain : : certainty : challenge : : challenged : : challenging : : : : : chance : change : : : changed : charts : check :, :,,, : : checked : : : Chief :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, : :,, :, : :, : : child : choice : : : :, : choose : : : : certainly : Circuit : :, : circumstance : : : : : circumstances : : Official : : cite : citizens : citizenship : claim : : : :, : claimed : claiming : claims : clarify : :, : : : : clearly : climate : : clock : close : : cloud : code :, cognizable : : : : : competes : competitors : complaining : complaint : : : : : : : complete : colleagues : completed : college : component : : comes : : concessions class : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : classes :, : Colleges : combination : : combining : come : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : classical : classification : classroom : :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : : : classrooms : : : Clause : : clear : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, comfort : comfortable : : coming : comment : commissioned commitment : : common : : : : community : : comparing : compelling : : : : :, : composition : : : concept :, : : concern : : concerned : : conclude : concluded : : conclusion : : : conduct : conducted : confer : confused : confusion : connected : consequences : consequent : consider : : : : : : consideration :, : : : : : : : : considerations : : : considered : : : : : considering constantly : : : Constitutional :,, : : : contention : : context : : : contextual : contextualize : contextually contingent : continue : : : : contract : contracting : contracts : contrary : contribute : : control : core : corporate : Corps : corralled : correct :, : : : : :, : : Official depends : : : decided : describe : deciding :, desegregation decision :, : :, : deem : : : defective : :, : deference : determinations deferred : deferring : determinative : : definition : : : definitively : degrees : demographic :, : devote : :, : demographics :,, demonstrated : dialogue : deserve : : designation : desire : desired : determination : determine : : : determined determining : :, develop :, develops : : dictating : difference : : :,,:,,,: :,: : differences : : different : : : : : : : : : : : : :,:, : : : : :, counterpart : country : : : : : counts :, couple : course : : : : : courses : : critical : decide : : : : : : : : decisions : declaration :, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, : : :, : : : :, :, deficiencies :, : : declaratory : : defined : : : court :, : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, curiae : : : : :, : curiosity : curious : :,, cut : : : : Dcross : cross-racial cultures : courts :, : : : : : : : Court's : : : : : cover :,, : create : created : creating : D :Dallas :damage :damages ::,,,,:, : :,,,: :,: :data : : :day :deal : : :decades :denial : : : : denied :, : : department : : : departments depend :, : : depended : dependent correspondence creeds : criteria : : cost : counsel : : :, : Official :,, : : : :, diversifying : :,, : differentiated : differently : : dimension : directly : : : : : : : : disadvantage disadvantaged : : diversity : : :, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, disagree : disagreed : doing : : discernible : disclaimed : discovered : : : : DONALD : : discriminated discrimination discussing : : : : disparate : dispel : disposition : disputed : disregard : dissent : : : disservice : distinction : distinguish : district :, : : : diverse : : : : : :, : : : doubled : doubt : drawbacks : dropped : D.C :,, : : E E : :, earlier : earners : easy : : economic : Economics : education : : : :, : educational :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : equalize : erroneous : educators : ESQ :,, effective : : : : :, : : experiences :,,, essays : essence : essentially : experiencing : :, : :,, effectiveness : effort : : establish : either : : : : : : : : element : : establishing emphasis : : : : encountered encouraging estimation : ET : etcetera : ethnic : ethnically : English : evaluate : enormous : evaluating : evaluation : : : enrollees : enrolling : enrollment : : : : :, : : ensuring : entered : entering : : : : everybody : evidence : : evidently : exactly : : : : examine : : entire : entirely : :, : : example : :, : : : excess : entitled : excluded : environment excludes : : : : :, exclusive : :,,, : : exclusively environments : : equal :, : : : : : : : : Excuse : : : exercising : existence : expected : experience : expire : explain : : : : : explicitly : expressly : extend : extension : extent : : : Ffact : : : :: : : : :: ::factor :: :: :,: :: : :,, : : : factors :: : : :,: :,: :: ::facts :,, : ::factual :fail : : failed :failing : Official free : freedom : freshman : friend : : : :, : :, :,, : : :, gauge : : : General : fixed :, : further : : : fails : fair : : : : fairly : fairness : fall : : fallen : falls : family's : : fashion : Faulkner : faulty : feature : Federal : : : fee : : :, : : feedback : : feel : : :, : : feeling : feels : fees : : fencer : field :, Fifth : figure : : : : : figures : filed : : : Filipino : fill : financial : find : : : : : finding : findings : fine : : firm : first : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : Fisher : : : : : Fisher's : fit : : : : : : : flags : flaw : flaws : flexibility : flies : focus : : : focused : follows : : : footnote : : :, : forbidden : forced : forget : : form : : : :, forms : forth : : forward-looki... : foster : found : : : : foundation : framework : : friends : friend's : full : fully : function : functions : fundamental : GG : : : :gain :,Garre : : :,,:, :, :,,:,, : :, : :,,,:,,:,,:,, : :,,,:, :, : ::, : :,,:, :, :, : :,,,:, : :, : :,,,: :,: :,:,,:,,,:, : giving : global : go :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, goal : : : :, : : :,, :,, : : :,, goals : : :, : : :, goes : : : :, :, : :,, :, : :,,, : : : going : : : : : : : : :, : : :,:, : : : : : : :,: : : : : : : :,: generally : generate : : : generated : generating : : : generation : generator : : good : : : getting :, gotten :,Ginsburg : government: : : : : : : : :,, GPA : : : :,, : : : grades : graduate : graduated : : give : : : : : :,graduates : graduationgiven : grant : : : : :, gratuitously: gives : : Official gut : :, holdings : great : greater : Greek : green : : GREGORY : : : grew : grounds : group :, :, :, : : groups : : : Grutter :,, :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : :,, : :, : : :, :, :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : :,, : : : :, : : Grutter's : : : Grutter-type : guarantee : guided : : Hhalf :happen :happened :: :happens ::happy ::hard :harder :Harvard :: :: ::,hear :heard :hearing :heavily :held : : help : : ::helpful :helps ::high :higher :: :highly :Hispanic ::,,:,,,: :: :: ::Hispanics ::, : : :,: :: :history :,holding :holds : holistic : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : holistically : home :, honor : : :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, :, Honors : : hope : Hopwood : : : : huge : hundreds : hurt : hydraulic : hypothesize : hypothetical :, : : : I idea : : ideal :identical ::, : :identifiableidentification::identified ::, : identify :: ::ignored :ignores :III :ill-advised :ill-defined :immediately: :impact ::impacts :implementation: :,:implicates :important :: :,: ::, : :impose :imposed :,impossibleimprove :::improving :inadequateinappropriateincidentally::: incidents :included :includes :: :income :,incomprehens...inconsistency::incorrect ::,increase ::, : : ::increased :increasing :increasingly:independent:, : :index :,:indisputably: ::indistinguisha... :individual :: ::, : individualized: :: :: ::, : :individually:individuals :: :: :inferior :information: :: : :,,, : : infrequent : injunctive : : : : :, injured : injuries : injury :, :,,,, : :, : : : :,, : :,, inquiry : : instituted : insulting :, integrated : intended : interchange : : interest :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : interested : interests :, : : :, : : :, : : : isolating :, isolation : : : : : issue : : : : : : : : :, : : : : issued : issues : :, Ivy :, :, J Jacksonville :, job :, :, : : join : joint : : : : :, : JR : : : judges : : judgment : : : : : : :, : Official : knows : kinds : : : : : : : L laid : language : languages : large : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, :,,, : :, :,,, know :, : :, : : :, :,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, : :,, : :, :, :, :, : Latino : :, : Laughter : : : :,,, : justify : :, :, :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : : :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :,,, :,,, : :, : :, : : :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, Kennedy : : :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, :,, : :, :,,, : : :,,, : :, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, :,, : : : : Leagues : : :, legal : legitimacy : legitimate : leg-up : lawyer : lays : lead : leaders : leadership K keep : keeping : :, : : : : key : : : : kind : : : :, law : : : : : interviewed judgments : : introduced : invariably : judicial : jurisdiction invasion : : :, involved : : : : : : : involving : isolated : Justice : : :,, :, : :,, Official Lesage :, :, : :, : let's : : : : :, level : : : : :, levels : : library : life : light :, : : limited :, :, limits : line : lines : : listed : : lists :,, litigated : : litigation : little : : : : :, : :, : : looking : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, looks :, :,, : : loses : loss : lot : :, : : : : : : monetary : : member : : : : :, : :, mention : mere : mass : : meet : mission : : :, meets : : :, : : :, : members : mistake : modest : : : :,,, : : :, : : : :,, :,,, merely : : :, : : met : : :,, method : : : :, : Mexico : :, : military : : :, :, : : monitoring : : move : moving : multiracial money : monitor : : Nmerits : : : : :, :, : : lots : : matter : : :, : : :, : :, : : : lottery :, Louisville : low-performing : LSU : :, : :, : minimal : mastered : minorities : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, mean : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : N :, : narrow :,: : : : :, narrowly :: :: :: Nation's : nature : necessarily : : ::necessary :: :: : : :: : : :,:necessity :: :,:,need : : : :: :,:needed ::, : LUAC : : :, : lumping : : M major : : : : :, live : : lives : logical :, long : : look : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : mandate : : :, manufacture : : :,, majority : majors :, makeup : making : : : : looked : :, : : : marginal : : markets : minority : :, : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : minute : meaning : meaningful : means : : : : : : meant : measure : : : :, : : mechanical : minutes : : :, medical : : misreading needs : : : : : : neither : :, never : : : : : : : : New : nine : NOEL : nominal : nondiverse : non-top : : : : Obviously : October : odds : odious : officer :, officers : : : : offset : oh : : : : : okay : : : : : : : : : once :,, normal : notion : nuclear : ones : : number : : one-eighth : : : :, :, one-quarter : : : :, :,, :, : ongoing : operates : : : operative : :, : opinion : : :, :, : : numbers : : :, : : : : opportunity : : : : : : : :, opposite : : : :, : : opposition : option :, oral : :,, number's : numerical : :,, : nutshell : O O : : objective : obligation : obvious : : : : order : : : origin : ostensibly : ought : : outcomes : Official outside :, : overriding : overrule :, : :, : overturn : overwhelmingly : overwhelms :, PP :page : : : :: :: :pages :PAI :,: :,:,,,paid : : :,,:,paper :parents :: :,: :: :part : : : ::, : : :: :: : : participation:participatory:particular :: :: :,:particularly:partner : PAS : : passed : pay : payment : permissible :, permits : permitted : person : : : : : : : : Personal : persons : people : : : : : : :, : :, perspective : : :, : : : : :, per-class : Petitioner : perspectives : perceived : percent :, : :, : : : : : : place :,: : :,,, physical : : :, : : :,, : physics : PIA : :,, pinpoint :,:,,, :,,, pipeline : :, :, :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, :, : :,, : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : : :, plaintiff : plaintiffs : plan :,:, : :, : :,,,:, : : : :, : : :,:, : : : :,,,: : : : : : : : :, : :,: : : :, : perfect : perfectly : period : plans :,: percentage : Official : : : : : purpose : : : : problems : purposes : pursuing : : : :, process : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : platonic : play : playing :, please :, : : plus :, Powell's : : : precedence : precedents : preference precisely : predicate : predominant : : point : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : premise : : : : : : :, premised : :, : pointed : : : : presence : : : present : president : points : : : : : : : policies : : policy : : : political : population : : : : posited : position : : : : possibly : post-Grutter : pot : potential : Powell : : :, pressure : presume : pretty : prevented : Pre-Grutter : : : principally : principle : : : : prior : privilege : privileged : :,, : probably : : : problem : : : : put :,,, : : : puts : putting : p.m : Q qualifications : qualified : quarrel : quest : question : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : :, :, : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : questionable : questions : : : : : quick : quite :quota : :, : :, : : quotas : processing : produce :, produces : producing : professionals : program :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : programs : progressed : promoted : prong : : :,, proof : proper : : properly : : : proposal : protection : : : : prove :, : : : : proved : proven : prudent : public :, purely : :, quote : RR : race : : : : : : :,: :: :,: :: :,:,, : : :,:, : : :: : :,,,:,,, : :,:,, : ::,,: :: :,: :,: :,,: :,: :,: :: : : :, : :,,:, : :,,races :: race-conscious: :race-neutral: : :,, : : racial ::, : :, : :,,, Official racially-identi... : reasons : : rebuttal : : : receive : receives : recognize : recognized : : : : record : : : : recruit : red : redress : redressability : :, : :, :, : : : : :,, requires : reserve : reserved : : : reinstitute : reserving : resolving : reiterated : resort : : rejected : : : : rejection : relate : relates : : respect : : : : :, : : :, : respects : relative : release : relied : respond : relief : : Respondents : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : racially : : : : raise : : raised : : : raises : random : range :, : ranges : rates : ratio : reach : : : reached : : : : : : reaching : : read : : : : readily : reading : : reaffirmation : real : reality : realized : : really : : : : : : : reason : : : : : : :, reasonably :, : :, :, : : response :, : : responsibility : : : restate : : result : : resulted : retention : return : : :, review : : : reviewed : reweighting : : : : :, : : : remember reliefs : remained : remand : remedial : remedy : reduced : refuse : Rein : :, reluctant : :,,, : relying : :, :, :, :, :,, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : reported : :, : :, : reporting : : :, representative :,,, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, required : : : requirement : : representatives : : request :, : requested : require : :, : right : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : rightly : rights : rigidly : ROBERTS : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : room : root : ROTC :, : :, : : roughly : rule :, :, rules : run : runs : : SS : : SAT : satisfaction:satisfactory: satisfied : : : satisfies : satisfy :,: :,: saw :, saying : : :, : showed : shown : :, shows : Seal : second : : : : : Official somewhat : standalone son : sorry : : : : : : : standard : : sorting :, standing : Sotomayor : : :, : :,, : :, : : :, :, :,, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, :,, : :, : :, : : :,, star :, start : : started : : state :, : : :, :, : : :, : stated : statement : States :,, : : : :, sounds : source : so-called : : :, spawned : speak : side : : :, sides : significant : : simple : : simply : : : : : : : : single : single-parent : sir : situation : :, : : : : : situations : Sixteen : size : : small : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : says : : : : :,, : :, : : : SA : SA : Scalia :,, : :,, : : :,, :, :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, :, : : : scary :, school : : : : : :, : : : schools : : : Secondly : see : : : : : : : : : : : seeing : seeking : seen : : segregated : : segregating self-determin... : : self-identify :, seminar : sense : : : : : separate : separated : series : seriously : :, : serve : service : : : set : : : : : : school's : scientist : score : setting :,, settings : shape : shaping : : :, share : :,, scoring : scrutiny : shocking : short : show : state's : Statistically : status :, steadily : stereotypes : : stood : stop : : :, strength : : strict : : : : structured : : stuck : student : : :, : : :,, : : : : :, : : :, : specific : :, social : society : : socioeconomic : : : socioeconomics : soft : Solicitor : : solution :, : :, somebody : : : : : : : : : : specifically : : : : : : : : speculative : : spelled : split : spoken : spokespersons : : stagnant : stand : Official students : Supplemental : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, student's : studies : study : : :, : : : stuff :,, subgroups : : : support : supporting : : : suppose : : : supposed : : : : : supposition : : : : : taken : : : : : talking : : : : : : : : : : : target : Supreme :, : : sure : : Tech : survey :, : : : : : : substantiated substantial : submitted : surveyed : surviving : sustain : : sustainable : sustained : Suter : system : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : subtly :, subtract : succeeded : success : successful : suddenly : suffered : : : suffice : sufficient : :, Tsystematic : : : suggest : :, : : suggested : suggesting : summarize : summary : summer :, : supervision : T :,table :tailor :,tailored :: :: ::tailoring :: :: : : take : : : :: :: :tell : : :, : : :, : : : : : : telling : : ten : tend : tended : terms : : : : : test : : :,,, : tested : : tests : Texas : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : :,,,, : :, Thank :, : :, : :, : : :, thing :, : : : : : : : : : : things :, :, : : : :, : think : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, : : : : : :, :, : : thinks : thought : : : : : : thousand : : : thousands : three : thrown : thrust : : : tied : tie-breaker :, time : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : tiny :, today : : : : told :, : top : :,, :, : : : : :,: : : :,total : : :,totality : : touch : track : trained : treated : treatment : : : : Official :,, :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, :, : :,, view : : : : : viewed : viewpoints : violated : : vision : vital : WW : :, : :walks :want :, : :,,: :: :: :: :: :,: :: :,:,,:,,:,,,,wanted ::,wants :warrant :Washington ::,,wasn't : : : ::way : : :, : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : weaknesses : Wednesday : weigh : weight : weird : well-educated well-preparedwell-qualified: : : went : :, : : : we'll : we're : : : : : : :, : :,, : : we've : : : : : : : : : : white :,: wholly : window : : wins : wish : : : treats : tried : : : : trouble : : true : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : understand : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :,, :, : : : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : : truly : try : : : : : university's : : : : :, : trying : : understandings unknown : understanding : : : :, : : : : : : : : two : : : : understood : upheld : : : under-represe... use : :, : : : :,, unlimited : violate : undisputed : :,, : : : : : : : :, : union : : : :, : : :, : : : :, United :,, two-court : uniting : universities : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :,, two-tiered : type : U Uh-huh : ultimate : unable :, unacceptable : unchecked : : underlying : : underprivileged : : underreprese... : underreprese... :, : : :, UT : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : university : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,,, :,, :,, :, : : :, Vv : : : validly : value : valuing : varied : various : vary :,, varying : vastly : Verrilli : : :,, : : Official : : : : : : :, : , : : : : : : : : : : a : : : : : : : : : :,, , : : : : : : : : withdraw : word : :, : words : : : : : work : : : worked : working : : works : : world : worry : worse : : : wouldn't : : : :, write : : : writing : written : : wrong : wrongly : wrote : X x :, : Y year : : : : : :, years :, : :, : yield : : yielded : $ $ : : :, :, : /nd : : :, : : :,, :,,,, :,,, : :,, :,, :,, : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : , : : : :, : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : 