 The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Petitioners v. Washington, D.C. Monday, November , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x AMGEN INC., ET AL., : : No. - : CONNECTICUT RETIREMENT PLANS AND : TRUST FUNDS. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent. MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor Petitioners. Respondent. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Respondent For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument (: a.m.) MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds. Mr. Waxman. ORAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS next in Case -, Amgen, Incorporated, v. The Our case is about whether the claim of liability is, in a fundamental sense, class-wide or individual. The heart of a b- claim is I bought or sold in reliance on a misleading statement. The question at the class cert stage is whether each individual will have to prove his own reliance directly on the statement, or whether every -- he can prove indirectly reliance on the statement by showing that everybody relied on a distorted market price. and only if the statement is material and is made publicly on an efficient market. So, absent materiality, the market price cannot be presumed to reflect the statement in question. And the plaintiffs --please the Court: A market price will reflect a statement if Official MR. WAXMAN: That's exactly correct. And CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, why isn't that MR. WAXMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, every one of the four predicates to the fraud-on-the-market theory, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why -- why is that -- why is that the case? I would suppose, if there's no materiality, that means that the effect on the market price just happens to be zero. the point here is -- common to all parties? which is a shortcut that -- that excuses plaintiffs from proving that I heard the statement and relied on it -- every one of those predicates is common. Whether the market is efficient is common. Whether the statement is public is common. Whether the stocks were bought and sold during the period of market distortion is common. And materiality is common. MR. WAXMAN: The falsity of the statement is common, but it is not a predicate to whether or not you can prove reliance on a statement indirectly by relying on the integrity of the market price because, in an The question is not whether -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is the falsity of the efficient market, material public statements, whether statement common as well? Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can -- can an individual who has -- it has been deemed in -- in a cert MR. WAXMAN: Sure. I'm not arguing -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On the they are true or false, will presumably move the market price. And if you're trying to prove reliance on a false -- certification, that an issue is immaterial, could an individual claimant ever prove it's material? truth-on-the-market -- the truth-in-the-market defense, which is the type of defense that you're raising here. explain why. There's no doubt that this Court's standard for materiality, announced in TSC v. Northway and since reiterated, is an objective standard. It doesn't depend on who the relier was. judge that class-wide reliance can be -- that class-wide doesn't preclude a plaintiff like Connecticut Retirement, which has said it's going to proceed whether there's a class or not, or any other member of the class, from coming to court and saying, either, I directly relied on this statement, and here's my proof MR. WAXMAN: Yes. Either way. Let me But the inability to prove to a certifying reliance exists because the statement was material Official that the market price was affected because here are JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry --JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, that's just to that it's material to the trier-of-fact, because the decision that the judge makes at certification is not binding on the trier-of-fact; or even to say, I relied on the integrity of the market price, and I have proof three investors, they're all reasonable people, and they say that it was relevant -- important to them in the total mix of information involved. say that you -- a plaintiff can always relitigate the question of materiality. But at the class certification stage, isn't it correct that, if the Court holds that a statement is immaterial, it's immaterial for all members that right? suit cannot proceed as a class action. Connecticut Retirement or any -- anything action, can it? I mean, the -- the remedy, if you had thought that the -- the statement was immaterial, is not to say, I won't approve a class. It would be to say, the suit has no merit. of the class, and the suit has to be dismissed? Isn't MR. WAXMAN: The suit cannot -- that is, the JUSTICE KAGAN: It can't proceed as an MR. WAXMAN: I -- I think that's wrong. I Official the --just ruled that the statement is immaterial? MR. WAXMAN: Well, I want to -- I'd like to think that's conceptually wrong, Justice Kagan, in the sense that all that the class certification decision says is that the putative class representative can sue on his own behalf, but he can't drag everybody else into JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you mean to say that a judge, who has just ruled that a statement is immaterial, is going to keep the case in his court, litigated by an individual plaintiff, even though he's come back to the question of why whether, even if your -- the premise of your question is correct, it doesn't matter for this case. But let me take one more right, presumably, and the case isn't over, the class just isn't certified, is the defendant -- you know, emboldened by the judge's rule, will file a motion for summary judgment on the grounds that materiality -- the element of the substantive offense, not materiality, the predicate to class certification -- has just been determined in favor of me. That is a very different question for the Court. run at -- at your premise. The next thing that would happen if I'm Materiality, as this Court has said, is When it comes up on summary judgment, what fact-sensitive, and it involves a balancing of credibility of witnesses or of expert opinions, and the judge at the -- at the class cert stage, has to find facts and has to make a ruling. the -- if there is a dispute of material facts, what the judge should do under the law is to say, look, I just held that I didn't think it was material, but I resolved disputed material facts, and that's for the jury, and JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're saying that a judge on a class certification stage can say, this is immaterial, the statement is immaterial; therefore, this can't proceed as a class action. But when a summary judgment motion comes in, arguing the exact same thing, the judge will say, oh, it's not immaterial after all, or it's disputed enough, that the case can -- can continue? got a haircut at :, the judge presumably can say there are -- you know, this is immaterial as a matter of law. But the vast majority of cases -- this is a perfect example -- where they have statements that, in the alleged fact is -- you know, that Amgen's president MR. WAXMAN: Well, in some cases if -- if Official this case will go to the jury. the abstract, extracted from the total mix of Official On the other hand, the evidence we wanted to JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question, MR. WAXMAN: The judge at the class Ninth Circuit, the test is not proving facts, but simply information, look pretty material. These are flagship drugs. introduce and the judge wouldn't hear because, in the alleging them -- Mr. Waxman, is if it is not immaterial as a matter of law, at the summary judgment stage, how could a judge possibly say it is material at the class certification stage? certification stage is required to weigh competing evidence and -- and render his or her best judgment. At doing that. stage becomes kind of a super merits inquiry? certification stage requires the moving party -- the putative -- the -- the class representative who is MR. WAXMAN: No, not at all. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- where the plaintiff has to -- has to surmount a higher burden on the merits? MR. WAXMAN: No, no, no. The -- the class the summary judgment stage, a judge is precluded from JUSTICE KAGAN: So the class certification proposing to arrogate to himself and his method of proof Official issue? That is the key through the certification gate JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought we were talking that, if the judge says it's immaterial, that doesn't end it for everybody. Certainly, it should -- it ends it for the class; you said that. Should it also end it for the representative of the class to say, okay, now I'm going to come back, and this statement, -this finding of the immateriality doesn't bind me. the fortunes of all the absent class members, whether they are direct reliers or indirect reliers, tie their fortunes to his fortune at trial. And the judge simply has to say, is this a case in which reliance is a common in b- cases. about, Mr. Waxman, the materiality of the alleged misstatement, and I am really nonplussed by your answer representative. So if it's immaterial, the case ends. And if it is material, then it is material to everybody in the class. MR. WAXMAN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, let's take an easier case. Let's say I'm somebody who bought Amgen during the relevant period, and they -- the judge says -- you know, I've heard your -- I've considered your event studies, and I think that this is --information isn't material. Of course, it's going to bind the class Official difference? There is nothing whatsoever that precludes me from bringing a suit and saying, here's my evidence of material -- I directly relied; here's my evidence of materiality. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could that be -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying that there -- are you saying that there is a difference between materiality for the fraud-on-the-market theory and for direct reliance or that there can be a MR. WAXMAN: The -- the standard of -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that if there was fraud on the market, that is a materiality question addressed at the certification stage, but if the class had direct reliance that was reasonable? that? Or -- Justice Kennedy, you're absolutely right. MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Am I -- am I right about JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do the first part. isn't certified, the investor can still show that he had MR. WAXMAN: You are -- you are either right or wrong, depending on how I understood you. Let me -- (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: Let me start with you're right, Official material, it didn't distort the market price, and (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: Okay. Materiality -- the quirk of this case is that materiality is both -- as all my friends on the other side agree, an essential predicate of the fraud-on-the-market theory, that is the essential predicate of the ability to prove indirect reliance on the statement through an assertion that the market price -- that the statement distorted the market price. Everyone agrees that, if the statement isn't therefore, reliance is an individualized issue for those who actually heard and detrimentally relied on the statement. One of the elements that has to be proven in a b- case is reliance, which is what we were talking about on the class cert stage, and there, materiality is a predicate for reliance. But even if reliance is proven, materiality is also an element of a b-(b) cause of action, and the standard for materiality is the The real question in this case is what is the purpose of Rule ? If you think that the purpose of Rule is to postpone to the merits everything that can be postponed without a risk of foreclosing valid same. individual claims, we lose. But that's not the purpose. Official JUSTICE BREYER: Or you can take exactly MR. WAXMAN: But I wouldn't. JUSTICE BREYER: You can say – No I know is for the trial? The purpose is for a court to determine whether all of the preconditions for forcing everyone into a class action are present before you certify. what you said and phrase it the opposite way. it the purpose of the certification stage to try out every element of liability at that stage, rather than waiting is, you know, it could still be material for some individual, even though there is no market reliance. And similarly, a silence going (indicating), some odd set of words or whatever it is, although it's not false for almost anybody, for some particular person, it could seem -- convey something false in some particular set of circumstances. certification stage, too. In fact, let's try out everything because we could always think of a few examples where, despite the fact that -- you know, that MR. WAXMAN: No. JUSTICE BREYER: No, it's not. Good. Now, once you say that, what you have said So let's try out falsity at the Official case. What --MR. WAXMAN: The point of the class MR. WAXMAN: Justice Breyer, the point of JUSTICE BREYER: No, but you are saying with it's only a common issue percent of the time, we can dream up a situation where it's not a common issue. class certification is not to pre-try the merits of the a cert -- class certification here, if there is no materiality, there is no class; and you are repeatedly faced with the question, you are absolutely right; in fact, there is no case. And so then what you say is, and indeed, I have a few instances here in which there could be a case, and I’d say, I bet if we are -- you know, professorial enough, we could dream up a hypothetical for anything, where there still is a case. certification, as this Court explained in Amchem and other cases, and as the Rules Advisory Committee notes, is the question of whether there is class coherence in the first place. It's not the merits issue. It's whether it's fair for the class representative to impose on the defendant the juggernaut of class action and on the absent class members their fortunes in his or her hands. And what -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, that is exactly right, and that's what we said in Wal-Mart recently, that Official material, it's not material as to everybody. the question is a question of coherence; it's a question of whether the class wins or loses together. And here, for materiality, the class wins or loses together. If it's material, it's material as to everybody. If it's not And that's just a function of the fact that materiality, as we've repeatedly said, is an objective test. It doesn't have anything to do with whether a particular person finds it material. And where that's the case, it seems to me that the Wal-Mart test, which is -- is an issue central to the -- you know, when you rule on the issue, do you rule on each of the claims in one stroke? The answer to that is yes. Amchem, that "class" -- "It is class cohesion and only class cohesion that legitimizes representative action in the first place." And that question, quote, "preexists any settlement and therefore a fortiori any litigation." that's right. MR. WAXMAN: Okay. JUSTICE KAGAN: There is class cohesion as to materiality. People win or lose on materiality MR. WAXMAN: Justice Kagan, this Court has explained more than once, and I am now quoting from Now -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Waxman, I was saying Official significant enough to affect the price, thus enabling together -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman -- MR. WAXMAN: -- is like letting -- together. MR. WAXMAN: The -- there is class -- with respect, there is class cohesion, investors cohere into a class, only when the alleged misinformation was the common claim of relying on the misinformation in the same way. Letting a putative representative through the certification gate, without showing that key, is like, on a theory of no harm, no foul because we’ll all lose Justice -- have been satisfied. (b)(), that is that a question of law or fact common to the class members predominates over questions affecting only individual members. The question that predominates is the question of, were these representations material; if they were material, then the certification is proper. If they were immaterial, it's not. It's just -- I don't JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, there is no question about (a), right? The (a) prerequisites MR. WAXMAN: Not challenged in this case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the only thing is understand why this isn't just a clear case of a Official Everyone agrees that materiality, like question common to the class; that is, the question of materiality. MR. WAXMAN: The answer, Justice Ginsburg, is that the question at the class certification stage --the predominance question is the reliance element, not the materiality element. falsity, like scienter, like loss causation, are all common questions. As this Court explained in Basic and reiterated last term in Halliburton, in b- actions, the question at class certification is whether reliance needs to be proven directly; that is, individually by people who heard and acted in response; or whether the shortcut that this Court authorized in Basic of allowing indirect proof by proving that the statement caused a distortion of the market, is the way to go. case that materiality is both an element, which is common, and a predicate to class-wide reliance. on the -- the challenged misstatement, unless the statement moved or had the capability of moving the market price. And that's why the materiality is the glue that holds --Everyone agrees that there -- you can't rely as a class There are two tracks, and it happens in this JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Waxman, you have a Official MR. WAXMAN: Not at all. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- but you leave me no (Laughter.) MR. WAXMAN: It's the red light. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I understand. MR. WAXMAN: The tyranny. JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it not the case that one habit of not pausing between sentences. You pause in the middle of the sentence, and you end a sentence and go right on to the next. So I apologize for interrupting, but -- alternative. of the other elements necessary for the fraud-on-the-market theory would also be decided conclusively -- for future individual litigants, namely, the efficiency of the market? A future litigant will ordinarily claim, I either sold it at a depressed price or bought it at an inflated price because of the market's reaction to this particular fraudulent same thing about the efficiency of the -- of the market being determined in this preliminary question, as you statement. MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so you can say the can say about -- about the -- the issue here. Official MR. WAXMAN: That's absolutely right. And JUSTICE KAGAN: What is that statement, Mr. Waxman? MR. WAXMAN: I'm sorry. JUSTICE KAGAN: Because the difference is if the same is true for public statement. The way that the government in responding -- there is an unefficient market, the case goes forward, and people have to prove individual reliance, and that means that the class splits apart, and you don't get a coherent class. So the function of -- of your winning an argument either on publicity or on the efficient market is that the class becomes incoherent, that everybody then has to prove individual reliance. trying to say, is like letting the fruits justify the search. certification is sought, the question is do common But that's not what happens when you prove immateriality. When you prove immateriality, the whole class falls together because it's immaterial for everybody. MR. WAXMAN: That's not correct, and in any event, that analysis -- that approach is, as I was issues predominate? And the question, in a securities The question is -- at the time that class Official You also have to prove -- to show that, in fact, case, is, is reliance in fact -- to quote this Court's opinion, "in fact, a common issue?" it's a common issue, you have to show that the market reacted to the statement, whether it was true or false, whether it was made with scienter or not, whether there was loss causation or not, the market had to react, and to do that, you need all three legs of a stool. The statement has to be material because immaterial statements don't move markets. If that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, the -- the Basic opinion that started all this off, on page , lists materiality as a common question. The materiality of the misrepresentation, if any, is listed as a common well, Justice Ginsburg, and I'm not being sarcastic. Materiality is a common question. Just as are many of the other elements of a b- action -- you just assume that materiality -- you don't have to show it. If it's always a common question, you assume it, in trying to weigh out the number of -- whether or not common issues predominate or not. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So at certification, question, and that made perfect sense to me. MR. WAXMAN: It makes perfect sense to me as MR. WAXMAN: Well, the question, Justice -- Official with the full class, what you have to show. And you have to show that reliance is a I mean, for -- if it worked for class certification, that would be fine. The question is what the purported class representative has to show to get through the certification gate to transform an ordinary bilateral dispute about, you made a false statement, I relied on it, it caused me to lose money, into something entirely different, a class of tens or hundreds of thousands of people, all of whom are proceeding together, all of their fortunes are married, and the defendant is faced common issue, regardless of what you have to show down the road. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Waxman, you seem to be setting up two determinations of materiality. You say, in order to certify the class, you have to show that the misrepresentation was material. And in order to win on the merits, you certainly have to show that the misrepresentation was material. differ? How does the finding that you say must be made at the certification stage differ from the finding that must be made at the trial? MR. WAXMAN: They differ temporally, they differ functionally, and they differ in terms of who How do those two findings of materiality Official decides it and with what level of finality. They differ temporally because the first question is, is this case going to -- which of two tracks is this case going to proceed? Is it going to proceed as a -- as a direct reliance case -- I heard the statement, and I relied on it -- or is it going to proceed on a theory on behalf of everybody that whether -- the people who relied on it, the people who heard it or who didn't hear it, on a theory that the -- we rely on the integrity of the market, and the integrity of the market was impaired if the statement was false. there isn't a price effect if the statement wasn't JUSTICE GINSBURG: But I’m still -- what -- what does "material" mean at the trial level, what does "material" mean at the certification? that the information would have been viewed by a reasonable investor as having significantly altered the total mix of information available. That is the test. this Court said, that there is a substantial likelihood material and made publicly into an efficient market. In any event, there was a price effect. And MR. WAXMAN: Material means, at both, as JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's the same question. It has to be -- if it's established at the Official MR. WAXMAN: That's correct. Just like the May I reserve the balance of my time? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, you may. Mr. Frederick. certification stage, it has to be established again at trial? market efficiency and the public statement and the market timing. Every one of those predicates has to be proven to the jury's satisfaction at trial. All of them are exactly the same in that respect. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: question that was asked earlier, if Basic set forth a presumption, and are you disputing that, at the class certification stage, a defendant can prove that the market is inefficient? whether the case can generate common answers for all class members. So for three reasons -- MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why shouldn't we hold Basic to its position that all of its presumptions can ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, The class certification process determines JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why don't you answer the Official these observations. First, Basic did not try to Now, the second thing to be said is that upheld the class certification order. So in the context of Basic, the court seemed be rebutted as well, not just efficiency? Why do we set out efficiency as the one issue that can be rebutted? MR. FREDERICK: There is a lot to said about Basic, and let me just start the ball rolling by making distinguish between the requisites of Rule and the substantive component of the fraud-on-the-market theory. And that's important because, in that case, the court remanded for a redetermination of materiality, but it to be thinking there was a difference between what needed to be proved for class certification and what would need to be proved on the merits of the case. assume that the efficient market theory is always Basic needs to be read against the backdrop of Rule and especially this Court's recent decision in Wal-Mart v. Dukes. Because materiality always generates a common answer for all class members, it is the quintessential common issue that does not splinter the class or cause it to be noncohesive for purposes of understanding predominance. relevant to materiality? And there might be instances JUSTICE KENNEDY: Doesn't -- doesn't that Official is no other theory of reliance. MR. FREDERICK: Only in a hypothetical case, Justice Kennedy. And this is the absolute most Why do we know that in this case? For two in which there is subjective reliance, which we inquire into, that is objectively reasonable, but that does not involve a fraud on the market? important point that I can try to make today. In a fraud-on-the-market case, the idea of reliance -- the only theory of reliance that is being advanced is indirect reliance on the integrity of the market. There reasons: First, the Connecticut Retirement System could not be the class representative, if it did not meet the typicality requirement of Rule (a), which the district appendix -- and has not been challenged subsequently. But why doesn't Connecticut have a direct reliance theory? We know they don't because they have a fiduciary duty to their investors to apply whatever theory they have of securities fraud. So we know in this case -- and this is, by far, clear in the run-of-the-mine fraud-on-the-market case, that the class representative will only establish reliance indirectly, by showing that the integrity of the market was court found -- this is on page A of the petition impaired. Official And so their construct is an entirely say that -- you know, it's a flukey hypothetical case that -- that people who are allegedly defrauded in hypothetical and theoretical one. It simply does not arise in the real world of fraud-on-the-market cases. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, you -- you where -- where the -- the issue here would -- would come up again in a different context in an individual suit. Let -- let me give you a -- a case that's -- that's not flukey and hypothetical. That is, it is usually the stocks rely upon the fact that they bought it at an -- at an inflated price or sold it at a depressed price. Both of those questions depend upon the efficiency of the market. that has to be decided for the class certification case, the individual investor is not going to be able to say, you know, that's -- that's why I got cheated, because the market reflected this false statement, and I paid more money for the stock than I should have. That --that is not a flukey hypothetical. That is what will happen in most individual cases. And yet, that question of the efficiency of the market has to be decided at the class certification stage. If the market is not efficient, a question MR. FREDERICK: Right, precisely because we Official MR. FREDERICK: They all lose on the merits, have to know are all the investors standing in the same position. If the market is efficient and it is absorbing information into the price, all investors will have the same question with respect to materiality. JUSTICE SCALIA: You could say the same about materiality. If it's immaterial, it isn't reflected in -- in the market. if there is no materiality. The question about efficiency, Justice Scalia, and the reason why it is advanced at class certification is because it serves a gatekeeping role in determining whether all the investors can show indirect reliance on the market. If the -- if the stock is thinly traded, there are no public analysts, there are no stock reports given about it, and no one knows exactly why is the price being determined, that creates exactly the kind of individual issues that would predominate in a securities fraud case. JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- so the difference you assert is that, with respect to the issue here, it will be an issue in all individual cases; whereas with regard to the efficiency of the market, it will only be an issue in -- what, percent of -- of the individual cases? Official But in the case that you're hypothesizing, Justice Scalia, efficiency serves the gatekeeping MR. FREDERICK: No, the question is: Does efficiency serve as a means of determining are all the investors similarly situated? Are they a cohesive class? If the market is not efficient -- and mind you, they -- they conceded this question in their answer and they did not challenge the expert that was put in the district court on the question of efficiency, so that question's really not in this case. function of determining are all the investors similarly situated, so that indirect reliance can be a -- a method of showing that predicate for a common answer to be determined at trial. function. hypothetical that I actually think could occur, which is not a truth-on-the-market defense, but a known truth to the individual person seeking certification. So that is it's immaterial to that person because they were told this information by someone and still trading. Would that defense be available at certification? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we -- MR. FREDERICK: Publicity serves the same MR. FREDERICK: I think it -- where it gets JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could we get a appropriately done is the adequacy and typicality prongs of Rule (a) because that person has a different factual basis for attempting to assert a securities fraud, and that person is not typical of the class and so therefore would not meet the typicality requirement of (a). other cases, there might be investors out there who do have a direct reliance theory, but they are protected by I'm -- I'm trying to work out what, as I understand it now, Mr. Waxman's point is -- is basically this: We use it because if the market is efficient and the statement is public, then someone who bought over the market is buying in a -- in a world that reflects the false statement. I mean, that's -- so he -- there was Rule in a couple of ways. One is they can bring their own case, and they can say, I directly relied on Amgen's misstatements and the false things that they said about their flagship products, and I, therefore, have my own b- case. Or if the class is certified and they think they have a direct reliance theory, they can opt out of the class. That -- that why do we use an efficient market theory? JUSTICE BREYER: This is true, but I'm --Official Now, it is possible, certainly, that in sufficient reliance indirectly. Official All right. So I think his point is, yes, I it wasn't material, then our theory of market can see materiality is something that's relevant to everybody. Of course, it is, a common issue in the case. But also, it is a feature of materiality that, if reliance -- market -- efficient markets goes out the window because you can have all the efficiency in the world, all the publicity in the world, but still, where something to a reasonable stockbroker is irrelevant, his reaction is "who cares?" And therefore, although there could be special cases, the efficient market theory plays no role. understand it. And -- and I don't hope it is, if I've got it -- I mean, I hope I got it right. But -- but if that -- so what's your direct answer to that? MR. FREDERICK: My direct answer to that is that materiality still serves as a common answer. All the investors are going to lose if it is not a material misstatement that has any effect, and they will win or they will have the potential to win if it is a material -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that -- that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue -- the issue is not whether -- whether it's a common question or not. Now, I think that's what his theory is, if I Official MR. FREDERICK: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue is whether there's any reason to believe that the -- that the market reflects reality. MR. FREDERICK: Right. JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the issue. MR. FREDERICK: But, Justice Scalia, I think that the issue that you want to decide or you think that you want to decide is what constitutes the efficiency of the market, and that is a hotly litigated issue in many securities cases. It just happens not to be at issue in this one. got a Fortune company, with . billion shares outstanding, million traded a day during the class period, I mean, this is a hugely efficient market for the stock that is at issue before you. saying, in this kind of case, the -- the materiality or specially significant. In fact, you are going to decide if it is a common issue, and there is no reason to import that common issue into the preliminary finding, even if what I just parroted, we hope, is true. not is not likely to be specially sufficient -- And so the question of -- you know, you've JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're MR. FREDERICK: Right. What you're ending Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you are saying up doing, Justice Breyer, is you are front loading. You are having a mini trial on the merits because the materiality question here goes into what did the executives think and mean when they were making certain statements about clinical trials for their drug. What was -- that, if everyone loses, if it's not material, that's a common issue, and therefore, the trial court at the certification stage does not have to determine it. MR. FREDERICK: No, what I'm saying is that it is -- because it is a common question, it is not one to be decided at class certification. Just like falsity -- Our position is that efficiency and publicity are gate-keeping functions to determine whether or not the answer for indirect reliance on the market is a common JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not sure how that's different from what I said. But in other -- in other words, you are saying that market efficiency is just presumed, and everybody wins or everybody loses, and so you can have a class action, even though the trial judge is convinced that there is no adequate common market theory to support the common -- the common injury. MR. FREDERICK: That's not our position. Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, you say -- MR. FREDERICK: It's a new concoction they below. MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was not challenged. sophisticated question. And it's not my note -- binary, I think is what they said -- it isn't that it's either efficient or it's not efficient; it depends on other factors. question. you say, you point out, quite rightly, that the efficiency of the market was conceded -- was conceded Except that now, in -- in Amgen's brief, there is a suggestion that the efficiency of the market is a more had not argued before this stage of the briefing in this case, and it's wrong because all investors will rise or fall, based on whether or not those statements that may have some subsidiary materiality effect are going to be able to show that there was some consequence to the market. And it is that why -- that is why it is still a common question, even if there are these subsidiary inefficiencies -- JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So if I've got this, your answer -- which I am trying to follow it; don't tell me I'm right if I'm not -- that, with Official special to get into this theory. MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. JUSTICE BREYER: The publicity of the MR. FREDERICK: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: -- that is something efficiency of the market, that's not a traditional element of a tort -- matter, that is not traditionally a common element of the tort. That is something special to get into this MR. FREDERICK: Correct. JUSTICE BREYER: With materiality, it is a common element of the tort always; it is traditionally there; it will be litigated, so there is no special the outset. Congress recognized that there were issues concerning these various elements. And that's why, in , when it enacted the PSLRA, it addressed scienter by imposing a heightened pleading requirement and loss causation, but it was asked to address materiality and reliance and it chose not to. The first bill that was proposed would have dealt with Basic, and the -- and the Congress voted that theory. reason to or desirability in or need for litigating at MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And Official down, and instead -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But there is -- there is a reason for deciding it earlier, and the reason is the -- the enormous pressure to settle once the class is certified. In most cases, that's the end of the lawsuit. There's -- there's automatically a settlement. Now, one way of -- of certifying the class is to show, well, you know, it's an efficient market, and you can presume that everybody in the class relied would consign district court judges to having many trials on the merits because the fact that materiality have the burden of justifying class certification --on the market. But that's only true if -- if the -- the statement was material to the market. If it was immaterial to the market, that isn't true. And you should not proceed any further, and you should not begin this -- this class action which, in -- in most cases, is simply the preliminary to a settlement. There is a good reason for deciding it sooner. MR. FREDERICK: True. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is that not correct? MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Scalia, you is such a highly contextual inquiry -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you have the -- you Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Now, suppose to prove the integrity of the causal chain? MR. FREDERICK: Yes, but that's where efficiency comes in, Justice Kennedy, and that's why, MR. FREDERICK: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the certification there is some real question of whether or not the causal chain hasn't been broken, the causal chain between the misstatement and the movement in price. Don't you have stage? when efficiency is contested at the class certification stage, what comes in are proofs of does information end up having an effect? And economists do event studies that try to show the general level at which information will issue gets contested. It does not get contested on the question of materiality because materiality looks at the total mix of information that would be relevant to an investor, not -- efficiency question goes into the individual stock's though there is no cause in fact? I don't understand that. be absorbed into the market price. That's where that JUSTICE KENNEDY: You say it's material even MR. FREDERICK: What I'm saying is that the ability to absorb information, both material and Official The question that you -- you and nonmaterial information. Now, the question on the merits, for which all investors will either rise or fall together, is was this company's misrepresentation a material one to the reasonable investor? And that's why all investors are going to have the same answer because it's the same objective inquiry. Justice Scalia are positing about the efficiency of the market is one on which there are disagreements among the lower courts as to how to challenge and how to deal with that question, but they do not do it on the basis of materiality. Judge Easterbrook had a very sound opinion in the Schleicher case, in which he goes through and he explains that, when there is a fraud-on-the-market case, the notion of indirect reliance, where efficiency is established, really evolves -- devolves down to the core merits question of materiality. And that is a common to rise together. Congress looked at this question, it decided not to deal with this question of efficiency or materiality. It was question that -- in which all of the investors are going But I do want to end by saying that, when faced with a specter of lawsuits being filed per Official In -- in , the statistics showed that what Congress did was successful in achieving the So it's not really for this Court's province year that were securities fraud cases, in , where a percent settlement rate was occurring, an average settlement of nearly $ million. purpose Congress attained. In the year , there were class actions filed; percent of them were dismissed, mostly on the high-end pleading standards that Congress had enacted in the PSLRA. please the Court: to be imposing policy judgments about what additional requirements ought to be put on (b)(); Congress made that judgment. And these proceedings that have gone along in -- in this way, were perfectly sound by -- both the district court and the court of appeals. If the Court has no further questions? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Sherry. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MELISSA ARBUS SHERRY ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT MS. SHERRY: Mr. Chief Justice and may it I would like to start by going back to the language of Rule and, in particular, the predominance Official As several of the justices have recognized, common answer, and that common answer unites the class, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But as Justice Scalia pointed out earlier, so is efficiency or nonefficiency. MS. SHERRY: And the difference -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that -- that requirement. The only question is whether common issues predominate over individual issues. materiality is an objective inquiry, it leads to a rather than divides it. If materiality is shown, the class members can proceed together on the fraud-on-the-market theory. But -- differentiation, articulating it that way, doesn't move the ball. between percent and percent? I mean, most of the other claims in -- in stock cases are going to be based MS. SHERRY: I would disagree with that because the difference is with efficiency and with publicity. If the -- depending on the common answer, the class may divide. It may fragment because, even if the market is inefficient, individual class members can make out claims of direct reliance. You can rely on an inefficient market and prevail. You can rely on nonpublic statements -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the difference Official MS. SHERRY: The -- the purpose of the class the extent the market is inefficient or to the extent on what -- what the market price was when the person bought or sold. So -- you know, percent instead of percent, that's -- that's the basic difference? certification stage with respect to predominance is to weigh the common issues against individual issues. And with respect to market efficiency -- excuse me -- market efficiency and publicity, those are two matters that -- that either bind the class together or divide them. To the statements are not public, they are not all getting the information from the same source. they are preconditions, not related to the merits, that theory. Now, I've said that; of course, so is materiality. where it is a common issue in this case -- and in most -- to everybody. the difference is -- MS. SHERRY: But -- JUSTICE BREYER: But materiality, unlike the MS. SHERRY: And that is exactly right. And JUSTICE BREYER: Is that exactly right? JUSTICE BREYER: They are preconditions --do, in fact, justify the use of a special reliance other two, is part of the element of the basic case, Official inquiries when they're really the same question. It is asking the same question that leads to Because I am getting the -- facing the problem a few minutes from now, somebody is going to say, well, why is that exactly right? I mean, it is a precondition. MS. SHERRY: I am going to say it's exactly right because the confusion here is that materiality in a fraud-on-the-market case serves two purposes. It is a predicate to the fraud-on-the-market theory, but it is also an independent, separate element. And what Petitioners would have this Court do is isolate the two the same answer, and it's one that unites the class. There's -- Petitioners phrase the question as whether reliance -- was certainly based upon a theory that -- that simply question, then maybe we shouldn't have this fraud-on-the-market theory because the whole purpose of it is -- is to -- to assume that -- that the whole class was -- was damaged and relied -- because you can rely on an efficient market. But you can only rely on an efficient market where there has been a material misrepresentation. collapses once you remove the materiality element. JUSTICE SCALIA: If you have the same So maybe we should overrule Basic because it Official of proving reliance in an impersonal market in which MS. SHERRY: The fraud-on-the-market theory, however, is a substantive theory. It's not a procedural doctrine. To be sure, one of the practical consequences is it allows classes to be certified, but it's a means investors trade today. What the Court did in Basic was adapt the direct reliance concept which envisioned face-to-face transactions to the impersonal market. And so with respect to actually proving a fraud on the market, you're absolutely right, but what we're talking about here is not whether a fraud on the market can be proven; we're talking about whether common issues predominate over individual issues. JUSTICE SCALIA: Materiality is a common issue. Reliance is only a common issue if you accept the fraud-on-the-market theory. That's the problem. And you are using the one, which is a common issue, to leapfrog into the second, to make the -- the efficiency of the market reasoning something that it isn't. individual issue that would come into play in a case where materiality is not able to be shown. None would because materiality would kill the case for all. And Petitioners still fail to point to any MS. SHERRY: With all due respect, the two Official materiality. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that then -- that market theory is -- is really -- really an overgeneralization. It could be much more subtle than that and so you have an advanced theory. But you want us to ignore that. really do collapse into one. Once you've proven that the market is efficient and once you've proven that the statements are public, you're asking the same question. You can call it reliance, or you can call it imparts the question of years of economic scholarship -- I think that's how long it's been since Basic was decided -- has shown that the -- the efficient MS. SHERRY: No, I -- a couple responses to that. The first one is the one that my colleague made, which is that market efficiency isn't disputed here. It was conceded in the answer at paragraph . And not only is it not -- is it not contested here, Petitioners actually embrace an efficient market, in something to be addressed in this case. And my second response is Basic didn't adopt any particular economic model of market efficiency. If you look at footnote of Basic, if you look at footnote of Basic, the Court order to pursue their truth-on-the-market defense. And so my first response would be that's not Official Instead, it was looking at congressional And so, again, I wouldn't consider market efficiency in this case. It's not presented. To the extent there's questions about how the determinations should be made in terms of levels of generality, that's something that the lower courts can decide. Today, all we're talking about is the makes very clear that it's not adopting an economic theory, as far as how quickly or completely the information is incorporated into the market price. intent, it was looking at difficulties in direct proof, and it was looking at common sense to reach a result and again to adapt a reliance theory that was premised on face-to-face transactions to the impersonal market that exists today. The -- going to the -- some of the policy concerns that were raised, I'd make a couple points. materiality component and, again, focusing on whether or not common issues predominate over individual issues. It's a comparative inquiry. It requires comparing common issues on the one hand and individual issues on the other. And Petitioners have not identified any individual issues that will actually come into play as the case is litigated. One is the one that my colleague made. Congress Official causation, which this Court in Erica John, of course, said did not have to be proven at the class certification stage. So in short, it proves too much. addressed those policy concerns in the PSLRA, in SLUSA, and it chose to address them through different means. The second point I would make is the same argument could be made with respect to the other elements of the securities fraud cause of action. If the argument is you should have to prove it at class certification because, otherwise, the case is going to settle, you could say the same thing with respect to scienter, with respect to falsity, with respect to loss countervailing policy concerns, and there are Rule in terms of efficiency. agree that you have to show materiality to rely on the merits, yes. It is a predicate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I don't understand why that is. If you're trying to show Excuse me. Petitioners -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you -- do you fraud-on-the-market theory to establish reliance? MS. SHERRY: As a substantive matter on the The third response is that there are countervailing concerns that are actually tethered to reliance, and you show that it's an efficient market, Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Or, to put it differently, MS. SHERRY: I think, in terms of transaction causation, what you're -- and reliance is information be material. And so we accept that in terms and that the information was -- was public, doesn't that show reliance without regard to whether the statement's material or not? referred to as transaction causation -- what you're trying to show is whether or not the information affected or distorted the market price. And in order to show price distortion, it does require that the of the fraud-on-the-market theory -- an efficient market is a market that takes account of material factors, right? market if it's -- you know -- it's -- who knows, random? It takes account of material factors. MS. SHERRY: I would make a minor quibble on that. I would say that the market takes account of all public information, but it only -- it only moves based on material information, so that's exactly right. And so our issue is not with the predicates for the fraud-on-the-market theory. MS. SHERRY: I -- I would say it's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not an efficient Our issue is with Petitioners equating the Official And so the problem with Petitioners' met. The only one that we're talking about here is acknowledge, a determination at the class certification stage is not binding on anybody -- in that case on the ultimate fact-finder, or in any other case. predicates from the fraud-on-the-market theory with the actual prerequisites of Rule . And this Court made it very clear, in Shady Grove, that the only question at the Rule stage is whether the prerequisites have been predominance. It's a comparative inquiry between common issues and individual issues. And if I can quickly go back to my point about countervailing policy concerns, as Petitioners position is that it would require relitigation of the materiality question at the merits stage to the extent the class is certified or, if it's not, in every other case that is brought on the same issue. That doesn't serve the efficiency purposes that underlie Rule . prejudiced, but as Your Honor, Justice Kagan, pointed out, the only prejudice is that they wouldn't be able to relitigate the very same issue. That is protected by allowing opt out. That is protected by Rule 's The -- in terms of absent class members, he suggests that absent class members would somehow be adequacy of representation requirement. Official And so that's already sufficiently rises or falls together. And class certification is not one-way ratchet, where only the defendant was bound. In the current version of Rule (b)(), you want to certify class actions that are both meritorious and those that are not, so that it reaches a binding judgment. protected. The most efficient course is to actually focus on common issues. Materiality is a common issue. It will result in the same answer for all. The class about only certifying meritorious cases. In , when the current version of Rule (b)() was adopted, it was an innovation. It was a change from the spurious class actions, where it was a amendment that Ms. Sherry was referring to states, quote, "A fraud case may be unsuited for treatment as a class action if there was a material variation in the kinds or degrees of reliance by the persons to whom they were addressed." CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Waxman, you have minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF SETH P. WAXMAN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. WAXMAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. The advisory committee notes to the very Official case -- in the paradigm case, reliance was proven by the fact that you heard the statement and you did something in reliance on it, to your detriment. That is this case. The anomaly of our -- my friend's position is they concede that materiality is a predicate for class reliance. They agree that, unless the statement is material, however efficient the market, however loudly the statement was published, there is no detrimental reliance on the integrity of the market price. Justice Breyer, this goes to your traditional paradigm Basic didn't say anything about class certification whole reason that the question of the fraud-on-the-market theory was presented, was the inquiry about whether there could be -- whether the traditional bilateral method of proving detrimental reliance on a statement could be aggregated into a ginormous class by allowing everyone to say, well, we relied on the integrity of the market price and a material misstatement -- a material statement affected that price. under Rule is astonishing, given the fact that the Reliance can only be approved -- and, The innovation of Basic, and the notion that They said, "could have" -- Official JUSTICE BREYER: Traditionally, how did that work? How did that work traditionally? No class, okay? Joe -- Farmer Jones comes in, you have to show it's false? You have to show it's material. And then you show the reliance that he did something on that basis. MR. WAXMAN: Right. Those -- JUSTICE BREYER: So the materiality was not part of reliance. Materiality was an element that was always proved, and then you went on to show reliance. MR. WAXMAN: Exactly right. And what the Court in Basic could have said, Justice Breyer, was, forget the fraud-on-the-market theory; we are going to absolve -- we are going to say that, for b- actions, you don't have to prove reliance directly on the statement. posit that investors rely in common on the integrity of the market price; and if you can demonstrate to us that a challenged statement moved the market -- if there was market effect, we will allow you to proceed as a class; because then the common answer to the common question, how are you going to prove reliance, is we are going to prove it all the same way because investors rely on the integrity of the market price. We are going to allow you to -- we -- we Now, the Court in Basic -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: It sounds like you are JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. MR. WAXMAN: -- we're going to allow you MR. WAXMAN: You have to prove that there --the Court explained correctly in Basic, and this -- this saying you have to win on the merits of the materiality question in order to get the class certified. actually goes to -- anticipates my next point, Justice Ginsburg, the Court in Basic didn't say, well, we're going to allow you to -- JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you don't have to prove it to get the class certified. You only have to prove it to get the class certified with the benefit of getting the class certified, right? shortcut to a shortcut. What the Court in Basic could have said is, if you want to proceed as a class, you prove to the Court that reliance is common by showing MR. WAXMAN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: So this is just a condition to the shortcut. MR. WAXMAN: Yes. And in fact, it's a to --the fraud-on-the-market theory. MR. WAXMAN: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Which is a shortcut to Official All you have to prove -- we will allow that occurred during the period between the misstatement and the correction -- that the market misstatement affected the market price. But the Court in Basic went further in the direction of class plaintiffs and said, you don't have to prove that directly. to be presumed, if you can demonstrate, without effective rebuttal, four things: the statement was of a type that the market would care about; the statement was made publicly in an efficient market; and the trading JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason that we want to prove it upfront in the , rather than wait till the merits, where it will be argued anyway in exactly the same way -- the reason that we want to do it first is, since it's going to be there anyway and going to be litigated anyway, unlike publicity, unlike efficiency, but the reason we take this one and run it upfront is? And it can't be the answer we should litigate everything answer? MR. WAXMAN: Of course not. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So -- so what's the before we litigate anything. MR. WAXMAN: The answer is that this is the -- that the point of Rule is to say, you get to Official is, in fact, yes. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the use this very useful and powerful device if you have the key to the gate. And the key to the gate is showing that the answer to the question, will reliance be proven commonly -- not lost commonly, but proven commonly -- above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial A ability : : able : : : : above-entitled : : absent : : : :, absolute : absolutely : : : : absolve : absorb : absorbed : absorbing : abstract : accept : : account : :, achieving : acknowledge : acted : action :, : : : : : : : : : : actions : : :, : actual : adapt : : additional : address : : addressed : : : : : adequacy : : adequate : adopt : adopted : adopting : advanced : : : advisory : : affect : aggregated : : :,, : answers : anticipates : anybody : : anyway : : :, agree : : apart : : apologize : agrees : : appeals : APPEARAN... : AL : alleged : : : allegedly : alleging : allow :, :, : allowing : : : allows : altered : alternative : Amchem : amendment Amgen : : : : : Amgen's : : : amicus : : : analysis : analysts : announced : anomaly : answer : : : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : : : appendix : apply : approach : appropriately : approve : approved : ARBUS : : argued : : : arguing : :argument ::,,, :: :: ::, :arrogate :articulatingasked :::asking :assert :::assertion :Assistant :assume :,: :astonishing:attained :attempting : authorized automatically : : available : : average : a.m : : Bb :back : :: :backdrop :balance :balancing :ball : :based :: ::basic :,:binding :: :bought :: :: :: :bound :Breyer :,: :,: :: ::,,:,,: :,,:,brief :briefing :bring :bringing :broken :brought :burden ::buying :: :,:,,,: :,: ::,,,:, : C : :, :: :, : : :Ccall :,capability :basically : basis : : care :: behalf :, :,, : : : : : : believe : benefit : best : bet : bilateral : : bill : billion : binary : bind :, cares :case :, ::,, :: :,: :,: :,:, ::, :: :: :,,: :,:,,,: :,: ::, : :, : : : : : : : :, : certified : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, :,, certify : : :, : :, cases :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : certifying : chain :,, challenge : challenged : : : : : : : : causal :,, causation : : : : :, cause : : : : caused : : change : cheated : Chief :, :, : : : : :, :, : classes : : : : :, coherent : cohesion : :, : central : cert : : : Circuit : chose : : circumstances : : : certain : certainly : claim :, : : claimant : certification : claims : : : : :, :, : :, :, : : :, :,, : : :, : : :,, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : class : : : :, :, :, :, :, : :, :,, :,,, : : : : :,,,, :,, :,,, :, : Official : committee concoction : : : : :,,, : condition : confusion : Congress : :,, : :,, :,,, common :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, :, :, : :,, :,, :, : : :, :,,, congressional : : : : : :, : :, Connecticut : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,,, :, :,,, : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,,,, :,, :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : : consider : considered consequences consequence : : : : consign : constitutes : construct : contested : :, : context : : contextual : class-wide : :, : clear : : : : commonly : :, company : company's : comparative : : comparing clinical : cohere : coherence : competing : completely : component : correct : : continue : convey : convinced : core : : : cohesive : collapse : collapses : colleague : : come : : : : : comes :, :, : coming : : : : : :,, : :, : concede : conceded : :, : concept : conceptually : correctly : concerning counsel : : : correction : : concerns : :,, : conclusively : countervailing :, : couple : : : course : Official : : : : : court :, : : : : defense :, :, : :, different : due : Dukes : : : : duty : : : D.C :,, determinations dismissed : current :, determined : : : : differently : : : defrauded : differentiation :,, : degrees : demonstrate : : :, : : : : :, Department : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, :,,, : : : direction : depends : depressed : directly : : : : :, :, : : : difficulties : direct : : depend : depending : : : courts : : Court's : : : : desirability : despite : determination : creates : credibility : curiae : : determine : : : : :, D D : damaged : DAVID : : : day : deal :, dealt : decide :,, : decided : :, : : : decides : deciding :, decision : : : deemed : defendant : : : : determines : determining : :, detriment : detrimental :, detrimentally : device : devolves : differ :, :,, : difference : : : : : :,, : : : : : : disagree : disagreements : : dispute : : disputed :, disputing : distinguish : distort : distorted : : : distortion : : : district : : : : divide : : divides : doctrine : doing : : doubt : drag : dream :, drug : drugs : either :, : : : : : : element : : : :,, : :, : :, : elements : : : : : emboldened : embrace : enabling : enacted : : ends :,enormous : entirely : : envisioned : equating : Erica : especially : ESQ :,,:,,,essential :,establish : : established : : : ET : event : : : : everybody : : :,:, : : : : :,: : evidence :,:,evolves : : EE : :, earlier :: :easier :Easterbrook:economic :: :economists:effect : : : :: ::effective :efficiency :: ::, : : :,:,, : : :,:, : :,,:,,:, : : ::, : : ::efficient ::, : : :: :: :,:, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : Official exact : exactly : : : : :, : : :, : : : example : examples : excuse : : : excuses : executives : exists : : expert : : explain : explained : : : : explains : extent :, : : extracted : F faced : : : face-to-face : : facing : fact : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : factors : :, facts :,, : factual : fact-finder : fact-sensitive : fail : fair : fall : : falls : : false :, : : : : : : :, : falsity :, : : : : far : : Farmer : favor : feature : fiduciary : file : filed : : finality : find : finding : :, : findings : finds : fine : first : : : : : : : :, : flagship : : flukey :,, focus : focusing : follow : footnote : : forcing : foreclosing : forget : forth : fortiori : fortune : : : : forward : foul : found : four : : fragment : fraud : : : : : : :, : : fraudulent : fraud-on-the-... : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : Frederick : : :, :, : : :,: :,: : :,,,:, : :, :, :, : :, : :,friends : friend's : front : fruits : full : function : : :,functionally: functions : fundamental fortunes :, : Funds : : further : : : future :, GG :gate : : : :,gatekeeping: :gate-keeping general : : : generality : generate : generates : getting : : : ginormous : Ginsburg : : :, :, good : : government: grounds : Grove : guess : Hhabit :haircut : Halliburton: hand : : hands : happen ::happens :: ::harm :: :, hear : : : : :, : heard ::, : : :, : : :: :,: give : given : : heart :heightenedgoing : : goes : : glue : go : : : : : : : : : :held : higher :highly :high-end :hold :holds : : Honor : :, : hope :,:,,, : : : : :, : : :, : : :,,, hypotheticalhotly :hugely :hundreds :hypothesizing: : : : :,,, : I idea : identified : ignore : immaterial : :,, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : immateriality : :, impaired : : imparts : impersonal : : : import : important : : : impose : imposing : : inability : incoherent : incorporated : : independent : indicating : indirect : : : : : : : : indirectly : : : : individual : : :, : individualized individually inefficiencies : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,, : inefficient : :, : inflated : : information : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,,, : injury : innovation : : inquire : inquiries : inquiry : : : : : : : instances : : integrity : : :, :, : :, : : intent : interrupting : introduce : Official investor : : : : : investors : : : :,, : : : : : :,, : :, involve : involved : involves : irrelevant : isolate : issue : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, :,,, : : : : :,,, :, : : : issues : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : I’d : I’m : JJoe : John : Jones :judge : : : :,,,: :,,: :,: : : judges : judge's : judgment : :, :, : : : judgments : juggernaut : jury :,jury's : Justice : : : :,,,:, :,, :, : : :, : : :,:,,,:,, : :, : :, : :,,:, : :,,:, : :,,: :,:,,,: : : :,: :,: : :, : :,, : :, :, : :,: :,:, : :,,: :, :,,, :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :,, : :,,,: :,: justices : justify : : justifying : KKagan :,:, : : :, : :,,:, : keep :Kennedy ::,,,: :: :,:, : :,,:key : : :,kill :kind : : :kinds :know : : : ::,,: ::,,:, : : :: :known :knows ::Llanguage :Laughter :: : law :, : : lawsuit : lawsuits : leads : : leapfrog : leave : legitimizes : legs : letting :, : let's :, :, level :, : levels : liability : : light : likelihood : listed : lists : litigant : litigants : litigate :, litigated : : : : : litigating : litigation : loading : long : look : : :, looked : looking :,, looks : lose : : : : : : loses :, : : loss : : : : lost : lot : loudly : lower : : Mmajority :making ::market :,:, :, :,, : :, : :,,: :,:, : : :,:,,:,,: :,: :,:, : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,,, : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :,, markets : : market's : married : material :Official meet : : money : misstatements : mix : : : : model : Monday : : motion : means : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, :, :,, : : : :,, :, : : : :, : MELISSA : :,, :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : :, : : : : materiality : meritorious member : members : move : : : : : : :, : moved : : :, :, merit : : movement : moves : moving : :, :, : merits :, : :, : :,: : : : : :, :, : : :,, : :,: :,, : : : :,, : : :, : : :,, :, : met : :, : method : : : :, :, middle : : : million : : : :, : :, : mind : :, : mini : : :, minor : :, : minutes : :, : : : : : : :, : :,: : misinformation matter : : : : : : : matters : mean : : : :, misleading : misrepresenta... : :,: : misstatement : : : : : :, : NN :, : nearly :necessary :need : : :needed :needs ::new :Ninth :noncohesivenonefficiencynonmaterial:::nonplussed :nonpublic :Northway :note :notes :notion :::November :number : Official : : paradigm : O O : : objective : : : : objectively : parroted : part : : observations paragraph : : particular : : : : : : occur : occurred : occurring : odd : parties : offense : party : oh : okay : : pause : : : : pausing : people : : : :, :,, :, : problem : : : procedural : proceed : :, : :,, : : : : proceeding : : : Plans : : play : : plays : pleading : : please : : : predominance : : : : : predominate : : : : : : predominates : : point : : : : : : : : : : : prejudice : proceedings : preexists : prejudiced :, : pointed : : points : policy : : preliminary : : : process : products : professorial : once : : : : :, one-way : opinion :, : : : : :, : : :, : period : percent : : :, :, : : posit : positing : position : : :, : : possible : possibly : postpone : postponed : potential : powerful : practical : precisely : preclude : precluded : : :, : precludes : precondition :, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : persons : petition : Petitioners : person : : perfect : opinions : opposite : opt : : oral : :,, perfectly : : : : : : : :, order :, : : : : ordinarily : ordinary : ought : outset : outstanding overgeneraliz... : : overrule : P : : page : : : paid : P : :, : place : phrase : : : plaintiff : : : : plaintiffs : premise :, prongs : premised : prerequisites : :, : : : proof : : present : proofs : presented : proper : : president : pressure : presumably : : : presume : presumed : : : presumption presumptions : : proposed : proposing : protected : :, : prove :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : :, preconditions : :, predicate : : :,, : : : : : predicates : : : pretty : prevail : pre-try : price :,, proven :, proved :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,, : : :, : : :, proves : :, : : : province : proving : : Official : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :,,,, : :,, :, : requisites : : requirements requires : : : relied : : : : : : : :, : : : : reliers :, relitigate : reserve : resolved : respect : : :, :, : : :,, : Respondent :, :, : : : : relitigation responding : response : :, : rely : : responses : : :, result : : :, : Retirement : : : : :, : relying : : remanded : remedy : remove : render : repeatedly : : representations : : representative : : : : : : : : :, require : : required : requirement right : : :,,,:, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : rightly : rise : : : rises : risk : road : ROBERTS : :, : : : reliance :, reports : representation : :, : PSLRA : : : public :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : publicly : : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : question's : quibble : quickly : : publicity : questions : :,, : :, : reasonable : : : : : : reasoning : reasons : : rebuttal : : : rebutted :, recognized : : : : quintessential published : referred : purported : referring : purpose : reflect :, :, : : : : quote : : reflected : : quirk : quite : : : quoting : reflects : red : redeterminati... relier : purposes : : : pursue : put : : : putative : : : p.m : Q RR :raised :raising :random :ratchet :rate : reach : question :, reaches : : read : real : : react : reacted : reaction : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : :,, :,,,, : :, reality : : :, really : : :,, : :, : :, :, :,, reason : : : : : : :, : :, : : regard : : : regardless : reiterated : : related : relevant : : : : : : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : :,,, :,, : : :,, : : : : Official :, : search : second : : : : : role : : rolling : rule : : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : securities : : : : : : : see : seeking : sense : : :, : sentence :, sentences : separate : serve : : ruled :, Rules : ruling : run : : run-of-the-mine serves : : set :, : : S S : : sarcastic : SETH : : satisfaction : : : : satisfied : saying : : settle : : :,, : : : :,, : : : Shady : shares : Sherry : : :, :, setting : :, : : : : : settlement : Solicitor : says : : : Scalia : :,,, : :, : : : :,, :, : :, : : :, :,,, Schleicher : scholarship : scienter : : : : :,, :, : :, : :, : : :, : : short : shortcut : sought : : :, sound : :, : show : : sounds : source : :, : :,,, special : : : : : : :, specially : : :,, :,, : : :,,, showed : showing : : : : : : shown : : : side : significant : significantly : : silence : similarly : :, simply : : situated :, situation : SLUSA : sold : : : : : somebody : : sooner : sophisticated : sorry : : SOTOMAYOR : :, : : :, :, : : specter : splinter : splits : spurious : stage : : :, :, :,,, : : :,, : : :, : : : :, : : :,, standard : : : : standards : standing : start : : : : statistics : stock : :, : : stockbroker : stocks : : stock's : stool : stroke : studies : : subjective : submitted : : subsequently : subsidiary:,substantial : substantive : : : : subtle : successful : sue : sufficient : started : statement : :,,, : :, :,, :, : : :, : : :,,, :, : sufficiently : :, :, suggestion : : :, suggests : : : : :, suit :,,: :, :,, :, : : : : : summary : :, :, : super : support : supporting : : : statements : : : : : : : : suppose : : Supreme :,statement's : sure : : states :,, : : : surmount : Official System : think : : T T :, take : : : : takes :, : talking : : :, : : tell : temporally : : tens : term : terms : : : :, : test : :, : tethered : Thank : : :, :, theoretical : theory : : : : : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, : :, : : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : thing : : : : : : things : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : : thinking : thinly : third : thought : : thousands : three : : : tie : till : time : : : timing : today : : :, told : tort :,, total : : : : tracks : : trade : traded : : trading : : traditional : :, traditionally :, :, transaction : : transactions : : transform : treatment : trial : : : : :, : :,, trials : : trier-of-fact : unsuited : upfront : : : : true : : upheld : : : : :, use :, : : : useful : usually : Trust : : truth : truth-in-the-... : truth-on-the-... : : : try :,, : : : trying : : : : : : : TSC : two : : : : : :, :, : type : : typical : typicality : :, tyranny : Uultimate :underlie :understand: :: :: :understandingunderstood::unefficient :United :,,: :unites :Vv : : : :valid :variation :various :vast :version :,viewed :voted :Wwait :waiting :Wal-Mart :: :want : :, : :: ::,wanted :Washington ::,,wasn't ::Waxman ::, :,, :,, :, :,,: : : :,,:, : :,,: :,:,,:,,:,,,: :, :,,,:,,,:,,:, : : :,: :,:,,,: :,Waxman's : way : : : : : : : : : : ways : weigh : : : went : : We'll :we're :,: ::,we've :we’ll : whatsoever :win : : :, : window :winning :wins :,:witnesses :words :work : : ::worked :world :: :,wouldn't :: ::wrong : : : : Official : : : : : : : : : : : : : : X x :, Y year :, years : Z zero : $ $ : . : b- : : : : : : : b-(b) : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :,, : :, 's : (a) :, : :, (b)() : :, :, : A : : 