Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Monday, October , - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x JAMES R. CLAPPER, JR., DIRECTOR : OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE, ET AL., :: No. - Petitioners : AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL USA, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, JAMEEL JAFFER, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioners. v. Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. JAMEEL JAFFER, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) may it please the Court: The question in this case is whether International. General Verrilli. GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Clapper v. Amnesty Respondents have standing to bring a facial challenge to the amendments to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Those amendments provide authority to foreign persons located abroad for foreign intelligence purposes. imposed statutory protections designed -- As I read your brief, standing would only arise at the moment the government decided to use the information against someone in a pending case. To me, the executive to conduct surveillance targeted at Along with that grant of authority, Congress JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, is there anybody who has standing? that -- Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Several points, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- would seem to say GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, under the suggesting there is -- but that if there was a statute, there are two clear examples of situations in Your Honor -- that the Act -- if there were a violation; I'm not constitutional violation in the interception, that no one could ever stop it until they were charged with a crime, essentially. which the individuals would have standing. The first is if an aggrieved person, someone who is a party to a communication, gets notice that the government intends to introduce information in a standing could include a facial challenge like the one here. JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, can you be specific on who that person would be? Because, as I lawyers in this case would be charged with any criminal offense. It's more probable that their clients would be; but, according to the government, their clients have no Fourth Amendment rights because they are people who proceeding against them. They have standing. That understand it, it's unlikely that, for example, the are noncitizens who acted abroad. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the client is somebody who is abroad and who acted abroad, and is not a U.S. GENERAL VERRILLI: That's certainly true. So it's hard for me to envision. I see the theoretical possibility, but I don't see a real person who would be subject to a criminal charge who could raise an objection. information were -- if anyone gets notice, including the client, then the lawyer would know, and the lawyer would be in a position at that point to act. citizen. But, in addition, Your Honor, the statute provides that -- that electronic communication service providers can challenge authorizations under the Act, so you -- there certainly would be standing in that instance. service provider would object? provider did object to the immediate statutory predecessor to the amendments. And the -- and the FISA court litigated that constitutional challenge. So there's a concrete context there in which it arises. There was such a case. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How likely is it that a GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, the service Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if the But even -- but beyond that -- Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the litigation was GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that's right. The there. one, we acknowledge that it may be difficult for a plaintiff to do so because an -- a challenge to the application gets into classified information pretty quickly. unsuccessful. Court found there was no Fourth Amendment violation But I think the point here, Your Honor, is -- the key point is this, that the -- in a normal case, a plaintiff would challenge the application of the authority to that plaintiff. In a situation like this difficulty. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, using what you just mentioned, suppose -- just let's suppose that the Court should hold there is standing. Couldn't the government information is classified, these are state secrets, we can't -- we can't go forward with the litigation? Of course, there's a procedure that the executive branch then say as far as the merits of the complaint, this I think what the Respondents have tried to do here is to find a theory of the case that avoids that would have to go through, but that's a possibility. GENERAL VERRILLI: That is a possibility. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, I don't know I just want to make sure that I'm clear. Given that lawyers are unlikely to be the But I don't think we can get to that point, Your Honor, because I do think the key point here is that the Respondents' claims about this statute depend on a cascade of speculation. This statute only grants authority. It doesn't command anything. And in order for the Respondents to make a claim that they are injured, in fact, by this statute -- that you've answered my question. Perhaps you have, but targets of an investigation, if they -- if their conversations would be intercepted, according to you they'd never have standing. GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think it's appropriate, Your Honor, to relax the Article III standing requirement of injury in fact based on the reality that the specific applications of this statute may involve classified information. we've had cases in the past where it is clear that nobody would have standing to challenge what is -- what is brought before this Court. JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Verrilli, we've had -- GENERAL VERRILLI: That's exactly right, Justice Scalia. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the test that you GENERAL VERRILLI: No. The key point, I GENERAL VERRILLI: That the Court's authority cannot be invoked in that circumstance. And JUSTICE SCALIA: And we've said that that just proves that under our system of separated powers, it is none of our business. the mere fact that a specific application requires getting into classified matters can't change that basic Article III requirement. propose that the injury -- I think your brief used the word imminent -- is another way of saying that -- is it unfair to characterize the government's position as saying that you're submitting that the injury must be certain? think, is narrower than that, Justice Kennedy. about the government's conduct, not the connection between the government action and an ultimate effect on let's assume for the moment that the lawyer would be -- that the lawyer would be injured if his communication with the client were intercepted, or at least that he would have standing to prove injury. Let's assume that This is a case in which the speculation is the Plaintiff. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's assume -- Official If that is an acceptable premise, assume GENERAL VERRILLI: The government conduct for the moment. that it is, are you saying that it has to be certain to occur? And another test is there's a reasonable likelihood, and then we get in the middle, is it a substantial likelihood. You have to say -- you say imminent. being challenged has to either have occurred or be certainly impending. And here, we have the polar opposite, Your Honor. I think it is important to think about -- And I think -- I think, if the Court thinks about it, every single case in which the Court has found standing, there's never been a dispute about whether the government was going to act or not; the dispute was only the plaintiff's injury. this case the Complainant can never know. I mean, I Here, they're fighting about what -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, but in know you emphasize the speculative nature of this claim, JUSTICE KENNEDY: Certainly impending. GENERAL VERRILLI: Certainly impending. That's the language from this Court's opinions. about the connection between the government action and Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it -- you were talking -- you wanted to say there's a cascade of I mean, are we to assume that --GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, that's not but it's not speculative if the government being given this authority by Congress is going to use it. Isn't that so? speculative, Justice Ginsburg, but what is speculative is the connection between the grant of authority and a claim of injury. I do think it's important -- inferences, I think was your phrase. speculation --in your view these -- all these inference that we're required to go through, if the Respondents' theory is adopted, you were going to tell us about -- that. Thank you, Your Honor, yes. about what the intelligence priorities and objectives of the executive branch are. executive branch officials are going to exercise their judgment to translate those priorities into procedures Second, they have to speculate about how the GENERAL VERRILLI: There's a cascade of JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want to tell us that GENERAL VERRILLI: I'd like very much to do First, the Respondents have to speculate Official Third, they have to speculate about the the lawfulness of those procedures and assessing whether FISA court ever -- ever turned down an application. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, but that, Your and procedures that comply with the statutory targeting and minimization requirements. independent judgment of an Article III court assessing those procedures comply with the Fourth Amendment. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there much of a speculation involved in how -- I think it's only one time, and it was under the pre-amended statute, that the Honor, is, I think, not a fair assessment of the process. It's really very much an iterative process in which there's a dialogue between the executive branch and the FISA court in which the court can demand more information, raise objections. Those get worked out, and then there's a final order. fact that there's only one rejection that this -- that described, once you get through all that, you still have to speculate about whether the communication that -- whether the persons with whom the Respondents are communicating are going to be targeted, and that So I don't think it's fair to infer from the it's a process that isn't rigorous. But, in addition to the speculation I just Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here is -- I assume GENERAL VERRILLI: It may be a harm, yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So the question is Respondents' communications will get picked up and -- that it is an injury for an American speaking in America to have his communication intercepted against his will by the American government. We take that as a harm; is that right? how likely is that to occur? under this Court's cases, Your Honor, is whether the government is going to take an action that makes that certainly impending. I mean, you know, nothing is certain. But I see it's some degree of what you say -- some people say certainly, some people say likelihood, etc. So put that to the side. declaration of Mr. Scott McKay. Now, Mr. Scott McKay says he's represented two of the people who are allegedly part of al Qaeda and committed crimes, and he has represented them for some time. One was in Guantanamo. Another is charged with various crimes and JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Fine. That's why I say certainly -- it might not be a storm tomorrow. GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I think the question What I want to know is, we have the Official In the course of that, he has to phone and intercepted some , telephone calls and is subject to many, many civil suits. has phoned lots of people in Saudi Arabia, in the various Arab states, and in the past the U.S. , e-mail communications involving his client. So isn't it a fair inference, almost pretty certain, maybe about as much as the storm, that if the security agencies are doing their job, they will, in fact, intercept further communications involving this particular individual, the two that he's representing? GENERAL VERRILLI: Actually, Your Honor -- JUSTICE BREYER: And why doesn't that meet the test? the last speculative inference that needs to be drawn in order for them to make out their chain of causation, and it's this: They have to speculate that whatever surveillance occurs will occur under this authority, as opposed to other forms of lawful authority that they do not challenge. And Mr. McKay, that situation is a very good example of this. We point out in footnote at page of our brief that Mr. McKay says, yes, my client was subjected to , interceptions of phone calls, , GENERAL VERRILLI: -- I think that gets to Official JUSTICE BREYER: But why can't we get an interceptions of e-mails. Every one of those, it's a matter of public record, was under the authority of FISA before it was amended in --answer to that question? I mean, I see your point. I'm interrupting because I -- I see where you're going. And it seems to me that, at least, if held in camera, I can't imagine what security it would violate, whether the government were to say, if necessary privately to a judge, would say, no, we do not intend to use this new authority for this purpose. contrary. And so couldn't we find out whether he has national security? there without establishing that there's a case of controversy. And they haven't -- summary judgment now, and the --JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there is if, in fact, the government is going to use this statute to continue to do some of the , or , -- GENERAL VERRILLI: But he's just -- JUSTICE BREYER: Or it could say the standing there without jeopardizing any concern of GENERAL VERRILLI: I think you can't get GENERAL VERRILLI: But this case is at JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: -- Respondents moved for And so the only information that's in front CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't see how that is pertinent. What you're saying is they don't have summary judgment based on the declarations that they submitted. And the declarations that they submitted contain the information I described. of the Court in making a decision now is information that that surveillance occurred under another authority that still exists and could still be applied -- standing to challenge program A because they may also be injured under program B. And do you have an example of a case where we've held that? that the argument of the lawyers is that we have a duty to incur costs to avoid the surveillance, but that duty is triggered by, according to their expert affidavit -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there again, it depends how you phrase their injury. If you phrase their injury as being subject to surveillance under a particular statutory provision that they think is facially invalid, saying that, well, you're not going to get any relief because you're going to be subject to GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's -- I think the problem, Mr. Chief Justice, is redressability, in surveillance under a different provision, I mean, they Official GENERAL VERRILLI: But they still have to show a concrete application of the authority they're say, oh, well, it's one injury to be overheard under this statute, it's another injury to be overheard under another statute? Do you know any case where we've --we've cut the baloney that fine? may say, well, we may, or we may not, but we still have the right to cure the injury of being subject to surveillance under a. challenging. That's what this Court faces -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Do -- do we parse injury that finely? I mean, the injury, it seems to me, is being overheard. Does it -- by the government. Do we They have to show -- going to be injured by being overheard. And you're therefore, by preventing the government from overhearing them under this statute, we're not redressing their grievance, which is being overheard by the government. GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I don't. But -- but I do think the redressability point is a valid one. GENERAL VERRILLI: That's precisely what I'm saying. JUSTICE KAGAN: General Verrilli -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the thing is they are saying that they will be overheard anyway, and, Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General Verrilli, this First, in terms of the expansion of authority, yes, that's fair with respect to the authority that existed immediately preceding the statute. I actually think -- a bit of context is statute greatly expands the government's surveillance power. Nobody denies that. And so if the question from these lawyers' perspective is, what chance do I have of being overheard, and what precautions do I have to take, this statute makes them think about that question in an entirely different way, doesn't it? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think, as compared to -- let me make two points about that. relevant here -- that what this statute was trying to do is reset the initial balance that Congress struck under FISA in , when the large majority of overseas communications were carried by satellite and, therefore, not within FISA. baseline position before this statute and the position after this statute, these lawyers and other people in their situation are going to understand that this is just true, that the government is intercepting more material, and that they have to take greater precautions And, of course, what --JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, but if you take the Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't agree with that, statute was passed, it seems to me, just from a kind of in order to keep their conversations confidential, if that's what they want to do, which lawyers want to do. So they're going to take precautions that they wouldn't have had to take the day before this commonsensical point of view. Justice Kagan. I think -- this statute does not regulate them. It confers authority on the government. They take whatever precautions they choose to take based on their beliefs about how that authority's going to be exercised. That depends on the speculation I described. What this Court held in Summers is that you have to have a concrete application of the authority in order to meet the minimum constitutional requirement for Article III standing. same circle we started with, which is the one that Justice Breyer started with. He pointed to one person under -- who has been surveilled continuously, tens of thousands of interceptions. Can you really say that the government's not going to target him under this greater authority that it sought just for the purpose of ensuring that it casts a broader net? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now we're back at the GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- I think it is Official Now, there were these farmers who were Now, why isn't that exactly what's happening speculation. I think you do not have a concrete application of this authority against anyone, and therefore you cannot meet the basic Article III requirement of standing that's set forth in Summers. JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't see why, General Verrilli, this case is any different from Monsanto. In Monsanto, the government deregulates genetically modified alfalfa, says, go plant it. complaining, and they said, we don't know if that will contaminate our crops or not; we think that there's a significant risk that it will contaminate our crops. Because we think that there's that significant risk, we have to take precautions. in this case? We now think, says the -- say the lawyers, that there is a significant risk that our conversations will be surveilled, a risk that didn't exist before. Because of that significant risk, we have farmers in Monsanto took; therefore, there is standing. GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the difference between this case and Monsanto illustrates our point. If the plaintiff in Monsanto had come into court and said, Congress has enacted a statute that gives the to take precautions of the exact same kind that the Official alfalfa -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't see that difference Monsanto did -- it's not Congress; it's an agency -- but GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and then -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- because, in fact, what government agency the authority to deregulate genetically modified seeds, we think there is an objectively reasonable likelihood that the government is going to exercise that authority to deregulate at all, General Verrilli -- the agency issued a rule saying that farmers could go plant genetically modified crops. because of that, essentially, delegation of authority, the plaintiffs in that case were going to be burdened. And the plaintiffs said, you know, we might be harmed, and we have to take precautions in order not to be harmed. fear that that delegation of authority will result in harm leading to a set of precautions. differences, Justice Kagan, with all due respect. So it's the same thing. It's a different actor, but it's a delegation of authority and a -- and a And then there was the question whether, GENERAL VERRILLI: There is at least two First, there is an exercise of the Official and -- But what we're talking about here is Second, with respect to the authority, the record in that -- in Monsanto showed the seeds were in delegation of authority in Monsanto that is not present here. Here, there is speculation about how the authority will be exercised. the ground, and the only question was a question of scientific assessment about the likelihood that the plaintiff farmers' crops were going to be affected, and that was a scientific judgment based on the pollination radius of the bumblebee, whether it would affect their crops. speculation about how government officials are going to exercise policy judgments to implement the statute speculation, General? I mean, just imagine that -- yourself in this lawyer's position, and the lawyer says, I'm representing a person associated with a terrorist organization, I'm representing KLM in the case of one of these lawyers, and I'm going to be talking to that person's family members and associates and trying to find out everything that I can. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, is it really such Now, as a lawyer, would you take precautions, or would you pick up the phone and start Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't even think it has to GENERAL VERRILLI: If I took precautions, it writing e-mails to all those people? would be because of a belief that I had to comply with an ethics rule, and the ethics rule would be the cause of me taking those precautions. It doesn't change the standard. do with an ethics rule. If you're a good lawyer -- forget the ethics rule and how the ethics rules apply. Are you really going to tell me that you, as a lawyer, would just pick up the phone in the face of this statute and talk to -- these terrorists' associates? GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, it seems to me that that hypothetical is a variant of exactly the isn't a concrete application. situation where it would be likely that some members of the Sierra Club would be affected by the exercise of you do not have a case -- said --authority that the statute conferred, that you cannot --argument that the Court rejected in Summers. There In Summers, the Court said, even in a JUSTICE KAGAN: In Summers, the Court GENERAL VERRILLI: -- or controversy absent the exercise of the authority. Official Well, given the availability of traditional But -- but, in any event, whatever the I asked you a different question. You're a JUSTICE KAGAN: Excuse me. In Summers, the Court said, well, we don't know that this person is just going to stumble upon a piece of land that's affected by this government action. lawyer representing a terrorist and talking to the terrorist's affiliates, and the question is, is this statute going to make you not use the e-mail in the way that you ordinarily would use the e-mail? FISA surveillance, surveillance under Executive Order , surveillance by foreign governments, I don't think it depends on this statute. reasonable judgment of a lawyer in those circumstances, there isn't a concrete application of the statute that creates a case or controversy here. JUSTICE GINSBURG: You never know. There may be dozens of concrete applications affecting the problem here, Justice Ginsburg, really is -- the heart of the matter here really is that in a normal lawsuit a plaintiff would challenge the application of a statute, Plaintiffs in this case, but we will never know. GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I do think the of the authority conferred under the statute. Official Here, that would run into classified JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you think it's Now, a lawyer who represents organized crime it says, suppression of organized crime, wiretap when you want, without a judge. information. So the Respondents have tried to plead a theory that allows them to avoid that problem. But it is inherently based on speculation, and I -- speculation. The government has a statute that says you can wiretap in the United States organized crime when life is at stake and you show it to a judge. Then they say, that isn't good enough. We pass a new statute, and says, my clients have been wiretapped under the first statute , times. Now, I'll tell you, when the government gets ahold of this second statute, it's going to be a million times, because they want to suppress organized crime. I'm not saying my clients are guilty, but we all know. Okay. So. of before, you are saying no standing, no standing, can't raise it -- GENERAL VERRILLI: In a case like that, the lawyer -- the normal course would be for the lawyer to challenge the application of the statute. Here, you Now, the question, which I haven't thought Official So put those three things together, and they have the classified information problem. But I will say -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, you can't. You can't do that here. So -- so what I'm thinking is, he seems to be separate from other people. He seems very likely to have a concrete injury. If they -- if they aren't wiretapping the people who are described here, who are they wiretapping? And they passed this statute in order to have extra authority. seem to spell mother, perhaps, you know. here is that I think Congress was sensitive to the the kind that Respondents want to bring. And so there is an entire -- saying that the government has obtained this extraordinary risks that face this country and the government's not going to use it. That's just, it -- it's hard for me to think that the government isn't using all of the powers at its command under the law -- GENERAL VERRILLI: No, they don't. And the other thing I think that's critical probability that you could not have facial challenges of JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're -- you are extraordinarily wide-reaching power and we have GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm not -- Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's Justice Kagan's line of argument. authority has to be demonstrated and it hasn't been under the theory of the plaintiffs' case. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- in order to protect this country. And you -- you want to say: Oh, well, don't worry that it's not happening. There is another statute. That -- that's the problem I have with this GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I'm not saying that at all, Justice Kennedy. But it remains the case that the way -- that in order for there to be an Article III case or controversy, a concrete application of that hypothetical. The lawyer -- and I don't forget about the -- I think the ethics problem is, is a very substantial one. I think the lawyer would engage in malpractice if he talked on the telephone with some of these clients, given this statute. would be the ethics rule that caused the lawyer to take those steps, not the statute. He would still have the same inferences. reality. He still has to change his conduct. GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- and I think it JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it's still the GENERAL VERRILLI: I would like to make one more point, if I could, Justice Kennedy, that I think Official independent review by an Article III judge to ensure compliance not only with the statute, but also with the Fourth Amendment, and there is ample congressional oversight. So it's not the case that this is a free-ranging authority at all. goes to this and then I would like to reserve the balance of my time. Congress was aware of the difficultly that -- of bringing facial challenges, and so Congress put into place an alternative structure of accountability here. There are -- this is not unbounded authority. There are targeting requirements, minimization requirements, certification by the highest level -- highest levels of the executive, and there is please the Court: Plaintiffs have standing here because there is a substantial risk that their communications will be acquired under the Act and because this substantial risk has effectively compelled them to take immediate Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. Mr. Jaffer. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMEEL JAFFER ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MR. JAFFER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Official course, say, do say "certainly impending," not measures to protect information that is sensitive or privileged. Plaintiffs are lawyers, journalists and human rights researchers who routinely engage in communications that the Act is designed to allow the government to acquire. Plaintiffs communicate, for example, foreign intelligence information, the kind of information that the statute expressly authorizes the government to collect, to retain and disseminate. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Our cases, of "substantial risk." MR. JAFFER: Well, Your Honor, I think that there is a -- a question even in cases that involve only a future injury, whether "certainly impending" is in is not a case that involves only an allegation of future injury. Our -- aside. You have two arguments; one is likelihood of future injury and the other is present obligations or cause. I want to focus on the former. Our standard is certainly impending, and you articulated it by saying, substantial risk. There is obviously a vast difference between those two.fact the standard. But leaving that to the side, this CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, let's leave that MR. JAFFER: Well, I don't think, Your Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But both in Summers and But in Summers, the distinction between likelihood and Monsanto the government tells us: We knew that the governmental act was occurring, and then once we knew that, the question was substantial risk. Honor, that the Court has settled on certainly impending. The cases that the -- the government cites are cases like -- I think that the one that the government cites, relies on most heavily is Summers. certainly impending was not one that the Court relied on in -- in that decision. The Court said that plaintiffs couldn't meet even the lower standard. So I think that the discussion of certainly impending -- Meese v. Keene, these are cases in which the Court didn't look to the certainly impending standard at all. The question that the Court asked in those cases was: Is there a substantial risk? Is there a substantial risk that effectively compels the plaintiff to act in the way they are -- they are acting? this distinction in Monsanto. They say Monsanto is a case in which the government was actually doing MR. JAFFER: Justice Kennedy, the -- the --the cases that we rely on, Monsanto, Laidlaw, You are right that the government points out something, was known to -- to be doing something. But Official But aside from that, those cases like CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not enough, of the substantial risk compelled plaintiffs to do something immediately. even, in this case, first of all, we know that the government is using the statute. They have acknowledged that they are using the statute. So there -- there is a certainty of government conduct. Monsanto and Laidlaw and Meese are not cases that -- that actually turned on the fact that the government was doing something. They are cases that turned on the fact that there was a substantial risk of future injury, and course, to know that the government is using the statute. The whole question is whether or not your clients have been injured, not whether the statute's being used. don't think it would be enough for a plaintiff to walk into court and say the government is using the statute and therefore we have standing. But our plaintiffs are not in that position. Our plaintiffs -- issue -- MR. JAFFER: I -- I agree with that. I JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I have an CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, do you want to finish? If it's all right, could you finish the Official MR. JAFFER: Sure. I was just going to say monitor under the statute. JUSTICE SCALIA: Does that assessment take under the statute. One relates to the kind of answer? that our -- our plaintiffs have -- have reasons to believe that their own communications will be monitored information that they routinely exchange over the phone and by e-mail, foreign intelligence information. But it's also that -- that plaintiffs communicate with the kinds of people the government is likely to -- to into account the fact that a court is going to pass upon the government's ability to intercept these communications? mean you -- you are right that there is a court that in some sense stands between plaintiffs and the future injury that they -- that they fear. MR. JAFFER: I don't think it's that simple. The -- the -- the court, the FISA court, is tasked with assessing the reasonableness of targeting and minimization procedures. But the statute itself forecloses the court from imposing the kinds of limits JUSTICE SCALIA: With the obligation to apply the Fourth Amendment. MR. JAFFER: It does, Justice Scalia. I Official matter what the statute says. MR. JAFFER: Well, the Court would have defining targeting procedures defines them to be that plaintiffs think the Fourth Amendment requires. So for example, the statute itself in section (g)() says that the government is not required to identify the facilities to be monitored. And the statute itself in procedures intended to ensure that the targets are outside the United States. JUSTICE SCALIA: But if as you say those procedures violate the Fourth Amendment, it doesn't to -- provisions would produce a violation of the Fourth The -- the court -- would presumably know that. happened over the last years, the government wouldn't be seeking reauthorization of the statute now. But even apart from that --clear on the expanded authority under the FAA? As I Amendment, they are null and void, right? MR. JAFFER: Well, I think that's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So the FISA Court MR. JAFFER: Well, I think if that had JUSTICE SCALIA: If those statutory JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Jaffer, could you be Official say who the particular person or the particular statute was to remove those tests, to remove the probable cause requirement, and to remove the facility of requirement, the requirement that the government identify to the court the facilities to be monitored. So those are gone. understood it, it's not like in the old statute, where a target was identified and FISA decided whether there was -- the court decided whether there was probable cause. Under this new statute, the government doesn't location. So, there isn't that check. There isn't that check. MR. JAFFER: That's absolutely right, Justice Ginsburg. There -- the whole point of the surveillance." I know the government doesn't accept that label, but it concedes that the statute allows what it calls categorical surveillance, which -- which -- which is essentially the surveillance the plaintiffs assume for the sake of argument that "certainly impending" is the, the general standard, if we accepted your other argument, that the plaintiffs have standing That's why we use the phrase "dragnet here are concerned about. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you address -- JUSTICE ALITO: If we accept the -- if we Official MR. JAFFER: I don't think it would undermine the -- the future injuries standard, Your of the person's conversation being intercepted, but it's because they took preventative measures, wouldn't that undermine completely the -- the "certainly impending" standard? You have a person who is in a situation where there is a certain risk, a certain degree of risk of -- not certainly impending. So then the person simply takes some preventative measures, and acquires standing that wouldn't otherwise be present. Honor, for a couple of different reasons. The first is that "fairly traceable," which is the standard that the Court has used when there is an actual injury, is a standard that does real work. So if plaintiffs, for example, were acting unreasonably in taking the measures they are taking, if plaintiffs were gratuitously buying flight tickets, they couldn't create standing out of nothing. It would have to be a reasonable reaction to the risk. go back to sort of the -- the basic standing -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, before we go further. A reasonable reaction to the risk; but it doesn't have to be a reasonable reaction to a certainly But the other thing is, and this is just to impending risk, does it? Official MR. JAFFER: You are right, Justice Scalia. JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's his question. It doesn't, on -- on our theory. Doesn't it undermine the certainly impending? MR. JAFFER: And the only point I was trying to make is that if there is a distance between these two standards, it's a -- it's a pretty narrow distance. But the other point I want to make is just that the reason -- to the extent the Court has imposed a higher standard for cases involving only future injury -- and again, we don't concede that the Court has imposed a higher standard, but to the extent it has, it has done so because it wants to assure itself that the future injury is sufficiently concrete to warrant the Court's intervention. is assured of concreteness. The actualness of the injury makes the case concrete on its own. And so I think that the standards do different work. I don't think it's a question of an end-run around the imminent standard. It's a question of the Court assuring itself that there is a concrete case before it. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jaffer, it seems to me that your -- the government's strongest argument goes something like this -- and I don't think that they would But if there's an actual injury, the Court Official that any old person would. ethically required to use precautions. So what does the FAA do? I guess this is a say it in these words, but you have some clients where it actually does seem completely reasonable that they would take precautions, that they would not get on the phone, and that they would not use e-mail in the way But just -- those clients, these lawyers of terrorists, essentially shouldn't be using that e-mail or getting on the phone anyway. Even before the FAA was passed, they would have been wise and, indeed, maybe point about redressability, it's a point about -- MR. JAFFER: Well, Justice Kagan, this is something that the declarations address specifically, the distinction between the burden imposed by FISA, traditional FISA, and the -- the burden imposed by the statute, plaintiffs were required to take precautions with respect to a subset of their communications. And they acknowledge that in their declarations. MR. JAFFER: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- causation, but that seems to me the strongest of the government's arguments. new statute. And it's true that the old -- under the old But the new statute reaches whole categories Official But now they have to take those they thought the government might believe to be a who are, for example, witnesses overseas, of journalists overseas or human rights researchers overseas. As Scott McKay says in his declaration, with respect to every single international communication, I have to make an assessment of the risk that the government -- of people who couldn't have been reached under FISA. FISA had a probable cause requirement. It had to be a foreign agent on one end of the phone. And so when one of the lawyers in this case was talking to somebody who foreign agent, they took those precautions even before. precautions -- some of which are very costly -- they have to take those precautions with respect to people example -- well, I'm not sure that this goes directly to your question, but in the McKay affidavit, as well as in the Sylvia Royce affidavit -- Sylvia Royce is another one of the attorney plaintiffs in this case -- both of those Plaintiffs discuss the additional burden of the FAA. They talk about measures that they are taking because of the FAA specifically. And they mention the JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have specifics in the affidavits of things that your clients would have done previously that they cannot do now? MR. JAFFER: Yes, Your Honor. So, for Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: What other measures Let me see if I can give you actual citations for these. So -- so -- so, the Plaintiffs kinds of communications they're having with people who could not reasonably be thought to be foreign agents. besides having to travel to have conversations? MR. JAFFER: I think it's a spectrum, Justice Ginsburg. It begins with just being more circumspect on the telephone, and it goes to, for example, talking in generalities rather than specifics. have in some cases been deterred from communicating over e-mail or the phone. Chris Hedges discusses that at a of the appendix; Scott McKay discusses it at a. Royce at a. Plaintiffs to travel overseas to gather information that they might otherwise -- I understand is the one thing that has a dollar amount attached to it. MR. JAFFER: Right. JUSTICE GINSBURG: But these others -- these In some instances, the Plaintiffs have talked in generalities rather than specifics. Sylvia In some instances, it has even required JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the travel overseas other precautions, being more circumspect in their Official MR. JAFFER: There is no dollar cost, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you go back to being questions, talking in generalities -- Justice Ginsburg -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. MR. JAFFER: -- but there is a professional cost. And I don't think it's -- it shouldn't be hard to understand the professional cost. If a lawyer is -- a little bit more specific on this? I think I got it. There is a class of people that they would have spoken to on the phone or e-mailed before because they didn't think they would be covered by other surveillance measures -- before this Act? always terrorists -- statute, there's no requirement that the target be a terrorist or a foreign agent, right? MR. JAFFER: That's right. The -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you talk about what kinds of people those are? Because if the targets are MR. JAFFER: Right. No. Right. Under this MR. JAFFER: That's right, Justice Sotomayor. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- that were in effect So under this statute, every time, for Official So, for example, if she is talking to a example, Sylvia Royce has to make a phone call with somebody overseas about the representation of somebody that she is representing, she needs to make an assessment about the sensitivity of the information, about the ways that information might be used against her client. journalist in Afghanistan about the detention of one of her prisoners at Bagram Air Base, that is a conversation that could not plausibly have been picked up under FISA, but it's a conversation that could be picked up under the FAA. me that the concern you're talking about is present in every area of practice. If you're representing someone who is being prosecuted, you don't send an e-mail saying, you know, the government hasn't yet asked where you threw the gun, and we've got to be prepared to answer questions on that because, as you know, that's a through the e-mails or just talk casually over the phone either. MR. JAFFER: I think that's -- that's right, Mr. Chief Justice, that, to some extent, this exists in CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, it seems to real probable. I mean, you don't send messages like that Official this statute. alleged to be an organized crime figure. with foreign intelligence-related crimes. And this statute, I think for good reason, If I could just address -- JUSTICE ALITO: Could I go back to a every area of practice. But this is a statute that is focused on gathering foreign intelligence information, and our clients include lawyers who represent defendants charged makes them especially concerned about the communications they are engaged in with people overseas who couldn't have been covered under FISA, but who are covered under question that Justice Breyer asked, where he used the analogy of a lawyer who is representing someone who is Suppose you have a case where a lawyer says, I represent so and so, the government thinks this person is an organized crime kingpin, I know the government has a very extensive wiretapping program for people who fall challenge the constitutionality of the statute under which some of this wiretapping occurs. Would that person have stand -- would that lawyer have standing? into this category, I want to raise -- I want to MR. JAFFER: I think so. I think so, Justice Alito. I mean, assuming that the lawyer could Official JUSTICE ALITO: Do you know of any case that Whether he would have a claim is a different MR. JAFFER: Well, I think that -- I don't think it's a novel proposition. I think that in every establish that there was a substantial risk that his communications would be -- would be monitored, and that the substantial risk had compelled him to take measures immediately, I think that lawyer would have standing. question, but I think he would have standing. holds that? one of -- for example, in a case like Skinner, which was a challenge to the rules that allowed for blood tests of railway employees who had been in a -- in accidents, that was a facial challenge brought to the statute, and statute has been around for years. Has there been a single case that falls into this category that you're talking about? MR. JAFFER: No, but I think that that -- that there's a good reason for that, which is under Title III people who are monitored get notice. There is a notice provision, a general notice provision. And so it doesn't -- you know, and people don't have to worry nobody questioned standing in that case. JUSTICE ALITO: The Federal wiretapping that this is going on secretly. JUSTICE BREYER: I think the -- which I Official JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there is a notice MR. JAFFER: Only for prosecutions, right? clear that it's not going to -- that the main purpose of unique, so that what you're worried about most is the definition of foreign intelligence information, which defines it to include information with respect to a foreign power or foreign territory that relates to the conduct of foreign affairs. It's very general. provision under this statute. Only for prosecutions. And the government has made this statute is not to gather evidence for law enforcement -- think is difficult, because it makes this case somewhat Attorney General can, if he decides there are exigent circumstances, wiretap for a year, anyway, without going to any court, something that isn't true of the ordinary Now, you say, look, if there is any special group that's going to apply to, that is the group that they wiretapped , times when they didn't even have that authority. And the government is saying, maybe, MR. JAFFER: That -- JUSTICE BREYER: And then, the wiretapping. maybe not. And there, we have an argument. it open to the government, if you prevail, and we say, you know, they have this extra broad authority, there is no way to check it through a court, it does cause harm, these are the most likely people to be harmed and there is very good reason, whatever words we use there, to think it will be used for them, that the government -- is there some way the government could say, in camera even, no, we are not doing it? Here are our procedures. We are not going to show them to anybody but you, judge. I mean, is there a way for the government to show that you're wrong -- MR. JAFFER: Yes. Absolutely. JUSTICE BREYER: What? MR. JAFFER: If the government were to walk into court either today or after the remand that we are either in camera or -- or -- or not and say that plaintiffs will never be monitored under this statute, I think the case would be over. Plaintiffs -- plaintiffs are here not because they have a general complaint about MR. JAFFER: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- and that we're wrong asking for, if the government were to walk into court when we think you're right? Official Is there a way of resolving it? That is, is the statute, but because they're actually -- they're Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the plaintiffs abroad, but in targeting people abroad the government is collecting plaintiffs' communications. So, you know, this isn't a situation where plaintiffs are entirely -- injured by it, and they're -- they -- they -- aren't going to be monitored under the statute. Other people are, and your concern is collateral, that the plaintiffs' discussions might be picked up. But the plaintiffs are not going to be monitored as targets. MR. JAFFER: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, I don't think that's exactly right. I know that the statute says that the government has to target people CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's why I'm saying under your circumstances -- what you said is the government could come in and say: We're not going to monitor these people. Under the statute, you can say that today. The question is whether or not your clients' conversations can be picked up in an incidental way. disagreeing with the word "incidental." It's -- the whole point of this statute was to allow the government to collect Americans' international communications. The -- the executive officials threatened a presidential veto when it was proposed that Americans' communications MR. JAFFER: Right. I -- I guess I'm Official should be segregated in some way, that in the district court the government was very upfront about this, that the statute's whole purpose was to regulate the -- the surveillance of Americans' international communications. So there is a sense in which Americans -- the surveillance of Americans is incidental, but it's a -- JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't what you just suggested as a way of resolving this case rather something like that, Justice Alito. You know, ultimately, the authority that the government has claimed under this statute is what requires the plaintiffs to take the measures that they're taking. bizarre? Someone who is -- whom the government believes to be a top terrorist and a great threat to the country can stop the use of this surveillance by hiring an American lawyer and then having the American lawyer come into court and say -- you know, challenge the constitutionality of this, and the way to resolve the case would be for the government to go into court and say: Well, we're not going to -- we're not going to target this -- this person whom we believe to be a great security threat? MR. JAFFER: I -- I didn't mean to suggest And I suppose that if all the government were to do at Official MR. JAFFER: No, not at all, Justice --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That even if they the same way. What -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To that point, you're promise you they weren't going to intercept you under this statute, that you would still take the same measures? this point is to say secretly to a judge, "We're not actually going to use this against plaintiffs," plaintiffs would have to take the same measures they're taking right now. And they would be injured in exactly conceding the government's position that -- on redressability? injuries flow from the authority that they're -- that they're claiming under the statute. And if the government were to have a secret -- you know, if there were some sort of secret government memo that said communications won't be picked up, if plaintiffs don't know about that change to the government's authority, they're going to have to take the same measures that they're taking. MR. JAFFER: No, no, I wasn't talking about the other programs. I was just saying that plaintiffs' plaintiffs will not in fact be surveilled, their JUSTICE BREYER: That's on that branch of Official And I guess by that point they might be able MR. JAFFER: So -- so maybe it's helpful to your argument, which makes me more nervous than the other branch. The other branch, they might say something like: We're supposed to minimize risks of catching in surveillance Americans and this is what we do. And they show that and they say: We go to the FISA court. Except in these very rare instances where there are emergencies, da, da, da. to reduce the risks to this kind of plaintiff to where it's the same as virtually anybody else or they might be -- be showing it's constitutional. That's where I --that's why I ask the question. I'm not certain of where I am going. challenges. So you think -- think of a case like American Book Sellers Association, which we cite on I think page of our brief, the case in which there's uncertainty about how the government is going to implement the authority. Nobody knows whether this particular plaintiff is going to be prosecuted. In fact, in that case nobody knew whether anybody would be prosecuted. But the authority was out there and the fact that the authority was out there, the government hadn't disclaimed it, plaintiffs were required to take think of the -- the cases involving pre-enforcement Official Amendment cases. All of those things led the Court to find immediate measures to conform their behavior to the statute, and plaintiffs -- some of the injury there related to the kind of self-censorship that the Court has always been especially concerned about in First that plaintiffs had standing to bring a pre-enforcement challenge. And the kind of uncertainty that the government says is present here, uncertainty about how the government will actually implement the statute is the same kind of uncertainty that is present in every single pre-enforcement challenge. from the government's power that you point out to conduct some of this surveillance without approval by the FISA court in an emergency situation for year, leaving that aside, I don't see how the rest of your challenge or your challenge to the remainder of this statute can be characterized as a facial challenge, because it necessarily assumes that the FISA court will mistakenly say that there has been no Fourth Amendment violation, doesn't it? Justice Scalia. Our concern is not -- not that -- that the FISA court will make mistakes, although it well JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Jaffer, apart -- apart MR. JAFFER: I don't think that's so, Official facilities. They can't say this is unreasonable because JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it -- it can say it's we're allowed to look into under this statute does not comport with the Fourth Amendment. might. The concern -- the main concern is that the reasonableness inquiry that the FISA court engages in is a narrowly cabined one. They court can't say this is unreasonable because you haven't identified the you haven't identified a specific target. unreasonable because you have unreasonably limited us. Don't you think the FISA court is able to say, what could essentially subvert the statute in that way or find it unconstitutional, but the government would not be pressing for reauthorization now, and plaintiffs have to act on the basis of the authority that is delineated in this Federal law. And plaintiffs see that there's a law that is designed to allow the government to mine Americans' international communications for foreign intelligence information. The plaintiffs are people who report on war zones or they investigate human rights abuses in places like Syria and Lebanon and the Yemen MR. JAFFER: I think in -- JUSTICE SCALIA: We have to look into more. MR. JAFFER: Right. I think it's within the realm of -- -- of the conceivable that -- that the court Official And so they -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. MR. JAFFER: In our view, they act entirely plaintiffs in Monsanto, in Laidlaw in -- in -- in Meese v. Keene were effectively compelled to take the measures that they -- that they were taking. and the Sudan, places where the government is likely to use this power. And plaintiffs include people who represent defendants who've been charged in -- in -- terrorism crime and foreign intelligence-related crimes. reasonably in taking the measures they're taking and they are effectively compelled in the same way that the your journalist clients. Do you have any affidavits or journalists have simply not gotten information from third parties that they otherwise would have gotten? In other words, this would not be a question of what precautions they took and what precautions were information is the lifeblood of journalism, that their sources and their information has dried up as a result reasonable. MR. JAFFER: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: But if you assume that JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jaffer, you mentioned anything else in the record to suggest that those of this statute. Official So -- so -- so the declarations were filed MR. JAFFER: Yes, Justice Kagan. Naomi Klein's declaration at page A addresses that. I believe that Chris Hedges' declaration addresses it too, although I don't have a page citation for you. It's certainly in the lawyers' affidavits that some third parties are less willing to share information, Sylvia Royce, A. early, it was a summary judgment motion, they were filed the -- the Monsanto point -- point once more. I mean, I understand the Court's -- that the Court has to struggle with the distinction between cases that involve only future injuries and cases that involve present injuries as well. I think it's just important to recognize that the Court has never found the kinds of present injuries relatively early. So to some extent, they are making predictions about how third parties will -- will react, but I think it's an entirely fair prediction to -- to predict that third parties who believe that the communications are being surveilled will react in the way you just described. And although it's not in the record, we -- we have spoken to our journalist clients more recently and they have told us that their predictions have actually been realized in some cases. Just to go to -- to -- to address the -- Official In Monsanto, in Laidlaw, in Meese, in that we are pointing to here to be irrelevant to the analysis. Camreta, the Court looked to -- looked to the present injuries as well as to the likelihood of -- of -- of future harm. And we are not making an argument that we are entitled to a lower -- lower standing -- to lower standing requirements or less stringent requirements than the Court has applied in other cases. JUSTICE ALITO: But in Monsanto, suppose the challenge had been brought by a soybean farmer who said, "I raise soybeans and people around me raise soybeans, I'm afraid that they're going to start planting genetically modified soybeans, but they haven't done it up to this point, but, you know, this might be something they will do in the future and if they do that, then I'm going to have to take precautions." harder case than the one that they've brought. I mean, when -- when the soybeans had been -- had been planted, and the Plaintiff would then have an opportunity to come into court. And it would be hard to -- to establish, I think, a substantial risk in those circumstances where MR. JAFFER: I think that would be a much in part because the Plaintiff would presumably know Official conceded that the statute is being used. It's It's true that we don't know that our CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe it's a never know that. But that kind of uncertainty was --was present in Monsanto and in -- the Plaintiff couldn't point to any evidence that -- that any action had been taken towards the implementation of this policy that -- that he feared. But in our case, again, the government has conceded -- or it's acknowledged that the statute has been used to collect Americans' communications. Plaintiffs specifically have been monitored, and we will difference in how we're using the word monitor. You do know that your Plaintiffs have not been monitored. don't -- well, others have been monitored abroad, right? that's what we're going to collect information from, right? MR. JAFFER: Well, what -- what happens is that the government identifies some category of targets MR. JAFFER: Been targeted. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you MR. JAFFER: I don't -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're not monitored in the sense that this is the person's e-mail, and abroad. In the course of collecting -- The statute allows the government to acquire Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MR. JAFFER: -- those targets' information, which is, as Justice Breyer says --recognized, is defined very broadly -- the statute allows the government to disseminate that information, just redacting the Americans' name. communications, they collect Americans' international communications. And when they're collecting Americans' international communications, they are monitoring those communications. them, to retain them, to disseminate them. It requires -- even if it's not foreign intelligence criminal defense lawyers, that's -- that's a -- it's a real issue. communications are not being targeted, but they are remaining. I see my time has expired. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. General Verrilli, you have four minutes The statute also allows the government to --to retain evidence of criminal activity. And for So you're right that -- that our being monitored. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., Official Two specific points and then three broader points. being monitored by the United States." JUSTICE KAGAN: That's a fair point, ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. First, Justice Kagan, with respect to the Naomi Klein declaration, what it says on page a is, "Some of my sources will decline to share information with me if they believe that their communications are General. What if it said something different? What if she said -- what if there were even an affidavit from the source saying, "I have stopped talking with this journalist because of the FAA and because of my fear that my communications will be intercepted"? the problem of speculation there. think it's a mechanism for people who think they may be under surveillance, foreign terrorists who think they may be under surveillance, to find out whether they are or not. I -- I just don't think that's a workable And if I could, Justice Breyer, go to your proposed solution. I don't think it's a solution. I GENERAL VERRILLI: I think you'd still have solution at all. the water. There wasn't speculation about that. Monsanto, we already talked about; the Now, three broader points, if I may. First, the -- in every case in which the Court has found standing, every one on which the Respondents rely, the government conduct either happened In Meese against Keene, the films had been labeled as political propaganda. It wasn't a question about how authority to do so would be exercised. In Laidlaw, the permit had issued, and the pollution was in government action was certain. That's true in every case. concrete application of the authority. clients may take steps that incur costs doesn't change the injury. It's still speculative. It's the kind of sufficient to establish standing. think -- ask -- think about what they're asking you to do. They are asking you to invalidate a vitally And Summers drew a distinction with those cases because, in Summers, there was no example of a subjective chill that Laird said was -- was not And I think, if you take a step back, Second, their -- the fact that some of their Official or was certain to happen. important national security statute based not on a Official JUSTICE KAGAN: No, General Verrilli, this question of invalidation. The question is only: Can GENERAL VERRILLI: But the whole point, injury-in-fact requirement that is embedded in it is to preserve the separation of powers. concrete application -- is not about the merits of the statute. They might have no claim on the merits at all, and so there would be no they make their argument to a court? Justice Kagan, the basic, most fundamental point about the case or controversy requirement and the invalidating the statute based on an assumption either that there is dragnet surveillance or an assumption surveillance, without a single fact to substantiate either of those assumptions. could be a person in this category who would know, but the person will never know. one safeguard against abuse. What are the minimum --what -- what minimization standards are taken that will I submit to the Court that it would be -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which they can never, never have, and that's what makes this -- if -- if there They are asking the Court to consider that their clients are going to be put under You did mention minimization procedures as Official GENERAL VERRILLI: It's a little bit hard to But there are some steps that are publicly intelligence, that's a very sensitive intelligence protect plaintiffs in this class? talk about, Your Honor, because, to the extent we're talking about the process of acquiring foreign method; and, to the extent minimization plays into that, it's -- it's not public information. known, and they are, for example, that information acquired can be retained only for certain limited periods of time; that whenever -- when reports are done on information, that the names of U.S. persons or corporations are redacted. There are other restrictions on the ability to use the information. So there are steps of that nature. JUSTICE SCALIA: Are there restrictions on giving the information to other government agencies, in particular, the Justice Department? those issues. They're not public procedures, but there are procedures that govern those issues, yes. Your Honor, but I do think that's why Congress GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that -- that --again, Your Honor, there are procedures that govern But -- but, I do -- I understand the point, established this alternative structure of Official my time's expired. above-entitled matter was submitted.) Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. And so the case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the accountability, with the statutory protections, with the FISA court review, including review for conformity with the Fourth Amendment, with very robust reporting requirements, semiannual reporting requirements -- I see OfficialOfficial : apply : : assumes : assuming : assumption :, appropriate approval : assumptions : : arguments assure : assured : assuring : attached : attorney : Arabia : area : : argument : :,, :, : : : : :, : authority : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, :,, : :,, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, aside : : : : articulated arises : : :, : authorizations authority's : : authorizes : availability : : assessment : : : : : avoid : : avoids : associated : aware : associates : a.m : : : Association : assume :, : : : : : : : B B : :, : : : back : : : A ability : : able : : above-entitled actualness : addition : : additional : address : : : : : amended : Amendment : : : : : : :,, : Arab : : : : addresses :, : : abroad : : :, amendments :, : adopted : affairs : :, : : America : affect : affidavit : American : : :, : :, : affidavits : absent : absolutely : : abuse : abuses : accept :, acceptable : accepted : accidents : account : accountability : : acknowledge : : acknowledged : : acquire : acquired : : : : : affiliates : Afghanistan : afraid : agencies : Americans :, : :, : : : :,, : : : agent :, agency :, : : : : : Amnesty : : Article : : amount : ample : analogy : analysis : answer : agents : : : aggrieved : answered : agree : : anybody : ahold : Air : al :, : : : alfalfa : : apart : :, : : : : :, anyway : asking : assessing :, asked : : acquires : acquiring : act : : : Alito : :, : APPEARAN... : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : appendix : allegation : application : alleged : : : : allegedly : : : allow : : : : :, : : : : allowed : : : allows : : :, : alternative : applications : : applied : : acted : : acting : : action : : : : : : activity : actor : actual : : : Official : : Bagram : balance : : broad : broader : : : broadly : brought : baloney : Base : based : : bumblebee : :, :,, :,, : : : : :, : : : casts : casually : burden :, catching : : categorical : : : : characterize characterized : : : : challenges : Clapper : : class : : challenging : classified : chance : : : : change : : : : : : : : : baseline : basic : : : : basis : begins : behalf :, :,, : : : behavior : belief : beliefs : believe : : : :, : believes : beyond : bit : : : bizarre : blood : Book : branch : :, : : :, Breyer :, : : :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : brief : : : : bring : : : bringing : : burdened : business : buying : CC : : cabined :call :calls :,:camera ::,Camreta :carried :cascade ::,case :,,: : : : : : : :,: ::,,: :: :,: :,: :: :: :,:, : :,,,: ::, : :, : : :,: :,cases : : :, :, clear : : : : : client :, : :, : clients :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : categories : charge : category : : : : : : : charged :, causation : check :, : : cause : : Chief :, : Club : collect : :, : : : :,: caused : certain : : :, : collateral : : :, :, : : :, : :, collecting : : :, : : chill : choose : : : :, : :, : certainly : : :, : :, Chris : : command : : :, circle : circumspect : :,, : : :,, : : : : come : : : : commonsensi... circumstance committed :, : : : : : certainty : certification circumstances : : : : citation : citations : cite : cites :, citizen : civil : chain : challenge : : :, :, : : : : : : :, claim : : : :, :,, : claimed : claiming : claims : challenged : : : : communicate : : communicating: : communication : : : : : : communicatio... : :,: : : :, : : : : Official : conferred : counsel : : : : :,, : : confers : : : : :,,, confidential : :, compared : compelled : conformity : course : : : : couple : country : conform : : complaint : connection : : : :, compels : Complainant complaining : : : : completely : compliance : comply :, : comport : concede : conceded :, concedes : conceding : conceivable : concern : : : : :, concerned : : : concrete : : : : : :, : : :, : : : concreteness : conduct : : : : : : : : Congress : : : : : : :, : congressional : : : consider : constitutional : : : : constitutionali... : : contain : contaminate :, context : : continue : continuously : contrary : controversy : : : : : conversation : :, conversations : : : : : corporations : cost :,, costly : costs : : : :, critical : crops :, : :, cure : cut : DD :da :,,day :decided ::,decides :decision ::declaration: ::, : declarations:, : : :decline :defendants ::defense :defined :defines ::defining :definition :degree ::delegation ::, : delineated :demand :demonstrated:denies :Department: :depend :depends :: :deregulate ::deregulates : described : : : : : designed : : : detention : deterred : dialogue : difference : : : : differences : different : : : : : : : : : difficult : : difficultly : difficulty : directly : DIRECTOR : disagreeing: disclaimed : discuss : discusses : : discussion : discussions : dispute :,disseminate : :,distance :,distinction : : : : : district : doing : : : : : dollar : : : : : : : court :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :,, :, : :,, :, : :, : :,, : Court's : : : : : covered : :, create : creates : crime : : :,, :, : crimes :, : : criminal : Official DONALD : :, : : ESQ :, : expands : : ET :, ethically : ethics :,,, extraordinary extra : : extraordinarily : : :, : : :, dozens : dragnet : : essentially : : : : : establish : : : establishing : established drawn : drew : dried : due : duty :, D.C :, E E : :, early :, effect : : effectively : event : : :, either : : :, : :, evidence : : : exact : exactly : : : : : electronic : embedded : emergencies : emergency : emphasize : employees : enacted : end-run : enforcement engage : : : engaged : engages : ensure : : ensuring : entire : entirely : : : : entitled : envision : especially : example : : : : : : :, : :, : : : examples : exchange : Excuse : : executive : : :, : : : : exercise : :, : :, exercised : : : exigent : exist : existed : exists : : expanded : expansion : expert : expired : : expressly : extensive : extent :, : : :, e-mail : : : : : : : : : e-mailed : e-mails : : : FFAA : : : :,: :face : : faces :facial : : : :: :facially :facilities : : : facility : fact :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : : fair :, : : : : fairly : fall : falls : family : far : farmer : farmers :, : : fear : : : feared : Federal : : fighting : figure : filed :, films : final : find : : : : : : fine : : finely : finish :, first : : : : : : : : : : : FISA : : : : :, : : : : :,:, : : : :,, :, : flight : flow : focus : focused : footnote : forecloses : foreign :,: : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : : forget : : former : forms : forth : forward : found : : : : four : Fourth : : : : : :,: : : : free-ranging: front : fundamental further : : : future :,: : : : :, : :,Gg : : gather ::gathering :general : : :, :,, :,, : : :,,:, :, : :,: ::, : : :, Official : :, :,,, :, :, :, :, : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :, higher :, highest :, hiring : hold : holds : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : :, : :, :,, :,, :, : gratuitously : grant : : Honor :, grants : : : : : good : : great :, greater : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : gotten :, :,, govern :, grievance : human : : : hypothetical : : greatly : : : : : guess : : happen : happened : : : : : : : guilty : happening : : generalities : government genetically : :, : getting : : Ginsburg : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : :, : give : given : : ground : group :, : :, : : : Guantanamo :, : :, : : :, : : : : : gun : : : H : :, :, : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, going : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : governmental : :, : :, :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : hear : heart : heavily : Hedges : harder : harm :, : : : gives : giving : go :, : happens : hard : : : : : goes : : government's harmed : : : governments helpful : held : : : : : : : : Iidentified ::,identifies :identify ::III : : : : :: ::illustrates :imagine ::immediate :: :immediately: ::imminent :: :impending ::, : :,,:,,,: :,: :implement: ::implementation : important : : : : imposed : :, : : imposing : incidental : : : include : : : : including : : incur : : independent: : individual : individuals : infer : inference : :,inferences : : information : : : :, : : :,,: : : :, :, : :,: :,: :,: : : :,: :,,:,inherently : initial : injured : : : : : : : injuries : Official : :, : : injury : : :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, : : : : :,,, : : injury-in-fact : inquiry : instance : instances : : : intelligence : :, : : : : : : : :, intelligence-re... : : intend : intended : intends : intercept : : : intercepted : : : : : : intercepting : interception : interceptions : : : international : : : : : : :, interrupting : intervention : introduce : invalid : invalidate : invalidating : invalidation : investigate : investigation : invoked : involve : : :, involved : involves : involving : : : : irrelevant : issue : : issued : : issues :, iterative : J Jaffer : : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :,, :, : :, :, :,, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : JAMEEL : : : JAMES : jeopardizing : job : journalism : journalist : : : : journalists : : : JR :, :, : : judge : : : : : : judgment : : : : : : : judgments : Justice : : :, :, :, :, :,, :, :, : : :,,: :,,: :,:, : :, : :, : : :,: : :,,: :,:,,: :,:,,,:, : : :,:, : :, : : knew :, kinds :, : : : kingpin : :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : Klein : Klein's : :,,, : :, KLM : :,, :, :, : :, know : : :,, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :,,:,KKagan ::, : : :,,: :,: ::, : :,, : :, :, Kagan's : Keene : : : keep : Kennedy :, : : : : : :,,, : :, key : : : kind : : : : : : : known : : knows : Llabel :labeled :Laidlaw :: :: :Laird :land :language :large :law : : :,lawful :lawfulness :lawsuit :lawyer :,:, : : :, Official :, : majority : middle : :, : making : :, : : : :,,, malpractice : :, million : mine : minimization : narrowly : national : : : nature : : : : :, necessarily : : : minimize : minimum : needs : : necessary : October : offense : officials : : : oh : : Okay : : old : :, : : material : matter : : lawyers : : : :, : : : : : : matters : : : : : : : lawyer's : leading : leave : leaving : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : measures : Lebanon : led : let's : : : McKay :, minutes : :, : mistakenly : : : mean : : mistakes : modified : :, : moment : : : Monday : monitor : : : monitored : level : levels : life : lifeblood : likelihood :, :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : limited : : : mechanism monitoring : Monsanto : :,,, : :, limits : :,,, line : : : litigated : : :, litigation :, : : little : : members : morning : located : mother : memo : location : motion : look : : mention : moved : Meese : : : : : meet : : : : : nervous : net : never : : : :, : : : :, : new :, : : : :, once : : : open : opinions : opportunity : opposed : opposite : oral : :, : : noncitizens : order : : normal : : :, : : : :, : : notice : : :,, : : : :, : :, :, :, : novel : null : : OO : : object :,objection :objections :objectively :objectives :obligation :obligations:obtained :obviously :occur : : ordinarily : ordinary : organization : organized : :,,:,outside : overheard : :,,,: : overhearing: overseas : :,, :, : : :, : looked :, lots : : lower : : mere : mentioned : :, M main : : merits : : : messages : method : :oversight : N N :, : name : names : Naomi : : occurring : page : : narrow : : :,narrower : :occurred : occurs : : P :: P Official : pressing : presumably : : pretty : : : prevail : preventative :, preventing : parse : :, : part : : pick : : particular : picked : party : pass : : passed : : plaintiff :, : prepared : : :, :, : present : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : preserve : presidential : :, : : parties : :,, : pending : people : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : : periods : permit : person :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, persons : : : person's : : : :, : : : piece : place : places : : : : : : : : :, :, : plaintiffs : pointed : pointing : points : : : :, : polar : policy : : political : pollination : pollution : position : : :, : : : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : possibility : : : :, : power : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :, : : : : : : : powers : : : practice : precautions : :, : previously : : : pre-amended protections : : : pre-enforcem... prove : proves : : :, priorities : provide : provider : : : : produce : professional :, program : : : programs : promise : propaganda : propose : proposed : : proposition : prosecuted : :, prosecutions :, protect : : : : providers : provides : provision : : :, : provisions : public : : : publicly : purpose : : : : plaintiff's : plant : : perspective : planted : pertinent : planting : plausibly : Petitioners : : :, : plays : plead : : please : phone :, : : : :, : : : :, phoned : phrase : : point : :, :, : : : : : : : prisoners : privately : privileged : probability : :, : : :, probable : :, : :, : :, :, : : :,, problem : : :, : : : : :, : preceding : precisely : predecessor : predict : prediction : predictions :, premise : procedure : procedures purposes : : :,, put : : : :,, : : :,, : : Qproceeding : process :, Qaeda :question : : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, questioned : questions : : quickly : R R : : radius : railway : raise : : : : :, rare : reached : reaches : react :, reaction : :, read : real : : : : reality : : realized : really : : : : :, realm : reason : : : : reasonable : : : :,, : : reasonableness Official : : : : reasonably : representation retain : : : reasons : : : represented :, reauthorization representing : : retained : review : :, rules : : run : SS : : safeguard : sake : satellite : Saudi : saying :, : :, :, : :, : : :: :: ::says : : :, : :,,:, : : :: : :Scalia :, : :,:,, :,,: :, :, : : : scientific :,Scott :, : :second : : ::secret :,secretly : :secrets :section :security ::, : :see :, : :, : : : REBUTTAL : : recognize : recognized : record : : : : redacted : redacting : redressability : : : : redressing : reduce : regulate : : rejected : rejection : related : relates : : relatively : relax : relevant : relied : relief : relies : rely : : remainder : remaining : remains : remand : remove :, : : represents : :, right : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : : : :, : : required : : :, : : requirement : : : : :, : : : :, requirements : :, :, :, rights : : requires : : : : researchers : : reserve : reset : resolve : resolving : : : : rigorous : risk :,, :, : : :, :,,:, :, :,,: :, : risks : : : ROBERTS : respect : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : : Respondents :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : robust : : : : : : : Royce :,routinely : : rest : report : reporting :, restrictions reports : :, represent : result : : : : rule : : :,, : Official :, solution : somebody : : :, standard : :, : : : :,,, somewhat : :,, sorry : : standards : sort : : : : Sotomayor : : : : : : :,,, :, standing :, : subvert : Sudan : sufficient : :,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, sufficiently :,, :, : suggest : :, :, : : :, : : suggested : suggesting : suits : summary : : statute's : : : : : : : : seeds : : seeking : segregated : self-censorship : Sellers : semiannual : send :, sense : : : sensitive : : : sensitivity : separate : separated : separation service :, : : set : : settled : share : : show :, : :, : showed : showing : side : : Sierra : significant simple : simply : : single : : : : : situation : : : : : : : situations : Skinner : Solicitor : sought : source : sources : : soybean : soybeans : :,, speaking : special : specific : : : : : : specifically : : : specifics : :, spectrum : speculate : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : : speculative : :,, : : spell : spoken : : stake : stand : :,,, speculation : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : : :,, : :, : : :, :, stands : start : : statutory : : : : : : step : steps : : :, stop : : stopped : storm : : started :, stringent : state : strongest : states :, : : : : : statute : : struck : structure : : submit : submitted : : :, :,,, : struggle : : :, stumble : subject : : : :, :,,, :, : subjected : :, : : :, subjective : :,,, : :, :,, : :, : : : :,, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :, : submitting : subset : substantial : substantiate : : Summers : : :, : : :,, :, suppose :, : : : supposed : suppress : suppression : Supreme :, sure : : : surveillance :, : :,,, : : :,, :,, : :, : : : :, :, surveilled : : : : : :, Sylvia :, :, : :, : : :, : Syria : system : : : : Official true : : U.S : : : : : :trying :: :turned ::,two : : : :: :,: :U ultimate : ultimately : unbounded : uncertainty : :, : : unconstitutio... : undermine : : : understand : : : : : : understood : unfair : unique : United :, : : : unreasonable :,, unreasonably : : unsuccessful : upfront : USA : use : : :, : : :: :,: :: :::Vv : : : :valid :variant :various ::vast :Verrilli : : : :,, : :, :, : :,:,, : : :,,:,,: :,:, : :, : : :,:, : : :,:, :, : :,: :: :,:,,:, : : :,:,veto :view : : :violate : : violation :,: ::virtually :vitally :void :Wwalk ::,want : : terrorists : : : : terms : territory : terrorism : terrorist : : :, : :,, :,, :, :, : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :tests : : thinking :Thank : terrorist's : test : : : : : thinks :: :, : : :, theoretical : theory : : : : : they'd : thing : : : : : things : : : think :, : :, :, :,,, :, : :, : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : :, : :,, :,,, :, : : : : :, : : :,, : :,, :third : : :,,thought :: :thousands :threat :,threatenedthree : : ::threw :tickets :time : : : :: :times :,:time's :Title :today ::told :tomorrow :top :traceable :traditional: :translate :travel :,:tried : : triggered :T T :, take :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : : :, :, : : :,, : : : :, taken : : takes : talk : : : : : talked : : : talking : :, : : : : :, : : : : target : : : : : : targeted : : : : targeting : : : : : targets : : : : : : tasked : telephone : : : tell :, : : tells : tens : Official wise : : :, :, : witnesses : : : : : :, : : word : : : words : : : : work : wanted : wants : war : warrant : Washington : worked : worried : worry : wasn't : workable : : : : : a : : a : A : a : a : :, : , : : : :, water : way : : : : : : :,,, : :, : : : : : ways : weren't : We'll : we're : : : : : : :, : : : :, : we've :, : : :, : who've : wide-reaching : willing : wiretap :, : wiretapped : : wiretapping :, : : : : : wouldn't : : :, writing : wrong :, X x :, Y year : : years : : Yemen : York :, Z zones : : , :, : : : : : : - : : : : : a : : , :, : : : : 