Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Monday, January , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x THE STANDARD FIRE INSURANCE : : COMPANY, : No. - : GREG KNOWLES : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ., Los Angeles, DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of California; on behalf of Petitioner. Respondent. v. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE ORAL ARGUMENT OF On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) please the Court: ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER Congress enacted the Class Action Fairness Insurance Company v. Knowles. Mr. Boutrous. MR. BOUTROUS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear argument next in Case -, the Standard Fire Act of , CAFA, to expand Federal diversity jurisdiction and to protect defendants and absent class members against the kind of State court class action abuses that are occurring in Miller County, Arkansas. Congress directed that in calculating the amount in controversy, "courts shall aggregate the claims of the individual class members." That's U.S.C. Section (d)(), it’s quoted in full at page of our blue brief. the individual class members in the text of the statute, rather than on the amount being sought by the would-be class representative, is dispositive of the question presented and requires reversal in this case. Congress's express focus on the claims of CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would your position Official be the same if the issue were not the amount sought but rather the substantive claims? Say there are two different claims the class member -- the class could raise. One would yield damages of $,,. The other would yield damages of $ million. Do you have the same objection in a case in which the prospective representative only pleads the first claim? MR. BOUTROUS: Not necessarily, Your Honor. We are not arguing that here. There are cases that this Court has decided going back to Barry v. Edmunds in where there are allegations in a complaint that might, for example, yield a punitive damage claim, but it's not explicitly pled, and the courts then look and say, punitive damages could be recovered here and say the amount in controversy clearly exceeds the -- the necessary amount. courts need to look through and see every claim that could be in play. seem to have a difficulty with your position about how far it goes. You make the point in your briefs about the statute of limitations question. In other words, it's not just how much they claim, but where they decide to cut off the statute of limitations and so forth. But we're not saying that in every case the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you do Official It seems to me that it's a bit of a slippery adequate, but whether or not it's below or above, above maximum amount the plaintiff on his or her best day could recover based on the factual allegations in the complaint and the causes of action that could arise from the factual allegations -- slope if you start saying we're going to look at what the class could -- could recover in deciding whether or not, not simply whether or not this representative is or below $ million. MR. BOUTROUS: That's really how it's been done, Your Honor, from day one. Under the traditional diversity statute, the courts look and see what's the rules of the traditional diversity statute to this case because it's clear that under the traditional diversity statute, you -- you can waive excessive damages, right? MR. BOUTROUS: That's correct, Your Honor. apply that rule here. that rule, Your Honor, because that rule applies to the individual who brings his own case in court and can say, JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but under the traditional -- you surely don't want us to apply the MR. BOUTROUS: I don't want you to apply The individual -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So you don't want us to Official MR. BOUTROUS: It wouldn't protect it --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why doesn't -- why grossly unfair to the class that the judge is not going to certify that case? I want to come into court and collect less than the amount that would give Federal jurisdiction. It's much different when Mr. Knowles has come to court and said, I want to represent these other individuals in Arkansas. doesn't the normal class certification process protect adequately the absent class members? First of all, counsel has to prove he or she is adequate. So doesn't that mean that if they enter a stipulation that is protect from the problems and abuses that Congress was concerned about, Your Honor, and that are occurring If -- if the court finds the stipulation inadequate for the class, is that class going to be certified? seek more than $ million. That's why -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then they would get removed to the Federal court, which is what the statute was intended to do. MR. BOUTROUS: It could be, Your Honor. And another class representative could come in and could here. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered. MR. BOUTROUS: But what Congress was Official back years. The -- this case -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, discovery concerned about in the text of the statute, and the Senate report make this very clear, that with all the abuses that occur in the interim, discovery that has nothing to do with the case -- the discovery here goes vis-a-vis the certification of the class is going to happen anyway. My point is that much of your argument in your brief is centered around binding the absent class members. What I'm getting to is that if the stipulation is grossly unfair, there may not be a class at all, or the Plaintiffs who have claims greater than those in the aggregate might opt -- will get notice and opt out. Congress was very concerned that cases were being kept in the State courts through abuses and manipulations of the amount in controversy. It's very clear in the Senate report, Congress talks about this because, for example, in this case the defendants can never get a settlement is entered that is so grossly unfair that it violates due process. So I don't know why the process itself doesn't protect the interests of -- of Congress. MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor -- excuse me. The class certification hearing in Miller County. And there is due process challenges if a Official members -- They can never get a ruling on the merits. And in the meantime, the kind of abuses that Congress was concerned about, the lack of the Rule protection, the application of those standards to protect the class JUSTICE KAGAN: But Mr. Boutrous, you say what Congress is concerned about and point to the Senate report. You know, usually we look to the text and the text makes very clear that Congress was concerned about many things MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, I think the text does take away the St. Paul rule that an individual can control what he seeks and go where he desires and do what he wants -- or she -- because it points to the claims of the individual class members and the text Congress could expect --and it did many things. It got -- it really -- it raised the matter in controversy threshold. It eliminated the Zahn anti-aggregation rule. It eliminated the complete diversity requirement. It eliminated the one-year limit on removal. Here's one thing it didn't eliminate. It didn't eliminate the St. Paul master of your complaint rule. So -- so I guess where in the text do you see this? You point to claim, the word "claim." Is that the only thing that you are resting on in the text? Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if I said to you, MR. BOUTROUS: Well, Your Honor, I would JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that the word bring, or would you think I mean what I demanded, what I adequately represent the class. But in terms of valuing the claims here -- Mr. Boutrous, "Is your claim for over $,," what would you think I mean? Would you think I mean some sort of abstract version of the best claim you could asked for? think that I would answer you that it's worth as much as I can possibly obtain in court if I was seeking to "claim" is not -- when you say Joe made a claim for $,, a claim is not what he asked for, but is best thing that he could have asked for? MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, we've cited the Tohono O'odham Nation case, where the Court interpreted the word "claim" and said when a statute uses the word it's the operative facts and the right to recovery, not the demand. That's exactly what we have here. at least as an alternative argument, you're saying: The instead some kind of law professor's view of what the "claim" regarding claims that have not been brought, JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Boutrous, I thought statute itself is silent. It doesn't deal with this Official stipulate that they will take under ,. I thought that was the central part of your represent them. question of amount in controversy. However, the individual, the named plaintiff, who has said, I'm not going to seek more than the $ million, cannot speak for the members of the class who are absent. He can't argument, not based on the statute itself, but on the notion that a named plaintiff, unless and until he is -- he is certified to represent the class - doesn't He can represent himself, but he can't bind the people who -- who have not been certified as part of a class. I thought that was part of your argument. the claims of the individual class members, Mr. Knowles has no power to affect those claims. He's not the master -- happened. happened, they can do whatever they want. They can go bring their own claim for $ million. And that's why MR. BOUTROUS: Exactly. JUSTICE KAGAN: Before the certification has affect those claims before the certification has MR. BOUTROUS: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that's absolutely right. And because the statute focuses on JUSTICE KAGAN: But he doesn't have power to Official Plaintiffs have now conceded that. So what we have here, the district court found on an uncontradicted record that the claims of the individual class members exceed $ million. That means there's Federal jurisdiction. Smith v. Bayer, which you so happily rely on, does not have much to do with this case. Smith v. Bayer is the question of can an -- can a person be precluded by a judgment when that person was not part of a class. There's no question that this person is going to be precluded. This person can go do whatever he or she wants before class certification and judgment. MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, that's -- Smith v. Bayer says the plaintiff can't bind the class. question? I was looking at the words of the statute. And if I look at , which has been on the books a MR. BOUTROUS: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- to Justice Kagan's first long time, it says, "The district court shall have Back to Justice Ginsburg's point, that is exactly our point, Your Honor. The -- a named plaintiff cannot affect or jeopardize or undermine the claims of absent individuals. JUSTICE BREYER: This is what I -- could you go back -- Official Then I look here, and it says, "The district original jurisdiction of all civil actions where the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $,, exclusive of interest, of costs, and" -- et cetera, okay? court shall have jurisdiction of any civil action in which the manner in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $ million, exclusive of interest and costs," et cetera, okay? So the words seem identical. And it can't be the words I quoted that stopped him from doing it, so what is the word that MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, it's the other part that is extremely important, section (d)(). You were quoting from section (d)(). Unlike section (a), Congress in CAFA explicitly added Now, in respect to the first, we know that a lawyer can file a binding stipulation that says, I don't care what this is about, I am not asking for more than $,, and the Federal court does not have jurisdiction. Given that's true in the first statute, and given that the second statute is almost identically worded, at least in that part, why can't he do the same thing with the $ million? stops him from doing it? subsection (), which says "In any class action, the Official MR. BOUTROUS: Well, Justice Breyer, Congress could have said we're just getting rid of Zahn, or it could have said the aggregate amount being sought by the named plaintiff is going to control. But if you took that away --JUSTICE BREYER: No, they rarely pass a it's simply to make certain that Zahn does not require claims of the individual class member shall be aggregated to determine" -- JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, as to what that looks like, "shall be aggregated," again from the language, is the individual -- thing to approach -- to count. In other words, you aggregate rather than just looking at the individual members, which is Zahn, which has nothing to do with the issue before us. aggregation. It's the total amount of the claims being statute that says, let's just get rid of case X. Normally they look to the holding of case X, and then they pass the statute that says the opposite. So the holding of Zahn was that you could not aggregate the individual members' claims in a class. So to get rid of Zahn, what we do is we pass a statute that says you can aggregate. limited by a stipulation that is the issue here, and And indeed, nobody objects here to the Official MR. BOUTROUS: It's really not the word passed in , which applies to (a), Congress said the sum demanded will control. that's why I had trouble finding your argument in the word "aggregation." "aggregation," Your Honor. It's the word "individual" and it's with the word "claims." If Congress had done what you are suggesting, Justice Breyer, it could have said the aggregate amount being sought by the named plaintiff, or the total amount, or the demand of the plaintiff. In the Venue Clarification Act, which was Congress defining, as I urged the Court -- to be much worse for your position. If Congress had wanted to get rid of the St. Paul master of your complaint rule, it could have said, we are getting rid of the St. Paul master of your complaint rule. But you're trying to find it in a provision which is really an anti-Zahn provision, not an anti-St. Paul provision. MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, it really goes to a fundamental issue of what a class action is. If Mr. Knowles had come into court himself on behalf of himself, and Zahn -- in St. Paul, the money quote, if But here, to protect the legitimate claims, JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, that form of argument -- Congress could have said -- does seem to me Official based on that. But he gets to decide whether to seek you will, in St. Paul says "if he desires to go to State court, he can limit his recovery." Mr. Knowles -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Let's get back to the Chief Justice's question because there are a thousand ways in which we let the named plaintiff prior to certification construct a case, and then we ask, as Justice Sotomayor said, later we ask, is the way he's constructed a case adequate or not, and we allow him to go forward or not damages. He gets -- at all, or whether he only can seek injunctive relief. He gets to decide which claims to bring, trespass or negligence. He gets to decide how many years' worth to ask for. He gets to decide which defendants to sue. effect on -- on the amount that's -- that's being asked for. And yet in all of these ways, we allow or --maybe you're telling me no -- do we stop the named plaintiff from doing all -- all of those things, too? MR. BOUTROUS: We don't stop them from doing all of those things, Your Honor. And there are certain things -- we -- we agree that the complaint controls a All of these things are going to have an great deal -- the factual allegations. Official Can we take that also into account in instead of years? MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, I believe you And I think that what has happened here is would be clear that the amount in controversy was JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about specifically the question that the Chief asked about time? You did argue in the district court that these plaintiffs could have specified a -year time period, in which case it satisfied. But instead, they took a -year period. determining the amount in controversy, that the complaint could have been enlarged to include years could. And I believe that the Court's decision in Hertz said if there is a sign of manipulation that is meant to thwart jurisdiction or affect jurisdiction, the Court the actual facts are. the plaintiff's lawyers, in addition to these stipulations, they're slicing and dicing the classes up into pieces to -- to thwart jurisdiction and manipulate jurisdiction. to particularly perverse results. You're at the position of arguing that -- you know, they are seeking less than $ million, but we're responsible for a lot can look through that to look to competent proof of what CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your approach leads Official judicial estoppel. more damage than that. And of course, you don't concede it, but you do say, if in fact we're liable, the damages are going to be a lot greater. Could -- I assume that admission could be used against you under principles of MR. BOUTROUS: It's an unusual position to be in, Your Honor, it's not quite what we're arguing. We're arguing that under the rules for judging the amount in controversy that this Court has enforced, the lower courts have enforced these for hundreds of years, and it's that you look at the complaint and say what's the maximum amount the plaintiff can get on their best day under the claims they've pled based on the facts and the proof and the evidence. into this discussion --the statute of limitations question or any other claim they could have brought, it exceeds $ million. The plaintiff never -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's go by Here, the uncontradicted evidence, put aside JUSTICE ALITO: Is there a difference between what you're -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you -- you chimed Official JUSTICE ALITO: Is there a difference threshold and then the defendant can prove that the real amount involved exceeds the jurisdictional threshold. seniority. Justice Alito. between what you are advocating and the approach that's now taken in the General Removal Statute as it's been amended recently under (c)()? So there as I read it, the amount demanded in the complaint is not necessarily controlling. A case can be removed even if the amount demanded in the complaint is below the jurisdictional right, Your Honor. There's greater leeway under CAFA because under (a) and , there are certain put on proof. But that's how it's always been. The defendant can then put on evidence and say this is the actual amount in controversy. stipulation was binding, Justice Kagan, that was their argument below and that's what the district court found. It found that the stipulation was binding on the class. JUSTICE KAGAN: It's binding if the class is And here, the only way the plaintiff got around it in the lower courts was to argue that the certified and a case proceeds to judgment. It's not MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's exactly standards that need to be met to allow the defendant to Official MR. BOUTROUS: And that means that binding on the absent class members prior to certification and prior to judgment. jurisdiction in the Federal courts exists because we judge jurisdiction at the time of removal. And at the time of removal, there was no binding limitation on the recovery that could be obtained, undisputed facts showed that that exceeds $ million when the claims of the individual class members are aggregated. MR. BOUTROUS: The problem, Your Honor, again and this isn't just me. This is what Congress said in its findings. In -- in the text as you noted, restrictions and diversity jurisdiction because in State courts, the courts aren't applying Rule -like standards. They're not doing it in Miller County. JUSTICE KAGAN: I think I don't understand that, Mr. Boutrous, because what you have, given that this is a State which says that these stipulations are binding if it proceeds, if there's certification, and if it proceeds to judgment, you have a cap of $ million. You cannot be charged more than $ million under this State's law, if this case ever gets to judgment. it eliminated the -- but the five pillars of They're not even allowing class certification to occur or to be heard, and instead this Official JUSTICE ALITO: Even if this case were compromised part of their claim. I don't see how, even if they're notified that there's a $ million cap -- and I don't know that Rule requires that, but suppose they're notified of that. discovery is being taken. Here, the limitations period is limited to two -- or the class period is limited to two years. The discovery that was served with the complaint goes back to years. So -- handled on remand to the Arkansas Supreme Court exactly like a Federal class action, I don't understand how absent class members would ever be able to -- to determine whether by failing to opt out, they had member of the class, their claim is going to be compromised at all. It would depend on lots of different things, including how many members are in the class after it's certified. And that's something they can't know. the -- that the certification -- if the certification would occur in the Federal court, that's one thing. But They can't tell whether, by remaining a MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's exactly right, Your Honor, and that's something page a of the addendum to our opening brief, the findings -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Your concern is that Official MR. BOUTROUS: Well, that's what Congress going to look into the adequacy of representation and you're -- you're saying that the named plaintiff can't stand for the entire class when we know that -- that the certification question, if the stipulation is binding to prevent removal, it's going to be the State court that's whether the stipulation binds all members of the class. That's your whole concern. If the -- if the Federal court made that determination, I think you wouldn't be here. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Congress was concerned about suits of over $ million. And -- and the question here is, is this a suit of over $ million. Now, if it is a suit over $ million, a State court is bound by the due process clause and a State court is going to find, look, you're just giving these plaintiffs' claims away. We're not going to allow you to do that. You're not an adequate representative. was concerned about, too, Your Honor. It was concerned that the State courts weren't applying standards of uniformity in these -- class actions that are affecting interstate commerce and that Rule 's protections and standards should apply. On the other hand, in a case like this where it's $,, and it only gets there because you've Official we do so here? MR. BOUTROUS: We don't have a State court added on one and a half million dollars of legal fees, the Court might very well say you are an adequate representative, go for it. Now, usually we don't question State court judgments of that kind. Why should judgment yet, Your Honor, that -- and we judge the removal issues and the amount in controversy at the time of removal. And $ million is $ million, Congress drew the line there. And as Justice Alito was pointing out, the notices to the absent class members, Congress -- I was about to say a of the addendum to our blue brief, those are the findings that Congress put into the public law, number -- letter C: Confusing notices are published that prevent individuals from exercising their legitimate rights in -- and enforcing their legitimate claims. if a -- where a statute was enacted to protect -- and this is in the findings -- "legitimate claims of absent class members" and to allow them -- the cases to be in Federal court, if this Court were to hold that a named plaintiff who doesn't represent those people can come into court and -- and say we're not going to seek the full amount of those claims in order to keep the case And it would be ironic in the extreme Official That would be totally contrary to Congress's CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're assuming that it's a bad thing for the class members to out of Federal court. intent. have their claims limited. But it may well be a good thing for them to have their claims limited if that gets them into what would reasonably be regarded as a more sympathetic forum. think -- you have to be careful about two different uses of the word "binding." It has no binding effect right MR. BOUTROUS: I'm not making a judgment on that point, Your Honor. It may or may not be, and the Plaintiff makes this point. Maybe it's better to be in State court. But for removal purposes only, going back to just the pure analysis, the question is does the amount in controversy, when the claims of the individual class members are aggregated, exceed $ million? It's undisputed that that's true. The only basis for saying it doesn't exceed that amount is the stipulation, which everyone now agrees has no binding affect whatsoever. now on an absent class member; they can go out and bring The plaintiffs also argue, concede in their brief that -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, I do Official $ million. JUSTICE KAGAN: It's binding -- it is binding on everybody if there's a finding of adequate MR. BOUTROUS: But the question, Your Honor, their own suit. If the -- the named plaintiff is found to be adequate and the suit goes forward and goes to judgment, then the stipulation does indeed have binding effect and -- and you have not been exposed to more than is, is it binding in this case on anybody or anything other than Mr. Knowles? representation and if this goes forward as a class action; then it's binding and you haven't been exposed. MR. BOUTROUS: But, Your Honor, again, under the jurisdictional approach -- and Your Honor cited St. Paul. St. Paul says that if -- once the amount in controversy has been established to exceed the amount, here $ million, it's on the burden of the parties seeking to oust jurisdiction to show, to a legal certainty, that the amount will not go over $ million. concede it could well go over $ million if this class representative is found inadequate, if another person is appointed to be the class representative, and therefore, there is Federal jurisdiction. That's the rule that plaintiffs say should apply. They don't even -- he does Your questions and the plaintiff's brief meant to just keep the case in State court, contrary to definition of the proposed class, the proposed class, and that's what we have here. not even try to suggest that it's legally impossible that the amount might go over $ million, and that's the problem. It's going -- it's an amount that is over $ million and these cases, the -- the stipulation is Congress's intent and I will -- language in (d)()(D), the term "class members" means the persons, named or unnamed, who fall within the MR. BOUTROUS: That's -- that's what we're using, Your Honor, for our calculations, the proposed class, including the narrower time frame that we think is a manipulation, but nevertheless we've used that and the amount exceeds $ million. Your Honor? Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court: CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Frederick? ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, And if I could reserve the rest of my time, Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do -- in the Our position is that the stipulation is Official The only civil action that the district class representative. If the class is certified -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you -- are you saying binding throughout the "civil action filed by the putative class representative." I want to focus on the words "civil action" because there has been no civil action filed by any -- absent class members. court is being considered for jurisdiction is the civil action that has been filed by the putative class representative. So, if the class is later not certified, the stipulation would only bind the putative that () doesn't apply at this point? court -- claims of the individual class members. MR. FREDERICK: And what (d)()(B) does, Justice Kennedy, is define class action in terms of the civil action that was filed, so long as it was filed pursuant to Federal Rule or an equivalent State statute. MR. FREDERICK: No. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because () talks about class action, and it says the duty of the district MR. FREDERICK: What -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- is to aggregate the What the complaint here does in the prayer Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you -- I assume you agree that if at the adequacy hearing, if there ever for relief, and in paragraph of the complaint, is to say that this civil action is not going to be worth more than $ million. is one, and it's demonstrated that well, in fact, the amount in controversy is $ million, then you would be obviously not an adequate representative. MR. FREDERICK: Well, that would be one outcome that a State court could come to. A second outcome could be that at that point, if an alternate class member comes in and files an intervened complaint and says, this case really is worth $ million, at that point section (b) applies and they can remove to matter when that happens; is that right, as a result of CAFA, because CAFA took off the one year limit? MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: Or the State court could find, oh yes, it is -- the claim is worth a lot more than million, but it's worth that amount to be in this generous court for these generous juries. And so you're really not harming these absent plaintiffs because they ought to want to be here. We've got juries and very Federal court. JUSTICE KAGAN: And they can remove no Official MR. FREDERICK: Well, what's very clear, MR. FREDERICK: A putative class it decided this statute and enacted it. JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand it, but -- but necessarily. The State court could find, and I suspect this State court would find, that it's worth the money to be in State court. favorable judges. Couldn't it find that? Justice Scalia, is that Congress was not attempting to address the adequacy of class representation issue when I'm just addressing your point which you blithely say, if the -- if the representation is inadequate, if indeed it's worth a lot more, that will be handled. Not representative makes all kinds of strategic judgments about how best to maximize value for his clients and for the class. And that entails judgments about whether to assert various legal theories. Here, and Mr. Chief Justice, this goes to your very first question, this complaint renounced a claim for punitive Circuit, the Frederick case, not associated with me, and in the Seventh Circuit, the Back Doctors case, they say essentially if there is a claim for punitive damages you have to make an estimate for amount in controversy damages. But there are some cases out of the Tenth Official As I understand their theory in -- as they purposes. express it on page of the reply brief, it's very uncertain as to a case like ours where we have renounced a claim to punitive damages whether or not a Federal district court is, nonetheless, supposed to take that into account. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if you had a case where a lawyer brings an action in Miller County and says, I represent -- I want to represent the class of people with these claims and these claims, whose names begin with A to K. It turns out that's $ million. he files a case saying, I'd like to represent these people whose names begin L to Z. In each of those cases, it's $ million. I take it you don't have any objection to that? where the requisite of typicality, numerosity, the contrivances that are being done are -- are going to whether or not those represent -- representatives are adequate. It does not speak to Federal jurisdiction --JUSTICE BREYER: That's the same question. at the class certification stage, Mr. Chief Justice, Then, in the next county, at the same time, MR. FREDERICK: Well, my objection would be Official MR. FREDERICK: I misunderstood, Mr. Chief Justice. I think that for Federal jurisdiction CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But is a counsel who proceeds on that basis, is there any reason to question his adequacy, let's say he's fully representing, bringing all the claims and all the damages. He's just decided to break it up from A to K. Somebody from L is not going to say, well, he's inadequate when he's representing him just because he could have represented everybody in the other action. purposes, the Court has always had -- that kind of legal strategy is perfectly appropriate under the master of the complaint -- statute, which is what their problem is, all you have to do, even if you were less obvious than the Chief Justice's example, what you do is you -- you file a complaint, you say it's for $,,; in fact, it's Justice Alito, you figure a way around his problem, you keep them informed, and you say, it's getting close, getting close. JUSTICE BREYER: If so, this is just a loophole because it swallows up all of Congress's worth million. But you inform people, unlike And once you are up to $,,, the others get the word: Stay out of it. And once they Official And we have or or $ million cases stay out of it, you go ahead with your action and then those that stayed out of it becomes the subject of a second action. And if it's for million, then you have ten actions and then you have . So, in fact, all that is required is a few extra pieces of paper that will soon become standardized, and a lot of postage stamps. being tried in whatever counties Congress liked the least. I gather they're some in Arkansas. But that seems to be all behind Justice Scalia's and the Chief Justice's questions, and I would like to hear a pretty complete answer on that. you look at the report that went along with the statute, what Congress was most concerned about was the situation where each individual class member would not be able to exceed $,, but there might be a million of them. And so you might have a million class members, each of whom had a claim for $,, and there was no way to get that to Federal court because of the Zahn non-aggregating rule. Congress was not concerned about having the master of the complaint altered in this class process; and, in fact, Congress rejected a proposal that would MR. FREDERICK: Sure. Justice Breyer, if Official appropriated additional funds for the Federal courts to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you talking about a Senate Report and now you are talking about proposals that weren't enacted. Your -- your friend on the other side focuses on the statutory language which tells you how to find out how much is at stake. lower the amount in controversy for class actions to $ million because the congressional budget office said, if you keep it at that low, virtually every class action will be in Federal court and Congress has not deal with all of the class actions that would occupy this space. realize, of course, you are on pretty thin ice. You are amount that's demanded seems to be totally meaningless. Here, we are told that the real amount is only slightly above the $ million figure, but I don't think that MR. FREDERICK: And I'm telling you that his focus on the word "claims" is insufficient because there are no claims by absent members until there is a civil action that has been filed. And that is why if you look at the definition of a class action, it is a civil action that is filed pursuant to one of those rules. JUSTICE ALITO: Under your argument, the makes any difference. So let's say that what was -- you Official MR. FREDERICK: No, the million -- JUSTICE ALITO: In practical terms. MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Alito, it stipulate you are not going to get more than $ million, but really the value of the claim is $ million. And you say that's perfectly okay. It will be dealt with later when the case is -- after the case has been remanded to the -- to the State courts. Isn't that right? So the $ million is just -- just means nothing. under their estimate of all of the class members in the $ million. And so -- JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. But does that matter? We assume, I think, that the real amount is a little bit over $ million. Suppose the real amount is million means we have to determine, and the district court has to determine, whether or not the million has been satisfied on the basis of the well pleaded complaint and an aggregation where, as a factual matter and as a stipulated matter in paragraph of the complaint, the class representative here said, this case is not worth more than $ million. And we know that that's true because even State of Arkansas, the damages only equal about or million, million, does it matter where along that Official MR. FREDERICK: Not so long as there is a $ million. continuum the real amount falls? binding stipulation that says so long as this civil action is in place, it is not going to be worth JUSTICE BREYER: But what you said then in response -- we're on the same subject, and I'm drawing the conclusion from what you say that yes, we've found a way around this. And what we're going to do is we will divide our $ million class action into six subsidiary actions and proceed exactly the same merry way. And we do that by means of stipulation. Now, your words in the statute do favor that, in my opinion, at the moment. But the purpose to go the other way, in that you could say, given the purpose of this, the words do mean something different, and they do mean you should aggregate the real value of the real amounts that the class is likely to have. Now, it's capable of that reading, and the virtue of that reading is that it would stop what looks like, from what you're saying, a mechanical method of avoiding the purpose of the statute. I say that explicitly because I really want to make it as much as possible that you will focus in on what's a response to seems to strongly cut the other way. And I do see a way Official well-pleaded complaint rule and the master of the Under their approach, they would take all the conceivable legal theories that might be brought that. MR. FREDERICK: Yes. Well, Justice Breyer, Congress could have addressed any number of those kinds of issues with the specific terms that it used, but the complaint rule is a very subtle part of our diversity jurisdiction. And that is so because we want these jurisdictional inquiries to be simple, not complicated. over a -- conceivable period of time, and ask the district court to make very nuanced judgments about -- what -- you've really addressed his point -- that the statute number says "shall aggregate the individual claim." What you're saying is that the simplest thing is to evade the statute. Evasion is simple. And therefore, we still use that approach because the simplest is the best. That just is not responsive to his question. MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Kennedy, let me try it this way, which is that for the large case, the one that I gave in my hypothetical where there are a JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what you're saying in your answer to Justice Breyer -- and I don't think Official But that might be a nationwide case. It amount in controversy is debatable as to whether it's really $ million, that's the kind of case where jurisdictional simplicity ought to encourage -- million class members, and each of them has a claim of $,, we know that prior to CAFA, that case was staying in State court because of this Court's Zahn rule. might be worth hundreds of millions of dollars in damages. That was the kind of problem that Congress was trying to get at. But the case where there's a stipulation that actually might be meaningful, where the JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your theory doesn't depend on it being just a little over $ million, the $ million -- MR. FREDERICK: That's correct because -- and Justice Ginsburg, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but that's precisely because we want the ability to make who's bringing the complaint. your brief -- you agreed that the stipulation -- I legal judgments and strategies to reside in the person theory would hold whether it was $ million, We don't want -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though you admit in didn't think that this is what you said on page , the Official But we have to judge removal at the time MR. FREDERICK: Not where there are stipulations can have no effect on absentees, until the Court finds at the certification stage that the stipulation was made in good faith and doesn't render the named plaintiff an inadequate representative. removal is made, and at that time, there is no determination of class. So at the removal stage, the stipulation is inoperative as to the non-named class members. action, it has been filed by a putative class representative, that putative class representative in good faith, the district court found had acted in good faith in stipulating to a lower amount than $ million -- and the question is should that be given legal effect, where everybody knows it will be binding if the class is certified, and it will be binding on the allegations about what the aggregated damages are about. That's why -- to address this in the language of the civil action, those absent class members haven't filed any lawsuit. We don't really know what claims they might conceivably bring if they are were to be hypothesized. What we do know is that there is a civil class representative if the class is not certified. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose this were an remove the case and prove that the amount is really individual action, and the amount is -- the amount is pled -- an individual diversity action -- and the amount that is pled is under $,. The defendant still can higher than that because the practice of the State in question is to allow a recovery that is over $,. So why shouldn't the same approach apply here? MR. FREDERICK: Well, you were referring to a statute, Justice Alito, that was recently enacted, in which it does say that the presumption shall be that the amount pleaded in the complaint is subject to disproval. But that's reversing -- well, -plus years of settled removal law, after the reforms of the s created the removal jurisdiction the way it is more currently constructed. And so in that interregnum between the s and that statute passed just a couple of years ago, the rule was well-settled that the individual case pleading amount was fine. And under St. Paul Mercury, if there was a stipulation that had been filed contemporaneously with the complaint or prior to removal, that that would be given legal effect. complaint. There is no doubt that this was done in good Here, the stipulation was filed with the Official it's possible to look behind that number. But in a class action where the named look behind the number -- faith. The district court found that -- and I don't think that's really an even arguable proposition here, where they were asserting a percent attorney's fee on this -- and so really the question is, where you have an aggregated estimate, should that be given legal effect. JUSTICE ALITO: Wouldn't it be perverse if the rule were that in an individual action where a plaintiff is simply stipulating how much he or she is demanding -- individually -- which the person can do, Plaintiff is purporting to make a stipulation on behalf of absent class members as to whom the named plaintiff at that point has absolutely no authority, you can't might have a debate about the various virtues of that, but they were not enacted in the same piece of legislation. Congress had not adopted the rule that you're positing. Nonetheless, we do not attempt to argue that they have no basis for making arguments about amount of controversy when they remove, but it is subject to the rule that a binding stipulation shall be given binding MR. FREDERICK: Well, as a policy matter, we So what we do know is that for CAFA, Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: How is it binding when members? action will forever be bound by the $ million stipulation. effect in the civil action that has been filed. And if that is later proved to be inadequate -- you said in your brief it doesn't bind the unnamed class MR. FREDERICK: Justice Ginsburg, this is important that you and I understand each other on this point because it is binding in the civil action filed for all purposes. So whoever is covered by that civil What we do not know is who will be members of that class until the certification hearing is done. Whoever ends up being covered by that civil action will forever be bound by that stipulation. That is what the district court knows. I have been trying to figure out exactly what Mr. Boutrous is concerned about. And one thing he might be concerned about is that, notwithstanding that the class has really claims for $ million, the thing is going to be certified for $ million, and all these absent class members are -- are being deprived of something meaningful to them. JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask you this? Because But that's something which -- you know Official to worry about in interpreting this Federal statute. The other possibility is that he might be usually, we assume that State court judges will do their jobs, will pay attention to the Constitution, will apply adequacy of representation standards that come from the due process clause. So that seems like a strange thing worried that this stipulation won't be really as binding as you say, that in a case in which there is an adequacy of representation determination made, the class goes forward, and then things work out and it really looks like all these absent class members are going to get -- you know, badly treated. He's going to tear this stipulation up or do something like that. And it's going to be way down the because there are protections that are in the statute that protect both defendants and absent class members. And the protection for the absent class members is it that if that stipulation is insufficient to adequately represent their interests, the district court, the trial court and State court will not certify the class. certification, now it turns out that the certification was wrong, that in fact, these claims are worth a good JUSTICE KAGAN: But this is -- he's done the line. And why should we allow that to happen? MR. FREDERICK: Well, for two reasons, Official deal more. And he says, I can't in good faith allow all these people's claims to be adjudicated for this amount of money when I know they're worth five times as much. MR. FREDERICK: And -- and as a matter of judicial estoppel, what is absolutely clear in every State that I am familiar with is that it follows this Court's basic formula in New Hampshire v. Maine, which looks at whether or not a change in position would prejudice the interests of the other party if the Court had relied on the original position of the litigant, and that will estop that person. Now, it may -- it may well be that there are due process issues associated with class representative and the adequacy of a class representative is a because of due process concerns. might be worried about is that if this action is allowed to proceed, although on its face it's worth determination whether to settle for a particular amount or not. they've got to settle for whatever it is, -- you know, $ per class member, that is going to set the continuing concern throughout a litigation precisely CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Another thing he $ million, they're going to have to make a And if they make a determination that Official individual class representative of a sort that -- MR. FREDERICK: Actually, I think And the point is that, for a variety of representative is bound by a stipulation that this case is not worth than $ million, the bidding starts at million, but it goes down, it doesn't go north because the defendant knows that no matter whether we go to trial or not, this case, this case -- this civil action is only going to be worth $ million. limit for other classes, including the class members who opt out of this action, the class members from Missouri. reasons, that this gives extraordinary leverage to the precisely the sort that Congress was worried about. Mr. Chief Justice, with all due respect, the economic incentives are completely reversed because if a class CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's going to be worth a lot more because, if you go to trial, you're going to have a judgment that they should have been giving the general contractor whatever -- every case. And so that is going to be extremely valuable. It's going to be worth a lot more -- but the downside, it's going to be a lot more than $ million. MR. FREDERICK: GCOP. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- pickup it is in MR. FREDERICK: Well, certainly, Official And so when Congress is only addressing a Mr. Chief Justice, Congress could have drafted a statute that allowed for the removal of every State class action and dealt with that issue if it was deemed appropriate to have Federal courts decide all class actions, but that wasn't the statute that Congress enacted. And Congress also could have expressed concerns and difficulty with this idea of having the Master of the Complaint Rule applied in the class action context, but it didn't address that either. difficult -- one reason, it's very difficult to speculate about Congress, what they speculate about what they would have intended. Presumably, they may not have thought about the idea that there will be class actions worth a lot more than $ million, but the plaintiff's lawyer will only ask for less than $ million. stipulations are well known and in fact, as we quote on, I think it's page of our brief, Congress was aware of very narrow problem of dealing with the non-aggregation principle so that class actions that were worth more than $ million would be allowed to be removed to Federal court, I don't think it would be appropriate for the Court to try to infer a larger set of -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's very MR. FREDERICK: Well, these kinds of Official members are. And so here, where a good faith effort is factual stipulations. They concede in their reply brief that it's perfectly fine for their to be a joint stipulation between the putative class representative and the defendants. And, yet, I would think that that would raise even more problems and concerns by you because that would lead to the kind of collusion between a putative class representative and the defendant without knowing what the other interests of the absent class made to quantify the aggregate claims and that good faith effort leads to the stipulation that the case will not be worth more than $ million, the interests of jurisdictional simplicity, the interest of fairness to the class members, the interest of understanding what the civil action is all about so that the defendant is on notice about what will be claimed in this civil action are all things that should be given respect. has anyone thought of this -- I hate to bring up sort of a new idea, but somebody may have thought of it. Imagine we're now in the Federal district court. And the Federal district court reads the statute because the case has just been removed. And he says -- you know, JUSTICE BREYER: What about -- what about, Official anything like that. And let now me look at that stipulation. this -- this case would be worth a lot more than million were it not for that stipulation. That stipulation is a part of some, let's call it, "monkey business," which you will resist that, but I mean by that to -- to encompass the kinds of things we've been talking about, that there are going to be five similar class actions, that they're going to take the people A through K, that they're going to -- And he says that's not under this statute the kind of stipulation that Congress meant to bar my consideration of the $ million. So if it's a manipulative stipulation, whatever that might be, it to -- beyond million, but if it's not manipulative, fine. Has there -- has there been any thought on that kind of -- MR. FREDERICK: Well, there are two tools that -- that we describe in our brief and that I think are reasonable ways that Federal courts address these matters. One is to look at whether or not it violates Rule and there are -- there's a frivolous assertion of a stipulation, which Federal district judges deal doesn't bar me as the district judge from aggregating up with Rule motions all the time. Official treated as dispositive for jurisdictional purposes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Justice Breyer's court. The second is the concept of good faith, which is what St. Paul Mercury addressed when it said that a stipulation for less than the jurisdictional amount, if made in good faith, is something that will be hypothetical would not come up on your theory because the Federal court would never get the chance to make that determination. It would be made in the State MR. FREDERICK: No. If I'm understanding Justice Breyer's hypothetical, it's at the amount of controversy stage and so there is litigation at that stage and the defendant presumably would bring to the judge's attention, I think this is being done in bad faith and I have these arguments for why this is deceiting -- deceitful, misleading, et cetera. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So would that include the I'm suing for two years when I could have sued for five? MR. FREDERICK: No, I don't think so because there are lots of tactical reasons why litigants might want to limit their claims or might have a good faith basis for saying, I've only investigated this time period, I do not have a good faith basis for asserting claims in a different time period that I have not Official JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but there might be --me at the moment. But -- MR. FREDERICK: Well, the -- the -- the ways of working with this good faith notion so that investigated that does not serve the court. there might be ways of working with this notion, a little risky from your point of view, but there might be some -- there would be some power in the Federal district court to set aside certain stipulations which were used for manipulative purposes and what the definition of that manipulative is something that isn't clear to -- to notion that I have distilled from St. Paul Mercury and the idea of good faith and looking at cases that have addressed bad faith, which is obviously the converse of misleading or deceitful in the way that this stipulation would be framed. And I think that that is as good a guidance as I can give you absent briefing. $ million and just to defeat this statute, it's being limited to . strategic reason, Justice Sotomayor, why --good faith, is whether or not there is something JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it would never involve a judgment that a claim is really worth MR. FREDERICK: There -- there could be a JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the only strategic Official The second is we're talking about State law MR. FREDERICK: Well, but there are reasons claims that are breach of contract claims for a reason according to your adversary is they want to stay in State court. because, in Arkansas, for instance, there is a direct appeal for the State supreme court. We could finish this case in many fewer years than it would take to wind its way up through the Eighth Circuit and up to this Court. That is one salutary reason. State-regulated industry. The State insurance board would be looking at how State insurance is done here. So there are very good reasons why a -- why a lawyer would want this case to be in State court and not want it to be removed to Federal court wholly apart from the ad hominem attacks that they make about Miller County, which were not brought to Congress's attention and in fact are false. all cases that predated CAFA. to file in Miller County? false. The arguments that they talk about abuse involve As we have put into amicus briefs, it is CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why did you decide MR. FREDERICK: Because these are Texarkana lawyers who filed on behalf of all Arkansas residents Official class members. In situations like the one Justice Alito way? MR. FREDERICK: Sure. In his hypothetical, JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Frederick, your MR. FREDERICK: Well --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- if it would go your and Texarkana, Arkansas is a jurisdiction in Arkansas. answer just doesn't deal with the component that's been troubling, which is that it doesn't protect the absent or the point Justice Alito made, which is they don't really know how much the entire quantity of the class might truly be, and who's protecting them -- that's true under Federal rules, too. If you're applying Federal Rule and you have a large number of class members and the case gets settled for X dollars, the individual class member is held to the duty of deciding whether to opt out because that individual class member thinks I may have been able to get more than what is being offered in this class settlement or aggregate amount is not high enough. It's a problem that applies in both Federal and in State court. It's not unique to State court at all. to attack the adequacy of the representation because the If the Court has no further questions, we'll Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Boutrous, you have four minutes. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE J. BOUTROUS, JR., ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER Institute brief and the st Century brief. They explain what has been happening in Miller County. It's not speedy justice. It takes five or six years to get a hearing on anything and then there's no hearing, even on class certification. And that's why, Justice Kagan, it's cold, submit. MR. BOUTROUS: Thank you, Your Honor. Let me just start with the concerns that I have and I think they're best expressed and encapsulated in two of the friend-of-the-court briefs, the Manufactured Housing With respect to Mr. Fredrick's suggestion that this stipulation is binding in this case forever and all-time on anybody who's in the case, his own brief on page says, it might well be that another class representative might get appointed and the stipulation might be invalidated because it's -- it's an unfair cold comfort to say maybe somebody day the Court will find this is an inadequate class member or class representative. It does not solve the problem that Congress sought to address. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why can't the case be MR. BOUTROUS: Well, it theoretically could supposed to be about two years. It won't solve the problem of -- stipulation and not valid for the class. That new class representative could come in and say, we are not going to be bound by this $ million number. That's not the amount in controversy. removed at that moment? be, Your Honor, but that won't solve the problem of discovery. That goes back ten years in a case that's JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous -- you know, a lot of your brief talks about this problem of discovery. And it -- it may very well be that there is a CAFA, I mean, CAFA did a lot of things. And it did not address this problem that you have with discovery. There could be -- I can give you -- you know, ten different proposals that would enable you to bypass expensive discovery, but CAFA didn't do any of them. solution to get at a problem that Congress, in fact, did not address. significant one, I don't know, but when you look at MR. BOUTROUS: That's incorrect, Your Honor. First, Congress knew what was going on in State courts And this is a kind of a jerry-rigged Official against discovery. and wanted swift removal in a simple way for defendants to protect defendants and absent class members because it knew what was going on. There wasn't these protections. The Federal rules provide protection This Court in Twombly said one of the reasons is speedy motion to dismiss, and a strong standard is necessary as to avoid discovery that is burdensome, that coerces settlements that don't relate to the merits. So Congress knew it was bringing cases into the Federal system for precisely that reason. And on this master of complaint point, Mr. Frederick is simply incorrect on this point. St. Paul wasn't a master of the complaint case, it said seek. The master of the complaint doctrine has never, ever been applied by this Court where an unappointed named plaintiff, who's not been appointed to represent people, seeks to try to alter the claims and judgments under contexts. Where the Court has said if a plaintiff wants to bring a State claim, they can. We are not going to force them to bring a Federal claim. the plaintiff can limit the amount that he wants to JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Boutrous, the idea of of other people and the rights of them to recover. It's usually been applied in the arising Official And this is just one aspect of that larger MR. BOUTROUS: Your Honor, on the amount in master of the complaint is inherent in every class litigation because there could be no class actions, there could be no definition of anything, of the claims, of the amount of damages, of the number of defendants, of the amount of time unless the plaintiff, the named plaintiff, had some ability to define the claim. power. controversy, this Court has never held, in a class action or otherwise, that that's something that's subject to the well pleaded complaint rule or the master of the complaint doctrine. The court in the Hertz case and in the McNutt case, which it cites, said the Court asking us to blow up the whole world. plaintiff can't define the clans. Next time we are going to be back and tell you that they can't name the defendants. MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor. JUSTICE KAGAN: Because you're saying: Next time we will be back and tell you that the named should look past what the pleadings say. JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Then you really are MR. BOUTROUS: No, Your Honor. May I answer, Your Honor? Official amount the plaintiffs came up with. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (Nods.) MR. BOUTROUS: We are asking the Court to apply the same rules on this score that the Court has always applied, that when the complaint claims one amount, the defendant can bring forth proof that it's a larger amount, that it exceeds the amount in controversy and the Court looks at the competent proof, that's the language the Court used in the Hertz case, to determine the actual amount in controversy, not some jerry-rigged above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial : : : aggregating : aggregation : :, : : : :, appropriated : : : :,, arguable : :,, : :, :, : : : :,, :, :,, : : : arguing : argue : ago : agree : : agreed : agrees : ahead : Alito : : answer : amounts : analysis : Angeles : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : answered : anti-aggregati... : allegations : anti-St : :, : : anti-Zahn : anybody : allow :, : : : : : : allowed : : anyway : apart : appeal : APPEARAN... : application : applied : :, : applies : : : : : :, argument : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : : arguments : : : arising : Arkansas : : : : : :, :, aside : : asked :,, : : asking : : : aspect : assert : asserting : : assertion : associated : A ability : able : : : : : : actual : : : ad : added : : above-entitled addendum : : : : absent : : : : : addition : additional : : : :, : address : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : addressed : absentees : absolutely : : : abstract : abuse : abuses : : :, : account : : addressing : : adequacy : : : : :, : : adequate : : : : : :, : : :, : adequately : : : adjudicated allowing : all-time : alter : altered : alternate : alternative : amended : amicus : Act : : acted : action :, : :, : : : :,, admission : admit : :,,, adopted : : : : : : adversary : advocating : amount :, : :, affect :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :,,, :, :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : : : :, actions : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, :,, aggregate : : :, :, : : : : : : aggregated : : : apply :,, : : : : : : : assume : : : : applying : : : assuming : attack : appointed : attacks : attempt : attempting : attention : : : : : approach : : : : :, : appropriate : :, attorney's : authority : avoid : Official avoiding : aware : a.m : : B back : : :, : : : : : :, bad : : : badly : bar :, Barry : based : : : : basic : basis : : : : :, Bayer :,, behalf :, :,, : : : : : : believe :, best : :, : : : : better : beyond : bidding : bind : : : : binding : : :, : :, : : :,, :,,,, : : :, : : :, : : binds : bit : : blithely : blow : blue : : board : books : bound : briefs : : : bring : : : : : : : :, : :, : bringing : : : : : brings : : brought : : : : business : bypass : Boutrous : :, :,, : :,, :,, : :, : budget : burden : :,, burdensome :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :,, :,, : :, : : breach : break : Breyer :, : ::, : : ::,,calculating :calculationsC : :, : : :CAFA ::C:,, : : : : : :, : : Breyer's :, brief : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : briefing : California :call :cap : : capable :care :careful :case :, : : :,: :,,: ::, : : : : : :: :: :: ::, : :, :, : : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, cases : : : : : : : : : : causes : centered : central : Century : certain : : : : certainly : certainty : certification : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : certified : :, : : :, :, : certify : : cetera :, : challenges : chance : change : charged : Chief :,, : : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,:, : : :,chimed : Circuit :,: cited : : cites : civil :, : :,,,,: :,: :,:,,,: :,claim :,,: :,:,,,,:, : : :,: :,: : : : : : :, : claimed : claims :,:, : : :, : :, : : :,: :,: : : : :,,:,,: :,: :,: : : : : :, Official : context : contexts : continuing :, : clause : : : clans : Clarification : clear : :, conceded : conceivable :, : continuum : contract : contractor concept : concern : : : : : : conceivably competent : : : : : : : clearly : clients : close :, coerces : cold :, collect : collusion : come :,, : : : : : : comes : comfort : commerce : class :,, :,, : : : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, : :,,, :,, :, : :, : Company : :, : :,, :,,,, :,,, complaint : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : :, : :,, : :,, :, : :,, : :,,, :, : component : Constitution :,, :, : :,, : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : : completely : complicated complete : compromised :, : : : : : : : : consideration : concerned : :, :,, :,, :, : contrivances : contrary : : : controversy controlling : control : : : concerns : : : : conclusion : Confusing : controls : Congress : : :, :,, : :,, : : :, :,, : :, :,, : :, :, : : : : : :,,,, : : : :, costs :, counsel : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, converse : correct : : : Congress's : congressional : : :, :, : couple : course : : court :, considered : construct : constructed : : contemporane... :, : : :,, : :, classes : : concede : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, courts : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : Court's : : : DD :damage ::damages :,: :: :covered :, created : count : counties : currently : county : : cut : : Official demanding : demonstrated :, : diversity : :, : : : : : : : depend : DAVID : : : : deprived : day :, : describe : :,, : : : : divide : Doctors : doctrine : : doing :, : enforcing : enlarged : entails : enter : entered : excuse : encompass : encourage : exercising : ends : enforced : exists : expand : expect : expensive : explain : explicitly : : : exposed :, express : expressed : desires : : determination : : : :, : determine : : :, : :, : entire : : : : determining equal : equivalent dollars : : : doubt : downside : ESQ :, : extra : drafted : drawing : dicing : drew : difference : due :, : : :, : essentially : established different : : estimate : : : : :, : : : extraordinary extreme : extremely : : deal : : : : : : dealing : dealt : : debatable : debate : deceitful : : deceiting : decide : :,,, : : decided : : : deciding : : decision : deemed : defeat : defendant : :, : : :, : : defendants : : : : : : difficult : difficulty : : : direct : directed : discovery :, : :, : :,, :, : : : : :, :, dismiss : discussion : define : :, dispositive : : defining : disproval : definition : distilled : : : : demand : : demanded : : :, : district :, : : : :, : : : : : : : :, duty : : D.C :, E E : :, economic :Edmunds : effect : : : :, : : : effort :,Eighth : either : eliminate : : eliminated : :, : enable : enacted : : : : : : : encapsulated : : : estop : estoppel : : et :, : evade : Evasion : everybody : : : evidence : : : exactly : : : : :, : : example : : : exceed : :, : : exceeds : :, : : : : : excessive : exclusive :, : Fface : fact : : : :,: :: : facts : : : : factual :,: : :failing : fairness :: faith :,,: ::, : :,,, :,,,fall : falls :false :,familiar :far : favor :favorable : Official Federal : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : fee : fees : fewer : figure : : : file : : : filed :,,, : :, :, : : :, : files : : find : : : :, : : : finding : : findings : : :, finds : : fine : : : finish : Fire : : first : : : :, : : five : : : : : focus : : : : focuses : : follows : force : forever :, : form : formula : forth : : forum : forward : :, : found : :, : : : : : four : frame : framed : Frederick : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : Fredrick's : friend : friend-of-the-... : frivolous : full : : fully : : hearing : : : :, held : : Hertz : : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : high : : :, : :, higher : : :, hold : : :,,, holding : :, : :, :, hominem : :, : Honor : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,: : : : : : : : : :,: :,: :,:,,,Housing : hundreds : :, : : : :, : :,, :,,, : great : greater : : : GREG : grossly : good : : :, guess : guidance : : fundamental : funds : further : GG :gather :GCOP :general :generous :::getting :: ::,Ginsburg :: :: ::,,:, :, Ginsburg'sgive : : ::given :,: :: ::, : gives :giving : : go : : Hhalf :Hampshire :hand ::: :, :, handled :: : : :, happen : : : : :, happened : : : goes : : : : :,, : : : : : : happening : happens : happily : harming : hate : hear : : heard : going : : :, : : : hypothesized: hypothetical: :, : Iice :idea :,: ::identical :identically:Imagine :important ::impossible :inadequate : : : : : : : incentives : include : : including : : : incorrect : : individual : : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : : : : :,, : : :, individually : individuals : : : industry : infer : inform : informed : inherent : injunctive : inoperative : inquiries : instance : Institute : insufficient : : insurance : : :, intended : : intent : : interest :, :, interests : : : :, interim : interpreted : interpreting : interregnum : interrupt : interstate : intervened : invalidated : investigated : : involve : : involved : ironic : issue : :, : : : issues : : : it’s : J J : :, : : January : jeopardize : jerry-rigged : : jobs : Joe : joint : JR : :, : : judge : : : : : judges : : : judge's : judging : judgment :, : :, : : Official : : : : judgments : :, : : : judicial : : juries :, jurisdiction knowing : :, : :, : : :, : :,, : : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, Knowles : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, known : knows : :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, :,,, Justice's : :,, : : :, : : : : : : K : : : K jurisdictional :, : : : : :, justice :,, : :, :,, : : :,,:,,:,,,:,,:, :, :, : :,,,:,,,: :,: : :, : :,,:,,,:,,:,, : :, : :,,:, : : :,: : :,,,:,,:, : Kagan : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, Kagan's : keep : : : : Kennedy : :,, :, kept : kind : : : : : :, : :, : kinds : : : : knew : : : know : : : : :, : : : :, : LL : : lack :language :: :: :large ::larger :: :law : : : ::lawsuit :lawyer :: ::lawyers ::lead :leads ::leeway :legal : : : :: :: ::legally :legislation :legitimate ::,,letter :let's : : Official : : : : negligence never : : : : mechanical : : : : : member : : : : : : : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :,,, : : :,, : :, nevertheless :, : :, : new : : members : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : millions : :, :, minutes : :, : : : :, : Missouri : : : :, : misunderstood : : : :, : :, : : : :, Monday : money : : :, :, : : : monkey : : : Mercury : motion : non-named : normal : Normally : north : noted : notice : Nods : non-aggregati... notices :,notified : non-aggregati... moment : misleading : : : : : motions : notion : : notwithstandi... :,: nuanced : number : :, : : : : : numerosityNN :, : name :named :,: :: :,: :: : : :, : :,: OO : : names :,narrow : narrower : objection :Nation : nationwide : objects :necessarily : :,obtain :obtained :obvious :obviously :: : necessary : : need : : :: : : : leverage : liable : liked : limit : : : : : : limitation : limitations : : : : limited : :, :, : line : : litigant : litigants : litigation : : : little : : : long : : :, look :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : looking : : : : looks : : : : : loophole : Los : lot : : : : : :, : : : :, lots : : low : lower : : : : MMaine :making :manipulate::manipulation: :manipulations:manipulative:, : :manner :Manufactured:master :: :,: :: ::,,:,matter : : : ::,,, : : : : matters : maximize : maximum : : McNutt : mean : :,, :, : : meaningful : meaningless : : means : : : : : : meant : : : merits : : merry : met : method : Miller : : : : :, : million : : : :, : :, : : :,,: :,: :,,: :,:, : :, :, :, : : : :,,, :, :, Official occupy : occur : : party : parties : pass :,, plaintiffs : passed : : :, : : : : : : : : plaintiff's : : : occurring : : : offered : office : oh : okay :, : : : once : :, : Paul :, :,,, : :, : : : : pay : people : play : pleaded : : : : :, pleading : pleadings : : : pleads : :, please : one-year : opening : operative : opinion : opposite : opt :, : perfectly : people's : percent : pled : : : :, precluded : : : predated : prejudice : presented : presumably : : presumption : pretty : : prevent : : principle : principles : prior : : : : : : : period :, :, : :, person :,, : : : : : persons : perverse : : point : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : problems : :, problem : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : oral : :, : : order : original : ought : : : oust : outcome : : P P : page : : : : : : : O'odham : Petitioner : pointing : points : policy : pickup : piece : pieces : : :, : positing : position : : : : : : : :, possibility : possible : : pillars : paper : place : paragraph : plaintiff : : part :,, : :, : : : : possibly : :, :, postage : : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, practical : practice : prayer : precisely : : : : : particular : particularly : proceed : : proceeds : :, : process : : :, : : : :, professor's : proof : : : :, : proposed : :,proposition : prospective : protect : : proposal : power :, proposals : :, : : : : : : : protecting : protection : : : protections : : : prove : : : proved : provide : provision : :, public : published : punitive :, :, : pure : purporting : purpose : :, purposes : : : : : : pursuant : : put : : : : : putative :,: : :, : : p.m : Qquantify :quantity :question :: : : :, : : ::, : : : : : : : : : : questions : : : quite : quote : quoted : : : quoting : R R : raise : : raised : rarely : read : reading : : reads : real : : :, : :, realize : really : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : reason : : : :, : reasonable : reasonably : reasons : : : :, : REBUTTAL : : Official record : recover :, : recovered : recovery : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : ROBERTS : right : : : : : : : : rights : risky : : : : : : : : : : : : Scalia :, : :, Scalia's : score : second : : : : : section : :,, : see : : : : : seek : : :, : : seeking : : : seeks : : Senate :,: : seniority : serve : served : set : : : settle :,settled : settlement : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, rule :,, :,,, :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : rules : : : : : : ruling : S S : : salutary : satisfied : saying : : : settlements : Seventh : show : : : showed : : : side : : : sign : :, : significant : : says :, :,, :,, : : silent : similar : simple :,: : representatives : represented representing referring : reforms : regarded : regarding : rejected : relate : relied : relief : : rely : remaining : require : required : remand : remanded : requirement removal : : :, : :, : :,, :,, : : requisite : reserve : reside : requires : :, : remove :, residents : : : : removed : : : : : : render : renounced : : reply : : report :, : : : represent : : :, : : :,,, : : representation : : :, :, : representative resist : respect : : : : Respondent : : : response : : responsible : responsive : rest : resting : restrictions : result : results : reversal : reversed : reversing : rid :,, simplest : simplicity : : : simply : : : : situation : situations : six : : slicing : slightly : slippery : slope : Smith :,, solution : solve : : : somebody : : : soon : sorry :, sort : :, : : Sotomayor : :, : : :, :,, :, : sought : : : : : space : speak : : specific : specifically : specified : speculate : : speedy : : St :, : :, : :, : : : : Official : stage : : : :, stayed : staying : stipulate : stake : stamps : stand : standard : : stipulated : : stipulating : : stipulation : subsidiary : substantive : subtle : sue : sued : suggest : suggesting : suggestion telling : : : tells : ten : :, Tenth : term : terms : : : : Texarkana : : text : : : :,,, : : Thank :, : :, :, THEODORE : :, : : theoretically theories : : : theory : :, : thin : thing :, : : : : :, : :, : : things :,:,,,: : : : : think : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, standardized : : standards : : : :, : start : : starts : State : : : :, :,,, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :,,,, : :, : : States :, State's : State-regulated : : :, suits : sum :, suing : suit :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : suppose : : :, :,, : :, :,,,, : : : : : :, Sure : : supposed : : : : : : supreme :, stipulations : : : : : : stop :, : surely : suspect : swallows : swift : sympathetic : stopped : system : :, statute : : stops : strange : strategic : : :,, : : : : :, : :, strategies : strategy : :,, strong : : : strongly : : : subject : : : : :, : : : : :, : submit : : :, submitted : :, : : : : statutory : stay : : subsection : TT :,tactical :take : : : :,: : : taken : : takes :talk :talking :,: :talks : : :tear :tell : : unfair : : wanted :: : :, : Twombly : typicality : : : : thinks : thought : :, : :, : thousand : threshold : :, thwart :, time : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, times : Tohono : told : tools : total : : totally : : traditional : :,, treated : : trespass : trial : : : tried : trouble : troubling : true : : : : truly : try : : : : trying : : : turns : : two : :, : : : : Uunappointed:uncertain :uncontradicted: : undermine : understand : : : : : understanding : : undisputed : : : : uniformity : unique : United :, unnamed : : unusual : urged : use : uses : : usually : : : : U.S.C : V v : : : :,, : valid : valuable : value :, : : : valuing : variety : various : : Official Venue : version : view : : violates : : virtually : virtue : virtues : vis-a-vis : Wwaive : want :,, :, : : :: :: :,: :,::wants : : :,Washington :wasn't : : ::way : : : ::,,,: :: :: :: :ways :,: :,well-pleaded:well-settled:went :weren't :: we'll : we're : : : ::,, : years : : :, : :, : : : : : :,yield :,,ZZ :Zahn : : :,,,: ::$$ : :, $, :,$ :$ : : $ :$ :$ :,:$,,:$,, ::$ : : : : :,: ::,,: :,: :,: :,:, : :, : : :,:, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :$,,:$ : : : : :, : : we've : : : : : whatsoever : wholly : wind : word : : :, : :,,,: : : worded : words : : :, : : :, work : working :, world : worried : : : worry : worse : worth : : :,,, :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, : : : wouldn't :: :would-be :wrong :Xx :, :, :Yyear : $, : : : $ : $, :, : :, $ : $ : : : -plus : : : : :, - : : : : : : : : : (a) : : : (d)()(B) (d)()(D) : : (d)() : (d)() : : : (c)() : (b) : s :, : : : -year : : : : : : : st : : : : : 's : -like : Official : : : a : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : , : -year : : : : : :, : : : : : 