Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. The above-entitled matter came on for oral Washington, D.C. Wednesday, April , Petitioners - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x ARIZONA, ET AL., : : No. -: UNITED STATES : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent. PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioners. C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioners On behalf of the Petitioners Official ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S States. please the Court: The State of Arizona bears a ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument Mr. Clement. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT this morning in Case -, Arizona v. The United disproportionate share of the costs of illegal immigration. In addressing those costs, Arizona borrowed the Federal standards as its own and attempted uniform Federal immigration laws. the extraordinary step of seeking a preliminary injunction to enjoin the statute as impliedly preempted agreed with respect to four provisions, but only by inverting fundamental principles of federalism. that Arizona point to specific authorization in Federal on its face before it took effect. The Ninth Circuit The Ninth Circuit, essentially, demanded statute for its approach. But that gets matters to enlist state resources in the enforcement of the Notwithstanding that, the United States took Official A state does not need to point to Federal enacted state law to point to some provision in There are multiple provisions of the Federal immigration law that go out of their way to try to backwards. authorization for its enforcement efforts. Rather, the burden is on the parties seeking to preempt a duly statutory law that does the preempting. Now, the United States can't really do that here, and the reason is obvious. facilitate state and local efforts to communicate with Federal immigration officials, in order to ascertain the immigration status of individuals. respond to inquiries from state and local officials about somebody's immigration status. (a) goes even further. That provision says that no Federal agency or officer may prohibit or in any way restrict the ability of state and local officers to communicate with Federal immigration officers to ascertain somebody's immigration status. Indeed, if the DHS had -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Clement --MR. CLEMENT: Yes. So, for example, (c) specifically requires that Federal immigration officials shall Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- could I interrupt? And turning to (B), could you tell me what the state's view is -- the Government proposes that it should be read on its face one way, and I think the state is arguing that there's a narrower way to read it. But am I to understand that, under the state's position in this action, the only time that the inquiry about the status of an individual rises is after they've had probable cause to arrest that individual for some other crime? MR. CLEMENT: That's exactly right, Justice Sotomayor. So this only operates when somebody's been, essentially, stopped for some other infraction. And then, at that point, if there's reasonable suspicion to try to identify immigration status, then that can there just one moment? That's what I thought. So, presumably, I think your argument is that, under any circumstance, a police officer would have the discretion to make that call. Seems to me that the issue is not about whether you make the call or not, although the government is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I -- can I -- MR. CLEMENT: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- just stop -- stop you arguing that it might be, but on how long you detain the happen. Of course, one of the things that -- Official And to the extent that the government wants individual, meaning -- as I understand it, when individuals are arrested and held for other crimes, often, there's an immigration check that most states do without this law. to remove that individual, they put in a warrant of detainer. This process is different. How is it different? MR. CLEMENT: Well, it's different in one important respect, Justice Sotomayor, and that's why I don't think that the issue that divides the parties is only the issue of how long you can detain somebody because I think the Federal government takes the rather unusual position that, even though these stops and these inquiries, if done on an ad hoc basis, become preempted if they're done on a systematic basis -- their argument. I can question them about that. how -- assuming your position, that doing it on a systematic -- there's nothing wrong with doing it as it's been done in the past. Whenever anyone is detained, a call could be made. What I see as critical is the issue of how long and under -- and when is the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I understand that's MR. CLEMENT: Okay. But -- so that's --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I want to get to Official MR. CLEMENT: And -- and, with respect, I to say I don't think Section (B) says that the And, indeed, Section -- in one of its implemented in a way that's consistent with Federal, both immigration law and civil rights law. officer going to exercise discretion to release the person? don't think Section (B) really speaks to that, which is systematic inquiry has to take any longer than the ad hoc inquiry. provisions -- specifically says that it has to be is the following call -- the call to the -- to the don't want to detain him. say, with respect to releasing that individual? believe would happen, which is to say, at that point, then, the officer would ask themselves whether there's any reason to continue to detain the person for state law purposes. So, there -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What happens if -- this MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't know that it speaks to it in specific terms, but here's what I Federal government. Yes, he's an illegal alien. No, we What does the law say -- the Arizona law I mean, it could be that the original Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm putting all of this MR. CLEMENT: But -- but, if what we're And that, I think, can be very well illustrated by Section -- I don't want to change the offense that the person was pulled over needs to be dealt with or something like that. outside of -- of -- the -- talking about is simply what happens then, for purposes of the Federal immigration consequences, the answer is nothing. The individual, at that point, is released. subject unnecessarily, but there is arrest authority for somebody who has committed a public offense, which means that it's a crime in another state and in Arizona, but the person can't be arrested for that offense, sentence for the offense; and then there is new arrest authority given to the officer to hold that person if they are deportable for that offense. Now, I think, in that circumstance, it's very clear what would happen, is an inquiry would be made to the Federal officials that would say, do you want us to transfer this person to your custody or hold this person until you can take custody? And if the answer is no, then that's the end of it. That individual is released because there is no independent presumably, because they have already served their Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: But how would the state sometimes a complex inquiry. basis in that situation for the state officer to continue to detain the individual at all. officer know if the person is removable? I mean, that's MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I think there's two answers to that. One is -- you're right, sometimes, it's a complex inquiry. Sometimes, it's a straightforward inquiry. It could be murder. It could be a drug crime. But I think the practical answer to the question is, by hypothesis, there is going to be inquiry made to the Federal immigration authorities, either the Law Enforcement Support Center or a --(g) officer. And, presumably, as a part of that inquiry, they can figure out whether or not this is a removable offense or at least a substantially likely removable offense. state for that whole period of time -- MR. CLEMENT: Oh, I don't -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- just under Section ? MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so, Your Honor, JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose it takes two weeks to make that determination, can the alien be held by the and I think that -- you know, what -- in all of these Official alien, he -- they are going to hold him for two weeks provisions, you have the Fourth Amendment backing up the limits, and I think so -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: What -- what would be the standard? You're -- you're the attorney for the -- the until they figure out whether this is a removable offense. And you say, under the Fourth Amendment, you cannot hold for -- what? More than a reasonable time or -- examples. Example one is the person is arrested. Now, it says any person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status determined before the person is released. So I wonder, if they have arrested a MR. CLEMENT: Yes, ultimately, it's a reasonable inquiry. And I think that, under these circumstances, what we know from the record here is that, generally, the immigration status inquiry is something that takes or minutes, I mean, so it's not -- we're not talking about something -- or no more than , if it's a (g) officer, and, roughly, minutes on average if it's the Law Enforcement Support Center. citizen, he's Hispanic-looking. He was jogging. He has JUSTICE BREYER: How do they have -- well, the same question, but -- but I'm trying to think of Official Section (B)? Do you want to represent that or not? MR. CLEMENT: I don't want to represent a backpack. He has water in it and Pedialyte. So they think, oh, maybe this is an illegal person. It happens he's a citizen of New Mexico. And so the driver's license doesn't work. And, now, they put him in jail. And are you -- can you represent to us -- I don't know if you can or not -- can you represent to us he will not stay in jail, in detention, for a significantly longer period of time than he would have stayed in the absence of that -- want to -- I mean, I don't know -- represent -- be detained any longer than the Fourth Amendment allows. JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, fine. MR. CLEMENT: And -- JUSTICE BREYER: But the Fourth Amendment -- JUSTICE BREYER: What? MR. CLEMENT: -- is that he's not going to JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if you cannot represent that -- and I'm not surprised you don't MR. CLEMENT: Sure, sure. But what I can since -- for -- I mean, that's -- that's another Official after a day. You -- from your representation, I think that there will be a significant number of people -- question. I don't know how long the Fourth Amendment allows. I don't know on that. There probably is a range of things. But we do know that a person, ordinarily, for this crime, X, would have been released Oh, you know, the Fourth Amendment would have allowed more. So, now, what I want to know is what, in practice, will happen? some of whom won't be arrested. It takes minutes for some. For citizens, it might take two hours. It might take two days. Okay. There will be a significant number of people who will be detained, at the stop or in in the absence of (B). Is that a fair conclusion? MR. CLEMENT: I don't think it is, Justice Breyer, and here's why it's not: Because, even though there certainly are situations where state authorities will arrest somebody and then release them relatively rapidly, they generally don't release somebody until they can nail down their identity and whether or not they are likely to come to a court hearing at a prison, for a significantly longer period of time than subsequent -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Anyway, if this is a problem? MR. CLEMENT: Justice Scalia, it is MR. CLEMENT: No, of course, the Federal JUSTICE SCALIA: Is the Government's attack MR. CLEMENT: It -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Or is it a Fourth Amendment problem, is it -- is it an immigration law problem? neither -- on this that it violates the Fourth Amendment? government, that also has a lot of immigration arrests that are subject to the Fourth Amendment, is not making a Fourth Amendment claim here. And it's neither an immigration law concern or something that should be the different argument -- MR. CLEMENT: But I do want to -- but I do want to be responsive and make the point that I think the factual premise that this is going to -- (B) is going to lead to the elongation of a lot of arrests is not true. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Can I make the following statement in the opinion -- and you will say that's okay. Imagine -- this is imaginary. "We basis for striking down a statute on its face. JUSTICE BREYER: That's a Official MR. CLEMENT: I think what you could say is JUSTICE BREYER: But can I say that? MR. CLEMENT: I don't think you can say just person would have been detained in the absence of (B)." Can I make that statement in an opinion, and interpret" -- imagine -- "we interpret Section (B) as not authorizing or requiring the detention of any individual under (B), either at the stop or in prison, for a significantly longer period of time than that you'll say, that's right? that -- that. JUSTICE BREYER: No. MR. CLEMENT: I think you can say something similar, though. I think you probably could say that, look, this is a facial challenge. The statute's never gone into effect. We don't anticipate that Section (B) would elongate, in a significant number of cases, the detention or the arrest. I think you could say that. And the reason is, as I indicated, it's something that happens even without this law that, when you arrest somebody -- and there are some offenses that are -- you can arrest and release under state law, but before you release the individual, you generally want to ascertain that that individual is going to show up at Official Now, here's the other reason why I don't think, factually, this is going to elongate things the hearing, and that's what really distinguishes those cases, where there's arrest and release, from those cases where there's arrest and you book somebody. because, already, in a significant number of booking facilities in Arizona, you already have the process that people are systematically run through immigration checks when they are booked as part of the booking process. That's reflected in the record here in the Maricopa County system, that that's done by a (g) officer as a matter of routine. statute, but they are very proud of their Secure program also makes clear that everybody's that's booked at participating facilities is -- eventually has their immigration status checked. status check is likely to lead to a substantial elongation of the stops or the detentions. Now, obviously -- I have a clear representation from you. If, at a call to the Federal agency, the agency says, we don't want to Communities program. And their Secure Communities The Federal government doesn't like this And so I don't think that this immigration JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I want to make sure that Official detain this alien, that alien will be released for -- unless it's under , is what you're telling me. Or under , , or some -- one other of Arizona's immigration crimes. MR. CLEMENT: Exactly. Obviously, if this is somebody who was going -- you know, miles an hour in a -mile-an-hour school zone or something, they may decide, wholly apart from the immigration issues, that this is somebody they want to bring back to the station. But, for the purposes of once they make the contact with Federal immigration officials, if the Federal immigration officials say, look, we have no interest in removing this person, we have no interest in prosecuting this person under the Federal criminal the -- me ---- that the state has to accept within its borders all people who have no right to be there, that the Federal government has no interest in removing? Justice Scalia, but --provisions, then that's the end of the Federal case of JUSTICE SCALIA: So, you'll concede that the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Then tell MR. CLEMENT: No, I don't accept that, JUSTICE SCALIA: That's -- that's all the Official MR. CLEMENT: Well, here, Justice Scalia, statute -- and you call up the Federal government, and the Federal government -- yes, he's an illegal immigrant, but that's okay with us. MR. CLEMENT: Well --JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and the state has no power to -- to close its -- its borders to -- to people who have no right to be there? here's my response, which is all of this discussion, at least as I've understood it, has been about (B) and, to a lesser extent, . Now, Section of the statute does provide an authority, under state law, to penalize somebody who has violated, essentially, the Federal registration requirement. So if that's -- as to that provision, there would be a state authority, even under these hypotheticals, to take action with respect to the individual -- question was the -- was the broader one, just as a theoretical matter. Can we say -- or can -- do you take JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, I think --MR. CLEMENT: -- but not with respect to the position that a state must accept, within its the Federal -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think Justice Scalia's authority provisions, (B) and . MR. CLEMENT: Well, and I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that is by reason of borders, a person who is illegally present under Federal law? MR. CLEMENT: And I think my answer to that is no. I think the reason my answer is no has more to do with our defense of Section and other provisions than it does with respect to the inquiry and arrest JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you move on to the registration requirement, could I take you back to an example that's similar to the one that Justice Breyer was referring to? Let's someone -- let's say someone who is a citizen and a resident of New Mexico, has a New Mexico driver's license, drives across the border, is stopped for speeding, not miles an hour in a -mile zone, but miles over the speed limit on an interstate. And may be an illegal alien. How would that work out? If you do the records check, you're not going to get anything back, right, because the person is a citizen? So what -- where would the officer take it the officer, for some reason, thinks that this person Official his alien --from there? Official JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it dispel are not lawfully in that instance -- MR. CLEMENT: And that might be a situation MR. CLEMENT: Well, if I can just kind of reasonable suspicion for the officer. But I'll take the work back for a second? I mean, obviously, it's a pretty unusual circumstance, where somebody produces an out-of-state driver's license, and that doesn't dispel hypo -- reasonable suspicion if it's -- if the officer knows it's a state that issues driver's licenses to aliens who where that's the case, and then -- then it wouldn't dispel the reasonable suspicion. But, say, in the average case, I think it would. They would then go further. And then they would then make the inquiry to the Federal officials. And then if -- because of the fact that the individual actually is a citizen or something like that, then what would happen is, at some point, you'd get to the end of a permissible Terry stop, and the officer would release the individual. Now, it might not be the end of the matter because, of course -- you know, they -- they still have the name, they still have the ability to collect that information and try to continue the check as they move the individual, certainly beyond the -- the Fourth forward, taking down the information on the New Mexico driver's license. you know, this statute doesn't authorize them to detain Amendment limits. And it really doesn't authorize them to do anything that the official couldn't do on an ad hoc basis without the statute. the person was removable, then they could hold the person, presumably, until the -- the person's status was completely verified, isn't that correct? Now, it does do --JUSTICE ALITO: That -- that may be the case, and I would like to ask General Verrilli about that. But, under the Fourth Amendment, presumably, if the officer can arrest -- the state officer can arrest a person on -- simply on the ground that the person is removable, which is what the Office of Legal Counsel opined some years ago, then, presumably, the officer could continue to detain that individual that I mentioned, until they reached a point where the Terry stop becomes an arrest. At which time, they would have to have probable cause. But, if they had probable cause to believe Official But I think the important thing is that -- MR. CLEMENT: I think that's correct, Official really is going to apply to criminal aliens. It does do one thing that's very important, Now, as we read Section , because there's a Your Honor. pre-existing definition of public offense in Arizona law, we don't think this is kind of the -- the full Office of Legal Counsel situation, where you have broad arrest authority for removable individuals. This is a relatively narrow slice of additional arrest authority that happens to give arrest authority for people that seem to fit the Federal government's priority because it But I don't -- I don't take any issue with what you're saying. I do think, though, it's important to understand that (B) really doesn't give the officer an authority he didn't otherwise have. though, which it does have the effect of overriding local policies that actually forbad some officers from making those communications and -- because that's one of the primary effects of (B). It just shows how because those kind of local policies are expressly forbidden by Federal statute. (a) and U.S.C. basically say that localities can't have those kind of sanctuary laws.difficult the government's preemption argument is here And so one effect that (B) has is, on a Official MR. CLEMENT: They are removable. I don't JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, could -- does Section permit an officer to arrest an individual who state level, it basically says, look, you can't have local officers telling you not to make those inquiries. You must have those inquiries. has overstayed a visitor's visa by a day? They are removable, correct? think they would have committed a public offense --absent a very unusual situation, I don't think they would have committed a public offense under Arizona law. So I don't think there actually would be arrest authority in that circumstance, as Justice Alito's question has -- has -- MR. CLEMENT: A public offense definition -- it's actually -- it's a petition appendix -- well, I'm sorry. something that is a crime in another jurisdiction and also a crime in Arizona. And so what makes this kind of anomalous is, normally, if something is a crime in Arizona, there's arrest authority for that directly.JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the definition of public offense? The definition is, basically, that it's So what this really captures is people who Official You talk about supply and demand. The sanctions that should govern the employment relationship. have committed a crime are no longer arrestable for the crime because they have served their sentence or some other peculiarity, but they are, nonetheless, removable because of the crime. And so --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, maybe it's a good time to talk about some of the other sections, in particular Section (C). Now, that does seem to expand beyond the Federal government's determination about the types of Federal government, of course, prohibits the employment, but it also imposes sanctions with respect to application for work. And the state of Arizona, in this case, is imposing some significantly greater sanctions. MR. CLEMENT: Well, it's certainly imposing different sanctions. I mean -- you know, it's -- it's a little bit -- kind of hard to weigh the difference between removability, which is obviously a pretty significant sanction for an alien, and the relatively modest penalties imposed by Section (C). something that there is no direct analog in Federal law. But I take the premise that (C) does But I -- but that -- that's not enough to get you to Official And one of the things that makes (C), it preemption, obviously. seems to us, a weak case for preemption is that it only targets employment that is expressly forbidden by Federal law. And so, then we look at -- you know, essentially, the government is reduced to arguing that because, in , when Congress passed IRCA, it only focused on the employer's side of the equation and didn't, generally speaking, impose restrictions on employees, that, somehow, they are going to draw a preemptive inference from that. that -- would you accept, as a working hypothesis, that we can begin with the general principle that the Hines v. Davidowitz language controls here, and we're going to ask our principal -- our primary function is to determine whether, under the circumstances of this particular case, Arizona's law stands as an obstacle to and objectives of Congress? standpoint? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would you agree the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes Is -- is that an acceptable test from your MR. CLEMENT: I think it's an acceptable test. I mean, Justice Kennedy -- you know, there Official And here's why I don't think that -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But -- but then the obviously have been subsequent cases, including DeCanas that -- and Whiting, that give additional shape and color to that test, and -- but I don't have any -- I don't have any real quarrel with that test. government on this section is going to come and say, well, there may be -- this must be -- this -- the enforcement of this statute, as Arizona describes it, will be in considerable tension with our -- with our basic approach; isn't that what I'm going to hear from the government? hear, Justice Kennedy, but I don't think you just take itself, the SG said that that California statute was preempted. And, in DeCanas, this Court didn't say, well, you know, we've got this language from Hines, and we have the SG telling us it's preempted, that's good enough for us. They went beyond that, and they looked hard. this is an area where the presumption against preemption applies. So that seems one strike in our favor. And what they did is they established that MR. CLEMENT: It may be what you're going to the Federal government for its word on these things. You know, it's interesting, in DeCanas Official We have here a situation where there is an discussed, and explicitly rejected. So the only thing they have is this inference -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, for those of us MR. CLEMENT: Sure. And -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The preemption language express preemption provision, and it -- it only addresses the employer's side of the ledger. So the express preemption provision clearly doesn't apply here. for whom legislative history has some importance, there seems to be quite a bit of legislative history that the -- that the idea of punishing employees was raised, would be geared to what was decided to be punished. It seems odd to think that the Federal government is decided not to punish employees. there's a big difference between Congress deciding not as a matter of Federal law to address employees with an decision itself has preemptive effect. That's a rather remarkable additional step. legislative history, for those who do, it really supports us because here's what Congress confronted. I additional criminal prohibition and saying that that deciding on employment sanctions and has unconsciously MR. CLEMENT: But -- but, Justice Sotomayor, And here's why I think, if you consider the Official At that point, here's the state of the here -- they illegally entered, so they are already subject to an independent criminal offense. So, at that point, Congress is facing a In addition, Congress was told that most of mean, they started thinking about this problem in . They passed IRCA in . world: It's already unlawful, as a matter of Federal law, for the employee to get -- to have this unlawful work; and, if they seek this unlawful work, they are subject to removal for doing it. the aliens who get this unlawful work are already world where the employee is already subject to multiple prohibitions. The employer is completely scot-free as a matter of Federal law. And so, at that point, in , they address the employer's side of the equation. They have an express preemption provision that says nothing about any intent of preempting the employee's side of the ledger. And, in that, I don't think -- provide -- I mean, your position was the Federal legislation regulates the supply side. That leaves the demand side open. But there is regulation, and the question is whether anything beyond that is inconsistent with the -- the Federal -- it's not just that the person JUSTICE GINSBURG: They did -- they did Official So we have the -- what you call the supply more. MR. CLEMENT: Two quick responses, and then actually assist in regulating the employer's side because what they are worried about is a fraudulent document that then is used, essentially, to trick the employer to employing somebody who shouldn't be employed. is removable, but, if they use false documents in seeking work, that's a Federal crime. side is -- is regulated, but you want to regulate it I'd like to save time for rebuttal, Justice Ginsburg. The first is that, if you look at what they regulate on the employee's side, it's really things that IRCA as actually regulating part of the employee's side, then I think the more persuasive it is that the express preemption provision doesn't reach the employee's side of the equation. plenty of rebuttal time, but I'd like to hear what you have to say about Section before you sit down. MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. I appreciate the opportunity to do that. I do think, as to Section , the question is really -- it's -- it's a The second thing is the more that you view CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll give you Official So it's, generally, not a fertile ground for provision that is parallel to the Federal requirements and imposes the same punishments as the Federal requirement. preemption. But, of course, there are cases that find preemption even in those analogous circumstances. They are the cases that the government is forced to rely on, cases like Buckman, cases like --prosecutions be -- suppose that an alien were prosecuted under Federal law for violating, basically, the terms of . Could the states then prosecute him as well? general double jeopardy principles and the dual sovereignty doctrine. Obviously, if that was a particular concern to you, that might be the basis for an as-applied challenge, if somebody was already prosecuted under Federal law. you had the statute of California that prohibited somebody operating as an interstate carrier without the ICC license. It was raised -- you know, you have to let just the Feds enforce that law. Otherwise, there is a exactly that argument, in California against Zook, where possibility of duplicative punishment, duplicative JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would --double MR. CLEMENT: I think they could under But, of course, this Court has confronted Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, it you is Hines, which said the registration scheme -- So I don't see the alien registration as a question of obstacle preemption, but appeal preemption prosecution. And this Court rejected that argument there. seems that the -- I would think the largest hurdle for Congress enacted a complete registration scheme which the states cannot complement or impose even auxiliary regulations. that alien -- we don't want a competing registration scheme. We want the registration scheme to be wholly Federal. think that's part of the reason why I accepted Justice Kennedy's characterization of the relevant language in Hines because, although there is some general discussion there of field preemption, when the Court actually states what its holding is, it does state it in terms of And here's where I think there is a critical difference between what the Court had before it in Hines and what you have before you here. In Hines, Pennsylvania passed its statute before Congress passed the alien registration statute. MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I obstacle preemption. Official registration law and the Federal registration law. And those standards as its own, and then it imposed parallel penalties for the violation of the state equivalent. And so I -- I think the right analysis is So, not surprisingly -- you know, they weren't -- they weren't soothsayers in Pennsylvania. They couldn't predict the future. So, when it got up here, there was a conflict between the provisions of the Pennsylvania this Court struck it down on that preemption basis. Here it's quite different. Arizona had before it the Federal statute. It looked at this precise provision in the Federal statute. It adopted really the analysis that this Court laid out in its Whiting decision, which says that, in these kinds of cases, what you look for is whether or not the state scheme directly interferes with the operation of the Federal scheme. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask you something? JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in that --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito. JUSTICE ALITO: In that regard, we are told that there are some important categories of aliens who can't obtain registration -- cannot obtain Federal registration; and, yet, there are people that nobody would think should be removed. I think someone with a Official How would Section apply there? MR. CLEMENT: I think it probably wouldn't apply. There's two provisions that might make it pending asylum application would fall into that category. inapplicable. The first question you'd ask is whether that individual in that category would be subject to prosecution under and . And, if I understand -- you know, the Government's position, there are certain people where -- you know, they can't really get the registration document because of the narrow class that they are in. violation of either or to not get a one. So you're not liable for the willful -- willful failure to get a registration document. And, when you don't have a registration document to carry, you don't run afoul of in the -- MR. CLEMENT: Well, sure. JUSTICE ALITO: And it would -- but --MR. CLEMENT: But -- but that's not the entered the country illegally, you can't get a registration. And, as I understand it, it is not a registration document when you're somebody who can't get JUSTICE ALITO: Well, of course, if you've Official couldn't have gotten a registration. by the illegal entry. JUSTICE ALITO: I understand that. I narrow class we were talking about. understand the distinction you're drawing, that you can't be prosecuted for lack of a registration, if you MR. CLEMENT: Well, if you're in -- no, if you're in the country lawfully, I mean, you can try to register. And so somebody who enters illegally -- I mean, they are already guilty of one Federal misdemeanor JUSTICE ALITO: Right. MR. CLEMENT: But, at the point that they stay days and don't try to register, then that's an independent violation. And so maybe I need to fix what I said and say, look, if you're somebody who -- if you did go to register, would be told, you're fine, but we can't give you a registration document. Then that individual is not subject to prosecution under the Federal statute, therefore, wouldn't be subject to Mr. Clement. General Verrilli. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,prosecution under the state statute. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So this is GENERAL VERRILLI: We're not making any CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get into GENERAL VERRILLI: Where -- that's correct, may it please the Court -- what the case is about, I'd like to clear up at the outset what it's not about. No part of your argument has to do with racial or ethnic profiling, does it? I saw none of that in your brief. Mr. Chief Justice. not a case about ethnic profiling. allegation about racial or ethnic profiling in the case. Mr. Clement is working hard this morning to portray SB as an aid to Federal immigration enforcement. But the very first provision of the statute declares that Arizona is pursuing its own policy of attrition through enforcement and that the provisions of this law are designed to work together to drive the Constitution vests exclusive -- answer Justice Scalia's earlier question to your unlawfully present aliens out of the state. That is something Arizona cannot do because adversary? He asked whether it would be the Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, could you Official GENERAL VERRILLI: That is our position, JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, all that means -- it Government's position that Arizona doesn't have the power to exclude or remove -- to exclude from its borders a person who's here illegally. Your Honor. It is our position because the Constitution vests exclusive authority over immigration matters with the national government. gives authority over naturalization, which we've Framers vested in the national government the authority over immigration because they understood that the way this nation treats citizens of other countries is a vital aspect of our foreign relations. The national government, and not an individual state -- national government. Arizona is not trying to kick out anybody that the Federal government has not already said expanded to immigration. But all that means is that the government can set forth the rules concerning who belongs in this country. But if, in fact, somebody who does not belong in this country is in Arizona, Arizona has -- has no power? What -- what does sovereignty mean if it does not include the ability to defend your borders? GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, the -- the JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's still up to the Official The Constitution recognizes that there is incoming shipments to exclude diseased material. says, "what may be absolutely necessary for executing do not belong here. And the Constitution provides -- even -- even with respect to the Commerce Clause -- "No state shall without the consent of Congress lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports except," it its inspection laws." such a thing as state borders, and the states can police their borders, even to -- to the point of inspecting GENERAL VERRILLI: But they cannot do what Arizona is seeking to do here, Your Honor, which is to elevate one consideration above all others. Arizona is pursuing a policy that -- that maximizes the apprehension of unlawfully present aliens, so they can be jailed as criminals in Arizona, unless the Federal government agrees to direct its enforcement resources to remove the people that Arizona has identified. different set of enforcement priorities, and their objective was to protect, to the maximum extent JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if the state does --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a question of enforcement priorities. Well, let's say that the government had a possible, the borders. And so anyone who is here Official Does that mean, in that situation, the Arizona law would not be preempted? GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the mandatory which imposes civil penalties of up to $ a day on any official in the state of Arizona who is not following Section or, as we read it, the rest of SB , to the maximum extent possible, does create a conflict. illegally, they want to know about, and they want to do something about, in other words, different than the current policy. character of the Arizona law and the mandatory character of the obligations it imposes, in -- especially as backed by this extraordinary provision in Section (H), about Section is to understand its relationship to the other provisions in the statute. Section is in the statute to identify the class of people who Arizona is then committed to prosecute under Section and, if they question as the Chief Justice. Suppose that the Federal government changed its priorities tomorrow, and it said -- they threw out the ones they have now. And they said the new policy is maximum enforcement, we want to are employed, also under Section . JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I have the same But I do think the most fundamental point Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any example where -- where enforcement discretion has the effect of know about every person who's stopped or arrested, we want -- we want to their immigration status verified. Would -- would the Arizona law then be un-preempted? GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I think it's still a problem, Your Honor. These decisions have to be made at the national level because it's the national government and not -- it's the whole country and not an individual state that pays the price -- preempting state action? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think we should think about Section of the law, Your Honor. I think it will help illustrate the point -- here -- focusing for a moment on Section -- the -- another case of ours where we've said that, essentially, the preemption of state law can occur, not by virtue of the Congress preempting, but because the executive doesn't want this law enforced so -- so rigorously, and that preempts the state from enforcing it vigorously. Do we have any case that says that? GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the preemption JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm talking about another preemption here flows from judgments of Congress, from Official judgments about how this law is going to be enforced --to the Attorney General. GENERAL VERRILLI: They -- they can make -- the registration system that Congress set up in Sections through , from the decision of Congress in Section in the law to vest the Secretary of DHS and the Attorney General with the authority to make the JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, they do that with all -- with all Federal criminal statutes. And you acknowledge that, as a general matter, states can enforce Federal criminal law, which is always entrusted they can engage in detention, in support of the enforcement of Federal law. That's what the OLC opinion from says. It does not say that they can prosecute under Federal law and make their own decisions. That's a far different matter. what's wrong with Section of this Act, in that -- to prosecute, but I don't see how Section (B) says anything about that at all. All it does is notify the Federal government, here's someone who is here illegally, here's someone who is removable. The that the Federal government has to have control over who discretion to prosecute for Federal immigration offenses And it really goes to the heart, I think, of CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but you say Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. So, apart GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct, but, with rests entirely with the Attorney General. respect to -- and I will -- let me address something fundamental about Section . That is true, but I -- I think it doesn't get at the heart of the problem here. The -- Section of this statute says that Sections and and are supposed to work together to achieve this policy of attrition through enforcement. And so what Section does is identify a population that the state of Arizona is going to prosecute under Section and Section -- from Section and Section , take those off the table, you have no objection to Section ? GENERAL VERRILLI: We do, Your Honor. But, before I take and off the table, if I could make one more point about and , please? The -- I think -- because I think it's important to understand the dilemma that this puts the Federal government in. they've -- and they're, by law, committed to maximum enforcement. And so the Federal government's got to decide, are we going to take our resources, which we deploy for removal, and are we going to use them to deal with this population, even if it is to the detriment of Arizona has got this population, and Official And what the state is saying, here are (B). GENERAL VERRILLI: Here's the other our priorities -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Exactly. You -- the Federal government has to decide where it's going to use its resources. people who are here in violation of Federal law, you make the decision. And if your decision is you don't want to prosecute those people, fine, that's entirely up to you. That's why I don't see the problem with Section half -- here's the other half of the equation, Mr. Chief Justice, which is that they say, if you're not going to remove them, we are going to prosecute them. And that of why this needs to be an exclusive national power -- and Section . what you're talking about is taking somebody whose -- whose only offense is being unlawfully present in the country and putting them in jail for up to months, or somebody who --means that the -- and I think this does get at the heart CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Only under Section CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's say you're worried about -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, but those are -- but Official GENERAL VERRILLI: -- or like days, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. For the notification, what could possibly be officer say, I'm going to call the Federal agency and find out if this person is here illegally because the Federal law says the Federal agency has to answer my question. forgive me. months for employment. Right. wrong, if Arizona arrests someone, let's say for drunk driving, and their policy is you're going to stay in jail overnight, no matter what, okay? What's wrong, during that period, by having the Arizona arresting can't ask it. the state can't ask it in any individual case. We -- we recognize that section -- doesn't make -- It seems an odd argument to say the Federal agency has to answer the state's question, but the state CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You think there are individual cases in which the state can call the Federal government and say, is this person here illegally? GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, certainly, but that GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we're not saying CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So doesn't Official JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that of Section (B) of the law, backed by the penalties of that defeat the facial challenge to the Act? GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I don't think so, Mr. Chief Justice, because the -- I think the problem here is in that -- is in every circumstance, as a result section (H), the state official must pursue the priorities that the state has set, irrespective of whether they are helpful to or in conflict with the Federal priorities. And so -- Your Honor, because, in that situation, they would be Federal officials came back to them and said, look, we need to focus on gangs, we need to focus on this drug problem at the border --every -- suppose every law enforcement officer in Arizona saw things exactly the same way as the Arizona legislature. And so, without any direction from the legislature, they all took it upon themselves to make these inquiries every time they stopped somebody or arrested somebody. Would that be a violation of Federal law? GENERAL VERRILLI: No, it wouldn't be, free to be responsive to Federal priorities, if the JUSTICE ALITO: But what if they said, well, we don't care what your priorities are; we -- we have Official If it's not -- JUSTICE ALITO: That's what I can't understand because your argument -- you seem to be JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, I am having -- GENERAL VERRILLI: -- the line is mandatory GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- yes, well -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- that would be okay? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, if there's a -- if our priorities, and our priority is maximum enforcement, and we're going to call you in every case? It was all done on an individual basis, all the officers were individually doing it -- there's a state policy locked into law by statute, locked into law by regulation, then we have a problem. versus discretionary -- saying that what's wrong with the Arizona law is that the Arizona legislature is trying to control what its employees are doing, and they have to be free to disregard the desires of the Arizona legislature, for government, for whom they don't work. GENERAL VERRILLI: But they -- but, with respect to immigration enforcement, and to the extent all they're doing is bringing people to the Federal Government's attention, they are cooperating in the whom they work, and follow the priorities of the Federal Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the hypothetical is law in the most effective manner possible. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm a little GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, except I think, Justice Kennedy, the problem is that it's not enforcement of Federal law -- that that's all the legislature is doing. cooperation if, in every instance, the officers in the state must respond to the priorities set by the state government and are not free to respond to the priorities of the Federal officials who are trying to enforce the confused -- general, I'm terribly confused by your answer. Okay? And -- and I don't know that you're focusing in on what I believe my colleagues are trying Making the -- (B) has two components, as I see it. Every person that's suspected of being an alien who's arrested for another crime -- that's what Mr. Clement says the statute means -- the officer has to find out if it's an illegal alien or not. He tells me that, unless there's another reason to arrest the person -- and that's and , or any of the other provisions -- but putting those aside, pick up the phone and call -- and call the agency to we're going to stay just in (B), if the government to get to. Official GENERAL VERRILLI: I think there are three. says, we don't want to detain the person, they have to be released for being simply an illegal alien, what's wrong with that? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Taking out the other provisions, taking out any independent state-created basis of liability for being an -- an illegal alien? The first is the -- the Hines problem of harassment. Now, we are not making an allegation of racial profiling; nevertheless, there are already tens of thousands of stops that result in inquiries in Arizona, even in the absence of SB . It stands to reason that -- that the legislature thought that that And it -- given that you have a population in Arizona of million Latinos, of whom only ,, at most, are there unlawfully, there -- that what we're talking about is the status of being unlawfully present, which --statistics as to how many arrests there are and how wasn't sufficient and there needed to be more. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have the JUSTICE SCALIA: Sounds like racial profiling to me. GENERAL VERRILLI: And they're -- and given Official GENERAL VERRILLI: There is some evidence in JUSTICE SCALIA: What does this have to do with Federal immigration law? I mean, it may have to do with -- with racial harassment, but I thought you weren't relying on that. many -- and what the -- percentage of calls before the statute? the record, Your Honor. It's the -- the Palmatier declaration, which is in the Joint Appendix, was the -- he was the fellow who used the run the Law Enforcement Support Center, which answers the inquiries. That -- that declaration indicates that, in fiscal year , there were , inquiries and -- who have nothing to do with -- with our immigration laws. Okay? Citizens and -- and other people, right? GENERAL VERRILLI: And other -- and other people lawfully present in the country, certainly, but harassing the -- the people who have no business being here? Is that -- surely, you're -- you're not concerned about harassing them. They have been stopped anyway, and all you're doing is calling up to see if they are illegal immigrants or not. GENERAL VERRILLI: The --JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you objecting to So you must be talking about other people Official JUSTICE SCALIA: But that has nothing to do this is -- with the immigration law -- GENERAL VERRILLI: Hines is --JUSTICE SCALIA: -- which is -- which is what you're asserting preempts all of this activity. GENERAL VERRILLI: Hines identified this problem as harassment as -- as a central feature of preemption under the immigration laws because of the concern that the way this nation treats citizens of other countries is fundamental to our foreign relations. And this is a -- JUSTICE BREYER: Well, let's -- let me just go back because I think -- I'm trying to get focused the focus it is the same question I asked Mr. Clement. Think of (B), the first sentence. All right? individual longer than you would have otherwise, I can think of some arguments that it is preempted and some replies. So keep that out of it. question, I think, others are asking. And one way to right -- but, if that means you're going to hold an Suppose that we were to say, that sentence, as we understand it, does not raise a constitutional Now, I can think -- I'm not saying they are Official Now, in your view, is there any preemption GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. I -- we would problem as long as it is interpreted to mean that the policeman, irrespective of what answer he gets from ICE, cannot detain the person for longer than he would have done in the absence of this provision. exemption -- argument against -- any preemption argument against that sentence as I have just interpreted it? I don't know what your answer is, and that's why I'm asking. think it would ameliorate -- the practical problem. But there is still a structural Federal law. And the -- under the Constitution, it's the President and the Executive Branch that are responsible for the enforcement of Federal law -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is --GENERAL VERRILLI: -- and -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It is not an effort to enforce Federal law. It is an effort to let you know about violations of Federal law. Whether or not to enforce them is still entirely up to you. If you don't want to do this, you just tell the person at LESC -- if JUSTICE BREYER: And if so, what? GENERAL VERRILLI: -- it would ameliorate problem here in that this is an effort to enforce Official illegally, you don't have to. that's the right -- is that the right acronym? GENERAL VERRILLI: It is, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- LESC, look, when somebody from Arizona calls, answer their question, and don't even bother to write it down. Okay? I stopped somebody else, is he legal or illegal, let me check -- it's -- oh, he's illegal. Okay. Thanks. Good-bye. I mean, why -- it is still your decision. And, if you don't want to know who is in this country GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. But the process of -- the process of cooperating to enforce the Federal immigration law starts earlier. And it starts with the process of making the decisions about who to --who to stop, who to apprehend, who to check on. And the problem -- the structural problem we have is that those decisions -- in the making of those decisions, Arizona officials are not free --person is already stopped for some other reason. He's stopped for going in a . He's stopped for drunk driving. So that decision to stop the individual has nothing to do with immigration law at all. All that has to do with immigration law is the -- whether or not they can ask the Federal government to find out if this CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under (B), the Official And one thing that's instructive in that GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I -- I don't think that's right. I think we want to be able to cooperate both of whom I think explain effectively why SB -- the Section (B) obligation gets in the way of the mutual effort to -- to focus on the priorities of identifying serious criminals, so that they can be removed from the country. person is illegal or not and then leave it up to you. It seems to me that the Federal government just doesn't want to know who is here illegally or not. and focus on our priorities. regard, Mr. Chief Justice, are the declarations put into the record by the police chiefs from Phoenix and Tucson, wrong about the states enforcing Federal law? There is a Federal law against robbing Federal banks. Can it be made a state crime to rob those banks? I think it is. GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it could, but I General come in and say, you know, we might really only want to go after the professional bank robbers? If it's just an amateur bank robber, you know, we're -- we're going to let it go. And the state's interfering with JUSTICE SCALIA: Anyway, what -- what's think that's quite -- JUSTICE SCALIA: But does the Attorney Official quite different, Justice Scalia, because here what we GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, of course, no one JUSTICE SCALIA: Now, would anybody listen GENERAL VERRILLI: Of course not. JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course not. GENERAL VERRILLI: But this argument is our -- with our whole scheme here because it's prosecuting all these bank robbers. would -- to that argument? are talking about is that Federal registration requirement in an area of dominant Federal concern -- exclusive Federal concern, with respect to immigration, who can be in the country, under what circumstances, and now or -- Section . JUSTICE ALITO: Well, could I ask you this about , before you move on to that? How is a -- this GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- or does this argument what obligations they have -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, are you talking about relate to as well? GENERAL VERRILLI: This is an argument about is just a matter of information. How can a state Official For example, I understand one of the GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, in any individual officer who stops somebody or who arrests somebody for a nonimmigration offense tell whether that person falls within the Federal removal priorities without making an inquiry to the Federal government? priorities is people who have previously been removed, then that might be somebody who you would want to arrest and -- and remove. But how can you determine that without making the -- the inquiry in the first place? case, that's correct. You -- you would need to make the inquiry in the first place. It won't always be correct, if you're arresting somebody based on probable cause that they have committed a serious crime, and they --and they -- the inquiry into whether -- into their status will be enough to identify that person for priority -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if they just -- they stop somebody for a traffic violation, but they removed and has come back or somebody who has just -- just within the last few hours, possibly, come -- well, let's just -- somebody who's previously been removed. How can you know that, without making an inquiry?want to know whether this is a person who previously was GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think -- I think Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if -- what if inquiry in every case. I think it's as though, if I can use an it's correct that you can't, but there is a -- there is difference, Justice Alito, I think, between the question of any individual circumstance and a mandatory policy backed by this civil fine, that you've got to make the analogy, if you ask one of your law clerks to bring you the most important preemption cases from the last years, and they rolled in the last -- the last hundred volumes of the U.S. Reports and said, well, they are in there. That -- that doesn't make it -- they just rolled in Whiting? one. statute, it says in that nobody can prohibit or restrict any government entity from making this inquiry Federal government has -- any agency -- and then it says the Federal government has an obligation to respond. say, so nothing happened to this individual, nothing (Laughter.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a pretty good happened to the person who's stopped that wouldn't have JUSTICE BREYER: Look, in the Federal of the Federal government. And then it says that the Now, assuming the statute were limited, as I Official If that were the situation, and we said it had to be the situation, then what in the Federal GENERAL VERRILLI: So -- JUSTICE BREYER: What's the -- that's --that's where I'm trying to push you. GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Because, in my mind, I'm happened anyway, all that happens is the person -- the policeman makes a phone call. Now, that's what I'm trying to get at. statute would that conflict with, where we have two provisions that say any policeman can call? not clear what your answer is to that. enacted in , along with . And is the provision that sets forth the powers and authorities of Federal immigration officials. Attorney General, can deputize state officials, so long as they're -- they obtain adequate training, and they are subject to the direction and control of the Attorney General in carrying out immigration functions. GENERAL VERRILLI: I think -- I understand the question. And I think the answer is this: was It contains (g), which effectively says that Federal -- that the Federal government, the Then the last provision, (g)(), says that Official focus on cooperation. nothing that we've said so far should be read to -- to preclude informal cooperation, communication or other informal cooperation in the apprehension, detention, and removal of unlawfully present persons, but it's the And I think you have to -- so I don't think you can read into the -- the conclusion that what Congress was intending to do was to shift from the Federal government to the states the authority to set enforcement priorities because I think the cooperation in this context is cooperation in the service of the Federal enforcement. question? I think even I or someone else cut you off that a systematic cooperation is wrong -- you can see it's not selling very well. Why don't you try to come up with something else? to you, it's not that it's forcing you to change your enforcement priorities. You don't have to take the person into custody. So what's left of your argument? GENERAL VERRILLI: So let me -- let me just summarize what I think the three are, and then maybe I when you said there were three reasons why -- (B). Putting aside your argument that this -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I get to a different Because I, frankly -- as the Chief has said Official The -- with respect to -- with respect to , Hines -- And, third, we do think there are practical JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- please move more -- GENERAL VERRILLI: With respect to -- in Federal law, but not answerable to the Federal officials. can move on to sections and . we think the harassment argument -- we think this is a more significant harassment problem than was present in addition, we do think that there is a structural accountability problem, in that they are enforcing impediments, in that the -- the result of this is to deliver to the Federal system a volume of inquiries that priority persons are for removal. So those are the three reasons. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, you have been trying valiantly to get us to focus on Section , Justice. Section is that we -- is that Section is purporting to enforce a Federal registration requirement. That's a makes it harder and not easier to identify who the so maybe we should let you do that now. GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief The -- I do think the key thing about Official And I do think -- I think it's very The -- if you are -- if you have come into categories of people. I think it's -- it is quite important to get clarity on that. relationship between the alien and the United States government that's exclusively a Federal relationship. It's governed by the terms of through . And the way in which those terms are enforced does have very significant Federal interest at its heart. And there is no state police power interest in that Federal registration relationship. important -- Justice Alito raised the question of these the country unlawfully, but you have a pending application for asylum, a pending application for temporary protective status, because you -- you would have to be removed to a country to which you can't be removed, because of the conditions in the country, if you have a valid claim for relief under the Violence Against Women Act based on your treatment, if you have a valid claim for relief because you are a victim of human trafficking, if you have a valid claim for relief because you are the victim of a crime or a witness to a crime, all of those persons are in technical violation of (a). And -- and it seems to me. They -- they are Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe (a) ought in violation of (a), so my friend, Mr. Clement, just is not correct in saying that those are people who aren't in violation of (a) and, therefore, aren't in violation of -- of Section . They are in violation. to be amended, then. I mean, we have statutes out there that there a lot of people in violation of it and -- well, the Attorney General will take care of it. Is that how we write our criminal laws? situation in which no reasonable person would think that the individual ought to be prosecuted. And, yet, very often, the states aren't even going to know, in fact, about asylum status. They can't know because there are avoid retaliation against the person making the application. think, a very strong illustration of why the enforcement discretion over Section needs to be vested exclusively in the Federal government. JUSTICE SCALIA: Again, I ask you, do you have any other case in which the basis for preemption has been you are interfering with -- with the Attorney regulations that require that to be kept private, to General's enforcement discretion? GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- but it's a And so, this -- so this is -- this is, I GENERAL VERRILLI: I think what is they are doing it for a reason --It's the Federal bank example --Official GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, this is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's an JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not criminalizing extraordinary basis for saying that the state is preempted. extraordinary about this, actually, Justice Scalia, is the state's decision to enact a statute purporting to criminalize the violation of a Federal registration obligation. And I think that's the problem here. And anything that isn't criminal under Federal law. GENERAL VERRILLI: But -- but what -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It's -- it's the bank. criminalizes the same thing that the Federal law does. What they are doing here is using (a) to get at the status of unlawful presence. The only people who can be prosecuted under Section are people who are unlawfully present in the country. That's what the statute says. And they are using it to get at that GENERAL VERRILLI: Well. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- a state law, which GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's quite different. Official And the immigration function is to try to --over and over again. And the point of this provision is to drive unlawfully present people out of the state of Arizona. category of people, to, essentially, use their state criminal law to perform an immigration function. to prosecute these people. And, by the way, you can prosecute somebody, they can be put in jail for days here. But, under Federal law, a violation of (a) is a continuing offense. So the day they get out of jail for that days, they can be arrested again. And this can happen well, assume these are two hypothetical -- two First, the Federal government has said, we simply don't have the money or the resources to enforce our immigration laws the way we wish. We wish we could do so, but we don't have the money or the resources. brief, didn't you? is that the state of Arizona has -- has a massive emergency with social disruption, economic disruption, That's the first -- just hypothetical. JUSTICE SCALIA: You said that in your JUSTICE KENNEDY: Also -- also hypothetical JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- suppose --hypothetical instances. Official other state wouldn't have? GENERAL VERRILLI: Of course, they have JUSTICE KENNEDY: And can they go to their legislature and say, we're concerned about this, and ask residents leaving the state because of flood of immigrants. Let's just assume those two things. Does that give the state of Arizona any powers or authority or legitimate concerns that any legitimate concerns in that situation. Justice Kennedy -- the legislature to enact laws to correct this problem? GENERAL VERRILLI: They -- they certainly can enact laws of general application. They can enforce the laws of general application that are on the books. that they are under no obligation to provide any state benefits to the -- the population. But I think, most importantly, they can -- can -- not most importantly, but as importantly, they government -- excuse me. I see my -- engage in cooperative efforts with the Federal CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, keep going. GENERAL VERRILLI: They can -- they can They already -- as a result of U.S.C. , it's clear can engage in cooperative efforts with the Federal government, of which there are many going on in Arizona Official JUSTICE SCALIA: General, didn't you say in GENERAL VERRILLI: Of course, we have to set and around the country, in order to address these problems. your brief -- I forget where it was -- I thought you said that the Justice Department doesn't get nearly enough money to enforce our immigration laws? Didn't you say that? priorities. There are only -- think they are going to do in Arizona is something quite extraordinary, that has significant real and practical foreign relations effects. And that's the problem, and it's the reason why this power needs to be vested exclusively in the Federal government. state says, well, that may be your priorities, but most of these people that you're not going after -- or an inordinate percentage of them, are here in our state, and we don't like it. They are causing all sorts of problems. So we're going to help you enforce Federal law. We're not going to do anything else. We're just enforcing Federal law. They -- what they are going to do is engage, effectively, in mass incarceration because the JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. Okay. So the GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- well, what I Official relations problems. And these problems are real. It is the in Section and in Section . And so -- so you're going to have a obligation under Section (H), of course, is not merely to enforce Section to the fullest possible extent at the -- at the risk of civil fine, but to enforce Federal immigration law, which is what they claim they are doing situation of mass incarceration of people who are unlawfully present. That is going to raise -- poses a very serious risk of raising significant foreign problem of reciprocal treatment of the United States citizens in other countries. its laws? interest in enforcing the law, of course, but it needs to be -- but these -- this Court has said, over and over interest that has to be achieved in enforcing the -- the immigration laws is exceedingly delicate and complex, and it involves consideration of foreign relations, it involves humanitarian concerns, and it also involves government has a legitimate interest in not enforcing again, has recognized that the -- the balance of public order and public safety. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're saying the GENERAL VERRILLI: No. We have a legitimate happens when the Arizona police call the Federal agency. GENERAL VERRILLI: I assume so, yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, you don't really GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, they -- I mean, it can come in lots of different ways, but, generally, they will get a name and some other identifying information. I know your brief, you had -- you said that there are some illegal aliens who have a right to remain here. And I'm just realizing that I don't really know what They give the Federal agency a name, correct? have knowledge of what -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And what does the computer have? What information does your works is there is a system for -- for incoming inquiries. And then there is a person at a computer terminal. And that person searches a number of different databases. There are eight or ten different databases, and that person will check the name against this one, check the name against that one, check the name against the other one, to see if there are any hits.system have? GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. So the way this Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, when -- when -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, how does that John Doe, who lives in Grand Rapids. GENERAL VERRILLI: The citizen problem is GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Today, if you use the (Laughter.) GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But let's assume it's database tell you that someone is illegal, as opposed to a citizen? was a citizen. actually -- yes. there a citizen database? GENERAL VERRILLI: The citizen problem is actually a significant problem. There isn't a citizen database. If you -- there isn't? have a passport, there is a database if you look passports. So you could be discovered that way. But, otherwise, there is no reliable way in the database to verify that you are a citizen, unless you are in the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. There is or GENERAL VERRILLI: There is not. If you JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they are legal. Is Official names Sonia Sotomayor, they would probably figure out I passport database. So you have lots of circumstances in Official any kind, but there's nothing to -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the guy who is -- so There's no -- there is nothing suggesting in which people who are citizens are going to come up no match. the databases that they have an immigration problem of if you run out of your house without your driver's license or identification and you walk into a park that's closed and you're arrested, you -- they make the call to this agency. You could sit there forever while they -- a factual point I think I'd like to correct. Mr. Clement suggested that it takes minutes to process these calls. That's true, but you're in a queue for minutes before it takes the minutes to process minutes. And -- wasn't sure about your answer to Justice Kennedy. focused on people who are here illegally, as opposed to the call. So the average time is minutes, not GENERAL VERRILLI: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes, and I ---- figure out if CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I had a little -- Is the reason that the government is not you're --GENERAL VERRILLI: While I'm at it, there is Official You suggested that if the -- every illegal GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it's a little more that that would cause tensions with other governments. the other categories you were talking about, because of prioritization or because of lack of resources? alien that you identify is either removed or prosecuted, So I -- I don't understand if it's because you don't have enough resources or because you don't want to prosecute the people who are simply here illegally, as opposed to something else. complicated than that. I think the -- the point is this: That with respect to persons who are unlawfully present, there are some who are going to fall in our priority categories. There are those who have committed serious offenses. There are those who have been removed and have come back. And there are other priority categories. there are only so many beds in the detention centers and those priority categories, find them, remove them. individuals who are here in violation, technically, of (a), but who have a valid asylum application or application for temporary protected status or other -- Because we have resource constraints and only so many immigration judges, we want to focus on There is a second category, and that is, Official And then there is an additional category of people who are not in the second category and not , raises a significant foreign relations problem. JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't you avoid that and, with respect to those persons that we think would -- it's affirmatively harmful to think that they ought to be prosecuted. priorities, and the form and we think there, the idea that an individual state will engage in a process of mass incarceration of that population, which we do think is what Section (H) commits Arizona to do under Section particular foreign relations problem by simply deporting these people? Free them from the jails -- that? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, a couple of things. First is I don't think it's realistic to assume that the aggressive enforcement of Sections and in Arizona is going to lead to a mass migration back to countries of origin. It seems a far more likely outcome is going to be migration to other states. And that's a significant GENERAL VERRILLI: This is a -- this is a -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What's the problem with GENERAL VERRILLI: Look -- I really think --JUSTICE SCALIA: And send them back to the countries that are -- that are objecting. Official Beyond that, I do think, you know, the -- In addition, we have very significant issues Mexico is in a central role in this situation. Between and percent of the people that problem. That's part of the reason why this problem needs to be managed on a national basis. it's worth bearing in mind here that the country of we remove every year, we remove to Mexico. And, in addition, we have to have the cooperation of the Mexicans. And I think, as the Court knows from other cases, the cooperation of the country to whom we are -- to which we are removing people who are unlawfully present is vital to be able to make removal work. on the border with Mexico. And, in fact, they are the that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So we -- we have to -- we have to enforce our laws in a manner that will please Mexico? Is that what you're saying? it does -- no, Your Honor, I'm not saying that -- were saying. GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but what I am saying is that this points up why the Framers made this power very issues that Arizona is complaining about, in GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Your Honor, but what JUSTICE SCALIA: It sounded like what you Nothing in the law requires you to do that. an exclusive national power. It's because the entire country feels the effects of a decision -- conduct by an individual state. And that's why the -- the power needs to be exercised at the national level and not the state CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And your concern is the problems that would arise in bilateral relations if you remove all of these people -- or a significant percentage or a greater percentage than you are now. All it does is lets you know where -- that an illegal alien has been arrested, and you can decide, we are not going to initiate removal proceedings against that individual. It doesn't require you to remove one priorities. GENERAL VERRILLI: Right, but the problem I'm focused on -- we're focused on, Mr. Chief Justice, is not our removal decisions, but Arizona's decision to incarcerate, and the foreign relations problem that that raises. That's why this power has got to be exercised at the national level. arises under and ?more person than you would like to remove under your CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that -- and that Official level. GENERAL VERRILLI: Correct. Official . I haven't -- I've been up here a long time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Section . GENERAL VERRILLI: The -- I do think the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But not ? GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, -- identifies the population that's going to be prosecuted under and I haven't said anything about Section yet. And I don't want to tax the Court's patience, but if I could spend a minute on Section ? fundamental point about Section here is that, in , Congress fundamentally changed the landscape. Congress made a decision in to make the employment of aliens a central concern of national immigration policy. And regime. that it may be a comprehensive regime for employers; it's not a comprehensive regime for employees. And, therefore, it's -- there ought not be any inference here that the states are precluded from criminalizing efforts to seek or obtain employment in Arizona. The -- employment is one problem. And Congress tackled But I really think that's not right. the problem of employment and made a decision -- a this Court has described the law as a comprehensive Now, what my friend, Mr. Clement, says, is Official And I think it is useful, in thinking about JUSTICE SCALIA: -- think field preemption; is that your argument with respect to this section? GENERAL VERRILLI: It's -- it's both. I comprehensive decision, about this -- the sanctions it thought were appropriate to govern. And Congress did, as Justice Ginsburg suggested, make judgments with respect to the circumstances under which employees could be held criminally liable, as well as the circumstances under which employers could be held liable. the judgments Congress actually made -- think we're making both a field and a conflict preemption argument here, Justice Scalia. And the -- and the -- I think it's worth examining the specific On the employer's side -- and, after all, this is a situation in which the concern here is that the employer is in a position of being the exploiter and the -- the alien of being the exploited -- on the employer's side, Congress said that states may not impose criminal sanctions, and even -- and the Federal government will not impose criminal sanctions for the hiring of employees, unless there's a pattern or practice. It seems quite incongruous to think that judgments Congress made in . Official The -- in addition, Congress made clear in Congress, having made that judgment and imposed those restrictions on the employer's side, would have left states free to impose criminal liability on employees merely for seeking work, for doing what you, I think, would expect most otherwise law-abiding people to do, which is to find a job, so they can feed their families. So I think that's -- that's a significant problem. the law that the I- form could not be used for any other purpose than prosecutions for violation of the Federal antifraud requirements. And, if Congress wanted to leave states free to impose criminal sanctions on employees for seeking work, they wouldn't have done that, it seems to me. So there, I think there are strong indicators in the text that Congress did make a judgment, and the judgment was this far and no farther. And it's reasonable that Congress would have done so, for the same kinds of foreign relations concerns that I was discussing with -- with respect to Section . It would be an extraordinary thing to put someone in jail merely for seeking work. And, yet, that's what Arizona proposes to do under Section of its law. Now, of course, there is an express preemption provision, but the express preemption Official reason for preemption. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Clement, minutes. preemption provision was limited to the employer's side, CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General. GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief provision, as this Court has said many times, does not operate to the exclusion of implied preemption, field or conflict. So we do think those principles apply here. We think there's a reason why the express which is that, after DeCanas, laws had been enacted on the employer's side, and with -- Congress was making clear that those were preemptive, there were no laws on the employee's side at the time and, therefore, no Justice. and may it please the Court: I'd like to start, briefly, with the enforcement issues and then talk about the other provisions. The last thing I'll say about the enforcement provision, since I do think that the Government's rather unusual theory that something that's okay when done ad hoc becomes preempted when it's REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Official But I will say one thing, which is to just information on which to bring their enforcement turn out to be the most serious of offenders. And so if you preclude officers, as happened systematic. I think that theory largely refutes itself. echo that there is no interference with enforcement priorities by simply giving the Federal government priorities to bear. And this is really illustrated by a point this Court made in its Florence decision earlier this month, which is that, sometimes, you pull somebody over for the most innocuous of infractions, and they in Phoenix, from communicating with the Federal government, the Federal government will not be able to identify the worst of the worst. And if you want an example of this, look at the declaration of Officer Brett Glidewell at Joint Appendix to . He pulled somebody over in a routine traffic stop and was shot by the individual. guilty of illegal reentry into the United States. He was stopped on three previous occasions and his status was not verified. Now, if it had been, he certainly would have been apprehended. In at least two of the wanted for attempted murder in El Salvador and was also stops, his immigration status wasn't checked because of Now, the individual, it turns out, was Official Now, if the state, I submit, can do As to Section , two points about that, one is, I respectfully disagree with the Solicitor General the city policy, city of Phoenix. anything, it can, at the state level, override those kind of local policies and say, that's not what we want. Community policing is all well and good, but we want to maximize communication with the Federal authorities. So I think the enforcement policy and priorities argument simply doesn't work. as to whether the various things that he led off -- read off, the litany of situations where somebody is -- technically doesn't have registration would be a violation of (a). provision says a willful failure to register. Now, maybe the prosecutors take the view that there is willfulness in those circumstances, but I don't think many judges would. I think they would say that, if perfectly fine here and you don't need to register, that that would be good enough to defeat a finding of willfulness. So I don't think (a) covers this case. you've been told by the Federal government that you're JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're inviting --you're inviting the very sort of conflict that he's And the reason I take that position is that Official whether they have an asylum application, whether they MR. CLEMENT: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, you may say we're talking about because what's going to happen, now, is that, if there is no statement by the Federal agency of legality, the person is arrested, and, now, we're going to have Federal resources spent on trying to figure out have this, whether they have that, whether they are exempted under this reason, whether the failure to carry was accidental or not -- I mean, you are involving the Federal government in your prosecution. not because all we're going to show is -- what? That we got a Federal call -- we got a Federal answer that the person wasn't registered? MR. CLEMENT: No, we're going to say that we communicated with the Federal immigration officials, and they told us this is somebody who's perfectly fine and doesn't have to register. The --Confrontation -- no Confrontation Clause problem with that? With relying on a call to a Federal agency and the police officer says, you're arrested, you're charged, it's not an illegal alien -- or it is an illegal alien. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No -- no MR. CLEMENT: My supposition, Justice Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. How about -- what -- how about they get a response, yes, MR. CLEMENT: And they bring a prosecution JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how -- where do they get the records that show that this person is an illegal Sotomayor, is that they would use that call to not bring the prosecution, so the issue wouldn't even arise. But I do want to be clear about -- it's an illegal alien? under Section and then -- alien that's not authorized to be here? MR. CLEMENT: I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Who do they get it from? MR. CLEMENT: I think they would get it from the Federal authorities. I think it would be admitted. There might be a challenge in that case. I mean -- you know, this is a facial challenge. I'm not going to try to address that potential Sixth Amendment issue. government keeps its records, so that there's lots of people that really should be registered, but aren't, I can't imagine that sloppiness has a preemptive effect. The second thing I would say is that I do think, in thinking about Section in particular, the One, if there is some sloppiness in the way the Federal What I would like to say is two things. Official analogy is not the fraud on the FDA claim in Buckman. It's really the state tort law that says that it's a violation of state tort law to not even seek the approval that's needed under the FDA for a device. Now, states impose tort law for people that market a device without getting the necessary approval. And nobody thinks that's preempted because it serves the Federal interest. It doesn't have a deluge of information. It forces people to get FDA approval. And in the same way, this state law will force people to register, which is what the Federal government is supposed to want in the first place, so there is no preemption there. There is no conflict. sentence. government was not agnostic about unlawful employment by aliens. The employees were already covered, and they were subject to deportation. So the government said, we're going to cover the employers for the first time. I can't imagine why that would have preemptive effect. Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, As to the employment provision, I do think it's important to recognize that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Finish your MR. CLEMENT: -- before , the -- the Official The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) Mr. Clement, General Verrilli. Well argued on both sides. Thank you. Official OfficialOfficial adopted : adversary : affirmatively : afoul : agency : :, : :, : : :, : :, ameliorate :, amended : Amendment :, : : :, :,,, :, : analog : analogous : A ability : : : able : : : above-entitled : : absence : : : : : absent : absolutely : accept :, : : : : : aggressive : analogy : agnostic : ago : agree : agreed : agrees : aid : anomalous analysis : : answer :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : accountability acceptable :, accepted : accidental : AL : accomplishme... alien : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, answerable :, : : : : :, :, aliens : : : : : : : : : achieve : achieved : acknowledge : activity : ad : : : Alito : : : acronym : Act : : action : : answers : anyway : : : : anticipate : antifraud : anybody : : : : : : appreciate : apprehend : apprehended : apprehension : : approach : : appropriate : : approval :, April : area : : argued : arguing :, : :, :, : : :, : : :, : : : Arizona's : : : arrest : : : : :,, :, : :,, :,, : :, : : arrestable : arrested : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, argument : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : :, : ascertain : : : : : arresting : arrests :, : arguments : addition : : :, : additional : : :, : address : Alito's : allegation : : : : : : allowed : addresses : addressing : allows : adequate : admitted : : amateur : : :, apart : : arises : : :, appeal : :, : APPEARAN... : :, :, : : : : appendix : : Arizona : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : application : : :, : :, : : : applies : apply : : :, : : : aside : asked : : : asking : : aspect : asserting : assist : assume : : : : : assuming : : asylum : : : Official : : : backwards : as-applied : balance : bank :, attack : attempted : : :, banks :, based : attention : attorney : :, : : :, basically : :, :, : basic : : Branch : Brett : Breyer : : : : : :, :,,, cases : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : :, : brief : : attrition : basis :, : briefly : : authorities : : : : : : : : : : : : : : bear : authority : : :, : :,, bearing : : :, bears : :,, : beds : : : behalf :, :,, : : : authorize :, believe : authorized : : belong : authorization : : : authorizing : auxiliary : average : : : avoid : : a.m : : : B B : : : back : : : : : : : : :, backed : : : backing : backpack : : belongs : benefits : beyond : : : : : big : bilateral : bit : : book : booked :, booking :, books : border : : : borders : : : : : :, : borrowed : bother : : : bring : : : :, bringing : broad : broader : Buckman : : burden : business : CC : : California ::,call :, : :, : : ::, : :, : : ::, : : :calling :calls : : :captures :care : : carrier :carry : : carrying :case : : :, : : :,:,,:, : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, chiefs : Circuit :, circumstance : : : : : : circumstances : : : : : :,: citizen : : :,: :,:,,,: citizens : : : : : : categories : : :, :, category :, : : :, cause : : : : : causing : Center : : : centers : central : : : certain : certainly : : : : : : : challenge : : : :, change : changed : : : character :, city :,characterizati... civil : : : charged : check : : : : :, : :, checked : : checks : Chief :, : : : claim : :,,: : clarity : class : : : Clause : : clear : : Official : : : : : : : : : communicate :, : communicatio... : : : :, : : competing Communities communicated communicating clearly : Clement : :, :,, :, : : :, : communication : : :, : : :,,, : :, :, : :, : Community : :, : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, complicated : :, : :, : : : complete : completely : : complex :, comprehensive complaining complement components : : : : : : : : conditions : conduct : conflict : : : : : : : : Confrontation :, confronted : : confused : : Congress : : :, :, : : : :, : : : :,, :,,, :,,, : : consent : consequences : consider : considerable : consideration : : consistent : clerks : close : closed : colleagues : collect : color : come : : : :, : : : : : Commerce : commits : committed : :, : : : :,, : : computer : Constitution : : :, : constitutional concede : concern : : : :, : : : : constraints : : concerned : contact : contains : context : continue : concerning : concerns :, : : conclusion : : : continuing : control : : : controls : cooperate : cooperating : : cooperation : :, : Court's : cover : covered : covers : create : crime : : : :,, :,, :, cooperative :, : : :,, :,, : : : correct :, : :, crimes : : : : : : :, criminal : : : : : : :, : : : : : : costs :, : :, Counsel : :, : : : : countries : : : :, country : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : :, : County : couple : course : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : court :, : : : : :,, :, : : : criminalize : criminalizes : criminalizing : : criminally : criminals : critical : : : current : custody :, : cut : DD : :, : : :database : :,,, : databases : : :Davidowitz: day : : : : Official days : : : :, deal : dealt : DeCanas : :, : decide : : : : decided : deciding : : : decision : : discretion : deputize : described : describes : duplicative designed : desires : :, detain : : discussed : duties : : : : :, duly : discretionary dual : : discussing : D.C :,, discussion : :, : : :, : : detained : : : : detainer : detention : :, : : : : diseased : dispel :,, disproportion... : disregard : disruption :, : : :, :, detentions : distinction : : :, :, : : determine : divides : determination distinguishes : : : decisions : : : :, determined : : : declaration : detriment : doctrine : document : :,,, : : : employee's : :, : : employer : : : employers : : : employer's : : : : :,: :,employing: employment:, : : : :,,,:,enact : : : enacted : : : : enforce : : : :,,: : : : :, :, : enforced : : : enforcement : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,,:, : :, : : : enforcing : : : EE : :, earlier :: :easier :echo :economic :effect : : :, : : ::effective :effectively :: :effects :: :effort :,: :efforts :,:, : eight :either : : : :El :elevate :elongate ::elongation: :emergencyemployed :employee ::::employees ::,,: ::, : : : declarations : declares : defeat : : defend : defense : definition : :,, delicate : deliver : deluge : demand : : demanded : Department : : deploy : deportable : deportation : documents : different :,, device :, DHS : : Doe : difference : doing :, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, double :, : dominant : DONALD : : : difficult : dilemma : direct : direction : : : : directly : disagree : discovered draw : drawing : drive : : driver's : : :, : : drives : driving : : drug : : drunk : deporting : : : :, examples : : exceedingly engage : : :, : exclude :, : : especially : ESQ :, : expanded : expand : enjoin : enlist : entered : : enters : entire : entirely : : : entity : entrusted : entry : equation : : : : equivalent : :, essentially : : : : : : : established : ET : ethnic :, : eventually : everybody's : evidence : exactly : : : : : : examining : example : : : : : : : Official facilitate : facilities :, facing : fact : : : : factual : : factually : failure : : : fair : fall : : falls : false : families : far : : : : farther : favor : FDA :,, feature : Federal :, : :,, :,, : :, :, : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, : :,, : : :,,,, :, : : : : :, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : : focusing : fix : flood : focused : : : :, flows : focus :, : :, : : : : : :,,, :, : Florence : :,, :,, :, : :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, : :,,, :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :,,,, :, : : :, federalism : Feds : feed : feels : fellow : fertile : field : : force : forced : forces : forcing : foreign : : : :, : : : : follow : following : : : forbad : forbidden : : : : figure : : : : : forever : forget : forgive : form : : forth : : forward : four : find : : : : : : finding : fine : : Fourth :, :, : : :,, : :, Framers : : : : : : Finish : first : : : : : :, :, : :, fiscal : fit : : frankly : fraud : fraudulent : free : : exclusion : exclusive : : : : : exclusively : : : excuse : executing : execution : executive : : exempted : exemption : exercise : exercised : : expect : explain : explicitly : exploited : exploiter : exports : express :, : : :, : expressly : : extent : : : : : : extraordinary : : : : : : Fface : : facial : : :: Official : : : :, friend : : full : : fullest : function : :, functions : fundamental : : : : : fundamentally : further : : future : G g : : gangs : geared : general : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : ground : : :, Grand : :,,, greater : : :, : : :, : : :,, guilty : : : : :,,, : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : :,,, :, : good : : :,, :, : : :, : :, Good-bye : : :, gotten : : : : guy : Hhalf :,happen :govern : : generally : : : : : : : General's : getting : Ginsburg :, : : :, : give :, : : : : : given : : : gives : giving : Glidewell : go : : : : :, : goes : : going : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : : : governed : government : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, :,,, :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : :,,, : : : : : :,: : : : :,,: : : :,: governments: government's: :,: : : : : : history :, : hits : hoc : : : : hold :, :, : : holding : Honor : : :, : :, : : : :, : hour : : hours : : house : human : humanitarian : hundred : hurdle : hypo : hypothesis : : hypothetical: : : : ::happened :: ::happens :: : : : : : harassing ::harassment: :: :,hard :: :,:,hypotheticals: :harder :harmful :hear : : : :hearing :: IICC :heart : : ICE :: : : held : : :, help : : helpful : Hines : : :, :, : :, : hiring : Hispanic-look... : idea : : identificationidentified :::identifies :identify :: :: :: :identifying: : Official identity : illegal : : : : impediments : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, illegally : : : : : : : :, : : : : illustrate : illustrated : : illustration : imaginary : imagine : : : : immigrant : immigrants : : immigration :, : :,,, :, : : : : : :, :,, :,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : implemented : : implied : impliedly : importance : important : : :, : : : :, : importantly :,, imports : impose : : :, :, : imposed : : : imposes : : :, imposing : : imposts : inapplicable : incarcerate : incarceration : : : include : including : incoming : incongruous inconsistent : : : independent : : : : indicated : indicates : indicators : individual :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : individually : individuals : : : : inference : : : informal :, information : : : :, : : infraction : infractions : initiate : injunction : innocuous : inordinate : inquiries : : :, : : :, : : inquiry : : : : :, :,, :, : : :, :,, :, inspecting : inspection : instance : : jogging : John : JR : : instances : instructive : Joint : : intending : intent : interest : :, : : :, : : interesting judgment : judges : : : : interference : interferes : interfering : : interpret :, interpreted : : interrupt : interstate : : inverting : inviting : : involves : :, involving : IRCA : : : irrespective : : issue : : :, : :, issues : : :, : I- : Jjail :, : : :,:jailed :jails :jeopardy :job ::, judgments : : :,, jurisdiction : Justice : : : : :, :, : :, : : :,,, :, : :,, : :,, :,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, : : : :, : : :,, :, : :, : :,, : :, : :, :,, :, : :, : :,,,: :,:, : : :,:, : :,,,:,,:,, : kinds : :, : : : : key : :,, :,, : kick : :, : kind : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, know : : : :, :, : : : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : : :,,, :,,, :,,, :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, :,, : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : lack : : laid : landscape : language : knowledge : knows : : L K keep : : keeps : Kennedy : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : largely : largest : Latinos : Laughter : : law :,, : :,,, : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : Kennedy's : kept : Official :, : : : :, :, :, : :,,, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, :,,, lawfully : : : laws : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, law-abiding : lay : lead : : : leave : : leaves : leaving : led : ledger : : left : : legal : : : : legality : legislation : legislative : :, legislature :, : : : : :, legitimate : : :, LESC : : lesser : let's :, : : : : : : : level : : :,, : liability : liable : : : : license : : : : : : licenses : limit : limited : : limits : : line : listen : litany : little : : : : lives : local :,,:, : : localities : locked :,long : : : : : : : longer : : : : : : : : look : : : : : : : : : : : : : looked : : lot :, : lots : : : Mmaking :: :: ::, : :, : : ::managed : mandatory :: ::manner ::Maricopa : market :mass : : :,massive : match :material :matter :: : : ::, : : :: :matters ::maximize :maximizes:maximum ::, : : Official mean : : multiple : : murder : : mutual : Nnotification : notify : Notwithstandi... : number : : : : : : :, origin : original : :,, ought :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : miles : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : meaning : means : : : : : : mentioned : merely : :, Mexicans : Mexico : :, : :,,, migration : million : mind : : minute : minutes : : : :,,, : : misdemeanor : modest : moment : money :, : : month : months : : morning : : move : : : :, N :, : Onail :name : : O : : :,,, objecting :names : narrow : : : narrower : nation : : :objection :objective :objectives :obligation : : : : : national :, :, : : : : :,, obstacle : : :, obligations : : naturalization nearly : necessary : : need : : :, : : needed : : needs : : : : : : : neither :, never : nevertheless : new : : :, : : obtain :, : : obvious : obviously : : : : : : : occasions : occur : odd : : offenders : offense :, :,, :, : : :, :, : : : : offenses : : : Office : : Ninth :, nonimmigrati... officer : : :, : : :, : normally : : officers :, : : : : : official : : : officials :, : : :, : : : : :,: : oh : :, : : : okay : : : : : :,: : : :,: : OLC : once : ones : open : operate : operates : operating : operation : opined : opinion : : : opportunity: opposed : : : oral : :, : : order : : : ordinarily : outcome : outset : outside : out-of-state : overnight : override : overriding : overstayed : PP :PAGE :Palmatier :parallel ::park :part : : : :: :participating:particular :: :: :parties : : passed : : :,passport ::passports :patience :pattern :PAUL : : : : : pays :peculiarity :Pedialyte :penalize :penalties :: ::pending : Official :, : :, : : : :, :, Pennsylvania : :, people :, : :, : : : :, :,,, : :, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : persons : : : : : population : :, : : : : : : persuasive person's : portray : poses : position : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, petition : :, : Petitioners : : :, :, : :, : Phoenix : : :, : : phone : : :, :, : : : :,, percent : percentage : please : : power : : presence : possibility : possible : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : pick : place :, potential : premise : possibly : preliminary preemptive preempts : : : : : : : : : priorities : : : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : prioritization : priority : : : : :, : prison : : private : probable : :, : probably : : : : problem :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : : problems : : :, : proceedings : : :, perfectly : : perform : period : : : : : permissible : permit : person :, :,,, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : plenty : point : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : points : : : : : : : :, : powers : : practical : : : : practice : : precise : preclude : : precluded : police : : predict : : : : preempt : : preempted : : :, : : : : : preempting : policeman : :, policies :, : policing : policy : : :, : : : present : : : : : : : : : : : : : President : presumably : : : :,, presumption : pretty : : : previous : previously : :, pre-existing : price : primary : : preemption : :, principal : principle : principles : : :, process : : : :, : :, : produces : professional : profiling : :, : : program : : prohibit : : prohibited : prohibition prohibitions : : prohibits : proposes : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : provisions : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : public : : :,,, :, pull : pulled : : prosecute : punish : : :, punished : punishing : : : :, :, punishment : : Official question : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : queue : quick : quite : : : : : : : : RR :racial :,:, : raise : : raised :: :raises ::raising :range :rapidly :Rapids :reach :reached :read :, : : :,:real : : :realistic :realizing :really : : : ::, : : :,: :: ::, : : : : : reason : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : reasonable : :, :, : : : reasons : : rebuttal : :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, : : : : : : regulate :, regulated : regulates : regulating : regulation : regulations : : : : : rejected : relate : reciprocal : relations : recognize : : : :, : : :,: recognized : : recognizes : record : : : : records : :, reduced : reentry : referring : reflected : refutes : regard : relationship: : :,,relatively : : : release : :, : : : : released :,: : : : : releasing : regime :, relevant : reliable : relief :,: register :, : :, : : : rely : registered : relying : : registration : : :,,,, : remain : remarkable : prosecuted :, : : : : : : prosecuting : : prosecution : : :, : :, prosecutions : : prosecutors : punishments : purporting : : purpose : purposes : : : : pursue : pursuing : : push : put : : : : : protect : protected : puts : protective : putting : proud : provide : : : provides : provision :, : : : quarrel : Q removability : removable : :, : :, : :, : : : removal : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : : :, : respectfully : respond : :, : : : : response : : remove : : Respondent responses : responsible removed : : :, : :, responsive :, : : : removing : : : replies : Reports : represent :, rest : restrict : : restrictions : : :,,, rests : result : representation : : require : : requirement : : : : : requirements : : requires : : requiring : resident : residents : resource : resources : : : : :, :, : respect : : : : retaliation : right : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : rights : rigorously : rises : risk :, rob : robber : Official robbers : : robbing : ROBERTS : : : : : :, : : : :,, :,, :, : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, role : rolled :, roughly : routine : : rules : run : : : : SS : : safety :Salvador :sanction :sanctions ::,,: :,: :sanctuary :save :saw : : saying :: :: :: :: ::,,,says : :, : :: :: :: :, : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, Scalia :,,, sections : SB : : : : Secure :, : : : : :,, :, :, :, : : :, see : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :,,, : : : :, : :, : seeking : : : :, Scalia's : seek : : : : : :,, selling : send : : scheme :, :, : sentence : : :,: : school : : : scot-free : serious : searches : : : second : : : : : : : Secretary : section :,, served : : serves : service : set : : : : : : : sets : : : : :, : : : : : SG :,shape : : : share : :, : shift : :,,, :, : shipments : : :, : :,, :,,, shot : show : : : Official shows : side : : :,,, :,,, : :, : :,, sides : significant : :, : :, : standpoint : :, :,,,, :, : :, : : : : stands : start : started : starts :, state :, : somebody's :, : Sonia : soothsayers :, : : : : : : : : :, sorry : : : : : : : significantly : : : : similar : : simply : : : : : : : : sit : : situation : : : : : : : :, : : : : : sort : sorts : Sotomayor : :,,, :,, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :,,, :,,,, :, : :, : :,, sounded : situations : Sounds : : sovereignty Sixth : : : slice : speaking : sloppiness : speaks :, specific : : : : social : Solicitor : specifically : : : speed : somebody : speeding : : :, spend : : : spent : :, : standard : : : :, : standards : state-created : : strike : striking : strong : : struck : structural : station : statistics : status :, : :, : : :, : subject : : : : : : : : : : :, submit : : :, : : :, : : submitted : : statute :, : : subsequent :, :, : :, : : : :, substantial :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, statutes : : : : : substantially sufficient : suggested : suggesting : summarize : statute's : statutory : stay : : : : stayed : step : : stop :, : : : : :, : : stopped : : : : : :,,, : : stops : : : : : straightforward : : supply : : : support : : : : supports : suppose : : : :, : :, supposed : : supposition : Supreme :, sure : : : : : : : surely : :,,, : : : :,, : : : :,,, : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : :, :, :,, statement : : : states :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : state's :, : : surprised : surprisingly : suspected : suspicion : :,, system : : : :, systematic : : : : : systematically : T T :, table :, tackled : take : : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, takes : : : : :, talk :, : talking : : : : : : : :, : : targets : tax : technical : technically : : tell : : : : : telling : : : tells : temporary : : ten : tens : tension : tensions : terminal : terms : : : :, terribly : Terry : : test :, :, text : Thank : : : :,, :, : Thanks : theoretical : theory : : thing : : : : : : : : : : : : things : : : : : : : : : : : think :, :, :, :, :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, Official :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, :,, : :, :,,, : : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :,,, :, : : :, :,,, : :,, :, : :, : : :,, : : : : : :,, :,, :, : : :, :,, :,, : :, : :,,, :,, : thinking : : : thinks : : third : thought : : : : : thousands : three : : : : : threw : time : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : times : Today : told : : : : : tomorrow : tort :,, traffic : : trafficking: training : transfer : treatment : treats : : : trick : true : : : try : : : :,: : : trying : : : :, : :, : : Tucson : turn : turning : turns : two :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : types : Uultimately :unconsciously:understand : :, : :, :, : :: :: :: understood: : uniform :United :,,:, : : : :unlawful :,:, : :unlawfully : :: :, : :: :: ::unnecessarily:unusual :: ::un-preempted :use : : : : : : : useful :U.S :U.S.C :: Official : water : way :, : :, : - : : :,, : : : : : : :, :,,: :(a) ::,, : : ::, :,(g) : :: :(a) ::(c) : : : : : : : : : :,: :: : : :, : :,,: ::, : : :,,(B) : :, : :: :,,: :: :,: :: ::, : : ::(H) : : : :V v : : : valiantly : valid :, : : various : verified : : : vigorously : violated : violates : violating : violation : : : : : : : :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : working : : :, works : : : :, : world :, :, : worried : : : : : worst :, worth : : : : : : : : We'll : : write : : we're : : wrong : ways : weak : Wednesday : weeks : : wouldn't : weigh : violations : went : Violence : weren't :, virtue : visa : visitor's : vital : : volume : volumes : : : verify : Verrilli : : : :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :,, :,, :, : :, : W : :, walk : :,,,, want : : :, : :, : :, : :, : we've : : :, : :, : : ::,,, :, : Whiting :: :, : :, : :: :, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : : :,, : :,, :, : :, : :,, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : wanted : : Xx :, : Yyear : : years : : Zzone : : Zook :$$ :: : : : : : :, : :,, : : :,,, : : :, : : : : willfulness:, willful :, wholly :::: wants : warrant : Washington : versus : vest : vested : : : vests : : wasn't : victim :, : : view : : :, : :,: :: :,:wish :, witness : Women : wonder : word : words : work : : :: : :,, : : : : : : : : :,: : -mile : -mile-an-ho... : : : : : : (g) : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : , : : :, :,, : : : : : :,, :, : : (C) :,, : : : : : : Official : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : 