Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES v. Washington, D.C. Wednesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oral Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, : : No. -: ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., ATTORNEY : GENERAL : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent. behalf of Petitioner. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ. PRATIK A. SHAH, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) Mr. Goldstein. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, thank you Today's undercard is an immigration case. ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument first this morning in Case -, Moncrieffe v. Holder. very much. May it please the Court: Adrian Moncrieffe was convicted of possession with intent to distribute marijuana, under Georgia law, the question in the case is whether he was thereby convicted of a controlled substances offense, which is a illicit trafficking in drugs, which would mean that the Attorney General has no discretion to cancel his removal. a Federal felony, but it's also undisputed that the Georgia statute regularly involves prosecutions that would be Federal misdemeanors. So -- Now, everyone agrees that, under the Georgia statute, there is going to be some conduct that would be deportable offense, but also an aggravated felony of word, "regularly." Do you have statistics on that? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. You use that Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: They were not. We do not --prosecutions of marijuana cases in the United States. In the State system, the most recent , prosecutions in the States for marijuana offenses. Were they provided in the briefs? we attempted very hard to collect them. This is the information I can give you about Federal and State available data -- it was published by the Department of Justice in , but we have no reason to believe that it's changed materially -- in , there were roughly By contrast, in the Federal system, we have data from . And we have two different kinds of data here that's a little bit more granular, and that is, for provision, there were , cases. the provision we say you ought to look at here -- and -- which is the possession provision -- combined, there is a massive amount of activity in the States doing things that show that this -- and this case is perfectly commonplace, we think. It's consistent with the other cases that we've seen published by the BIA. prosecutions under (b)(), which is the trafficking there were only prosecutions in . And what we think that illustrates is that For prosecutions under (b)() -- which is Official didn't hear. The Georgia statute, which just refers to MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. I apologize. Yes, Adrian Moncrieffe possessed -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's a massive amount of conduct that -- that the statute contemplates? The statutory scheme -- I just didn't hear. I just Justice Kennedy, that's right. possession with intent to distribute, contemplates both social sharing of marijuana -- this case, for example, . grams of marijuana, which is less than -- Goldstein, when you say, "this case," is there any proof in the record that there was a small amount and no -- no although this is -- we believe the case is proceeding under the categorical approach, the answer to your question is yes. going to be at the back of the blue brief, where we have the chemist's report, so page . This is from the -- the record in the immigration proceedings. And on page of the appendix to our blue brief -- we just agreed because there was so little JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you -- now, Mr. remuneration? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, So let me take you to two places. One is Official Now, on the question of no remuneration, than ounce --what I have to offer you is the Georgia statute -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. I don't record material, that we wouldn't have a joint appendix in the case. We just published it at the end of our brief -- it says, "Material weight less than ounce. Approximate weight is . grams." And for those of us who've been fortunate enough not to experience the drug laws a lot, that's less than half the weight of this penny. So it's -- I think everybody agrees, a small amount. understand. "Approximate weight is " -- -- oh, I see, . grams. and I should just step back and explain, the reason we're talking about this is that the Federal misdemeanor provision, (b)(), says that it's not a felony, and MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry. JUSTICE SCALIA: Material weight says less MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: -- parentheses, MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. . grams. .. That's -- that's very, very, very, very little. So then, on the question of remuneration --thus, it wouldn't be an aggravated felony, if it's a Official Now, there isn't record evidence about no And he was not charged with and he was not I'll just read it. "It is unlawful for any person to possess, have under his control, manufacture, deliver, distribute, dispense, administer, purchase, sell" --sell -- "or possess with intent to distribute marijuana." small amount and no remuneration. And Justice Ginsburg asked about the -- what's in the record about that. remuneration, but there is one significant fact. And to know that fact, you have to look at the Georgia statute, which is also at the end of our brief. It's on page of our appendix. This is the statute he was prosecuted under. It's the second provision, Section --(j)(). And convicted of selling. And so we think that should negative any indication -- any implication that he might have gotten remuneration for this. guilty. And in his allocution, he had admitted to not a smaller amount or to remuneration. Would -- would an immigration judge, under the argument you're making today, have to ignore that allocution? Or would he be able to apply the modified approach and find this JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You -- we are discussing the categorical approach, but let's assume he had pled Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: Under our rule, the plea conviction, but that evidence would still come in. It would be highly relevant. It's the basis that this Court explained in Carachuri-Rosendo, that the immigration judge would deny cancellation of removal. Right? gentleman an aggravated felon? colloquy is irrelevant, but we would win under a rule in which it was relevant. So, to start with the former, we say that the categorical rule applies. There's no -- the only reason that you would look at the modified categorical approach here is to know that it was a possession with intent to distribute conviction, rather than a sale The Attorney General would exercise his discretion in such a case. Now -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the issue with this case. None of these immigrants are being let out removal. The only issue is whether -- felons. We --automatically. They are still felons subject to That factor would still be highly relevant. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, this -- you said still JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well -- they're --MR. GOLDSTEIN: But that's exactly right. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- they're still subject They say our position is underinclusive because the Georgia statute does include conduct that to removal -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- either way. MR. GOLDSTEIN: So -- you know, lawyers often try and avoid the strength of the other side's case. And so let me just confront what I think is a big argument of theirs. would be a felony. You just gave an example of it. But our point is that our underinclusivity is a problem, but it's not a big problem, it's not as big as their problem, because, as this Court explained in Carachuri-Rosendo, the offense still is removable, and the Attorney General will just deny cancellation of removal. practical problem is that their rule is overinclusive. It treats, as felonies, some convictions that should be misdemeanors. something I really don't understand in these cases because the other cases, our precedent's been around a long time, so I would have guessed that, under that Now, the reason they have a much bigger JUSTICE BREYER: I -- I see that. There's Official So you'd pick up the phone, and you'd phone, MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. JUSTICE BREYER: -- who work with the precedent in these other statutes, the obvious thing to do -- the obvious puzzle here is not the Federal statute, it's the State statute, what is this thing he was convicted of about? at random, four U.S. attorneys -- not U.S. attorneys, but four State attorneys --statute in Georgia, and say, now, look, the indictment here says possession with intent to distribute, and I can show from the documents that it's a tiny amount. Now, is it your policy, if he was selling it, to charge under the sell? Is it your policy if he's not selling it to charge under intent to distribute? Is it totally random whether you say sell or intent to distribute? What's your policy? Okay? idea whether what you're saying is right. Now, you do it. And then we'd have some actual facts about whether this charge -- really, it corresponds to the misdemeanor or the felony in the Federal statute. could do that, but they could do it, too. Anyone could Then we get some answers. Then we'd have an So why -- I'm not -- I mean, that isn't a brain -- that isn't -- doesn't require -- it's not Official fact that this isn't a possession with intent to JUSTICE BREYER: You don't have to say, MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. We -- I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: And the kind of statute rocket science, okay? So why has no one done it? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Because I don't think anybody would believe me if I went to an immigration judge and I said, judge, I promise, I promise that the distribute case means that there are never cases in -- "never." The question is what kind of a statute is this State statute? that it is, is a statute that is used to prosecute people -- they don't sell. that felon intends to distribute -- really picked up by the district attorneys. And if it's not, then they may be right, because -- because then intent to distribute may well MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: -- with small amounts when MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: If your version of what MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: The distinction there is often include, as it does under Federal law, people who So my other question -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. JUSTICE BREYER: -- which is the only other sell stuff. Court's cases to suggest that we call the State attorneys. We have read the Court's cases to engage in ordinary statutory construction, and sell means sell -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Okay. You didn't. In any words, nobody did it. one I really have, aside from making that suggestion. But here, what happened to this person? probation? Which would be evidence in your favor, I think. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: But was he, or wasn't he? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If he was, what it says in this provision is that the Court may without entering a judgment of guilt. So there was no judgment of guilt. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: He was -- was he sentenced under --(a)? That is, was he sentenced to Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: We have not read this MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Official JUSTICE BREYER: And it says, if he MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. Because the MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: And -- and shall not be MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why are we saying he completes it, he then is discharged without court adjudication of guilt. deemed a conviction, it says for purposes of this code. was convicted of anything? government's position is -- and the Eleventh Circuit has agreed with it -- and just to -- just to make sure everyone is on the same page, and that is, the Federal statute is triggered by a conviction. as a matter of State law, he was not even convicted because he got first offender treatment here, which is a point in our favor. It does show that it was a small and non-serious offense. definition of convicted that's independent of the State definition of convicted. not before us today. Justice Breyer has just made the point that, The reason is that there is a Federal CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that question's MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's exactly right. the reason we don't look at the particular facts and particular case and don't depose four district attorneys, is that the Court has adopted a categorical approach precisely to avoid that type of inquiry in -- whatever it is, , cases? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. That's correct. And it's an even stronger point in our favor because worse than interviewing four district attorneys is having a fact-bound inquiry into every one of these immigration cases. Remember -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, I'm sorry. We don't need that because we've adopted a categorical approach. the elements and conviction in -- Georgia, right? those elements. And under our categorical approach, that's the end of the inquiry. MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is one way of looking at it. We disagree, for reasons I'll explain. I will MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: (b)()(D) lists MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Conviction in Georgia under their provision satisfies -- has each of Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, isn't note in our favor that the Attorney General doesn't even Official Remember, that they do not argue that you CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They want to do that MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, they want to do it in --in every single case at the beginning. So I can just make clear everybody's the reason is that, if you apply the categorical defend that position anymore. can just look at the conviction. They want to have the fact-bound inquiry into every one of these cases. And approach to -- at the tail end, right? position. There really -- every -- beginning. So I'll -- beginning of the immigration proceedings. JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. MR. GOLDSTEIN: So let me --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get on -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, I didn't hear. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry. JUSTICE KENNEDY: They want to do it in MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, in the middle -- at the JUSTICE KENNEDY: At the -- at the beginning of the State prosecution? MR. GOLDSTEIN: In every case at the Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. So let me explain. position is that it is presumptively, but only presumptively, an aggravated felony. And in every single immigration proceeding, when you have a case like this, the noncitizen can come forward with fact-found evidence, not limited to the record of conviction --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein, it's I didn't understand that to be their position at all. I mean, I suppose we -- I certainly will ask them because they're probably better able to articulate their position, but -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. MR. GOLDSTEIN: So our position is it is a controlled substances offense, and you take account of the seriousness of the offense in cancellation. Their MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct. JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what the Government is suggesting is as close to the Federal statute as you can get.because they are trying to mirror the Federal statute, which makes the small amount and no remuneration, makes that like an affirmative defense. The burden is on the defendant to show those two things, to get out from under the main statute. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, let me just say first, Official was talking about the underinclusiveness as the first Their second one is they want to draw an the conviction is all the facts that you had in a Federal criminal prosecution, and then you would have a burden on the defendant to -- to prove that he was subject to the misdemeanor. I do want to make -- just want to focus on what the parties' positions are. And they do have this fact-found inquiry in every one, so I do want to turn to what I think is probably their second best argument. I one. analogy between this and what would happen in a criminal case. So they say, take the conviction and imagine that We have several points about that. The first is this is not a Federal criminal prosecution. The Federal statute involved is the Immigration and Naturalization Act, and it tells you that you are supposed to look at the conviction itself and determine whether it corresponds to a Federal felony. it's exactly the argument that was rejected in Carachuri-Rosendo. And let me talk about why -- case involved, in -- in order to hold for the government, you would have to go outside the record of This further proceeding doesn't exist, and JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said Carachuri. That Official isn't in the State conviction. the State conviction. You'd have to add something that wasn't in the State conviction. And it's the same thing here. To get to where you want to go, you have to add something that MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, we disagree. What the Court said in -- I agree with the beginning of how you characterize the Carachuri case. What the Court said is we don't go beyond the -- the conviction itself. We -- And it's true that, in that case, the government wanted to go beyond the record to go up. But here, what they're saying is that you should go beyond the record to figure out if you should go down. And what the Court said is, no, you look at the conviction conviction? statute under which you have been convicted or, as you seem to be saying, the indictment? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE SCALIA: Is -- is it the categorical MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is what you are convicted MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the conviction mean? You say the categorical approach. itself. JUSTICE SCALIA: What -- what is the Official strength of that point. But our -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Is he convicted of that? of. So here, he was convicted of possession with intent to distribute. The other side's argument is, well, if I had just possession with intent to distribute, that would be a Federal felony. So we acknowledge the Or is he convicted of violating Georgia Code -, whatever it is? MR. GOLDSTEIN: As I was -- I mentioned very briefly to Justice Sotomayor, when you have a divisible statute like this, that includes possession with intent to distribute, sell, possess, all of those things, you use the modified categorical approach to figure out which one applies. possession with intent to distribute, and that's common ground between the parties. It's not the whole statute. It's just the --assuming he was convicted of that, as you suggest, you have an underinclusiveness problem. The Government has an overinclusiveness problem. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: If you assume that this statute covers and is regularly used to cover both sets And so we know he was convicted of JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Goldstein, Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: I hope we will. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- but they have done it by MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- the at least apparent attractiveness of the government's position is that of people, both people with these very minor offenses and people with much more major offenses -- they've tried to cure their overinclusiveness problem. And they have done it by sticking on -- and -- you know, one can ask where this comes from in the statute -- sticking on something that attempts to address their overinclusiveness problem, so that people who are really misdemeanants get classified as misdemeanants, and people who are really aggravated felons get classified underinclusiveness problem. So why shouldn't we go with their problem, which at least attempts to solve this problem? MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, two reasons. First, they don't have a real solution; and, second, Congress solved our problem. And this is what Carachuri-Rosendo says, and that is when you have an underinclusiveness problem just that way. And you have no similar cure for your like ours, the statute fixes it because the statute Official treats the conviction as a controlled substances offense. The statute provides the backstop. You don't have to make one up, which, I -- I suggest to you, is the difficulty with their position. JUSTICE GINSBURG: I don't follow -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- your answer because I think you have to concede that, under your view, a lot of people who are convicted under the Georgia statute who had a significant quantity, which they intended to distribute -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- for remuneration -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- many of those people would -- under your view of the statute, many of those people would -- would not have committed an aggravated felony. agree with that problem. underinclusiveness problem, which you haven't solved. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. That's the part we MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree with --JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you have that -- MR. GOLDSTEIN: That is our problem. I JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- a large Official It said that, when you have a very -- this very underinclusiveness problem, it is solved by the So if could just read, very briefly -- and this is from the Supreme Court Reporter, at page . disagree with, Justice Ginsburg. Maybe I can just read to you what this Court said about this exact issue in Carachuri-Rosendo. statute because the attorney -- all that happens under our rule -- it's still a deportable offense, and the Attorney General denies cancellation of removal. "We note that whether a noncitizen has committed an aggravated felony is relevant, inter alia, to the type of relief he may obtain from a removal order, but not to whether he is, in fact, removable. rejection of the government's broad understanding of the scope of aggravated felony may have any practical effect on policing our Nation's borders, it is a limited one. Carachuri-Rosendo and others in his position may now seek cancellation of removal and thereby avoid the harsh consequence of mandatory removal, but he will not avoid the fact that his conviction makes him" -- from, in Carachuri, the government wanted to go outside "In other words, to the extent that our JUSTICE GINSBURG: But all that follows the record. Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Ginsburg, it The upshot of our position is that JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that the offense, and anyone else in his position has committed Attorney General could just issue some kind of directive does not. I promise you it does not. Mr. Moncrieffe has committed a controlled substances one. And if there is a serious drug amount, the Attorney General will deny him cancellation of removal. I have -- telling all administrative law judges and officials to deny cancellation of removal to anybody who commits these kinds of offenses? MR. GOLDSTEIN: We -- it's an interesting question that I have puzzled about at length. I think the answer is no for a very particular reason, however, and that is the Attorney General has no such categorical rules. (c) before the Act, which is discussed in St. -- this Court's decision in St. Cyr, through the present has instead applied a holistic look at all of the circumstances. We think it's a point in our favor that the Attorney General, in the application starting with What he certainly can do is direct the Official And so we think that's the most likely outcome. A per se categorical rule would be very JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it -- would it be permissible -- I had the same question. Would it be immigration judges to place special weight -- and this was the rule before , by the way. If you had a serious offense, you had to show special equities that would justify your not being removed from the country. unlike what we understand the Attorney General to do in any other circumstance. permissible -- here saying that this violates the statute? so I wouldn't be back for this client. But I think there would be a substantial argument that it would be arbitrary and capricious because it would be so unlike anything the Attorney General does in other you remind me what the "it" is that you're talking about? MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or would you be back up MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, we think we would win, circumstances. But they would have -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Could MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. Yes. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's an order from back end, as it were, and that is -- JUSTICE KAGAN: To do the exact same MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to the MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- to? MR. GOLDSTEIN: To treat all of these cases the Attorney General -- as barring cancellation of removal. To get us on the thing -- directive. that it's arbitrary would be supported by the fact that this Court would have ruled that he couldn't do the identical thing on the front end. But it's an open question, and it's not presented here. the -- sort of their characterization of the over and MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. To get -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- but through --MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- an Attorney General MR. GOLDSTEIN: And I think our argument immigration judges -- I had said that there were two flaws in underinclusiveness problem. The second one is they Official uncounseled noncitizens who are in jail, who don't have don't have a real solution. This is a big problem. Under these State convictions in which the amount of drugs and whether there was remuneration are irrelevant, it's going to be extremely difficult for access to tools of communication, to prove to an immigration judge this fact-bound inquiry, which they are inserting into every single case, that their offense actually corresponds to a misdemeanor. solution, I don't know where it comes from in the statute, but we think it is not a practical solution. And that problem is even worse in the many contexts that are not just straight removal. government's response ignores, that there are many cases in which immigration officials have to make these decisions about whether it's an aggravated felony much more on the fly, without the opportunity to call statistics -- if you take the whole universe of convictions under the Georgia statute, what percentage of them are for these minor offenses and what are for the major? Do we have any handle on that at all? everybody in and -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you have any So while you say that they have provided the We said in our opening brief, and the Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't. We tried. I'm But, I can say -- it's possible. But I can say that the -- it is absolutely sorry. We were unable to do it. The Department of Justice has better relationships with prosecutors, and so maybe it -- it will have that information for you. commonplace, from looking at the case law, for the States to tackle this small social sharing of a couple of marijuana cigarettes. This is -- that's the distinction between prosecutions under -- or convictions under (b)() and possession in the -- in the Federal system and , in the States. Federal prosecutors leave these to the States. argument about a parallel between this and a Federal criminal prosecution. Ginsburg, is that in a Federal -- actual Federal criminal prosecution, the burden of proof never matters, including because Federal prosecutors almost never bring these cases. statute, (b)(), was enacted in , some years ago. We tried to identify one case in years in which the And the reason they want to do that, Justice Which brings me back to my other answer to Justice Ginsburg's pointing out the government's So here's what we tried to do: This Official And the reason is, in an actual Federal prove that it was a misdemeanor. But what they are trying to do is to take burden of proof in the Federal case made any difference at all, and we were unable to. And I would be really interested to know if my friend is able to identify one case in years, which it actually made a difference. prosecution, the FBI agent would come in and say, here are the drugs, and they were trying to sell it to an undercover officer. It's never the case that it actually -- the defendant is in a position of trying to that rule, which is derived from Apprendi, that there is a burden of proof so that the government doesn't have to indict that it wasn't a (b)() offense, and take the completely irrelevant, the quantity and remuneration, and transpose them into the Federal system and take great advantage of the fact that the record is silent. not going to ask you to prove to me how the burden of proof was met or not met in those. But let me give you MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I don't know and I'm silence of the State record, where these facts are JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Goldstein, there are at least cases, all right? So --a different hypothetical. Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: There are about of those and it has a small amount, no remuneration statute. MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would happen in MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume Georgia has the Federal statute, but in -- differently than the Federal statute, it has a sale-distribution provision, those States? States, and in those States, if you weren't convicted under the small one, then you would infer it wasn't a small amount and no remuneration, and the person would have committed an aggravated felony. situation in which the State is prosecuting people under the statute that would be a Federal misdemeanor. If the State -- ahead. different system, as a material number of States do, in which they track the Federal system, and they have a small provision or a remuneration provision -- which another nine States have a remuneration provision -- in those situations, if you have a conviction that isn't Our issue arises only when you have a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Go MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. If the State has a Official cases, or some percentage of them, may in fact also involve the serious type of conduct addressed by the Federal statute. under that social sharing provision, it's an aggravated felony. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your use of the statistics, I think, assumes that Georgia and other States are prosecuting every case that comes before them because that's how you get -- you know, of these , nationwide, so much more than must involve tiny amounts. But, of course, perhaps they don't prosecute the cases involving tiny amounts, so that most of those MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, I have one really good example of a prosecution for a small amount. It's this Mr. Chief Justice, please do not misunderstand me to be arguing that every Georgia conviction or that or percent of them are the small ones. What I'm trying one, and I think the data bears that out. categorical approach, is it fair to presume that they're all felonies? Is it fair to presume that what Congress recognized here is that there would be a correspondence to tell you is that a lot of them are just like this case. And we don't deny that there are -- And the question before you is, under a Official the case? We think that is not the best reading of the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Shah. ORAL ARGUMENT OF PRATIK A. SHAH between a conviction under this statute and the Federal aggravated felony of illicit trafficking in drugs, to strip the Attorney General of the United States of any opportunity whatsoever to consider the circumstances of statute. please the Court: aliens convicted under a majority of State laws that require neither remuneration nor more than a small amount. deportation, correct? So the free pass is that -- never have an aggravated felony for this conviction under any State that did not make an element of the State offense to disprove -- no remuneration or more Petitioner's proposed rule would confer a free pass from aggravated felony treatment to criminal JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the free pass? The free pass is mandatory as opposed to discretionary ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. SHAH: Mr. Chief Justice and may it MR. SHAH: The free pass is that you would Official MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, they would still be subject -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And nothing would stop almost any document, correct? MR. SHAH: Your Honor, you're talking about than a small amount. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But those convicted individuals would still be subject to deportation. the INS judge from considering the amount of drugs, correct, that the individual actually was involved in, and that could be introduced through hearsay -- through the discretionary cancellation of removal proceeding? aggravated felony provision to take away that discretion from the Attorney General. The motivating factor behind -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, do you -- do you suggest that the immigration judges don't know that and that they wouldn't weigh that desire heavily in a case in which a -- the convicted individual is proven to have sold the larger amount? You still think they are going to cancel? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. MR. SHAH: It's true, Your Honor, that could come in there. But Congress specifically enacted this MR. SHAH: What -- Your Honor, what Congress Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, will you pause right there. I don't -- you just made the argument that said when it passed this very provision was that immigration judges were granting too much discretionary relief to this very class of criminal aliens, and that is why it implemented this aggravated felony. Now, Petitioner says it's not going to have a big deal on immigration -- big impact on immigration policy for the reason that you suggest, the Attorney General can do it at the back end. But that -- your position on Castro-Rodriguez is wrong. You say Congress took away the Attorney General's discretion. Then you come back and say, well, we're going to exercise that discretion under -- under take advantage of it. exercise of discretion under Castro-Rodriguez. We, at the tail end, have an inquiry that, I think, mirrors the provision in the INA incorporates by reference the CSA scheme. What the CSA scheme provides is, as a default matter, any conviction for possession with intent to distribute marijuana will be a felony. But the CSA Castro-Rodriguez, and this Petitioner in particular can MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, it's not an CSA scheme. Remember that this aggravated felony Official MR. SHAH: To -- to have that secondary proceeding? What our scheme does is that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that -- is the authority for that Castro-Rodriguez? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. MR. SHAH: Well, I think it comes from the MR. SHAH: I'm sorry? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the authority for scheme also provides a narrow mitigating exception for those who distribute just a small amount socially. that the decision in Castro-Rodriguez? statute, the INA, which incorporates the CSA scheme. Because many of the State provisions don't offer that same affirmative mitigating exception that the Federal scheme does, what Castro-Rodriguez does is it looks to the INA, which incorporates the CSA, and then provides a similar mechanism in immigration court. quarter of a century. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Shah, the Board may have been doing these inquiries, but I just don't understand the statutory argument because the way the statute -- the way your own statutory argument runs is But it's not an unprecedented inquiry. The Board has been doing similar inquiries for at least a Official And so the person -- and an aggravated And so your whole back-end process, which exercise of discretion that can come into play. that if the conviction -- the State conviction, was a conviction for possession with intent to distribute, then those are the elements of a Federal -- of a Federal felony. felony. So you say, under the elements approach, this person has committed an aggravated felony. And the statutory directive is that, when a person has committed an aggravated, felony, he is deportable, and there is no says, oh, well, maybe not, maybe he's not automatically deportable, it doesn't come from the statute, and it seems to run into the statutory language, which says an government could have taken the hard-line approach that it's game over under the categorical inquiry because the elements -- inconsistent with the statutory scheme. In fact, I JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's what the statute says, and that's what your own statutory analysis says. aggravated felon must be deported, the end. MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I agree. The MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I don't think it's think it's consistent. distribution of a controlled substance, unless the defendant shows that it involved a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration." This -- this particular aggravated felony is a little bit complicated because it incorporates by reference, in two different levels, the CSA. Congress -- let's assume eliminate the incorporation by reference. functionally identical formulation would be -- the definition of the aggravated felony is, "any felony provision, any distribution of controlled it would add in the proviso that it's in the CSA mitigating exception. Functionally identical. Aggravated felony is, "any distribution of a controlled substance, unless the defendant shows that it sorry. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is -- MR. SHAH: What our inquiry does is -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Go ahead. I'm substance -- you have the same two elements -- and then That would incorporate both the presumptive was a small quantity for remuneration." Official And here's one way to think about it: Congress rewrote the aggravated felony definition to I think what the equivalent -- the MR. SHAH: Sorry. What our inquiry does is Official And you say, well, suppose Congress wrote a question is -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you've answered Justice Kagan's question by -- she said, doesn't your MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I'm not positing -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You -- you said that allow the board to get to that second part of the definition, the "unless" clause, and that mirrors exactly other aggravated felony provisions in the INA. own interpretation of this statute require the opposite result and -- or the -- the harsh result? statute this way. But that wasn't her question. The Congress could write a new statute. Of course, Congress could write a new statute, but what about this one? MR. SHAH: I'm not positing a new statute. I was simply taking out the incorporation by reference, so we could look at it in a different way. I think it's functionally identical to the provision at issue here. And I think it's -- Mr. Shah, this sentence from your brief -- and I could read you a thousand of these in your brief. "Because Petitioner's Georgia conviction necessarily established that he knowingly possessed marijuana with the specific intent to distribute it, that conviction constitutes an JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I'll just read you, MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I -- I would JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, now, you've just put Official Well, if that conviction constitutes an MR. SHAH: Well, well -- JUSTICE KAGAN: -- and -- and really, truly, aggravated felony." aggravated felony, he has to be deported, and there is no exercise of discretion that this statute allows. say that it presumptively creates the aggravated felony, and it's because of that -- in words into your brief. you say this or times. the brief says, "presumptively," and so I didn't use that word every time, but I think the point is that it would be the -- the aggravated felony has that unless clause. provisions in the INA, such as the one reproduced on the top of page of the government's brief, it defines an aggravated felony as certain document fraud crimes, and then it has a clause that says, "unless" -- "unless the alien has affirmatively shown that the alien committed the offense for the purpose of assisting, abetting or, abating only the alien's spouse, child, or parent to MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, the heading to And if you look at other aggravated felony is that you -- your clients were on the other side of this position in Castro-Rodriguez itself; is that not correct? violate a provision of the INA." have shown the document fraud crime under the categorical approach. But the INA specifically has a provision that says, unless the alien can show that he committed the offense for the purpose of assisting and abetting -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But this is -- this is a new position for the government. My understanding that we categorically deny that you could have this sort of proceeding. And in the op to this case -- I know Petitioner says this is a new position in this case. Pages through of our op embrace Castro-Rodriguez as the right way to do it. I think it's -- the government did dispute the particular facts in Castro-Rodriguez. I can't say that they categorically rejected the availability of that sort of inquiry. And MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I can say that the -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that was a change in the government's position, wasn't it? MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I don't think Official So you could say ball game over, once you that sort of inquiry is not new. Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So what does -- in a MR. SHAH: It's a balance of equities. so if you look at the language of that precursor If you look at the Grijalva decision, which is discussed on -- in footnote of our brief on page , that was a precursor to the controlled substance ground of removability that is currently in effect. And provision, essentially, it said any aliens deportable for a drug offense, unless that drug offense involves simple possession of marijuana of grams or less. case in which the Attorney General can cancel removal, putting aside this case, what are the sort of things he looks at in deciding whether or not to cancel removal? After, assuming that the -- the alien has established the three eligibility criteria set forth, it will be a balance. It's a favorable exercise of discretion. It's a balance of the equities. things, presumably, is the amount of drugs involved, remuneration -- all the sorts of things that you say he can consider under the provision that says he does not have the authority to cancel removal. of factors that might be open to consideration, but what CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So one of the whether they were for intent to distribute for MR. SHAH: Your Honor, those are the sorts intent was to bar discretion, then I'm not quite sure how you get to your alternative to get out of your -- Congress did is it took away the ability for the Attorney General to exercise that discretion. That was the main purpose of this very aggravated felony provision. your -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Each time you get -- you say that, you get back into the hole that Justice Kagan has been asking you to climb out of. If -- if Congress' argument. discretion in the vast majority of cases, and here's why. -if I could go back to the data question that you asked, Justice Sotomayor, we do have Federal data, and I interpret the data a little bit differently than my decade, there have been over , convictions under -- under Section (a), for crimes involving something more than possession of marijuana. ,. There have MR. SHAH: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- overinclusiveness colleague. What data we have is that, over the last MR. SHAH: Your Honor, this will bar Official Now, Justice Sotomayor, if I can go to been, in those years, exactly that have been Official My colleague combines (a), which is a JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do -- do you agree with Mr. Goldstein when he says, in reality, it's not an affirmative defense, that the defendant never has to prove the amount? MR. SHAH: I -- I don't agree with that I think this is a fairly atypical case. To sentenced under Section (b)(). possession offense, but if you isolate out of the data only those who qualify for the mitigating exception, those who are charged with distribution of marijuana, but only have a small amount of remuneration, you have out of over ,. the extent this Petitioner -- government had to disprove the -- the small amount and, more importantly, the remuneration element, that would be a very different statute. Every court of appeals and lots of the Federal -- I -- the government can do it very easily. If you have less than an ounce of marijuana and nothing else from which you can infer an intent to sell or distribute, and you have no proof that this individual's engaged in drug trafficking, what more does a defendant have to show? because if it were, in fact, the case that the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, counselor. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I guess my point is MR. SHAH: I'm not saying it -- the defendant has to show more. I believe Justice -- I MR. SHAH: Oh, I -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does it raise his burden of proof? thought Justice Ginsburg's question is what would the government have to show to disprove it. And I think -- that one, which is don't the facts that the government have either show it or not show it in virtually every instance? MR. SHAH: I think it's a very different question. If you put the burden on the government to show that, in fact, no remuneration was involved, the government would have to meet its burden in a criminal case to show beyond a reasonable doubt that there was no remuneration at all. That is going to change the result in a large number of cases where there is a relative -- it's going to be the universe of cases where there is a ounce. universe of cases, in fact, the presumption is probably going to be that it's not for a distribution or relatively small amount of drugs involved. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would be less than an MR. SHAH: Right. But in -- and in that Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I go back to your offense -- MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- of burglary, but if remuneration. substantive argument? MR. SHAH: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. This is a -- you are right. It's an unusually crafted statute. And really, what the issue is, generally, what you have with lesser included offenses is you have a base offense and then an enhancement that goes up. You commit the base you did it with an explosive or you did it with a dangerous weapon, it goes up. categorical approach is relatively easy there because either the State offense includes the addition or it doesn't. statute with the same elements that can be either a misdemeanor or a felony. And you're saying it can be either under the CSA, but we have to assume it's the greater because -- MR. SHAH: That's exactly right. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And applying the This is sort of in reverse. You've got a MR. SHAH: Your Honor -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's under Apprendi. MR. SHAH: Well, both before and after Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- of Apprendi, because MR. SHAH: I -- I think it's because of the of -- of -- proper interpretation of the statute. Apprendi might have influenced that interpretation of the statute, but every court of appeals that has interpreted this statute has said that the -- the default punishment, is this punishable up to years -- Apprendi, Your Honor, this statute was interpreted the same way. Apprendi didn't change anything because there were no sentencing factors or elements -- talk about the categorical approach in footnote of our case in Carachuri? MR. SHAH: Uh-huh. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where we said that, in talking about the generic Federal offense, whether it's a felony or not, that we can't look at just strictly the elements of the crime, but we have to also look at the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the point. MR. SHAH: -- to get to the -year -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Didn't we -- didn't we sentencing factors because, when we're talking about Official MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, what Carachuri recidivism factor, an aggravating factor. When you are punishable as a felony, it's natural to look at the aggravating factor. what constitutes a misdemeanor or a felony under Federal law, we have to look at both. involved was something very different. It involved a talking about an aggravating factor, Apprendi jurisprudence has treated those somewhat equivalent to an element because it raises the statutory maximum. And so when you are trying to decide whether something is The other thing I would say about Carachuri is that it's easily distinguishable on the grounds that Justice Ginsburg raised. It -- the government's argument in Carachuri was much more difficult. The government was trying to rely on a recidivism factor that was not part of the predicate conviction. And it was trying to rely on that factor to elevate what was otherwise a misdemeanor under both State and Federal law all the elements that are required for a Federal felony under the CSA, namely possession of marijuana and a specific intent to distribute it.to a felony. Here, the predicate conviction itself has JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the same elements Official MR. SHAH: I think there are --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- choose between the MR. SHAH: I think there are -- I think approach to the categorical part of the inquiry is -- is the right approach and not Petitioner's approach. The first is -- would go to the misdemeanor. Really, the issue for me is it could be one or both. And when do we tell the immigration judge that he can, should, or should not -- two? there are two ways, Your Honor, that -- two different lines of reasoning that show that the government's misdemeanor still has the same three elements. between it being a misdemeanor or a felony? MR. SHAH: Right. I think here -- here are the two ways you get there. First is by looking at how this Court has consistently formulated the categorical inquiry. Starting with Taylor, pre-Apprendi case, compare the elements of the predicate offense to the those of the generic offense. Fast forward past Apprendi through all of the more recent cases, Lopez and not -- still the same JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: However you do it, the MR. SHAH: Well, here's -- here's how -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do we choose Official If that is not enough for you, Nijhawan. There, it had a different aggravating inquiry, focusing on the elements of the predicate and the elements of the generic. Justice Sotomayor, if there is still some uncertainty as to when you have mitigating factors, like in this case, and the question is, well, does the predicate conviction have to affirmatively negate those narrow mitigating criteria, then this Court can look, if it wants to go to first principles, look at this Court's decision in felony, certain fraud and deceit offenses which resulted in a $, loss to the victim. What the Court said, look, fraud and deceit, those are clearly elements, we are going to apply the categorical approach to -- to figure out whether those elements are satisfied. But the $, loss factor, we're not sure. We're not sure whether the predicate offense has to affirmatively establish it or not. of the States. It looked at the States. And it turns out that, in a vast majority of those States, the predicate conviction will never establish that $, loss factor. And so you're going to have a vastly And so what the Court did is it did a survey underinclusive aggravated felony. Official And that's something that Congress -- that manner. I submit that's exactly what you have here in a clear majority of the States, the predicate conviction will not establish that there is remuneration or more than a small amount. Congress cannot -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shah, I think the Congress could not have intended. The Court said Congress would not have intended its aggravated felony provision to apply in such a limited and haphazard on pages to of our brief. And Petitioner does not take issue with a single one of the statutes that we cite. And we go through all of them. We show that, problem with your main argument is that it leads you to a result that you don't want to accept because your main argument is all we've done in our past cases -- and I can argue with this, but your argument is all we've done is compare the elements. then we don't get to your discretionary scheme in which we also admit evidence of -- of the case-specific nature of the offense. I mean, so your arguments all go towards a very purist solution. And then you say, oh, no, that's But if all we do is compare the elements, Official aggravated felons and -- and must be deported. an agreement -- a crazy solution. It's a crazy solution because we would wind up saying that misdemeanants, like this person, like people who are actually convicted under (b)() who are clearly misdemeanants, would wind up as MR. SHAH: Well, well, first, Your Honor, I am glad that we have an agreement on the first part of the categorical inquiry because I think that is the main part of the inquiry that this -- that would establish --JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think we really have that Carachuri actually says we don't just look to elements. But if we were just to look to elements in the way you're arguing for, we wouldn't get the result that you're arguing for. have to look at this particular aggravated felony, which felonies in the INA. If you look at the aggravated felony in the INA that's on page -- top of page of our brief, and that -- that is the one about document fraud crimes, it MR. SHAH: Okay. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- because it seems to me says the alien -- then, if the alien then shows that MR. SHAH: Again, Your Honor, I think you I think is structured similar to other aggravated Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And the whole point -- the whole point is that there is no similar provision in the statute at issue in this case, right? MR. SHAH: I think the point is that there that document fraud crime was perpetrated in order to help a family member, then no more aggravated felony. How does the alien make that showing? He comes into immigration court -- after it's already been established that you have the predicate document fraud felony, he comes into immigration court. He has to bring forth evidence on his own that shows that it satisfied this familial exception to that document fraud aggravated felony. I think the -- is a similar provision. In the -- the INA here incorporates the CSA to define the aggravated felony. The CSA says it's a felony if you have possession plus intent to distribute, unless the defendant shows -- and this is how it has been interpreted by every court of appeals that has interpreted the CSA -- unless the defendant shows it was only a small amount for no remuneration. That is an identical formulation to some of the other aggravated felonies in the provision. And how those other aggravated felony provisions have been interpreted is to allow the alien to come into Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that that is Congress has the -- the social sharing predicate conviction to affirmatively negate it. quite right, Mr. Shah, because if you read this statute, what it most looks like is that Congress is simply classifying two different kinds of conduct. immigration court to show the exception. We are not aware of a single court decision that has ever interpreted any similar provision in any of the other aggravated felony provision to require the And that's exactly what Petitioner's main submission is, that this predicate conviction has to affirmatively negate the possibility of a narrow mitigating exception. That is -- conduct, and that's in one section. And the everything else, the more dangerous conduct, is in another section. And so it's not something where it's like, oh, you're trying to get them to negate a specific -- a point. Congress has created two separate sections, And that's the -- the real way to understand this statute. And then the categorical approach suggests, well, in that case, we accept the underinclusion, rather two -- and one is a felony, and one is a misdemeanor. than the overinclusion. Official MR. SHAH: Well, Your Honor, I disagree with the -- that the government, in order to get to the that characterization of that statute. Every court of appeals that has considered this statute has rejected the argument that we have two separate offenses and that higher offense, the -- the default felony provision, that the government would have to treat as elements the -- the mitigating criteria of remuneration and small amount. Every court of appeals has rejected that. If this statute were drawn as you suggest, and it were elements of a crime, that is, you had two separate offenses, one is possession with intent to distribute a small amount for no remuneration, or it could just say possession with intent to distribute marijuana, if that was one distinct offense that was a misdemeanor, and then Congress created a second offense that says, in cases where there is more than a small amount, in which there is remuneration, then you get a five-year maximum instead of a one-year maximum, that is effectively making, as an element, the government to disprove both the possibility of no remuneration and more than a small amount. at issue, I would agree with you, Petitioner would prevail under the categorical approach. That's not If that was the statutory scheme that were I think the other point I would make, Your Official They do not disagree with that. They -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I don't understand, Mr. Shah. That seems just a question of labeling to me. the -- that's not the statutory scheme here. they agree that every court of appeals that has interpreted this has interpreted it as one offense and that those mitigating criteria are just that, they are mitigating exceptions and not offense elements. Honor, is that -- I mean, why should we -- why should we accept that labeling, rather than, look, what Congress did here was to say that certain kinds of offenses are felonies deserving of grave punishment, and other kinds of offenses are misdemeanors deserving of less than a year in prison, and -- and we see those -- those categories of conduct differently. had -- had said two separate offenses, then the wins, I guess I just don't get what in this statute suggests something different from that. don't think it's a matter of labeling because Congress knows that these labels actually have big consequences. categorical approach means that Mr. Goldstein's client And if you are saying that if Congress MR. SHAH: Two things, Your Honor. One is I Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I thought that If you made those mitigating criteria elements, that would be a very different statute, which the government in every case would have to show beyond a reasonable doubt that it's more -- more than a small quantity. That may not be difficult; but in cases where there is a small quantity, it may, in fact, be difficult to disprove --when Congress enacted this provision, there was not the distinction between elements and sentencing factors that we now have, that the statute was enacted, in other words, before Apprendi. enacted before Apprendi, but Apprendi doesn't change the interpretation of this statute. This statute -- in the relevant criteria. This statute was interpreted -- interpreted both the same before and after Apprendi, with respect to doesn't require any factors or elements at all to get to the felony provision. certainly goes to your argument that Congress had in mind some distinction between elements and sentencing MR. SHAH: Your Honor, this statute was the default provision, because the default provision JUSTICE SCALIA: That may be, but it Official And, Justice Kagan, to get back to your aggravated felony provision would not have any effect in the clear majority of States that do not make either remuneration or more than a small quantity an element of the offense. factors. MR. SHAH: Well, I think what Congress had in mind is that those mitigating criteria would not be treated as elements. question, how do we know? Well, we can look at what -- the inquiry that the Court did in Nijhawan. It would not be -- it would not be consistent with Congressional intent to assume that Congress intended that this particular piece of the aggravated felony description to be subject to the categorical approach or not? That is, did it require the predicate conviction to establish or negate it? And the right way to look at that is to look And here, we know that, in a clear majority of States, they do not require remuneration, they do not require more than a small amount. You will never get an aggravated felony conviction out of a majority of States. Congress could not have intended that result. That is what Nijhawan was about. It was trying to figure out, did Congress intend this at the State of the State laws. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: If you do not -- if you do MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I think that's -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: You just say we're going MR. SHAH: Your Honor, I -- I think that that -- I think that's an open question. That's one That's what Nijhawan stands for. not prevail in this case, can you simply solve this problem in the discretionary removal proceedings? to -- we're going to order you removed, unless you bring in evidence that this was a minor amount, period. that has not come up yet. I think Congress specifically -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, don't you think it's -- it's, under the law and under administrative MR. SHAH: It may -- it may be -- be an option open to the Attorney General to do that. The Attorney General would have to issue an order to that ground. I imagine it would be challenged and we'd have to litigate it. But what we do know is that Congress didn't want those sort of discretionary determinations made. Congress knew that all of these areas -- under the -- do you have the same answer as JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, under the --Mr. Goldstein, that the modified categorical approach practice, that it's an option available to you? MR. SHAH: I think the modified categorical MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, I think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and that would take wouldn't permit the immigration judge to look at the plea allocution to determine the amount? approach would allow -- would allow -- these cases that we're talking about, it is possible that the plea allocution itself would set out the amounts that the alien sold or show that he sold something -- care of this issue of how many people are escaping automatic removal? was more than a small amount, I think the modified -- our position would be that the modified categorical approach would allow you to reach that. essentially that the plea agreements aren't going to say that in a large majority of these cases, for the simple reason that a -- that a vast majority of the States don't make more than a small quantity an element of the crime, and so it's going to be irrelevant. But that MR. SHAH: I think if the -- the plea agreement or plea colloquy set forth the amount and it Petitioner's and his amici's argument are Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that in -- in many of simply shows -- Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the vast majority -- MR. SHAH: And if that's the case, then the JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are there any other the vast majority, in my experience, do -- do say whether the crime was for sale or distribution. government would agree that, if we were to lose this case, we could then look at -- look at that evidence to -- to show -- to disprove more than a small amount, something that's not an element in any of the State crimes. consequences? We've been talking only about dispensation from removal. But are there any other consequences that matter? person who's not -- a person is not only removable and not only deprived of cancellation relief. There -- those who are aggravated felons are just essentially deprived of all forms of discretionary relief, except removal. immigration context. At the same time that Congress enacted this aggravated felony provision, it made it a are other consequences that matter. For example, a sentencing enhancement provision in -- in criminal MR. SHAH: Yes, Your Honor, there -- there for Convention Against Torture relief and withholding of It also has implications beyond the Official If Petitioner's rule were to prevail in a So, Your Honor, it's not simply the case, as both the guidelines and Section , the Illegal enhancement would no longer have operative effect. prosecutions for illegal reentry. And so in any illegal reentry prosecution, if the defendant is also -- has a prior conviction for marijuana distribution, they would be subject to a significant sentencing enhancement under Reentry Statute. significant number of those cases, in any State in which it did not have those relevant elements, that sentencing Petitioner would like to say, that the only thing here is -- is a difference between removability and cancellation of removal relief that the Attorney General can fix on his own. There are other ancillary consequences. And I think the criminal -- the consequence of the criminal prosecution is a significant one. additional consequences? Honor? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. Oh, yes. MR. SHAH: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that -- does the Castro-Rodriguez proceeding take care of those MR. SHAH: If -- if I may respond, Your Official I don't -- I think what -- we haven't had of those reentry prosecutions. I think, if the Court were to accept the any criminal cases where the -- where an alien has come in and tried to make the argument. I imagine, if Petitioner prevails, it will be made in every single one Government's submission, both on the threshold categorical inquiry and on the tail-end fact-specific inquiry, I think a defendant would probably be able to have the opportunity to try to make that showing in the Federal sentencing proceeding as well. remaining. you I was going to acknowledge the strengths of the other side's case. And I want to just recognize that question is, if you actually adopt their statutory construction argument and you say we're going to look at the elements and it's an aggravated felony, we're comparing two different ways of reading it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Goldstein, you have three minutes you can conceivably read the statute their way. But the And they admit that their way of reading the REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, I told removal proceedings, but also Justice Kennedy's statute comes up with an answer that Congress couldn't possibly have intended by treating all these misdemeanants as aggravated felons. 'nother proceeding that isn't in the statute. Another solution is just to recognize their reading is wrong. If it produces this ridiculous result that Congress couldn't have intended, and our reading is perfectly sensible and not only do you have the solution of the suggestion of the Attorney General's ability to issue an order, Justice Sotomayor's solution of being able to look at the plea allocution, questions that aren't presented here, but lots of ways of addressing any just to add this procedure that -- "punishable," I think. word -- JUSTICE BREYER: So you're thinking, under Georgia law, this is punishable as a felony only if it wasn't a small amount used for personal use, you see, MR. SHAH: Well, "punishable" is a good adverse consequences of our rule. What in statutory construction allows us JUSTICE BREYER: But it's the word Official Now, their solution is to add a whole and therefore, they go into the hearing. Official It's not punishable as an felony, unless MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. But I don't think add this other proceeding. When they say -- what they do with we've construed. That's what I thought they were doing. those two things are absent, and therefore, they have the hearing to find out. And the word "punishable" doesn't appear in the statutes, the other ones that that's actually what they're doing because Mr. Shah did not deny Justice Kagan's questions about, yeah, it would produce this ridiculous result, and so we're going to punishable is they say look at only the elements of the Federal offense. And that's how they say that any Georgia conviction, even though, Justice Ginsburg, lots of these convictions will just be equivalents to Federal misdemeanors because they are the equivalent of -- because they involve possession with intent to distribute, those are the only elements of the offense, then they're all punishable as felonies, even if they So I don't think punishable helps them. And they don't seem to argue on the basis of punishable. So my base point to you is that why, in choosing between these two readings, we have strengths, they have strengths. Their argument starts from the proposition would be a misdemeanor. Official And, Mr. Chief Justice, they did start out the statute that doesn't appear in the statute. The last point that I want to address is that theirs produces a result that Congress couldn't have intended. with the hardcore position. I can give you the example. It's our case. Remember, even though this is . grams, even though he was not convicted of selling, they ordered him mandatorily deportable without an inquiry into the underlying facts. They recognize that can't be right. And so they are trying to tack something on to actually a very small one. And that's about Justice Thomas' dissent in the Lopez case on whether you should look to the State definition of whether this is a government cites it in a footnote in their brief. not relying on the Lopez dissent. It invokes Lopez repeatedly in the Federal courts. And so this is a situation in which the Court's decision in Lopez should take hold as a matter of statutory -- stare decisis, and what matters here is the Federal treatment of it. conviction is a felony or a misdemeanor under Federal felony or instead, the Federal one, because the And we would only say that the government is When you don't know if the Georgia law, you don't know which one it is, what the Official The -- the arguments that my friend ended proceedings, these other intermediate proceedings about determining the facts of the offense in Federal sentencing? It gets vastly more complicated. categorical rule says is that the State conviction doesn't necessarily establish it's a Federal offense, the Federal felony here, and therefore, you don't treat it that way. with -- ended with about, hey, this is going to be applied in Federal sentencing and lots of other contexts, makes it worse, not better. How in the world are we going to have these others Castro-Rodriguez Congress. It gets the right people deported. Their rule, because it's overinclusive, there will be noncitizens who can't prove their offense was a misdemeanor, and they shouldn't be removed. above-entitled matter was submitted.) Our rule addresses the core concern of counsel. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel, The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the OfficialOfficial A abating : abetting : : ability : : able : : : : : above-entitled : adverse : affirmative : : : affirmatively : :, :, :, : : : : aliens : : : alien's : allocution : : :, : appeals : : : :, : appear : APPEARAN... : : appendix : agent : aggravated : allow : : application : : apply : : : : : : : : : applies : alternative applied : amici's : amount : : :,, allows : access : account : acknowledge : : : : absent : absolutely : accept : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :,,, :,,, : :,, :,, : : : :, :, : :,,, : :, add :, : : :, :, : : : addition : additional : aggravating :,, address : : : addressed : ago : addresses : agree : : amounts : addressing Act : : activity : actual : : : : : :, applying : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : :, : : : approach : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : analogy : analysis : : : ancillary : Approximate agreed : answer : : : : : : agreement : agreements : : :, : : administer : administrative : : admit : adjudication : : arbitrary : : : agrees : : ahead : : : admitted : adopt : adopted :, Adrian : : alia : : alien :, advantage : : : answered : answers : anybody : : anymore : apologize : apparent : areas : argue : : : arguing : :, argument : :,, :, : : : Apprendi : Assistant : assisting : :,,, : : : :, assume : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :,, : arguments : : arises : articulate : aside : : asked : : asking : assumes : assuming : : attempted : attempts : : attorney : : : : : :, :,,, :, : : : : :, : : :, : : attorneys :, : : : :, attractiveness : atypical : Official authority :, : : : BIA : automatic : big :,, automatically : :, : : : availability bigger : bit : : : available : : avoid : : :, aware : a.m : : : : blue :, board :, : borders : brain : Breyer : B back : : b :, : : : :, :,, :,,, : :,, : :, :, : brief :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : backstop : back-end : balance : briefly : :, ball : bar :, barring : base :, briefs : bring : : : : brings : : broad : basis : : burden : bears : : : beginning : :,, :,, :,, : burglary : behalf :, :,, : : : believe : : : : best : : better : : : beyond :, : : CC : :,, :, : call : : cancel : : :, : cancellation : : : :, : : : : : : capricious : Carachuri : : : : :,, : Carachuri-Ro... : : : : :, care : : case :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, Castro-Rodri... :,, :,, :,, : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : child : categorical : : :, : :, : :, : choose :, choosing : : : cigarettes : : : Circuit : : : : :, circumstance : : : : : : : :, : : circumstances : : : : categorically :, cite : cites : class : : categories : classified : century : certain : : : certainly : : : classifying: clause : :,clear : challenged : change : : : : : :,clearly : : client : changed : characterizati... clients : : : : characterize climb : close : code : : charge :, colleague : : : cases :,, :, : :, :, : : : : : :, : :, chemist's : : : : : : :, : : charged : Chief :, : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, case-specific : : collect : colloquy : : combined : combines : come : : : : : :,: : Official decade : : : :,, : deceit :, : :, : : : deciding : decision : decide : : :, : : courts : : : : conviction : : :, :, : : :, Court's :, : :,, :,,, : : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : cover : covers : crafted : crazy :, created : creates : crime : : : : : : : convictions : crimes : : : : :, : : : : : : : : decisions : decisis : deemed : default : : : :, defend : defendant : : : :, : : : :, : : defense : : : comes : : : : :, : commit : commits : committed : : :, : :, : : common : commonplace : : : compare : :, comparing : completely : completes : complicated : : concede : conceivably : : :, : : Congressional : consequence : : consequences : :, : :, : consider : consideration : : considered : : consistent : : : consistently : constitutes : : : construction : : : construed : contemplates communication considering concern : conduct : : context : contexts : :, : : : :,, : contrast : control : controlled : : : : :,, : confer : confront : Congress : : :, : :, :,, :, :,, : :, convicted : : : : : : :,,, :,, :, : :, : :,,, :,, :,, : : Convention : core : correct : : : :, : correspondence : corresponds : : : counsel : :, : : :, counselor : country : couple : course : : court :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, criteria : definition : criminal :, define : : :, defines : : : : : :, : : :, : : deliver : : : : denies : :, : CSA :, deny : : :, : :, : : : : :, Department : : :,, cure :, currently : Cyr : D: :, : : deportation : : : : : deportable : deported : D :dangerous: :data :,,: :,:, : deal :: : : depose : deprived : : derived : description : dispense : deserving : disprove : determine : dissent :, Official D.C :,, EE : :, easily ::easy :effect : : : :effectively :either : : :,, : element : : : : : : : elements : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,, : : : :, elevate : Eleventh : eligibility : eliminate : embrace : enacted : : :, : : ended :, engage : engaged : enhancement : : :, entering : equities : :, equivalent : : : equivalents : explain : : : explained : ERIC : escaping : ESQ :, : extent : explosive : : :, essentially : : : establish : : : : : : established : : : everybody : : everybody's: evidence : : : : : : : : exact : : exactly : : : : : : : : example : : : : : exception : : : : : : : exceptions : Excuse : : exercise : :, : : : : exist : experience : : : extremely : Ffact :, : :, : : :: ::, : factor :: :,,:,,:,factors ::, : :, : facts : : : :: :: :fact-bound: ::fact-found: :fact-specific:fair :,fairly :familial :family :Fast :favor :: :,:favorable :FBI :Federal :,:, : :, : :, : : : : : : dispute : distinct : distinction : : :, distinguishable : distribute : : :, : :,, :,, :,,, : : : : : : : : : :, : distribution :,, : : : : district : :, : desire : determinations : : determining : difference : : : different : : : : : : : : : : : : : : differently : : : difficult : : :, difficulty : direct : directive : : : disagree : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : divisible : discharged : document : discretion : : : : :,, documents : doing : : : :, doubt : : discretionary : : : : :, : draw : drawn : discussed : drug : : :, : drugs : : : : : : : discussing : dispensation : : :,,, :, : :, :, :, : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :,,, :,,, felon : : : felonies : : : : : : felons :, : : : : : find : : first : : : :, : :, : :, five-year : fix : fixes : flaws : fly : focus : focusing : follow : follows : footnote : : : former : forms : formulated : : : four :, : forth : : formulation : : fortunate : forward : felony :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,, :,,, : :,,, : :,, :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : : :,, G : : : game : : : : :, : General :, : : : figure : : : : : friend : : front : functionally further : :, : :, G : fraud : : Ginsburg's : : :, : give : : :,, : free :,, glad : Official :,,, :, : : : : : : : :, : generally : General's : : generic : : : gentleman : Georgia :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : Ginsburg : : : : : : :,,, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : grams : : :, : : granting : granular : grave : great : greater : Grijalva : ground : : : Goldstein : :, :,, : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : guidelines : :,,, guilt :, : :, :,, :,,,, : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : Goldstein's H : half : handle : haphazard : happen :grounds : guess : : guessed : guilty : : : :H: good : : go : : gotten : :,,, :, : government : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :,, : :, : : : :,government's : : : :, :,, going : : goes :, : happened : happens :hard : hardcore : hard-line : harsh : : heading :hear : :, hearing : ::hearsay :heavily :help : Official inquiries : : invokes : involve :, inquiry :, : helps : hey : higher : highly :, hold : : Holder : : hole : holistic : Honor :, :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, hope : hypothetical : I idea : identical : :, : : identify : : ignore : ignores : illegal :,, illicit : : illustrates : imagine : : : immigrants : immigration : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : : impact : implemented : implication : implications importantly : : INA : : : : : :, :, : include : : included : includes : : including : inconsistent incorporate : : incorporates : :, : : incorporation : : independent : indication : indict : indictment : : individual : : individuals : individual's : infer : : influenced : information : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : INS : inserting : instance : intend : intended : :, :, :, : intends : intent : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : inter : interested : interesting intermediate : : interpret : interpretation : :, : interpreted : : :, : : :, : : interviewing: introduced : involved : : : : : :, : : involves : involving : : : irrelevant : : : : isolate : issue :, : : : : : : : : : : : : Jjail :joint :JR :judge : : :, : : : : judges :: :: :judgment :jurisprudence:::, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :, :, :,,, :, :, :,, :,,,, : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :, : : :,:,,,,:, : :,,,:,,,:,,,: :,:,,: : :, : : : :,, : :,,,:, : : :,:, : :,,:, : : : Justice : : :, : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : : :,,,:,,, Kagan :,: :,, :, : justify : K :,, : : : :, : : :, : : : Kagan's : : Kennedy :, :,,, :, : :, :, : Kennedy's : kind :, : kinds : : : :, knew : know : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, knowingly : knows : L labeling : :, labels : language : : large : : : larger : law : : : : : :, : : : laws : : : lawyers : Official :, : mentioned : Nation's : natural : : Naturalization major : met :, middle : mind : : : : majority : minor : : : : : : :, minutes : : :, mirror : mirrors : :, : misdemeanants negative : neither : never :, :, : : : leads : leave : length : lesser : let's : : : levels : limited : : : lines : lists : litigate : little : : : : : long : longer : look : : : making : : : mandatorily : mandatory : : manner : manufacture : misunderstand non-serious material :, mitigating : nature : necessarily : : need : negate : : :, : :, : : : : : new :,, :,, Nijhawan : :, : nine : noncitizen : noncitizens : : : : note : : nother : number : : : OO : : obtain :obvious :,October :offender :offense :,: ::, : : : : : :: :: :,: :,: :marijuana : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, :,,, : :, massive : : : : :, : : : : materially : matter : : : misdemeanor : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : misdemeanors : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : looked : looking : : : looks : : : Lopez : :,,, lose : loss :,, lot : : : lots : : : : Mmain : : : : : :, modified : : : matters : : : : :,: : maximum : Moncrieffe : :, : : :, mean : : morning : : : : : means : : : mechanism : meet : member : motivating: NN :, : narrow : : : nationwide : Official : period : permissible :, permit : perpetrated : person : : : :,, : :, personal : Petitioner : policy :, : : positing : : position : : :, :,,, : : : :, : : :,,, : : positions : : :, : possess :, :, : : : : : :, possession : possessed : : : presented : presumably presume : : : : : : presumption presumptive presumptively :, : : prevail : : : prevails : pre-Apprendi: :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, offenses : :, : : : : :, :,, offer : : officer : officials : : oh : : : : : : : okay :, : :, : : :, : : once : ones : : one-year : op :, open : : :, opening : operative : opportunity : : : opposed : opposite : option :, oral : :, : : order : : : : : : : : ordered : ordinary : ought : ounce :, : : outcome : outside : overinclusion : : overinclusive : : overinclusive... : :, : PP :page : :, : :: :: :,pages : : parallel :parent :parentheses:part : : : ::,particular :: :: :: ::parties ::pass :,,:,passed :pause :penny :people :,:,,,,:,,: :: :percent :percentage: :perfectly :Petitioner's : : : : : : phone :, pick : picked : piece : place : places : play : plea : :, :,, : please : : : : : : principles : prior : prison : probably : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : probation : : : :, : problem :,:, : : :,:,,,: :,: : : :,: : : : possibility : possible : possibly : practical : : : practice : PRATIK : procedure : proceeding : pled : plus : point : : precedent : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : pointing : points : policing : precedent's : precisely : precursor : : predicate : : : :,,, : : :, : present : : : : : : : : : : proceedings: : : : :, process : produce : produces : Official promise :, : : : : : proviso : raised : raises : random :, refers : reference : :, : proof : : published :, reach : : read : :, punishable : : :, : :, :,,, reading : :, : : : : :,, : : proper : proposed : proposition prosecute : : : prosecuted : prosecuting : : prosecution punishment : : purchase : purist : purpose : : : purposes : : :, put : : putting : :, : puzzle : : :, puzzled : prosecutions : :,, :, : : : prosecutors :,, prove : : :, : : proven : provided : : provides : : :, provision : :, : : : : :, :, : : :, : : :, :, : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, provisions : Qqualify :quantity :: ::, : :quarter :question :: :,: :: :: ::,,: :,: :: ::questions ::question's :quite ::RR :raise :regularly : : : rejected : : :, rejection : relationships : relative : relatively : : relevant :, : : : : relief : : :,, : rely :, relying : remaining : :, : : readings : real : : : reality : really : : : : : :, : : : : : : reason : : Remember : : : : remind : removability : : : : : : : : : : : : reasonable : : reasoning : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recidivism : : recognize : : : recognized : record :, : :, : : :, : :, reentry :,, : removable : : : removal : :, :, :,,, :, : : : :,, : : :, : : removed : : : remuneration : :, : :,, : : : : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : : : :,,, :, repeatedly : report : Reporter : reproduced : require : : : : : :,, required : respect : respond : Respondent: : : response : result :,: : : : : : : resulted : reverse : rewrote : ridiculous : : right : :, : : :,,: : : :,: : : : : : :,,:, : : : : :ROBERTS :: :,:, : scheme : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : se : : :,, :,,, : : : : science : scope : second : : rocket : roughly : rule :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, ruled : rules : run : runs : S S : : sale : : sale-distributi... : : satisfied : satisfies : saying : : :, : : : : : secondary : section : : : :, : sections : see : : : : seek : seen : sell :, :, : :,, : : : selling : :, : sensible : sentence : sentenced : : : sentencing Official : sort : : :, : : : sorts :, Sotomayor : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : simply : : : : : single : : : : : : situation : : :, :, : : :, simple : :,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :,, : : :,, : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : : sharing : : : : situations : small : : : show : : : : : : : :, :,,, smaller : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :,,, :, : : :, specifically: : : : : : special :,specific : : : Sotomayor's: spouse : social : : St :,stands : stare : start : : starting : : : socially : sold : : : :, : : : :, : :, separate : :, : says :,, : : :, : : :, :, : serious : : :, : : : : :, : set : : : : seriousness : : SCALIA : :, : :, : :, sets : Shah : : :,,, :,,, showing : : shown : : shows :, : :, : : side : side's : : : significant : : :, : silence : silent : similar : Solicitor : solution : :,, : :, :,,, solve : : solved : : : somewhat : sorry : : : : : : : :, : starts : State :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :,: :,: : : : : :,: : : : States :, : stop : : straight : strength : :, : :, : :,,, : : :,, : :, strictly : : : statistics : : : strip : stronger : structured :, strengths : : : : stuff : submitted : : :, : : substance : :, : substances : : : : statute :, :, : : : : :, subject : : :, : :,, : :, submission : : : : :, submit : : :, : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : :, :,,, : : : :, :,,, : :, :,, : :, :,,, suggestion : : :, : : substantive : suggest : : : : : : : : suggests : substantial suggesting : : : statutes : : : statutory : : :, :,,, : : : : : : step : sticking :, supported : suppose : : supposed : Supreme :, : sure :, : : :, : survey : Official system :, : : :, TT :,tack :tackle :tail : : tail-end :take : : : ::,,: :: :: :taken :talk : : talking :: :: :,: ::Taylor :tell : : telling :tells :thank : : : : :, theirs : : thing :, : :, : : things : : : :,, : : think :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :,, : :, thinking : Thomas : :, : : : thought : : : thousand : three : : : threshold : time : : : : times : tiny : : : today : : Today's : told : tools : top : : Torture : totally : track : trafficking : : : : transpose : treat : : treated : : : treating : treatment : : : treats : : tried : : :, : triggered : true : : truly : try : : trying : :,,: :,: : : : turn : turns : two : : : : : :,:,,,:,,:, : : : :,type : : : UUh-huh :unable : : uncertaintyuncounseled::undercard :undercover :underinclusion:underinclusive: :underinclusiv...: ::, : : :underinclusivi... :underlying : understand : : : : : : : understanding : : undisputed : United :, : : universe : :, unlawful : unprecedented : unusually : upshot : use : : : : : U.S :, V v : : vast : : : :, vastly : : version : victim : view :, violate : violates : violating : virtually : W want :,,, :,,, : : : : : : wanted : : wants : Washington : :, wasn't : : : : : : : way : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : ways :, : : weapon : Wednesday : weigh : weight :,, :, : went : weren't : We'll : we're : : : :, :, : :, : we've : : :, : : whatsoever : who've : win : : wind :, wins : withholding : word : : :, : words : : : : work : world : worse : : : wouldn't :, : : : : Official write :, wrong : : wrote : X x :, Y yeah : : : : : : year : years :, : : : $ $, : :, :,,, . : :, :, : : : : : : : - : : : : : : : : : : - : --(a) : --(j)() : :, : : : : : :, :, : (c) : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : -year : :, : , : , :, : : , : : : : : : (a) : (b)() : (b)()(D) : (b)() : : : : (a) : : : : : 