Official The above-entitled matter came on for oral IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x TARRANT REGIONAL WATER DISTRICT, : Washington, D.C. Tuesday, April , v. Petitioner : No. - : RUDOLF JOHN HERRMANN, ET AL. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: ANN O’CONNELL, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. LISA S. BLATT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Petitioner. Respondents. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner On behalf of the Respondents On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O’CONNELL, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ. and may it please the Court: Official P R O C E E D I N G S CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear (: a.m.) In the Red River Compact, Oklahoma agreed ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, argument next this morning in Case -, Tarrant Regional Water District v. Herrmann. that Texas would be allowed to use a specified quantity of water that is located in Oklahoma. Oklahoma is now trying to back out of that bargain. of its position is essentially that the Court should disregard language that appears in the Red River Compact because that language is superfluous, that the Court should read into the Compact language that does not appear there, and that the Court should not give the text of the Compact what Oklahoma in its brief describes as "talismanic significance." text of the Compact must control. What its argument to this Court in support Mr. Rothfeld? Our very different view is that the plain Now, in the Red River Compact, Texas and Official But in the section of the Compact which is at issue here, Reach , Subbasin , the Compact uses a Oklahoma, along with Louisiana and Arkansas, agreed to allocate among themselves the waters of the Red River Basin. The Compact divides that basin into large areas called reaches and subdivides the reaches into subbasins. As to some of those areas, the Compact expressly allocates entitlement to water by State line. It says that the States may use the water within their boundaries exclusively. very different and unique language. That section -- that subbasin includes the territory of all -- three of the four compacting States. The boundaries of that subbasin are drawn not by State lines, but by reference to the -- the last downside dam sites before tributaries to the Red River Basin -- Red River flow into the river itself. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rothfeld, we are told that in other compacts when they really mean to give one State the right to take another State's water, the provision in the compact is much clearer, much more definite. kind of sketchy, isn't it? Doesn't say how they're This clause, the one that you rely on, is going to get it, if they're going to pay for it. JUSTICE SCALIA: What is the exact language? MR. ROTHFELD: Well, the provision that we are relying on, I would say is not sketchy at all. It is quite clear that all four of the compacting States are in the language of the Compact, have equal rights to the use of water, defined water in a defined area of the subbasin, so long as no State uses more than percent of the water. That -- that is quite express as to what is required. In -- it's difficult to read that language to mean anything other than that the States can take -- Do you want to read the exact language just to refresh our recollection? -- it is reprinted on page of the blue brief in the indented text, and it says, "Within this -- within this subbasin, the signatory States have equal rights to the use of," and then it defines the water that they have the rights to the use of, "at times of normal flow" -- with the flow of the Red River at , cubic feet per second at the Arkansas/Louisiana border -- "provided that no State is entitled to more than percent of the water in excess of this amount." MR. CLEMENT: The exact language -- it appears There's a lot to be filled in. Official So the -- the gist of the language is States that. JUSTICE BREYER: Where does it say something Official have -- all -- all four signatory States have equal rights to the use of -- MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I have to disagree with JUSTICE BREYER: It doesn't say that. It says, "No State is entitled to more than percent." It doesn't say -- I mean that language doesn't say what happens if in fact there's a State that because of cliffs or something can't get the percent to which it is entitled. It just doesn't say anything about it. about it? MR. ROTHFELD: It says that -- the section is designed to allocate the water of the subbasin, and it says, "Within the subbasin, States have equal rights to use of the runoff." That's the first part of it. JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. MR. ROTHFELD: The second part of it then says, "provided that no State is entitled to more than JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Does that mean that a State can, when it can't get its pipeline to the river, go into some other State and take the water out of that other State? I mean, I would have thought, if that was their intent, there would be a mechanism for percent" -- Official that. First of all, it is not at all a complex job. JUSTICE BREYER: It's not at all complex doing it. That you'd have some authority set up by the Compact that would decide where, whether it's really true, and how are we supposed to do it, and there is no such mechanism, rather if there is such a right, which it doesn't say anything about, it's left to the State courts in different States to try to do what is an extremely complex and controversial administrative job. MR. ROTHFELD: A couple points to say about when Oklahoma is going to say, Texas, go run the pipe to the south of the Red River, and Texas is going to say, I'm sorry, we can't get there, there's too much cactus. And then they're going to say, don't you know that, in fact, when you put your pipeline into Oklahoma, you are going to be taking part of the percent that belongs to us. And Texas will say, no, we aren't. And then we'll have to have a way of measuring how much goes into different pipelines are going to take out. You understand what I'm saying. the river at different places and what are all these MR. ROTHFELD: Right. But -- JUSTICE BREYER: I would have thought a mechanism would be set up to do that and there is none. Official JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. But they do say expressly, and I don't know what the terrain is like in the other areas. And here it does not say anything about it. That's why I think we're here in the Court MR. ROTHFELD: Okay. Again, several things about that. First of all, in all these other compacts to which Justice Ginsburg alludes that are cited by our opponents, which expressly allow for cross-border --virtually none of them provide any of the kinds of details that you are describing. because all it says is you can't take more than percent. It doesn't say what happens when Texas is unable to get its percent from the south. I'm now repeating myself, but you point to the language that language. MR. ROTHFELD: What I say -- I guess I will say two things about that. One, I think what you just say is, in fact, with respect, is not consistent with consistent with? specified water. It -- the -- the subbasin is defined, again, not by State lines, it's defined by -- by says what I just say is not consistent with the the language. I think that -- JUSTICE BREYER: Which language is it not MR. ROTHFELD: Equal rights to use of Official It seems to me that on the face of it, that is saying State lines are not relevant and that what we are looking at is a pool of water the States can come and get it. And it is particularly so --downstream dam sites. So it has created a pool of water in the -- in this subbasin, and it says that all four States have equal rights to use of this water, provided that none takes more than percent. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. MR. ROTHFELD: If I may just -- I'm sorry. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. Finish. But I -- MR. ROTHFELD: And I think to the extent that there could be any ambiguity in the -- in that language viewed in isolation, in the context of the rest of the Compact, there are places where the drafters of the Compact, in fact, did refer to State lines. They said that States are entitled to use the water within their State boundaries, in the respective States may use the water within their boundaries. They did not -- the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think under your argument, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, that Louisiana could decide it doesn't want to wait for the flow of water to come to it, and it could just go right into Oklahoma, in which it shares no border, and I don't framers did not use that language in this provision. Official to that --about that. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me make two points First of all, I think that not only does it MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I will say two things know how it's going to do that, and take its percent. Does that make sense in terms of the language? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, you're talking about Texas, but Texas shares a border and so it may be a little easier to cross the borderline. But what's Louisiana going to do? make sense in the language, it's compelled by the language because the language says within this subbasin all four States have equal rights. Separately, there is another separate reach. Reach V of the -- the Compact is Louisiana's, and so the water flows into Louisiana. When the water gets to Louisiana, it's no longer within the subbasin, it's somewhere else. could take its water from within the subbasin. through to Arkansas to Louisiana, so it could go to Louisiana -- So the plain language of the Compact compels the reading -- compels the -- the point that Louisiana Now, could it do that? The subbasin runs JUSTICE BREYER: Go back to the first one Official And if I just heard that, then I might say okay, I think yours is a little better. But -- but we have this enormous administrative mess that would seem to be created, and both those interpretations seem because what you have done is you've pushed me back to the equal rights. And now if I am going to fight you on it, I have to say the equal rights to water means equal rights to water arising within its boundaries. And all you have to say is equal rights to water arising anywhere in the subbasin. possible. So let's go back to that and let me hear quite clearly, now that I've focused it, what's the answer? Justice Sotomayor and I will turn to that? is, the States are going to take the water from the closest point where they can get it. And so Louisiana into Subbasin , it's going to go to Arkansas directly across the State line. Does it have to apply to Texas? is not going to go to Oklahoma. If it's going to go MR. ROTHFELD: If I may just finish with I think the second answer to the question JUSTICE GINSBURG: How -- how does it do it? MR. ROTHFELD: It has to apply to whichever --Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: To Oklahoma. MR. ROTHFELD: If it's going to Oklahoma, and this is partially responsive to Justice Breyer, it would have to apply to the water authorities within Oklahoma. So what is going on here, Tarrant, the Texas water district, is applying to the Oklahoma Water Resources Board. It will seek a permit. This will operate precisely in the same way as if an Oklahoma applicant is seeking a permit. want to take water out of this point. The Water Resources Board will apply its ordinary standards to determine whether or not that can be granted. facilities to accomplish this diversion? that. If Tarrant needs to obtain rights of way, Oklahoma law provides for exercise of eminent domain, or understanding that there is a place where Texas can put a line into the river, and then a subset of that question is, the main stem of the river, through --without going through Oklahoma property, other than MR. ROTHFELD: Tarrant presumably will do Tarrant can simply purchase the property to do that. JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's -- it's my You will go to -- you will go and say, I JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who -- who erects the MR. ROTHFELD: Because -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or because of there's also JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you say entirely within Oklahoma, just because of ownership of the bank? MR. ROTHFELD: That -- that I think is not correct as a factual matter. The -- the Red River lies entirely within Oklahoma, and so Oklahoma, in order to get water out of the main stem, if -- if Texas were to do that, it would have to go into Oklahoma. And -- and in fact, this is in response to -- in part to what -- some intervening property between Texas and the bank that Oklahoma owns? Oklahoma and Texas is the south vegetation line of the Red River, so therefore it is out of the river past the bank to the vegetation line. So in order to get water out of the main stem, Oklahoma and -- Texas would have to go into Oklahoma. Now, there is -- prohibit that -- would, I would think, prevent -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: At any point? MR. ROTHFELD: At any point, because the MR. ROTHFELD: The -- the border between perhaps just the bank itself. Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do -- do the current laws MR. ROTHFELD: Oklahoma's current laws Official MR. ROTHFELD: Right. And that -- if I may, Justice Alito, that is -- that's a very misleading way laws that Tarrant is challenging here are laws that are discriminatory Oklahoma laws that prevent any use of water originating in Oklahoma outside. JUSTICE ALITO: When you say Texas has the right to go into Oklahoma, just -- just think about that phrase. That's -- that's very striking. I mean, it sounds like they are going to send in the National Guard or the Texas Rangers. of looking at it. And I think Oklahoma's brief suggests that the Texas Rangers are going to descend on Tulsa and seize the water. That is not what -- what is contemplated. Oklahoma -- that Texas has the right to force Oklahoma to take private property in Oklahoma by eminent domain if necessary. who has a permit to obtain water can exercise eminent domain. An Oklahoma person can do this. A Texas person can do this. MR. ROTHFELD: No, I -- there is an -- there is an Oklahoma statute that says in order to -- someone JUSTICE ALITO: But you were saying that CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How does -- how does Oklahoma apply its law in this situation? I assume Official MR. ROTHFELD: Well, Oklahoma cannot use more than percent of the water within the subbasin. I think that our friends concede that because the because another Oklahoma user has priority, or all this. How does that fit in with the existing administrative structure? there is normal priorities and they will get applications from a lot of people. But they have to --what do they have to give Texas? Up to percent? I mean, they can't just say -- deny it language of the Compact says no State is entitled to more than percent. resident water user of the State will apply to the Oklahoma -- if they are seeking to take their water from Oklahoma, it will apply to the Oklahoma Water Resources Board, which will assess that permit precisely as it assesses permits from Oklahoma residents. for that much water from a Texas user, and the Texas user has priority as a permit applicant against others who are seeking to take water from this particular --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess what I'm Within each State's percent allocation, a CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's got to give Texas at least up to its percent, right? MR. ROTHFELD: If -- if there is a request Official MR. ROTHFELD: No, it does not. It's -- The resources board will assess that permit asking is, does the Compact give Texas special priority apart from what Oklahoma -- Oklahoma's priorities would be? all -- all the Compact says is that Texas is entitled to take water from within the subbasin, its percent. Now when it applies in a particular place, as Tarrant has done here, it's going to apply -- be consistent with the Oklahoma -- Water Resources Board permit application policies, as it has done. application just as it would assess an application from -- application and to compare it to other applications from Oklahomans, and also maybe to compare it -- maybe there is more than one Texas application. submits an application, which has to demonstrate that it satisfies the standards for obtaining the water. That will be assessed on its merits by the Water Resources JUSTICE KAGAN: And what does that mean exactly? What would Oklahoma do to evaluate that decisions? Board. How does the Oklahoma board make those MR. ROTHFELD: It -- a permit applicant Official JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm really asking you to MR. ROTHFELD: Well, that is their current policy. That would not be all right. JUSTICE KAGAN: What -- what -- what If there are competing applications for the same water, then it's -- it's done in the terms of priority -- of --tell me what the Oklahoma board is going to do. I mean, why doesn't the Oklahoma board just say, you know, sorry, we like Oklahomans? Would that be all right? different kind of priorities do they have to use, and why do they have to use them, as I think -- somewhere along the lines of what the Chief Justice was asking? MR. ROTHFELD: I suppose there -- there are two points there. One is, if there is enough water to go around for everyone, as in fact there is, then they simply assess it in terms of priority in time. Whoever makes the first application will get it. right, so long as there is water available and Texas has not used its percent of the subbasin water. Texas has the right to seek that anywhere it can get it in the subbasin. However, Oklahoma can only get -- use percent of the water. And therefore, Texas has the If I may, Mr. Chief Justice. Official it please the Court: The court of appeals concluded that Oklahoma FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MS. O'CONNELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may may categorically foreclose Texas water users from accessing Reach II Subbasin water in Oklahoma, and the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. O'Connell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN O'CONNELL, court reached that conclusion for reasons that in the view of the United States are wrong. applying a presumption against preemption to determine whether the challenged Oklahoma laws conflict with the Compact. The rationale for that presumption where it has been applied is one of federalism, but the States themselves created the terms of the interstate Compact, and respect for the States as sovereigns in that context terms. general Compact provisions to conclude that the Compact gives States unrestricted authority to regulate the requires enforcement of the Compact according to its First, the Court of Appeals erred in Second, the court of appeals relied on water within their boundaries. But the general Official provisions of the Compact make clear that a State's regulation of water has to be consistent with the allocations made under the Compact, and each State's obligations under the Compact. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I am not quite sure I agree with your reading of the Court of Appeals' opinion. It seems to me the Court of Appeals' opinion is consistent with the Respondents' argument that they looked at the terms of the Compact. And it seems to me that you may be right that the Compact either says you get the water or you don't, and the dormant Commerce Clause is just irrelevant. But I read the opinion of the court of appeals as being quite consistent with that proposition. You win or you lose, up or down, under the Compact. The dormant Commerce Clause doesn't -- just doesn't have much to do with it. MS. O'CONNELL: Well, we agree with that. We don't think that the dormant Commerce Clause comes the water in Oklahoma through the Oklahoma permitting process depends entirely on whether the Compact gives them that right or not. into play here. We think that whether Texas can access JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's the way I read the analytic approach of the court of appeals at A, when it starts talking about the point of --Section .. MS. O'CONNELL: Right. And we don't disagree with that, that the -- that the commerce clause shouldn't come into play here. is with the Court of Appeals' conclusion that, regardless of whether a State law would frustrate the purpose or pose an obstacle to a State obtaining its share of water under the Compact, that that State law should prevail under the Compact. So the Compact makes clear that those general provisions preserving State water law need to be consistent with each State's obligations under the Compact. you're relying on the Compact and its language, where do you come up with this idea that States first have to try to get their percent from water within their borders? that that's an issue that, if the Court decided that -- that there are errors in the Court of Appeals' opinion that should be corrected, we think that's something the I don't see that anywhere. MS. O'CONNELL: Well, first of all, we think And if I could -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, where, if Official Where we disagree with the Court of Appeals court of -- that the lower courts could consider on remand. Official But I'll tell you where it comes from, which CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to me is Sections . and .(a) of the Compact, which preserve the application of State water law. Section . says that, "Each State may freely administer water rights and uses in accordance with the laws of that State, but that such -- such uses shall be subject to the availability of water in accordance with the Compact." that you like some provisions of State law, but not others. that if there's a State law that conflicts with the allocation or poses an obstacle to the allocation of water under the Compact, then it's preempted. But, for example, if Texas could access percent of the water from within its State, then the -- the application of a State law that would bar Texas water users from obtaining a portion of its water in Oklahoma wouldn't necessarily be preempted because it wouldn't pose an obstacle to the allocation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do -- what do you do with a situation -- let's say there's Oklahoma water available to Tarrant that is closer than MS. O'CONNELL: No. What we're saying is Official the water they would get from somewhere else in Texas. Do they have to incur the additional expense to get Texas water, or can they take the cheaper route and get Oklahoma water? MS. O'CONNELL: Well, we think -- again, we think this is a -- an issue for the court of -- for the lower courts to look at on remand, but we think there's a -- there's a good argument to be made that, so long as Texas could access percent of the water within its boundaries, then application of an Oklahoma law that would prohibit Texas from going through the Oklahoma permitting process wouldn't necessarily be preempted. And again, we -- these -- these -- there are lots of issues, as we point out in our brief and we did addressed, perhaps, in further proceedings or perhaps before the -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. O'Connell, isn't that a reason why we shouldn't accept your basic view? I mean, if -- if you think of all the issues that you laid out that are going to have to be decided and the difficulty of those issues -- I mean, you read this brief that you submitted, it gives you kind of a headache. That -- that -- you know, and it -- it suggests how difficult at the invitation stage, that would need to be the process is. MS. O'CONNELL: Justice Kagan, I'd like to, maybe this provision can be read as an entitlement, but it can just as easily, as -- as Justice Breyer suggested, be read as a cap, "no more than percent." So as between those two possible readings, the complexity of your way of reading this, which would have -- why? if I could, go to the second point, which is on the -- the -- whether you read this as a percent entitlement or a cap, and I would like to point the Court, not just to the language of the Compact, which we think weighs in favor of the idea that each right -- each State has an equal right and that the -- the equal right to use the water in the subbasin implies an equal right, not just an opportunity. But the interpretive comments that follow Section .(b) -- this is at page of the is Joint Appendix -- refer to a "right." The first full it's the -- the second line. "If the States have competing uses and the amount of water available in excess of , cubic feet per second cannot satisfy all such uses, each State will honor the other State's right paragraph there says, "When the flows" -- I'm sorry, Official And then you look at this provision, and to percent of the excess flow." Official The Red River Compact Commission also approved rules and regulations, and those say -- they're on page, I think, of the Joint Appendix. I might have that page -- yeah, I have that page wrong. But the -- the Red River Compact Commission's rules and regulations say that when the flow is above , cubic feet per second, so that Louisiana could get its , cubic feet per second, "each of the signatory States shall be entitled to percent of the total runoff in undesignated flow." So I think it -- it's pretty clear that based on the -- both the text of the Compact and the interpretive comments in the rules that the Red River Compact Commission came up with, that there is not just that doesn't amount to percent, but -- but that each State is entitled to percent of the water, and that if that involves going into another State within this geographic area that's not defined with respect to State boundaries, then that is permissible under the Compact. And as the Petitioner pointed out, when the States wanted to impose a State boundary restriction in the Compact, they did so. There are several subbasins that span more than one geographic -- or more than one State, and the Compact in those provisions says that you that you can take whatever is in your borders even if Official JUSTICE KAGAN: And what does that mean? What would Oklahoma do? MS. O'CONNELL: Well, the Oklahoma Water can take whatever you want within your boundaries. And I also don't think that this is going to be particularly troublesome to administer. I mean, there may need to be some further proceedings on that, but Oklahoma law provides the backdrop for what would happen when a Texas water user goes in to -- to ask for a permit to appropriate and divert water from within Oklahoma. Resources Board would just apply its normal procedures and laws to determine whether this particular use of water could be put to beneficial use. If -- they would applicant, regardless of whether they are from Texas or Oklahoma. that, and I -- I guess I just still don't understand the board is sitting there and it gets lots of applications from Oklahoma users. And let's say it also gets multiple applications from Texas users. That it's MS. O'CONNELL: Well -- JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, let's say Oklahoma, just apply whatever laws they would apply to any JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, people keep on saying quite what it means. And I -- and I -- the Court shouldn't be concerned. I know all -- I know there are amicus briefs submitted by other Texas entities that would like to not just one county, it's four counties. What does Oklahoma do to -- to decide who gets the water? Petitioner's counsel pointed out, there's a -- a priority in water law, where whoever submits the application first would -- would get the water if it's available and they can put it to beneficial use. have water from this particular subbasin as well. They're all part of the same Region C, and they -- I think they have some way to work it out. It's not -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't understand your answer. If -- if you're correct, wouldn't the Oklahoma board have to give priority to the Texas applicants in order to make sure that Texas got its share of the water? applicant. that Texas was not receiving its water. I mean, under -- under our theory, which we think could be It couldn't just treat -- it couldn't just be indifferent as to whether it was an Oklahoma or Texas MS. O'CONNELL: That -- true, to the extent Official MS. O'CONNELL: Well, I think just as -- as developed more in the lower courts, if Texas was already Official JUSTICE ALITO: Is it correct that -- that there are reservoirs in Texas that flow into -- from which water is released into the Red River? receiving percent of the water, then Oklahoma would not have to give it any kind of special priority. But if it -- if it was not, then the Oklahoma Water Resources Board would treat it just like an Oklahoma applicant. MS. O'CONNELL: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. And -- MS. O'CONNELL: And in Oklahoma as well. JUSTICE ALITO: And what if Texas didn't -- what if Texas could get -- could -- could release that water and increase the flow of the river, but it chose not to do so, so it could take other water out of the river? point made in the Respondent's brief -- JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. MS. O'CONNELL: -- and -- and the response to that would just be that all of the States would have the opportunity to do that. In fact, the whole subbasin is defined by the last major dam site on the tributaries that are running in. So Oklahoma could do the same MS. O'CONNELL: This -- this is the last thing. Official And also, when the reservoirs are full, they're full. It's not like Texas could keep all of the water that's -- that's there from flowing into the bottom portion of that tributary. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, we're only considering the instance where there isn't enough water to meet the percent in Texas. And in that instance, I guess there are , places, not just in Oklahoma, but also in Arkansas, where they might get some. And all my question, and I think that was being asked, is there anything else you want to say as to why that's an easy matter to decide? think it needs to be decided in this particular of Appeals made in applying a presumption against preemption and in concluding that a Texas water user could never divert water from outside of its State. could be dealt with by the Oklahoma Water Resources Board or as you said, perhaps in the original action. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Blatt? ORAL ARGUMENT OF LISA S. BLATT Those could be developed -- those additional problems I think there are two errors that the Court MS. O'CONNELL: Well, I -- it's -- we don't proceeding. Official and may it please the Court: If I could just address two sort of factual questions. Under the -- the actual Red River Boundary ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS MS. BLATT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, Compact, the lawyer for Tarrant was wrong. There's actually a strip called Shawnee Creek, from the Denison Dam to the Shawnee Creek, that actually belongs to Texas. So there's a piece of the Red River in this very subbasin that is -- it's in the express Boundary Compact. Texoma that is in Texas is part of the main stem, and water, quite a lot of water, from Lake Texoma. So that's two places on the main stem. directly from the main stem? MS. BLATT: It can and does. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's my point, yeah. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Anywhere close to of CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are they licensed? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I'm sure -- you're --you're saying that the State of Texas can take water that is not only in the land of Texas, Texas users draw the percent they claim entitlement to? Moreover, all of the Red River and Lake did. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm talking about Subbasin . MS. BLATT: Subbasin , these are all --Official MS. BLATT: Well, who knows? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was hoping you (Laughter.) MS. BLATT: Who knows? Texas has more than a dozen fresh tributaries running from Subbasin and Subbasin . excuse me -- these are tributaries that run into Subbasin . There is more than a dozen tributaries in Subbasin . knows," that is the way the drafters -- it's not only the way the drafters intended, but that has been the state of play for years. view, Texas can, without going on Oklahoma property, take water from the main stem in Basin ? For years no one has ever kept track of any kind of accounting whatsoever, so when we say, "who MS. BLATT: In Subbasin , there is only up from Denison Dam east to Shawnee Creek. So that's just So nobody -- and in the laws of Louisiana and Arkansas don't even track diversions. So -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just to be clear, in your Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But my question was, can they take it from the main stem --MS. BLATT: Only in that -- that little slip anywhere from a half a mile to three-quarters. It runs from the -- from the middle of the channel. East -- excuse me, west is Lake Texoma, and if you want to look at the map, it's a big old lake. That is a lot of water. And they definitely do take --and that's in the brief -- they take lots of water from that lake from the Texas side. of land to Shawnee Creek. It's -- it's a part of Texas -- under their allegation at least, is saline? water in Subbasin . part that -- to -- saline? MS. BLATT: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- when they say it's too MS. BLATT: Yes. They think --JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- they are referring MS. BLATT: Yes. They think all the water JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that the part that, MS. BLATT: Well, again, they drink the JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Is that the Official salty, but they drink it. that their residents drink is salty, but they still are drinking it. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Texans. MS. BLATT: They're drinking it. In fact, JUSTICE SCALIA: When they -- MS. BLATT: I understand they think it's they're -- footnote and footnote , their water planning documents, say this is a -- quite a -- a drinkable source of water. JUSTICE SCALIA: When they take water from the main stream of the Red River, how do they know how much of that water is from Reach V? MS. BLATT: Well, the --JUSTICE SCALIA: They are -- they are entitled to -- to no more than percent from Reach V. Is everything that -- that comes into Texas in the main channel of the Red River water from Reach V? look at the map in the red brief that's got all the -- the colors, and the pink is Subbasin . So where they divert water from is all up and down those blue tributaries that are in pink south of the Red River. MS. BLATT: So if you look at the -- if you JUSTICE SCALIA: Now what page are you looking at? Official know -- MS. BLATT: So they -- and then if you look at that -- that blue lake that looks like a dragon, that is also where they are -- they are taking water. JUSTICE SCALIA: What --MS. BLATT: That just happens to be in Reach MS. BLATT: This is A -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, okay. MS. BLATT: -- this map. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I didn't I. documents show that all the water in the pink on the Texas side is a very valuable source of drinking water. And if you see, all the way down to Lake Texarkana, they can -- they are taking that water, too. And when we say about what we know, no one has ever done any accounting because the Equal Rights Clause has always been read as equal rights to the use of the water without prejudice to or from each other's State, and, in that sense, it means that if one State took an earlier use of the water, it wouldn't gain a priority indefinitely over the other States. JUSTICE SCALIA: Reach I. Okay. MS. BLATT: But their water planning CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it never -- it So I -- I guess it's -- I don't know why MS. BLATT: Right. I mean, it is our But I do think it is absolutely critical to Official never says that. I mean, that's why we have a case. It never says it has to be from your State. And I appreciate your -- the focus in your these basic principles of State sovereignty apply in the context of an interstate compact. argument on State sovereignty, but this is an interstate Compact. And the whole point of interstate compacts is that we have to -- each State has to give up a little here or a little there to solve a problem. position that the States would have never agreed to this extraordinary right without an -- an unequivocal explicit statement. understand that what they are asking for is unprecedented, Mr. Chief Justice. There has never been a cross-border diversion, ever, under any State water compact. And the two examples they cite in their reply brief are inexplicable -- absolutely inexplicable. They cite the Niobrara Compact with no cite. They -- they cite the Compact, but they never say there has been a cross-border diversion. And if you look on the map --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Say that again, because Official MS. BLATT: Yeah, under explicit right. There has never been a cross-border diversion without an explicit statement. Not only -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because there have been many, many -- MS. BLATT: Many with explicit statements we have a green brief that gives us samples of provisions for cross border. and then the essential bells and whistles as to eminent domain, points of diversion, and which choice of law. And what they tried to say because we have been saying all along how unprecedented this would be to sort of read in silence on borders, they tried to come up with two examples in their reply brief. reply brief is not only -- is devoid of a citation, but Nebraska and Wyoming told both us, and Wyoming told Tarrant's counsel, that there have never been diversions. And Nebraska was quite -- like, wow, we hadn't known that. And it shows the danger of their position. They think if it's silent as to borders, the State of Wyoming can go hundreds of miles into Nebraska and take the water across the border. The other example they cite is fascinating because it's a lawsuit before you. They cite the Rio And that's what I'm talking about. The Official Grande Compact as a basis of saying El Paso can walk into New Mexico, but their lawsuit to you is based on the notion that Texas can't go into New Mexico. It's New Mexico has a downstream delivery. So --and there are representatives of all four States, and as JUSTICE BREYER: But there was a point, it seems to me, to favor them, which is go back to --the 's, when they drafted this. MS. BLATT: I'm there. JUSTICE BREYER: So they are in the room, they say, okay, there is going to be more than , feet, what happens? And Louisiana would say, we want at least percent, done. Arkansas, percent, done. Oklahoma, same, done. Texas, same, done. could never get more than percent within its borders. And since it could never get -- more than percent, Louisiana would be sitting there with not really percent but with . And so -- so -- - - - - --MS. BLATT: But with all due -- sorry. JUSTICE BREYER: -- that would suggest that, hey, no, they all knew this and so they meant there must be some way for Texas to get the extra. Otherwise, why were they saying percent for Texas? If --But everybody in the room knows that Texas MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer. Justice Breyer. Official MS. BLATT: Oh. Well, the -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- an imaginary MS. BLATT: Oh. JUSTICE BREYER: But if in an imaginary conversation. conversation -- JUSTICE BREYER: You know, this is an example I made up because I think --It's just not true. What they cite to is a engineering report -- MS. BLATT: Well, okay. percent of the watershed is in Texas, so there is no reason to think anyone thought Texas couldn't get its share. evidence there was any discussion about any State and whether -- Texas never complained. No one ever said Texas couldn't get its water. MS. BLATT: If you -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- to find out whether, you know, Texas was just on some little salt flat -- MS. BLATT: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: -- near the river and -- JUSTICE BREYER: Wouldn't that be a fairly easy thing to check going back to -- JUSTICE BREYER: Why? MS. BLATT: There's no -- because there's no Official MS. BLATT: We did. They did in their They -- they double-counted streams. They forgot that Subbasin is not only runoff but also rain. And then -- this one's humorous -- they didn't count the excess. So all the -- all the math that they did favored Texas, so the math didn't come out that way. But what's interesting about the Tarrant's brief, and they came up with an to percent. Our engineers ran the numbers after correcting their three-series method -- methodological errors, and we came up with percent. view in juxtaposing with the United States' view, Tarrant's view is it could have all the water, but they could get all of it still from Oklahoma. So Louisiana, Arkansas, and -- and Texas could come take all their share from Oklahoma, forcing Oklahoma to have to go south. I -- they read a border limitation in there. They say, you got to let them come in. That -- that's the United States. their reliance on the Russello principle because they read borders into this. Texas has actually disavowed look, borders are here, but if Texas really needs it, They definitely -- which I don't understand Now the United States' view, and this is Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what do you think is the remedy? Meaning -- MS. BLATT: The remedy? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- let me just posit the point, okay? I understand your point to the Chief that there's been no proof that Texas doesn't get its this view. Tarrant's disavowed it. They disavowed it to the Tenth Circuit when the Tenth Circuit asked for what their standing would to be to press it. They said, we've never claimed this. percent or that it couldn't get it from the main stem or somewhere. I accept that. there's a major drought and Texas can't get it from its getting -- entitles it to. It's the last statement. The Compact no way, no how entitles the parties to equal MS. BLATT: Okay. portion. What's its remedy? MS. BLATT: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: MS. BLATT: Okay. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: MS. BLATT: Yeah. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- percent --So let's ---- as the Compact But let's, for the hypothetical, say that Yeah. Here --So that -- that it's not Official percent. It just doesn't say equal rights to a numerical share. It doesn't say equal rights to a numerical quantity. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It says, "shall have MS. BLATT: Right. And you and I could have equal rights to the use of runoff originating in Subbasin ." equal rights to the use of the family car or equal rights to the use of the highway. That doesn't tell me anything about how many hours I can spend on the highway. with the cap. Okay? Their view is that the first clause gives you an absolute equal right to a fixed percent, no exceptions. But then you have this provided clause which does no work for them. The provided clause, which says you don't get any more than percent, they are saying, well, by definition, if you get exactly percent, the State can take no more than percent. So they actually just sort of combine the two. because I -- I feel a lot of affinity for the United States, but their proof -- But here's the problem. The real problem is The other -- I hate to point this out CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You feel a lot of what? Official why there's an equal percent. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are representing They say well, we're guaranteed an equal MS. BLATT: Affinity for them. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh. MS. BLATT: But listen to their proof for percent share, and they cite the compliance rules on page . And entertainingly so, the rules that they cite just disprove what they said. United States' view, is there's a guarantee of percent of any amount that's in excess of ,. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this is a -- a perfectly legitimate argument for you to make, but I want you to assume -- I know you don't agree with that -- I want you to assume that the Compact gives Texas a right to percent of the -- of the excess --They divided it by instead of . Their view, the want to go back to Justice Sotomayor's question. At least as I understood it, it's this, I The first rule they cite only gave States. Oklahoma. them. MS. BLATT: I am, but I used to work for of the water above the cubic foot. Official Now, wouldn't the Compact be meaningless if Texas couldn't actually reach that water? MS. BLATT: That is -- that is the United MS. BLATT: The excess, yeah. JUSTICE KENNEDY: I want you to assume that. States' view, and they'd have to go above it. What they would have to do, which no one else -- no one has done -- and I think the drafters thought it was ultimately impossible because of Arkansas and Louisiana, is call for an accounting and actually figure out what the total was, figure out what the excess was, divvy up the shares, do exactly what Tarrant wants I guess to happen, which has never happened, and it's not clear to the drafters of the compliance rules that it could in Arkansas and Louisiana. But -- so in other words, if we lost this case, which is probably why Tarrant is disavowing the United States' view, is Texas would be in quite of a percent. And so I read Tarrant as saying, don't you dare send us back to try to prove that. We want to be able to go whole hog into Oklahoma. And if I could get to the point that Justice Kagan was talking about, what's on the ground happening, fact ever happen because of the riparian laws of pickle trying to prove they couldn't get their Official The first is prior appropriation. There are Texas entities that have signed up for permits: The would not have agreed to this, and it would have been carefully articulated in a Compact. and why Oklahoma would have never agreed to this type of cross-border right because what Tarrant is doing is exploiting Oklahoma's law, which proceeds on the assumption that water in Oklahoma is a public trust that's held for the exclusive benefits of Oklahoma. And there are three ways where Oklahoma Upper Trinity, the North Texas Municipal Water District, Irving and Tarrant. And poor Oklahoma City got sandwiched in the middle. It beat -- it beat Trinity to the permit office by hours. And so not surprisingly, it's open season for Oklahoma water, all of north Texas has come in and sought a permit and there's priority. problem. Even if you take within State, all of these people, if they were applying for water in Texas as well, there'd be the same issue there. One of them would beat the other one. It's a question of priority. You're just claiming that everybody from Oklahoma should have -- well, not absolute priority, but -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that's the same MS. BLATT: Well, I have two points. First, Official had -- had Oklahoma seen this coming, since they hadn't heard about this until Tarrant filed its application, Oklahoma City certainly would have gotten in line faster. And second of all, the whole point of this Compact -- and if you think about your equitable apportionment doctrines, which whoever gets to the water first gets a prior -- gets a priority permanently --this was the point of the Compact. Louisiana and Arkansas wouldn't have to develop their water, Texas and Oklahoma were much more economically developed States, and the equal rights prevented a race to the permit office. Let me get to the second aspect what's a problem, and that is, compacts usually spell out the points of diversion. The last place Oklahoma would have picked as the point of diversion is the Kiamichi River, and Tarrant is saying, not surprisingly, it's the most desirable. assumption that those are Oklahomans who got the permit, and thus can exercise a core sovereign power, and Tarrant, not surprisingly, would like to come in and do that. And none of this is happening with the And the third is the eminent domain. Eminent domain law in Oklahoma proceeds on the Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Blatt, does Oklahoma MS. BLATT: Well, it's -- if it's compacted water, you have to get legislative approval and --JUSTICE GINSBURG: Just here and now, does law in any circumstance permit an appropriation of water -- water in Oklahoma for out-of-State use? normal political checks in Oklahoma. Oklahoma can't vote out of office the Tarrant officials. It cannot vote out of office the Upper Trinity or the North Texas Municipal Water District. Oklahoma ever -- use of its water? MS. BLATT: It has not. It could, but the -- but Tarrant is correct that there are facial differences with respect to out-of-State. So out-of-State users would have to get the water going faster, it's subject to a review. And there's a there's a better use for Oklahoma. gather their view is under the dormant Commerce Clause is all of those laws are constitutional with respect to percent of the Compact, which is it's allocated to -- MS. BLATT: Yes, it can. JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- permit out-of-State statement in there that you need to look and see if Now, I hope you ask them this because I Official And this -- their view would make complete to Oklahoma for its free and unrestricted use. So they're basically saying there's percent of this Compact that's unconstitutional. And not only is it percent, the minute it drops below ,, all of a sudden, it became. And on this, we'd like to talk to the Russello principle. I also hope you ask them, this is on page A of -- A of the A brief. There are border references arbitrarily and they're missing, they're there. It's completely inconsistent. mincemeat out of other provisions of the Compact. And ironically, it would march a lot of States into Texas. But back to (b) -- (b)() and .(c) operate identical in that they're basically downstream delivery, where all States have to release percent of the water downstream. So they -- they're the same. They're absolutely identical. says, "within their respective States." And yet even in (c), it's completely redundant and unnecessary because you can't release water from without your State. You hold on to , you let percent go. But only (c) contains that border reference. Only (c) JUSTICE SCALIA: Where is this? Where is this? Where is this? Official MS. BLATT: This is on page A and A --Tarrant thinks that there's some heretofore sorry -- of the red brief. So only (c) says within their respective States, but (b)() is the exact same functioning provision, and it's missing the border reference. And I -- you don't have time now to ask the United States' view, but I think the United States would agree with us that if you give this border thing kind of the magical meaning, borders kind of appear and disappear with the water flow, which is very strange. unheard of crediting system, but they don't have an explanation on how (b)() and (c) -- but more importantly, if you could just turn to A for just a minute, which is , I want to walk you through this --I'm sorry, (b). This is a provision that -- this is water wholly within Texas. And you don't have to understand much to know that Texas keeps , Oklahoma gets . is allocated and Oklahoma is allocated . Now, under Tarrant's view, because this is silent as to borders and because Oklahoma is not in this Reach, it's not actually located within the subbasin, Oklahoma either is entitled to or has to go get all of its water from Texas. And this pattern repeats itself -- this is So you have a big chunk of Texas, and Texas Official on page of our brief -- throughout the Compact, where the Compact is silent as to borders, and under their view -- and their Louisiana view is somewhat entertaining. I can't tell if they think Louisiana can go into Oklahoma or has to move one inch up to the border to take it out as opposed to just waiting, but under this view -- and again, it repeats itself throughout the contract -- the State that's not in the basin because there are no borders and because, I guess under their view, the only way that Oklahoma to get its water would be to go into Texas, and that's why they're sort of taking this bit about, oh, this Russello principle, if it's here, it must mean -- it must have had the United States. I just wanted to make -- to make three points. And that is, I do think it is significant that it's pointed -- it is addressed to a problem that Texas itself has never asserted. They're saying well, poor Texas can't get its water. And remember, Texas is upstream, so this sort of poor Texas is only to Texas. No other State is going to have this problem because the rest are downstream.significance, would make a complete mess of the Compact. If I could also just turn to the remand of So this you have to be able to get to your Official JUSTICE BREYER: In Subbasin , that's mostly in Oklahoma, but Texas gets a lot of the water or the other way around? It looked to me like Subbasin 's in Oklahoma. MS. BLATT: Which reach? JUSTICE BREYER: Subbasin . It says percent is a uniquely pro-Texas provision that apparently at the same time for years of drafting history when Texas was trying to buy this water, and the three States were saying, no way, no how, they either subconsciously or unconsciously or unintentionally enacted this provision for Texas's benefit. Subbasin . that's on this map -- the next map. So none of it -- it's all within the green, the same with the panhandle of Texas. Anyway -- because during the time when, let's say, there's MS. BLATT: Are you talking about ? JUSTICE BREYER: Oh yeah, . MS. BLATT: Okay. So that's in Reach . So MS. BLATT: Yeah. JUSTICE BREYER: -- because of that and JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I get it. I get it. , feet of the -- of the , extra, you know, Official MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer, you have to trust me. There has never been an accounting ever, ever, ever, ever under this Compact. JUSTICE BREYER: So, so -- - in other words --MS. BLATT: No measurements have ever been JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. So that -- I don't Louisiana has to get . Okay. How do they know whether they're getting it? I mean, how -- there must be some system of measurement going on or how does this all work? taken with respect to this. know how that cuts because certainly the people who drew this must have thought at least in those other system in case of controversy. MS. BLATT: Well, there are gauges. So they -- I mean, it would not be impossible, although very expensive. And just so you know, Section , and in the interpretive comments of , the State said the last thing we want is this accounting because it's expensive and burdensome. And Louisiana and Arkansas, if you look at the minutes, they are complaining because their laws are not set up for accounting. They are riparian States, so they don't track diversions. They provisions they are going to develop a measurement just -- they don't do it. Official MS. BLATT: Okay. So when you comment -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why does that follow? MS. BLATT: Right. Okay. So in the -- the So this was -- this is -- when you talk about how this cuts, you have years of silence -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- I don't understand what you just said, "They're riparian States, so they don't track diversions." Oklahoma and Texas, in their permitting system, what they permit, they track how much you take under the permit. They measure. it's a voluntary reporting system, so you don't necessarily have to tell the State how much you took out. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MS. BLATT: So one is a permitting system, and in Louisiana and Arkansas -- and, I think, again, the minutes just talk about we hope Louisiana and Arkansas will develop their laws to do better tracking of diversions. But again, this would be the problem of an accounting. JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. MS. BLATT: Louisiana, if you are a landowner, you just draw from the water and it's a -- Official But I -- so in terms of the years of history, you have complete silence on this, even though, under our view, it always -- JUSTICE BREYER: The relevant legal measured it. That's because they never fought about it, argument, I think, is look at what you just cited to us about this Reach in the subbasin. percent goes to Texas, percent to Oklahoma. MS. BLATT: Right. JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, they've never I guess. And now we have a fight. So why is it any easier to develop the necessary measuring system there -- MS. BLATT: Well --JUSTICE BREYER: -- than it would be here? MS. BLATT: -- the disaster -- JUSTICE BREYER: And that argues against you because your main point, really, is that this is all too complicated --MS. BLATT: Justice Breyer, the disaster would be and the affront to sovereignty is throughout the Compact, not so much the measuring that's a problem. Oklahoma would be able to insist on crossing Texas's borders to draw that percent. And no one has ever, ever envisioned any of the Compact as not applying Official borders. It's not so much the measurement. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought that MS. BLATT: Okay. But if their view -- I mean, it is that they have to -- again, our view is that if they had wanted, like all the other cross-border was what your -- the other side does envision, that it doesn't -- it's not bound by the borders, but it's bound by the agreement, the Compact. Compacts compromise the individual State sovereignty. That's the whole point of them. rights, to allow for an extraordinary right, they would have made an explicit statement and then spelled out exactly what that meant, most importantly the point of diversion. Here, at most you have silence on the issue. sometimes because they say you do have borders unless there is a need. Under Tarrant's view, which I think is the most jarring and remarkable view, this is all a borderless common, and every State could have criss-crossing pipelines into every State because you don't have an exhaustion requirement. So Texas, even though it's got plenty of water in its fresh water streams and currently uses them, could take their whole percent from Oklahoma. Oklahoma could take its whole percent from Texas. Arkansas could come into Now, the government reads into borders Official But the provision -- the Compact doesn't say Oklahoma -- and that's their view of the world. And I think the United States thought, no, that doesn't make too much sense. Let's at least make Texas exhaust. this. Again, the United States and Tarrant proceed on the assumption that there is a numerical share, that it's equal rights to an exact percent, exact percent. Well, that's not what it says. It just says equal rights to the use subject to a cap, and we think a cap by limiting the use is not a guarantee that you can reach the cap, much less that you can cross borders to reach the cap. general here today spoke of lots of different examples where the language of entitlement and rights was used. Do you have a view as -- as to that? say -- that's what I was saying that was sort of sad is because what they cited disproved what they were trying to assert it for. MS. BLATT: So they -- you mean the two compliance rules they cited? They cited -- so they And if I could just make one more sense --JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Blatt, the solicitor So if you -- you don't even have to read the -- you don't even have to read the compliance rules. Official I don't know why they -- it's inexplicable. I can't tell you why they did that. Just read page of their brief. They say in the same sentence that we have an equal -- there's an equal right to one-fourth of an excess above ,. So that means you take whatever is above , and divide by four equally. And then they cite a provision that only divides by . And then the next provision they cite didn't divide the excess, it divided the total water. And the only other thing I want to say on the extrinsic evidence, and I do think -- if you think there's any ambiguity in here, which I think there clearly is, you have years of post ratification, which the States immediately did long-term water planning without so mentioning of this right. And Tarrant actually offered to buy the same water for $. billion in , which is a little bit inconsistent with the notion that they had this right all along. They just, in months of negotiating history, never mentioned that they thought they owned the water, they were actually offering to pay . million. And the amicus brief filed by the Tribes, on page , says we were at the negotiating table and we never heard Tarrant mention this right. And the other thing, I do think the water Official planning documents are highly significant because not so much Louisiana and Arkansas, but Oklahoma and Texas take water planning very seriously because of their prior appropriation systems. There are hundreds of thousands of pages on the Internet and none of them mention this right. Again, they cited something in their reply brief, but if you go look at it, it doesn't come close to mentioning a right of Subbasin . Again, ironically it mentioned a portion of Oklahoma where Texas would have to actually buy the water. We'd ask you to affirm. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Rothfeld, you have four minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. Just a couple of points. First, my friend, Ms. Blatt, said that it would make mincemeat and a complete mess out of the Compact to apply its terms as they were written. We think that this Compact was negotiated over a period of years. If you look at the Joint Appendix, you will very painfully see that there are reams and reams of commentary on the -- on the negotiations. Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do you deal with all the provisions she was mentioning with respect to the / division? I can't make rhyme or reason of those provisions that don't use within State boundaries, I think the Court has to assume that when the drafters of the Compact used language and referred to State lines in one place and not in another place, they had some idea of what they were doing and they made these different choices intentionally. So I think the Court simply should read the terms of the Compact -- but it has to mean that. MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I don't think that it has to mean that. If Oklahoma wants to enter Texas to take -- if it makes more sense for them to do it, they can. If not, they can just wait for the water to flow down. I think one thing which -- which Ms. Blatt did not address is the practicalities of how Subbasin operates. If you look at the map that was pointed out to you, Subbasin , which is what we're talking about here, is a very wide -- hundreds of miles wide, but extremely narrow. It's to miles wide -- north to south for most of its length. the States all take -- the assumption was all of the The reason the drafters drew this is because Official water in this Subbasin was going to be surplus water, literally excess water. The States all take the water that they want to use outside of Subbasin , and so the -- the allocations that Ms. Blatt was referring to by Oklahoma are all in Subbasin , they are not in Subbasin . The water that flows into Subbasin is water that the States assumed was going to be surplus. And so it would make no sense, having divided this water evenly between the compacting States, to think that the drafters would have required a water user in Texas at the far west end, which would get its portion of the percent share two miles across the border in Oklahoma, instead to have to go miles to the east to get it out of Texas. accomplish by this. They created, by the plain terms of the -- of the language, a common pool of water defined by dam site, not by State line, and gave each State equal rights to access that water so long as they did by Justice Kagan both to me and Ms. Blatt, I think the practical application of this is very simple. One simply has to apply to the permitting authorities, wherever you're submitting your application from, they That is not what the drafters intended to not use more than percent. Your response to a question which was raised Official will apply their ordinary standards. The Oklahoma Water Resources Board does that now for applications from within Oklahoma, it can do it just as well for applications from Texas or other from other States. And, again, the practicality of this is, water users are going to want to use water as close to where they are located as they can. They're going to go right across the State line within Subbasin if that's the place to get the water. It makes no sense to require them to go hundreds of miles distant to get it. Ms. Blatt suggested that we are reading the percent limitation out of the Compact. I think her reading reads the equal rights language out of the Compact. They read the Subbasin language as being all gives equal rights to the water, and then says that you can't take more than percent within your State. So it's designed to do two things. It's designed to give you an entitlement and to say you can only use And finally, Ms. Blatt raised questions of -- of sovereignty and political concern. As the Chief Justice suggested, this is a Compact that's an agreement between coordinate sovereigns. They have decided what they want to do. And the thing that gives respect to capped and no entitlement. It does two things. It percent of it. Official sovereignty is to write -- is to read the plain language of the Compact as the framers wrote it. Again, they spent years writing it. They took considerable care, as you can tell if you look at the negotiating history, in using the words for each provision. Those words should be given meaning. If there are no further questions. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial : :, : : :, : : articulated : asked : : basic : : basically : : basin :,, : : basis : beat :,, asking : : behalf :, :,, : : : : : aspect : assert : asserted : assess : assessed : assesses : assistant : assume : :, : : bells : belongs : : : benefit : benefits : better : : : big : : billion : :, : beneficial : : : authorities : : : : : : : availability : available : assumed : assumption : bit : : blatt : : :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : : :,, :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,,, :,,, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : backdrop : bank :,, bar : bargain : based : b : :, back : : :,, : B blue : : : A allegation : able : : allocate : : allocated : : aboveentitled : : :, allocates : allocation : :,, absolute : : absolutely : allocations : : : allow : : accept : allowed : alludes : ambiguity : : : access : : : : : amicus : : accessing : accomplish : : accounting : : : :, : : action : actual : additional : : : : : amount : : : : analytic : ann : : : : : : :, : : : :, applications : : : :, :, applied : applies : apply :, :, : :, : :,, : : : : applying : : : : : apportionment : appreciate : approach : answer :, appropriate : : appropriation anyway : apart : administer : administrative : : : affinity : appeals :, : :, :, : :, : address : : addressed : apparently : approval : approved : : april : arbitrarily : area : : areas :, : arent : argues : argument : :,,, : :, : : : : : : : : : affirm : affront : agree :, : : agreed : : : :, agreement : applicant : appendix : appears : appearances appear : : : : : : : : al : alito :,, : :, :, : : : : : applicants : application : :,,, arising :, arkansas : : : : : : : : : : authority : Official combine : checks : closer : chief :, : closest : :, : colors : : :, : :, come :, :, : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : comes : : :, : : : : :, : coming : : comment : commentary :, : : :, :, : :, : compacted : compacting : : : compacts : : : : : compare : : compelled : compels : choice : choices : chose : chunk : circuit :, circumstance : citation : cite :,, commission :, : : :, commissions : :, : :, cited : : :,, : common : : comments : competing : commerce : complained: : : :, : : : : : : complainingcomplete : : : : completely : : compact :, complex :,: : complexity : : : : :,:,,, :,,,, : : :, compliance:, : :, : :,,, complicated:,,,, :, : compromise:,,, concede : :,, concern : : :, :,,, concerned : conclude : : :, concluded : :,,, concluding: : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : conclusion : : conflict : conflicts : : : board :, : :, :, : : :, : : : : border : : : : :, : :, :, : : borderless : borderline : borders : : :, : :, :, : : : :,,, : bottom : bound :, boundaries : : :, : : : : : : boundary : :, breyer :,, : :, :, : : : : :,,, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, brief : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : : :, : briefs : burdensome : buy : : : Cc :,,,: : : :,,,:,cactus :call :called : : cant :, : : : : : :: :,: ::cap :,: :,:,capped :car :care :carefully :case : : : ::,categorically:certainly ::challenged:challenging :channel ::charles : : : : : cheaper :check :city : : claim : claimed : claiming : clause : :,, : : :,, : clear : : : : : : clearer : clearly : : clement : cliffs : close : : : Official connell : : consider : considerable considering : : consistent : :, : :,, : constitutional : contains : contemplated : context : : : contract : control : controversial : controversy : conversation :, coordinate : core : correct : : : : : corrected : correcting : couldnt : : :, : :, counsel : : : : : : count : counties : county : couple : : court :, :,,, : : : courts : : definitely : :,,, :,,, :,,, : : : : : : :, : : created : : : : crediting : creek :, : : crisscrossing : critical : cross : : : decisions : defined :, :, : : : defines : definite : : definition : delivery : demonstrate denison : : : : deny : department : : depends : crossborder : descend : describes : describing : designed : :, : : : crossing : cubic : : :, : disagree : :, disappear : disaster : : disavowed : :, disavowing discriminatory : : discussion : disprove : disproved : disregard : distant : district : : : : : domain : :, : :, dont : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, dormant : :, : doublecounted : downside : diversion : downstream : : :, : :, : : :, : dozen :, diversions : drafted : drafters : :, : curiae : : : current : : : currently : cuts : : Dd :,,,:dam : : : :: :danger :dare :deal :dealt :decide : : : :decided :: : desirable : details : determine : divert : : : :, : : develop : : : : : : divide :, divided : : : developed : divides : : : : devoid : didnt : : doctrines : division : divvy : :, : : :, :, drafting : dragon : draw : : : drawn : drew : :, : differences : different : : :,, : : : difficult : : difficulty : directly : : : documents : drink : : : : doesnt : : drinkable : drinking :,: :,, : : : : :, : drops : : :,, drought : : :, : due : Ee : :, doing : : : earlier : easier : : easily : east : : : : : :, : :,, :,, : : : :, :, : :, explanation existing : expense : expensive : : easy : : equally : economically : either : : : el : eminent : :, : :, enacted : enforcement : engineering : engineers : enormous : enter : entertaining entertainingly entirely :, entities : : : : : entitled : : :, : : : :, : : entitlement : :, : : :, equitable : erects : erred : errors : : : esq :,, :,,, essential : essentially : et : evaluate : evenly : everybody : : evidence : : exact :,, : :, exactly : : : : example : : : examples : : : exceptions : excess : :, : :, : : :, : entitles :, exclusive : envision : exclusively : excuse : : envisioned : equal :, : : : : : :,, : :, : exercise : : : exhaust : exhaustion Official : explicit : :,, : exploiting : express : : expressly : :, extent : : extra : : extraordinary : : extremely : : extrinsic : F face : facial : facilities : fact : : : : : : : : : factual : : fairly : family : far : fascinating : faster : : favor : : favored : federalism : feel :, feet : : fresh : : friend : friends : frustrate : full : :, functioning : further : : : Gg : gain : gather : gauges :general : :, : :geographic:, getting :: ginsburg : : : : : :: :, :gist : give : : :, : : :: ::given :gives :: : : :: :,go : : : :, :,,,:, : : :: :: :,: : :, : : :,:, : : fight : : figure :, filed : : filled : finally : find : fine : : finish : : first : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : fit : fixed : flat : flow : : : : : :, :, : : flowing : flows : : : focus : focused : follow : : foot : footnote :, force : forcing : foreclose : forgot : fought : four : : : : : : : : : framers : : free : freely : Official : : :, goes : : : hate : headache : hear : : heard : : going :, : : herrmann : held : heres : heretofore :,,, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : hey : : : : : : : :, :, :, highly : highway :, history : : : : : good : gotten : government : hog : hold : honor : hope : : : grande : granted : hoping : green : : hours : ground : guarantee : humorous : hundreds : : : guaranteed : guard : guess : : : : : : : : H hadnt : : half : happen : :, happened : happening : : happens : : : : : : : hypothetical : I id : idea : : : identical : : ii : ill : im :, : :, : : : : : : : : imaginary : : immediately : implies : importantly : : impose : impossible : : inch : includes : inconsistent : : increase : incur : indefinitely : indented : indifferent : individual : inexplicable :, : insist : instance :, intended : : intent : intentionally : interesting : internet : interpretations: interpretive: : : interstate : :,,intervening: invitation : involves : ironically : : irrelevant : irving : isnt : : : isolation : issue : : : : : issues :, : ive : Jjarring :job :,john :joint : : : : :, :,,, :, : :,, : :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, : : : :,: : : : juxtaposing: Kkagan ::, : : :,: :: :keep : : keeps :kennedy : :,,,:, : :,,,: : :justice : : : : : :,,, :, :, : :,, :, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :, : :,,, :, :, : :, kept :: :, :,, : :, :, : : :, :,, :,, : know : : :,,, : : :,,, : :,: :,, : :, :, : : :,: : : ::,,, : :,: :,, : ::,,, known ::,,, kiamichi :kind : : : :: :,kinds :knew :knows :,, Official : limiting : line : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, :,, : measurements : narrow : national : measuring : near : :, nebraska : louisianas : mechanism : lower : : :, :,necessarilylines : : :, : : lisa : : : listen : literally : little : : : :, : : located : : : long : : : : longer : longterm : look : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : looked : : looking : : : looks : lose : lost : lot : : : : :, : : lots : : : : louisiana : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : : Mm : : : magical :main : : : :,: :: :,: :major ::map : : : ::, : march :math :,matter : : : :mean : : :,, : : :: ::, : :, : :, : :, : : :,meaning :: :meaningless:means :: ::meant ::measure :measured : measurement :, : meet : mention : : mentioned : : mentioning : : : : : : necessary : : need : : : : : needs : merits : mess : : negotiated: : : method : methodological : mexico :,, middle : : mile : miles : :, : : : million : mincemeat : : minute : : minutes : : : misleading : missing : : months : morning : move : multiple : municipal : : Nn :, : : negotiating:, : negotiations: never : : :,:,,:, : : : : : : : : :,:,new :,,niobrara : normal : : : : north :,: : notion : : numbers : numerical : : : Oo : :, : obligations ::: L laid : lake :, :,, : : land : : landowner : language : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, : : : : : : :, : large : laughter : law : : :,, :,,, : : : : : : : laws :, :,, : : :, : : : : : lawsuit : : lawyer : left : legal : legislative : legitimate : length : licensed : lies : limitation : Official Powns : : : owned : p : : page : : :,,,, :, : : :, ownership : : : : :,, :,,, :,,, : :,, :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, :, : :,,: :: : : :,pages :painfully :panhandle:obstacle : :, obtain : : obtaining : : : oconnell :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : offered : offering : office : : :, officials : oh :, : : : okay : : oklahomans : : : oklahomas : : : : oklahoma : old : onefourth : : :, : : :,,, : :, ones : : :,, open : : : : : operate : opportunity : : opposed : operates : :,, : opinion :, :, : : : : :,, opponents : :,,, :,,,, :,, :,,,, oral : :,, :,,, : : : :,,, :, : :,, :,, : :, : original : : :, originating : :,, :,,, :,, :,, outofstate : :,, outside : order :, : : ordinary : : : paragraph:part :,: :: ::,,partially :particular :: :: :particularly ::parties :paso :pattern :pay : : people :: ::percent :,:,, : :, : : :,,:, : :, : : ::,,:,,: :: ::,,,:, : :, : : :, :,, :,,, : : :,,, : :,, :, : : :, :,, perfectly : period : permanently : permissible : permit :, : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, permits : : permitting : : :, : person :, petitioner :, : places : : : : plain : : : : planning : : : :,play : : please : : : : plenty : point : : : : :, : : :,: : : : : : : : :,: : :,pointed : : : : points : : : : : : : : policies : : :,, : : : policy : : political : petitioners : phrase : picked : pickle : piece : pink :, : : pool :, : poor : :,portion : : : : : : pipe : pipeline : pose : : poses : posit : position : : : place : : possible : pipelines : : : :, : post : power : practical : practicalities : proceed : proceeding : proceedings : : practicality : proceeds : precisely : : : preempted process : :, :, : prohibit : :, : provide : Official : : : : : : questions : : : quite :, : :, : : : : : Rr :race :rain :raised ::ran :rangers :,ratification:rationale :reach : : : ::,,:, : : :,: :,reached :reaches :,read : : : :,: :,: :: :,: :,: :: :reading :: ::,readings :reads ::real :really : : : :: : reams :, reason : : :, reasons : rebuttal : : receiving : recollection : : red :,, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, :,,, : redundant remand : : : remarkable : remedy :, : remember : repeating : repeats : : reply : :, : report : reporting : representatives: representing : : reprinted : refer : : request : require : reference : required : : : references : referred : referring : : refresh : regardless : : region : regional : : regulate : regulation : regulations : : release : :, released : relevant : : reliance : relied : rely : relying : requirement: : requires : reservoirs : resident : residents : : : resources : : : :,,: : : : respect : : : :, : : : respective : : : respondents: : : : : remaining : response : : preemption : : prejudice : preserve : preserving : press : presumably : presumption pretty : prevail : prevent : : prevented : principle : : : principles : prior : : : priorities : : : priority :, : proof : : : property : : : : : proposition : protexas : prove :, provided : : : : : provides : : provision : : : :, :, :, : :, : provisions : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, public : : : private : probably : problem : purchase : purpose : pushed : put : : :, : : :, : : problems : procedures : : : Q quantity : : question : Official : : responsive : rest : : restriction : review : rhyme : right : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : room :, rothfeld : satisfy : saying : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : separate : separately : seriously : set :, : share : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : shawnee :, :, :,, : : :, says : : : shares : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : shouldnt : : : show : shows : side : : signatory : : sorry : : : : : :, sort : : : :, : sotomayor : :, : : :, :,,, : : : sotomayors : sought : sounds : source : : south : : : : : : sovereign : sovereigns : : sovereignty : : : : : : span : special : : specified : : spell : spelled : spend : spent : spoke : stage : standards : : : standing : rules :,, rights :,, route : rudolf : :, : : rule : : :,, : : : :, :,,,, : : :,, : :, runoff : : : : rio : riparian : : run : : running : :, : :, : : river :,, :,,, : : : : :, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : : roberts : : :, : : :, : runs : : russello : : : Ss : :, : :sad :saline :,salt :salty :,samples :sandwiched:satisfies :scalia : : : : :,, :,,, : :, :, signed : significance : : significant season : : : second : : silence : : : : silent : : : simple : simply : : : : site : : sites : : sitting : situation : : : : : :,, :, :, section :, : : : : : sections : see : : : : seek : : seeking : :, seen : seize : send : : sense :, : :, : : : sentence : sketchy : : starts : slip : solicitor : state :,,: solve : somewhat : :, :,, :,, : : :,,: :, : stream : streams : :,,, :,,,, :, : : :, striking : strip : :,, structure : : : : :, subbasin : :,,,, : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, statement : : : : : :, :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : :,, :,,, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,,,, :, subconsciously : : subbasins : statements : states :,, : :,, :,,, :, : : :,, : : : :, :,, :, : : :, subdivides : subject : :, : : : : : : :, submits : : : :, : : : :,, :,, : : : : :, : : :,, : subset : sudden : suggest : suggested : submitting : : submitted : : :, statute : stem : : : :, : : : : strange : :, suggests : : superfluous : support : Official supporting : : : suppose : supposed : supreme :, sure : : : : surplus :, surprisingly : :, system : :, : :, : systems : Tt :,table :take : : : : : :, : : ::, : : :: :: ::,, : : :: :: ::, : : :,: :taken :takes :talismanic :talk : : :talking :: :: :: :tarrant : : :,,,: :: ::,,:, : :, : : : : :, tarrants : :, : : : tell : : : : : : : tenth :, terms : : : :, : : : : : terrain : territory : texans : texarkana : texas :, :,, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, : :, :, : :, : :, : : :, :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : : :, :,, :,,, : :, :, : : : :, : :,, : : : :, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : texass : : texoma :,text :, : : : thank : : : : :,,: thats : : :,,: :,: :,: :,: : : : : : : :,: :,:,,:, : :,, : : theory : thered : theres : : : : :, : : : : : :,:, : : : :, : : : Official :, theyre :, : : : : :, :,, :,, :, : : : theyve : thing : : : : :, : : things :, : :, think :,, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : thinks : third : thought : : : : : : : : thousands : three : : : : threequarters : ultimately : unable : threeseries : unconsciously time : : : :, :, : :, : wanted : : : :, : wants : : unconstitutio... user :,, : :, times : today : told : : : total : : : track :, : :, tracking : treat : : tribes : tributaries : : :, : : tributary : tried :, trinity :, troublesome true : : : : : trust : : try : : : trying : : : : tuesday : tulsa : turn : : : two : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, type : U: understand : : : : : : : : : understanding : understood undesignated unequivocal : : : unheard : unintentionally : unique : uniquely : united :,, : :, :,, : : :, :, : :, unnecessary : unprecedented : : unrestricted : : upper : : upstream : use : : : :, :, : :,, : : : :,, : :, : :, :,, : : : : : washington : :,, V:v : : : :,,valuable :vegetation :view : : :, : : : uses : : :, : : : usually : : ::,,,: ::, : : :: :,:,,,: :,,: :,users : : water : :, :,, :, :,, : : : :, :,,, :,, :,,, :,,,,:, : :, : :,,,: :,:, : :,,,:,,:,,:,,:,,,,:,,:,,,:, : :,,,:,,,,: :,,:, : :,,,:,, : :, :, : :,,,: :,:,,,: : : :: :: :,:, : : :,,,:, : : :, viewed :virtually :voluntary :vote :,W: :: :: :,: :,: :: :wait : : waiting :walk : : want : : Official : :, :, : :, : :,,, :, : :,,,,, :,,, :,,,, waters : watershed : way : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, ways : wed : : weighs : west : : weve : whats : : : : : : whatsoever : whichever : whistles : wholly : wide :, : win : words : : :, work : : : : world : wouldnt : : : : : : : : wow : write : writing : written : wrong : : : : wrote : wyoming : :, X x :, Y yeah : : : :,, : : :, : :, years :, : : : : : : youd : youre : : : :, : : youve : Z : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : a : : a :, : : : : : : : : : : s : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :,,, : : :,, : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, :,,, : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : :, s : : : a : a : : : a : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : 