Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - xMARCUS ANDREW BURRAGE, : Petitioner : No. - v. :UNITED STATES :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x Washington, D.C. Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United Statesat : a.m.APPEARANCES:ANGELA L. CAMPBELL, ESQ., Appointed by this Court, Des Moines, Iowa; on behalf of Petitioner.BENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent. Official C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGEANGELA L. CAMPBELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFBENJAMIN J. HORWICH, ESQ. On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANGELA L. CAMPBELL, ESQ. On behalf of the Petitioner Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hearargument next in Case -, Burrage v. United States.Ms. Campbell. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANGELA L. CAMPBELL, APPOINTED BY THIS COURT, ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. CAMPBELL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: Marcus Burrage is serving a -yearmandatory minimum sentence for selling heroin that,according to the jury instruction that was given to thejury at the time of the trial, was not the primary causeof the death, but, rather, merely played a part in thedeath. This lesser standard of contributingcausation was neither articulated by Congress within thewords of the statute, nor was it generally accepted atthe time the statute was passed, as an acceptableversion of causation. Congress's selection of the word "results"instead should be interpreted to mean the traditionalnotions of causation; those of factual cause or but-forcause and proximate cause. Official Now, the parties don't disagree that"results in" means causation. That it's a causationanalysis. And regardless of whether you look to thecommon law or the treatises or the legal commentators,causation triggers, at the very minimum, a but-forcausation analysis. In this particular case, but forthe use of the heroin, the victim would not have died. Now, the Solicitor General suggests a lessercausation standard, one that expands the notion ofbut-for causation. But if we instead look to the caselaw and this Court's precedent, we are not actuallytrying to expand but-for causation in most cases, we aretrying to limit it. Because but-for causation can beextrapolated beyond what we are willing to giveliability for. JUSTICE GINSBURG: How would you respond tothe hypothetical that the government poses on of itsbrief, that it's the three drops of poison, eachdefendant puts in one drop, one drop will not do it,three drops will, and none of them would be chargeablebecause it takes three drops? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, I would disagree withthe premise that they are not chargeable. Eachindividual person that put the drop of poison in thatcup could be charged with attempted murder if they were Officialtrying to kill a person. But under standard causationanalysis, you -- you do not have but-for causation.Each individual drop of poison was not the but-forcausation and so you -- you don't have causation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you would if --if you knew that there were two drops in and you addedthe third drop after the two drops. Right? MS. CAMPBELL: Then -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I'velost sight of this. Is this each drop is enough or -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: Three -- three drops. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It takes three. MS. CAMPBELL: In the government's -- in thegovernment's hypothetical, each person individually putsin one drop and you need three drops in order to -- tokill the person. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. Well,there's but-for causation when you are the third person.Your drop caused the death, and the death would not havebeen caused without your drop. MS. CAMPBELL: That would be correct, thatthere would be but-for causation. JUSTICE SCALIA: But each one is the thirdperson. I mean, each one of them is the third person.It seems to me each one is a but-for cause. And I don't Officialknow why you don't say there's but-for causation there. MS. CAMPBELL: Well -- JUSTICE SCALIA: As I understand -- as Iunderstood the evidence in this case, the expertstestified they could not say that he would not have diedbut for the cocaine. MS. CAMPBELL: That's -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's quite different fromthis case where what is put to you is he -- you couldsay he would not have died but for the drop that eachone of them put in. MS. CAMPBELL: Yes, you could say that.And that -- and -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So why isn't that but-forcausation? MS. CAMPBELL: It's a form of but-forcausation that I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't care if it's a formof but-for causation. It's but-for causation. MS. CAMPBELL: It -- it can be. And I thinkthat certain -- that specific hypothetical, while itwarrants special consideration by this Court, whether ornot in criminal context, we're going to expand thecriminal liability to that is not this case, JusticeScalia. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I thought thehypothetical was a bit different. I thought it onlytakes two drops to kill him. And that's what createsthe problem where you don't have but-for causationbecause you don't know whether you are the extraneousdrop or whether you were the drop that actually killedhim. MS. CAMPBELL: Correct. If there is ahypothetical that changes it just slightly, you wouldnot have but-for causation in that circumstance, becauseeach individual drop was not the but-for cause. Andthat's more like our hypothetical. And, again, with a poison hypothetical,because it's an intentional act by the defendant, youwould still have liability, criminal liability forattempt or assault or something along those lines, butyou would not have each individual person liable for theactual death. JUSTICE ALITO: But part of your argument isthat but-for causation isn't sufficient, right? It alsohas to be foreseeable. MS. CAMPBELL: Correct. JUSTICE ALITO: Is that your argument? MS. CAMPBELL: That is our argument. JUSTICE ALITO: Now, give me an example of a Officialsituation where a heroin dealer deals -- sells drugs tosomebody, and foresees that the drugs that are sold willcause death? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, I think you can look tothe actual case law. There is, for those types ofhypotheticals, when the heroin dealer is actually usingwith the particular purchaser of the heroin and knowsthat he is overdosing. If the heroin dealer is the oneinjecting the drugs into the system, certainly thosecircumstances are foreseeable. And the government -- JUSTICE ALITO: Those are very unusualcircumstances. In all other circumstances wheresomebody is just selling heroin there wouldn't beforeseeable, so the statute wouldn't -- foreseeability;the statute wouldn't apply? MS. CAMPBELL: No, I disagree with that.Foreseeability could be read into those circumstanceswhere you simply have a heroin dealer that is sellingheroin and you would take that foreseeability question,the proximate cause question, and you would charge it tothe jury. JUSTICE SCALIA: I think "foreseeability" isthe wrong word. I don't think, you know, in tort lawwe -- we use the word "foreseeability" for Palsgraf.It's a matter of scope of the risk. It may not be Officialforeseeable. It may be an unusual situation that willcause it, but it's within the scope of the risk. Andwhen you sell drugs, you know that one of the thingsthat can happen is that the drugs will produce anoverdose. I'm not sure -- I wouldn't call itforeseeability. I would call it scope of the risk. MS. CAMPBELL: Both scope in the risk andforeseeability are versions of saying proximate cause.And either standard in this circumstance would be betterthan the contributing cause standard that was given tothe jury, because it did not use scope of the risklanguage. It didn't use foreseeability language. Itdidn't use reasonably probable -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think this is allbeing sort of tied up together. I always thoughtforeseeability and proximate cause were the same. I think the issue doesn't do with eitherforeseeability, scope of risk, or proximate cause. Ithas to do with what you started with, which is what'sthe level of factual causation that we want to set.What definition are we going to give for the legalcausation standard. And you're saying that it has to bebut-for? MS. CAMPBELL: Our position is -- I agree Officialwith you, Justice Sotomayor, that the main issue is thisbut-for causation issue, that if we are correct thatbut-for causation should be read into a criminalstatute, as we believe it should under thesecircumstances under this statute, that the appropriatequestion is whether, but for the heroin, they would havedied. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Let's assumethat we are troubled by the examples that have beengiven. If two people or three people come together andeach puts in a drop of blood, either knowing that onlyone drop is necessary or that all three drops arenecessary, we don't want to let that person off becauseit doesn't seem logical, okay? What would save your case in it? Is there adifferent proximate cause standard but not involvingbut-for that would still get you what you are lookingfor? MS. CAMPBELL: Yes, and I don't think youneed to look to causation to get to that answer. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And what do we look toif we are not looking to causation? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, if each individualperson in the poison hypothetical is working togetherand knows about the other people, then you have Officialconspiracy liability. And they would be liable for theactions of the other people -- of the other person thathas put the poison in and you can still -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why does it matter ifyou know that three people have -- three people hatesomeone and they are acting independently, each oneintended to kill the guy and, you know, that the othertwo joined in was lovely, but we don't know which dropdid it. We don't particularly care, do we? MS. CAMPBELL: In that particularhypothetical then the -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is no conspiracy. MS. CAMPBELL: There's no conspiracy. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How can we save thiscase if there is no conspiracy? MS. CAMPBELL: Then you have attemptliability, and those people would still all becriminally liable for attempted murder. JUSTICE BREYER: The Model Penal Code, theBrown Commission, everybody says this is a famous lawschool hypothetical, I thought you would never find itin reality. They say certainly there is liability wheretwo people strike, each strikes a mortal blowindependently, and everyone seems to agree there isliability there. And even though no blow -- neither Officialblow is in fact a but-for condition, because in theabsence of blow A he would be dead anyway from blow B. All right. So we start with that, Ithought. And now starting with that -- you can say Idon't want to start with that. I think that allProfessor Wechsler and Professor Hall and all thesepeople famous in my day were wrong. Okay. That's up toyou. But if you do take that as a basic assumption,then how do you win? I think that was the question, andthere may be an answer to that. MS. CAMPBELL: Yes, Justice Breyer, there isan answer to that. The hypotheticals that are posed byProfessor LaFave, which is the one that you are citing,actually can be answered by the use of the substantialfactor language. Now, when you have two independentlysufficient causes which act upon an individual causingthe death, you have a but-for problem because but forthe actor A, B's blow would still kill the person. In that limited circumstance, the common lawalready addresses that and you use the substantialfactor language, which we did at the time of the trial,tried to incorporate into our jury instruction, whichwas rejected by the trial court. And so that is limitedto those circumstances where you have two -- JUSTICE SCALIA: What is substantial factor? OfficialI mean, I don't follow you. I don't see how it gets youto where you want to be unless "substantial factor"means that it would have been a but-for cause. MS. CAMPBELL: That is our position, thatsubstantial factor is appropriate when it would havebeen a but-for cause. You either need independentlysufficient cause or but-for causes only failing byanother independently sufficient cause. JUSTICE KAGAN: So when you use thatlanguage of "substantial factor," what you really meanto point to is independent sufficiency? Two peopleshoot, either one would have killed the person, but youcan't say -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that either is the but-for cause because of the fortuity of the second act? MS. CAMPBELL: Correct. That is thetraditional reason why you would use the substantialfactor instruction. JUSTICE KAGAN: So you don't mean that to goany further than independent sufficiency? MS. CAMPBELL: We do not mean it to go anyfurther, and I don't believe that the case law or thetreatises take it any further. There is this otherhypothetical -- Official JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a strange terminologyfor it. I mean, they really ought to get anotherterminology if that's what they mean. MS. CAMPBELL: We agree. JUSTICE SCALIA: You can be a substantialfactor without being independently sufficient. MS. CAMPBELL: You could under the commonuse of the word "substantial factor," but at least"substantial factor" would have been better languagethan "contributes to" or "plays a part in" that thisjury heard. JUSTICE SCALIA: Marginally. MS. CAMPBELL: It would at least give us theopportunity to argue that the heroin was not thesubstantial factor to a jury in a factual question if"substantial factor" does not mean independentlysufficient cause. But it's our position that at thetime of the passing of this particular provision,"substantial factor" meant to address the circumstancewhere you have two independently sufficient causes. So regardless of whether you use"substantial factor" as being independently sufficientcause or some other sort of formulation of the languageof "substantial factor," you still have this problemthat the jury was not instructed on even substantial Officialfactor. They were instructed on contributing cause,that -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: You do agree that, thatan overdose -- there is a foreseeable risk that someonewho purchases heroin will overdose, there is aforeseeable risk of that? MS. CAMPBELL: I concede that in a heroincase, that is a question for the jury, that you wouldcharge foreseeability or proximate cause to the jury inthose circumstances. JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess here's what thegovernment might say back to you. They might say, youknow, in these drug cases, people often take drugs incombination and then they overdose, and it's reallyimpossible for anybody to be able to say what you arerequiring an expert to say. In other words, it'simpossible to say it was the heroin, not the cocaine, itwas the cocaine and not the heroin, it was both, it wasneither. It's just -- it's all we can talk about islikelihoods. You know, just as this expert did. Theysay the fact that he took the heroin made it much morelikely that he would die. And that's all we are goingto be able to show in a case like that, this, andbecause of that, we -- that's got to be enough. Official MS. CAMPBELL: And I would agree that that'stheir argument and that's an argument that should bepresented to Congress to amend the statute toincorporate language that addresses that. Congressknows how to address a contributing cause standard.They said it in numerous other statutes that a certainact contributes to a death, that the result is in wholeor in part a result of the defendant's action. They'vesaid it. They know how to say it and they could say itagain in this statute if they wanted to. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's compare what --the situation that Justice Kagan just described withthis situation. The heroin dealer sells a user, I don'tknow, a three-day supply or four-day supply, whatever itis. And tells the -- the user, now, you should only usethis much per day. But the user goes off and injectsthe whole amount and -- and dies as a result of anoverdose. Now, why would Congress want to punish thatperson where the overdose -- where the heroin sold isthe but-for cause of death and not the situation wherethere's the -- the multidrug cocktail? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, in the absence oflanguage to the contrary, this statute actually says,the use of this substance, the substance sold by the Officialdefendant results in a death. And so when we start by looking at the wordsof the statute, they -- they don't say these commonwords that you could use to encompass thosecircumstances. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand that.That's a textual argument and maybe the text can be readboth ways. Assuming it can be read both ways, why wouldCongress want to attach these severe consequences in theoverdose case and not in the drug cocktail case? MS. CAMPBELL: Because Congress would wantto target a situation where there has been proof beyonda reasonable doubt that the defendant's actions were thecause of the death. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, for -- for any crime,there are two things. We punish the intent, thewickedness, and in both cases, the party is equallywicked, but we also punish the consequence. In onecase, the party dies because of that person's act. Andin the other case, nobody dies just because of thatperson's act. I don't know why you have to run awayfrom that. It's -- it's common in the criminal lawthat -- that two acts that are equally unlawful, equallynefarious, one happens to kill somebody, the other one Officialdoesn't. We punish one person, we don't punish theother. MS. CAMPBELL: That would be true. And whatI was addressing in Justice -- the justice'shypothetical was that you can't read congressionalintent into the selection of the words within thisstatute. And if Congress intended to punish multipledrug cocktails all equally, they would instead havewritten the statute to address the cocktail. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it said -- thestatute says results, right? MS. CAMPBELL: Correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so we're asking aboutresults. Justice Alito's hypothetical, he gives athree-day supply. Suppose he gives a year's supply andhe overdoses the next day, what result? MS. CAMPBELL: I believe that would be ajury question. JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no, no. As a matterof law, is that a violation? MS. CAMPBELL: It would be if he takes theheroin, and the heroin is the cause of the death, then,yes, it's a but-for cause. We would then add that youshould have a proximate cause analysis, which is thejuries are in -- in a unique position to determine Officialwhether or not foreseeability is appropriate in thatcircumstance. JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Suppose we goback to Justice Alito's example and it's just a two-daysupply and there are statistics that percent of heroinusers overdose. Is that sufficient to establishliability under your foreseeability standard? MS. CAMPBELL: Not as a matter of law andnot to the degree that the Solicitor General urges thatit's a per se foreseeability. Foreseeability is stillalways going to be instructed to the jury in thatcircumstance. And they can argue that certainly percent is sufficient, and the defense can argue percent chance is not sufficient and can attack the --the numbers. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the question is whatthe legal standard is. I'm the juror. I said -- I wantto know does this suffice to impose liability? And yousay well, if you say it is. Does it or doesn't it?That's a -- that's a fair question. Just -- you can'tsay, oh, well, it's up to the jury. We don't know. Iwant to know what the rule is. The juries have tofollow a rule. MS. CAMPBELL: The rule is the language ofthe proximate cause instruction that you give them. And Officialwhile there are different formulations of that proximatecause instruction, you would instruct the jury whether areasonable person in the position of the defendant wouldbe able to foresee that consequence. JUSTICE SCALIA: And I would say, mygoodness, if only percent overdose, that -- that isn'tvery foreseeable. I -- you know, I don't think you haveto submit that to the jury. I think that's one of thereasons we -- we banned these drugs, because they arerisky, and anybody should know that if somebody diesfrom it, it's within the scope of the risk when you soldthe cocaine. Now, I guess it's different if you'reselling, I don't know, sleeping pills, okay? Which arepart of a cocktail that -- that causes somebody to die.That's the situation that worries me. It seems to me ifthe cocaine -- the person selling the cocaine can beliable for the cocktail death, I guess the person whosold the sleeping pills could, as well. MS. CAMPBELL: Well, in that circumstance,in our specific factual circumstance, each individualperson that supplied any of the drugs to the victim inthis case would be equally liable. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, one was -- theheroin was illegal -- was not -- the selling of a Officialsleeping pill is not illegal. It's perfectly lawful.Selling heroin is illegal. Doesn't that make adifference? MS. CAMPBELL: Selling sleeping pills can beillegal if they're sold to someone that does not have aprescription, if they're sold on the street. TheOxyContin that was used in this case was not procuredlegally. The marijuana in this case was not procuredlegally. The -- there was no evidence whether or notthe other prescription drugs, the multitude ofprescription drugs he had in his house were procuredlegally. So assuming that the conduct of the persondistributing the drugs were each individually violatingthe other provisions of the statute, it would be equallyliable under the theory that they only had to contributeto the death of the individual. JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see how thisforeseeability test would work. Well, you'd havetestimony what, this particular user looked -- lookedlike a healthy person, so there wasn't -- it wasn'tforeseeable that that person was going to overdose.This other one looked kind of shaky and irresponsibleand who knows what the person might do. That's whatwe -- that's what the jury would have to evaluate? Official MS. CAMPBELL: There are certain facts thatcould be read to a jury. In each individual case, theywould differ. And you can look at the case law,especially regarding this -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what sort of facts?Suppose you -- you have the heroin dealer, is aresponsible heroin dealer. (Laughter.) JUSTICE ALITO: And he wants to sell heroinbut doesn't want to cause anybody to die. What would bekind of the checklist that the person would go through?All right, I'm going to sell this. I take the risk of adrug conviction, but I don't want this death resultsbusiness. So a person is well dressed. Person is --what would be the factors? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, I think you could lookdirectly to the Eighth Circuit's opinion in theMacintosh case and the factors in that case where thatparticular person manufactured methamphetamine andspecifically said, I do not want my methamphetamine togo to this person. None of the meth should go to thisperson. But his meth ended up going to that person andthat person overdosed and died. In that circumstance, that would be a factthat we could argue to the jury on the defendant's Officialbehalf using the appropriate proximate cause standardthat that was not foreseeable and not intended -- JUSTICE ALITO: No. But I want my -- I wantthe checklist for my responsible heroin dealer on thestreet corner. What does this person go through? MS. CAMPBELL: Well, I -- I don't thinkthere can be a checklist. That's why proximate causeand foreseeability is always charged to a jury. Whyit's -- it's uniquely a jury question. Whether there'san experience with this particular user, whether theperson that is selling the drugs knows the user hasoverdosed in the past, whether there's something withinthat particular drug that is stronger than normalheroin. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you have any --what type of heroin user is more likely to overdose andsuffer death? A first-time heroin user or anexperienced heroin user? MS. CAMPBELL: There are no facts in therecord that reflect that. The evidence within therecord indicates that this particular user was anexperienced heroin user and that people who use heroinon a -- on a regular basis actually develop tolerance toheroin, so it would take a higher amount of heroin forthat person to overdose. That's what's in the record. Official Now, the -- the studies that are cited bythe Solicitor General indicate that there have been somesort of research -- we don't have access to all of thosedocuments -- but some sort of research regarding heroinaddicts. And -- and when you're dealing with heroinaddicts, that number is less than percent usingtheir -- their research. Heroin addicts are less than percent likely to die. Those types of factors could be used informulating a foreseeability analysis. But, of course,you can't just rely on the foreseeability analysis, youshould always incorporate this but-for analysis. And ina but-for analysis, you would also be dealing with asituation where you have multiple drugs. And so it notonly informs our discussion about whether or not theheroin was the but-for cause of the death, but alsowhether, in this particular circumstance, thisparticular defendant could foresee that this particularperson -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I just want to getyour position as -- as a matter of law. Let's assume percent of heroin usersoverdose. Dealer sells to an addict he's never seenbefore. Doesn't know anything about his age, backgroundor anything. Just sells him the drug. The heroin Officialaddict overdoses. Liability or not? Can there beliability under those facts? MS. CAMPBELL: It would be our position thatthere could be liability if properly instructed to ajury. JUSTICE SCALIA: But it's just up to thejury to decide whether it was foreseeable or not. MS. CAMPBELL: Correct. JUSTICE SCALIA: And you cannot say, as I --as I think I say, that if you sell cocaine and if it iswithout a doubt the but-for cause of somebody's death,you're liable under this statute. You don't thinkthat's the case. MS. CAMPBELL: We disagree. And,Justice Scalia, I would point actually to the -- thisCourt's precedent in the civil context where you -- youread proximate cause and foreseeability into almostexact same language. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but in thecivil -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, but in a civilcontext -- excuse me, Mr. Chief Justice. In the civil context, you have strict -- youhave strict liability. This is in a way strictliability and seems to me quite proper. Official MS. CAMPBELL: In a civil context, when it'sexplicit -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: A drug company if it -- ifit doesn't take proper steps, it is liable even if percent of the users are adversely affected. Excuse me, Chief. MS. CAMPBELL: You -- in a strict liabilitycircumstance would have a statute which writes in strictliability. This statute doesn't write in strictliability. JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just clarify beforeyou're finished. You have used the words"foreseeability," "but for." Are you saying, to make itvery simple, that unless the government proves that theheroin independently would cause death, then noconviction? The heroin must independently cause thedeath. Is that -- MS. CAMPBELL: Only in the circumstancewhere you have two independently sufficient causes doyou -- do you reach that question. We don't think youneed to reach that question here. That's why we didn'targue that at the motion for judgment of acquittalstage, because you don't have standard but-forcausation. And that failure was not as a result of twoindependently sufficient causes. Official If I may reserve my time. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, are you then sayingexcept for the heroin ingestion, the death would nothave occurred? MS. CAMPBELL: The -- that's the primaryargument, that except for the heroin that -- the factualbasis of this case is that, if you remove the heroin,the doctors are saying he still might have died. Andthat is what defeats the but-for causation. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. MS. CAMPBELL: Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Horwich. ORAL ARGUMENT OF BENJAMIN J. HORWICH ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT MR. HORWICH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: The situation here is very much what Congress hadin mind when it sought to hold drug traffickersresponsible for the results of the use of the dangeroussubstances in which they deal. It's perfectly ordinaryto speak of a drug as contributing to an overdose. Andin the context of the Controlled Substances Act, thereis no room to argue that a heroin user's overdose deathcomes as a surprise. Official JUSTICE KAGAN: So Mr. -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So one little -- onelittle grain of heroin that you discover is in the body,and that person's going away for whatever it is, years? MR. HORWICH: No, I don't think so,Mr. Chief Justice. And let me explain, because I thinkthe concern that arises with your hypothetical, whichdoesn't arise on these facts, presents a different issuethan what's in dispute before the Court right now. Thedispute between the parties is what kinds of -- on thecausation in fact side of the case, the dispute isbetween what kinds of causes can qualify at all. Dothey have to be but-for causes or can a contributingcause count? Now, there is a separate principle which isreflected in jury instructions and reflected in thesubstantial factor concept and so forth that causes thatare causes in fact but are too insignificant or notimportant enough or too insubstantial are not properlythe basis for criminal responsibility. Now, that's -- that's not the dispute beforethis Court. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Horwich, I mean,it seems to me that the dispute before this Court is Officialthis: You have somebody who's taken five drugs. One ofthem is heroin. And the -- the experts get on thestand, and they say: Did the heroin cause the death?And the experts say: Really can't say whether theheroin caused the death in the sense that if the -- ifhe hadn't taken the heroin, he wouldn't have died. So they say: Well, what can you say? Hesaid: Well, what I can say is that if he hadn't -- isthat the heroin made it more likely that he died. Well, how much more likely did the heroinmake it? Well, the heroin made it percent morelikely that death resulted. Would that be sufficient? MR. HORWICH: I -- I think probably yes,although let me -- let me explain that we -- why we seethe nature of the expert testimony as actually differentthan what you're describing there. Because -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, take mine. MR. HORWICH: Yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: Because I think that that'sactually -- MR. HORWICH: Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't meanthe expert testimony in this case, but in general whatexperts are testifying to when they're testifying tothat. They are not testifying to some uncertainty aboutwhether the defendant's drugs played any role at all. OfficialThis isn't the question of say, yeah, he bought heroinfrom two different dealers. He took one of them, and hedied, but we don't know which dealer it was. In that case we totally agree that that sortof uncertainty means no liability. What the expertstestified to in these cases is that the primary cause ofdeath, which is essentially central nervous systemdepression that leads to asphyxiating on stomachcontents or saliva or something like that, was a processto which a number of substances contributed. JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, and he might have diedeven without the heroin, because all the othersubstances might have been perfectly adequate to causedeath. So I really can't tell you that the heroinplayed -- even -- you know, even to use your language, Ican't tell you whether the heroin contributed. All Ican tell you is a likelihood, a probability that theheroin led to death. MR. HORWICH: Well, the experts here ofcourse did testify specifically that the heroin didcontribute to the death. So -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, again, that questionof words, the experts were very careful to say: "Icannot tell you that in the absence of the heroin hewouldn't have died. He might have died even without the Officialheroin, the experts said. The only thing I can tell youis that the heroin made it more likely that he died. MR. HORWICH: I guess -- maybe I can respondto that with a perhaps more conventional hypothetical.If you imagine that -- if you imagine that you havethree assailants who independently simultaneously setupon the victim and beat him to death, and the victimcould have survived any one of them. In that situation,you might well have testimony from a doctor that says,Well, I can't tell you -- he probably would have died --even I can be sure he would have died from the other twoguys. But I think in that -- in that scenario we wouldcertainly recognize that the -- that each of theassailants is responsible for the victim's death. Wewouldn't say oh, well, he -- JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a bad sign that you'reusing the hypotheticals rather than the facts of yourcase, you know? The facts of your case are that theexpert gets on the stand and says: I can't tell youthat the heroin was responsible for the death. I cannottell you that in the absence of the heroin he wouldn'thave died. What I can tell you is that the heroinwas -- what I can do is to give you essentially aprobability that the heroin caused the death. And you're saying that's enough, even if the Officialprobability is as small as percent. MR. HORWICH: I don't think -- the expertshere did not testify in probability figures in that way.What they testified to was that -- was that the heroincontributed to the set of drugs that were responsiblefor the actual primary cause of death. JUSTICE KAGAN: They said it contributed tothe set of drugs, but they didn't say that itcontributed to the death. They had no idea whether itcontributed to the death. All that they were able tosay is: There are five drugs; here are someprobabilities; here are some likelihoods. If you don'tlike the probability language: Here is the likelihood.Using heroin made it more likely that he would die, butwe can't say that using heroin killed him. MR. HORWICH: That -- and it is that aspectof the testimony which is why we concede that if youapply a but-for test, that testimony does not establisha but-for test. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how much more likelydoes it have to make it that he would die? percent? MR. HORWICH: It's not a -- JUSTICE KAGAN: How about percent? MR. HORWICH: The relevant question is in acontributing cause analysis, at least in the first Officialinstance, setting aside the substantiality question thatthe Chief Justice's hypothetical raised, the basicquestion of the contributing cause analysis is whetherthe drug in a case like this contributed to the physio-- the internal physiological effects that culminated inthe death. And I would make a distinction here, forexample. If you -- consider the marijuana in this case.The testimony here does not even establish the marijuanaas being a contributing cause, because thetoxicologists -- the toxicologist testifies -- this isat Joint Appendix , that the -- "Every drug on thislist, with the exception of the constituents ofmarijuana, have central nervous system depressanteffects," and then goes on to explain why it's thoseeffects that are -- that's what's going on in the bodythat's leading to the death. So again -- so we would agree that if youapply -- that if you insist on a but-for test, then,correct, these sort of probabilities don't get thegovernment even to the jury. That's a directed verdict. But I want to -- but I would like to pointout though -- so I guess what I would like to discuss iswhy the but-for test is not the right test to beapplying here. Official JUSTICE ALITO: Before -- Mr. Horwich,before we leave this hypothetical -- MR. HORWICH: Yes. JUSTICE ALITO: -- may me ask you this. IfI were a member of a legislative body considering what Iwould want to happen in this situation -- it's kind of afrightening thought. But if that were, I would want toknow what kind of testimony medical experts canreasonable be expected to provide in cases like this,where there is the ingestion of multiple drugs. If itis possible in most cases, many cases, all cases, a highpercentage of cases, for them to break this downprobabilistically, there was a -- this made it percent more likely, percent more likely, percent more likely, I might want to go down thatroad. But if it's not reasonable in a lot of thesecases to go further than what the experts did in thiscase, that would make a difference. Now, can you tell us what, realistically,can they do in these cases where there is the ingestionof multiple drugs and the consequence is death? MR. HORWICH: I -- I can't represent to beinformed enough about sort of the range of cases, but Ithink the testimony in this case is actually informativeon that point, because there are a number of Officialuncertainties to which the -- the -- the expertstestified that show why it is, from -- why it is, fromtheir point of view, essentially impossible todisentangle the effect of one drug and another drug whenthey're having the same effect on the body. They'redoing the same thing to the -- the victim's centralnervous system. And so, it is -- it's the sort of thing thatit's meaningless to speak of one drug versus the otheras being "the cause," because they're all in the body,they're all doing the same thing in the same way that -- JUSTICE SCALIA: So Congress -- Congresssupposedly knew that and -- and could have written astatute so that you're -- you're liable if you are acontributing cause of -- of the death. It didn't do so.It said -- it says it has to result in the death.And -- and I take that to mean at least, at leastbut-for causality. MR. HORWICH: Well, we -- we -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why should "resultin" not -- not mean but-for causality? MR. HORWICH: Well, we -- we would takeCongress to have been incorporating the rules settled ongenerally in the criminal context -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Official MR. HORWICH: -- for this sort of problem. JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why does "result in"refer -- refer to what -- what we do in the common law?I mean, I apply common law rules when -- when Congressadopts a common law crime, yes. It -- it brings alongthe -- the soil that goes with that crime, right? Butthis is not a common law crime, and -- and Congress usedthe English language "results in," and I would take thatto mean causes. MR. HORWICH: Well, we do take it to meancauses. But courts applying the concept of cause -- sothat's why we think that Congress would be intending toborrow courts' approaches to causation in common lawcases. And I think there's a key insight in thosecases. Now, we cite a number of them going back , years in our -- in our brief at pages and , , and . And the key insight in those cases, which Ithink Justice Sotomayor touched on, which is that ifyour test for causation, say a but-for test, isproducing a result in a case that nothing and nobody wasthe cause of the victim's death, you need to rethinkyour test for causation. It's not producing soundresults. JUSTICE BREYER: I accept that. Official MR. HORWICH: And so, Justice Breyer, that'swhat's going on in -- in the treatises that then say,well, in these other cases, we're going to -- we'regoing to say, well, these independently sufficienttests, that applies as well. JUSTICE BREYER: Well, here -- here Iaccept that -- first of all, there's no problem withintent for me for the reason Justice Scalia pointed out,that anyone who sells heroin to someone is reckless, atleast, in respect to the possibility of a deathresulting. So I think that's enough to bring themwithin the intent problem. Also, there was a deathhere; fine. But still you have to show cause. And this is this unusual situation, whichthe Brown Commission expresses itself upon and which themodel Penal Code didn't. MR. HORWICH: Well, I think -- JUSTICE BREYER: And the model Penal Codedid express itself on what they call, in the BrownCommission, concurrent causes, all right? It has to bea but-for or a concurrent cause. But a concurrent causeis the situation where there are two people striking amortal blow. Therefore, either is sufficient. And if,in fact, the second wasn't sufficient, then the first isa necessary condition. Official MR. HORWICH: Yes. JUSTICE BREYER: All right? So here we havethe separate problem which has been pointed out that notonly -- we don't know if the others were sufficient, nordo we know if this was a necessary condition. And Brownand States tell you what to do in such situation tofall within the definition of cause. And the modelPenal Code where you have Professor Wechsler debatingProfessor Hall with Dean Griswald throwing in the oddcomment decided not to tell us its view. Okay? So that's where I stand. And you cancorrect that if you want, but I'm beginning to thinkthat probably, at least it should be important in such asituation, and that the word "substantial" betterconnotes the idea of it being an important factor thanthe word "contributing," which means picks up all kindsof quite unimportant factors. That's where my thinkingis, and anything -- I just say that in case you want torespond to that. MR. HORWICH: I do. I have, I think, twovery important things to say in response to that. Oneof them is, as -- as I was sort of suggesting with theChief Justice, if the dispute is over whether it shouldbe a substantial contributing cause, then I think we'rehappy to argue that the jury instruction gets in that Officialdirection, and at a minimum, there's harmless errorhere. So -- JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on what you meanby substantial. MR. HORWICH: Well, I think -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Opposing counsel sayssubstantial means that it would independently havesufficed. MR. HORWICH: Well, I think -- I thinkthat's right. JUSTICE SCALIA: If that's what you mean byit, we'll all cheer. But -- but I suspect that's notwhat you mean. MR. HORWICH: Well, it's not what -- it'snot what we mean -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what was foundin this case, right? MR. HORWICH: Well, I would point out -- Iwould point out that -- I mean, I'm reading from theWashington State Christman decision, which is the onlydecision that the parties have cited that's actually --factually deals with this scenario and it says, "Underthe substantial factor test, all parties whose actionscontributed to the outcome are held liable." So I thinkthat's -- that's very much in line with what we're Officialsaying. I'd also say that the Brown Commission andthose -- JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's what youcall a substantial factor? That all contributed to theoutcome? The one grain of heroin would -- would -- MR. HORWICH: No, because we think itdoes -- we think it does have to be substantial. Ithink that's -- that's why the word "substantial" -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, then -- then youdon't agree with that -- that stuff that you just readpoint. MR. HORWICH: Well, all parties whoseactions substantially contributed to the outcome. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then you -- you'resaying that the government's position is thatcontributing factor should be a substantial contributingfactor; you're happy with that. MR. HORWICH: I think -- I think we wouldnot -- we wouldn't have an objection if the Court statesthat as the law. Now, if the Court does that, it wouldbe appropriate, I suppose, to ask the court of appealsto examine the record here. JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what is substantial?What do you think is substantial? percent, Official percent -- MR. HORWICH: Well, I think substantial -- JUSTICE SCALIA: percent, what? MR. HORWICH: -- substantial -- I wouldn'tput it -- well, I would put it in relative terms, right?The question would be: Is this cause substantialrelative to what? Well, relative to the other causes atissue. And we have here overwhelming testimony that theheroin -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So is that the question?Is -- in other words, is the heroin more likely to havecaused the death than the cocaine, than the marijuana,than the sleeping pills? So we can't really say thatthe heroin caused the death, but it's more likely tohave caused the death than anything else he took? Isthat the -- is that the question? MR. HORWICH: Well, we know that it can --we know two things; one, it causally contributed in away that, say, the marijuana did not contribute to whatthe experts are testifying was the physiologicalprocess. And two -- JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- but maybe not to thedeath. MR. HORWICH: -- of the things thatcontributed to that, we would agree that the Officialinsubstantial, the one pill out of a thousandhypothetical, would certainly not be substantial. Howsubstantial, I guess, is going to be very fact-specific.Here it's -- JUSTICE KAGAN: And is the one questionis -- is how this all relates to the "beyond areasonable doubt" instruction in criminal cases? Imean, the idea of a test which focuses in the way yoursdoes on probabilities and likelihoods, and then we gotell the jury, find beyond a reasonable doubt that thiswas more likely to have caused the death than anythingelse, or find beyond a reasonable doubt that thisincreased the likelihood of death by percent. I mean, that seems a very odd kind ofquestion for a jury to consider, but that's exactly whatyou would be asking a jury to consider. MR. HORWICH: I disagree with that. Becausewhat we're asking the jury to decide is beyond areasonable doubt, did this drug have the physiologicaleffects that the medical examiners described as beingthe integral process that resulted in death. JUSTICE KAGAN: But the statute -- thestatute says did it result in death. It did not -- thestatute does not say -- does not criminalize a drug thathas physiological effects. It criminalizes a drug when Officialit results in death. And you can't say anything aboutresulting in death except as -- except by reference toprobabilities and likelihoods. MR. HORWICH: I -- I think that there isgoing to be testimony about probabilities andlikelihoods that will inform the substantialityquestion, but it's not a question of likelihood thatit -- that it contributed to the central nervous systemdepression that killed the victim here. That -- that isunequivocal in the testimony. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you wanted toincorporate in the statute your friend's understandingof but-for cause, what word would you use that would bebetter than "results"? MR. HORWICH: Well, I would -- you could usebut for or accept. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know. Butyou want -- you want a word that's going to be readilyunderstandable. MR. HORWICH: Or solely. I guess I wouldrefer the Court to the -- the jury instructions thatPetitioner proposed here, which are on , which saythat, that the -- the proximate cause must be one thatexcept for the cause the death would not have occurred.That's the instructions that are proposed there. Official And our point is that the insight in -- inthese sources, it's an insight that's in the BrownCommission report, it's an insight that's in thenumerous cases we have cited going back, is that that isnot the only test that is used. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Horwich, just ifI could get back, that is the instruction on proximatecause. MR. HORWICH: Well -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about thebut-for cause? MR. HORWICH: Well, the way they arestructured for -- in Petitioner's submission, it's --it's sort of built into the proximate cause instruction.They weren't separated in the way Petitioner did it. Sothere's -- the first part of the second sentence on ,the "direct result or reasonably probable consequence"gets at what we would more conventionally describe asproximate cause. But the second part is classiccausation in fact: "Except for the cause the deathwould not have occurred." So what Petitioner here istrying to defend is a test that produces -- JUSTICE BREYER: No, but it doesn't say --the one they quote in their brief, all they wanted thejudge to say was it could be -- they say, you are right, Officialproximate cause, but they're interested here in is it acause at all. And they say: "As long as the subjectcause contributes substantially to producing the death."That's what they wanted him to say. And he didn't sayit. And actually when I read that, I thought,well, what they want is to say that it's an importantfactor, rather than just saying it's some unimportantfactor. And they seem, I don't know what these wordsreally mean, but it seems they are closer to what you'resaying should be the law than you are. MR. HORWICH: That is a convenient excerptfrom the instruction on , but the other part of theinstruction insists that except for the cause the deathwould not have occurred. So -- JUSTICE SCALIA: I agree with you thelanguage -- their position now is not that it's enoughthat it's an important factor. Rather, and I would liketo know your view on this, your opposing counselcontends that the courts and commentators who use the"substantial factor" terminology mean by "a substantialfactor" a factor that would by itself have beensufficient. MR. HORWICH: Well, certainly, certainlythey can pull up cases that say that. But what I would Officialemphasize for this Court is that in four briefs to thisCourt Petitioner has not cited a single case that doeswhat he's asking this Court to do, which is reject acontributing cause approach and exonerate him under abut-for test that applied to this case would lead to theconclusion that nothing and nobody caused the victim todie here. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to get back toit, you were reading from the proximate causeinstruction. They've got -- the very next instructionsays: You have to find that he died as a result ofusing the heroin distributed by the defendant. So Ithink it's a little unfair to suggest that they werewilling to go with the same concept of cause that youwere proposing. MR. HORWICH: Well, we wouldn't -- we don'tdisagree that a court could just use the unadornedstatutory language. That -- that -- that would not beerror to do so. Our point is only -- our point is onlythat a contributing cause, as these courts haverecognized for a long time, can be a cause in fact,particularly in these scenarios where otherwise they aregoing to conclude there was no cause at all. JUSTICE BREYER: What do you want us to say?You know what's actually worrying me about this case? OfficialIt took quite a long time, and there are like threelevels of complexity, and we are from but for intoconcurrent and then the sufficient condition and thenecessary condition. And we are trying to argue whetherthis thing that the Model Penal Code wouldn't even pickup in Brown ought to be the Federal law of the UnitedStates. And Professor Wechsler's reaction was:Look, this is -- this going to arise so infrequently,it's so complicated to talk about, that you are going tomix everybody up once we start to write on this. And that is worrying me as a real problem.Once I start to write in this area, we are going to getpeople so mixed up no matter what we say -- MR. HORWICH: Well, I think the Court -- JUSTICE BREYER: -- that I hesitate to gobackwards from the very vague and open language,substantive, substantial versus contributing, and justsort of why not just say substantial and leave it thereand let the lower courts figure it out, so we don'tconfuse the entire bar and the entire Congress andeverything. MR. HORWICH: Yes. If Your Honor isconcerned about that -- JUSTICE BREYER: I am. Official MR. HORWICH: -- I think you could write adecision that says the right instruction here issubstantial factor. The test -- the cause does not haveto be a but-for test, but we are not going to go on todefine "substantial factor." JUSTICE SCALIA: Because of thatimprecision, some poor devils will have to go to jailfor a longer period than otherwise, you know. Toughluck. MR. HORWICH: Well, I this isn't -- I thinkthis isn't something that would catch Congress bysurprise. The problem of multiple drug use is a wellrecognized situation. If I might turn to foreseeability. JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Horwich, I just don'tunderstand what "substantial factor" means in the wayyou are using it. I understand what Ms. Campbell said,because she said "substantial factor" just meansindependently sufficient. But you are saying"substantial factor" can mean more than that, but itdoesn't have to mean a but-for cause. How is somethingthat is a substantial factor in a death without theirbeing able to say that it was a but-for cause of thedeath? MR. HORWICH: The situations that we're Officialtalking about here are ones in which nothing would be afor cause of the death and nothing would beindependently sufficient to cause the death. So in somesense -- JUSTICE KAGAN: So it's not a substantialfactor in causing the death, because that assumes thatit actually played a role in causing the death and youcan't say whether it played a role in causing the death.That's what creates this problem. MR. HORWICH: I disagree with that. Itabsolutely played a role in causing it. That's exactlywhat the toxicologist -- JUSTICE KAGAN: In the sense of if it hadn'tbeen there, the death would not have occurred. MR. HORWICH: That's true. JUSTICE KAGAN: You can't say that, that'sthe point. MR. HORWICH: Well, that's true, but I don'tthink, to take my example of the assailants, the threeassailants beating the victim to death, I think it wouldbe very strange to say that none of those assailantsplayed a role in the victim dying, none of themcontributed to the victim dying. That seems -- thatseems to be contrary to ordinary usage and ordinaryintuitions about cause and effect. Official Now, I agree in this situation because weare talking about something that happens at a molecularlevel, it's perhaps less -- it's less part of commonexperience and we have to rely on the doctors. But whatthey are saying is no different than saying that he hadthree drugs in there and they were each knocking himdown to a state of unable to -- to repress his gagreflex, essentially. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The problem withyour hypothetical, it's the sort of thing where there'sno way that a doctor could say three people beat the guyup, which one threw the fatal punch. But here we have asituation where the experts could tell you: Yes, theheroin alone would have killed him. Or, as in thiscase, I can't tell you the heroin alone would havekilled him. MR. HORWICH: Yes, I think that's right, butI can imagine a doctor similarly testifying in the threeassailants situation to exactly that point. I can'ttell you which is the fatal punch, precisely. I agreewith that. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you can't put-- but my point is that they would not be able to tellyou in any case, where here they can tell you in everycase whether it's clear that the heroin caused the death Officialor not. MR. HORWICH: That may be true, but therewill be cases in which no single drug caused the deathand yet the victim died. That's what produces theproblem here. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But thisstatute does not say if you die from taking drugs, thenthe person who gave you drugs, who gave you any kind ofdrug is responsible. It says the heroin has to result,death has to result from the heroin. MR. HORWICH: It does. And I think it'sordinarily -- I think it's an ordinary usage of languageto describe this as resulting from the heroin and someother things, too. But the testimony is certainly tothe effect that it resulted from the heroin. JUSTICE KENNEDY: What result if a heroindealer persuades a first time user to please try heroin,it's wonderful. He does. Three days later the addict,the new addict, the new user buys heroin from adifferent dealer and overdoses and dies? Does the firstdealer contribute, is a substantial contributing cause? MR. HORWICH: Contributing cause there? Iguess -- I guess I would need to know more medically. Isuspect that yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: No, no. The heroin has Officialdisappeared, but he has become addicted. MR. HORWICH: Okay. So he's becomeaddicted. I think possibly yes. I am skeptical thatthat would be a substantial contributing cause. Andthen there would be -- there would be in our viewquestions about proximate cause that would be raised inthat situation as well. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about you givethe guy a heroin and he drives away, but as a result ofusing it he's driving under the influence, has anaccident and is killed? Is that -- does his deathresult from the heroin in that case? MR. HORWICH: We think in that situation,certainly factually, causation in fact, it does. Inthat situation we are lying farther away from thecentral harms that the Controlled Substances Act isaddressing, and so we think you would get into some sortof proximate cause inquiry there as well, that youwouldn't here. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Now I'mreally confused. I thought you were pointing thecausation, the factual causation, into proximate cause.You are saying there's a difference. So what do youthink gets folded into proximate cause? MR. HORWICH: So in proximate cause, our Officialbasic point on proximate cause in an overdose situationis that you already have the indicia you need to knowthat this is the harm for which Congress wants to holdthe defendant responsible. In the Chief Justice's -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In one other case --there has been one other case, but you are suggestingthat there are cases in which there might be a proximatecause problem, you just -- MR. HORWICH: Absolutely. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- as you just said toJustice Kennedy. In what other case have we said thatyou don't have to charge a jury on an element of thecrime on proximate causation? Is there any in which wehave ever said that? MR. HORWICH: Well, I -- I have todisagree with -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because in -- in thevast majority of cases, it won't be a problem. MR. HORWICH: I guess I have to -- I guessmy answer to your hypothetical has to be to disagreewith the idea that this is an element. We're notdispensing with an element. The element is that a deathresulted. The question is how, in a particular case,should a district judge explicate the scope of harms forwhich defendants should be held responsible? Official And sometimes you can do that with aforeseeability instruction. Sometimes you might do itwith an intervening or superseding cause instruction orother proximate cause concepts. But in a case where you know there's anoverdose at issue, and we're talking about heroin here,which is controlled, in large part, precisely because itkills people -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So foreseeability -- MR. HORWICH: -- you don't need -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- is an element in onlysome ways of killing people, in which some people die. MR. HORWICH: It is necessary to instruct onit if we're in a situation where we're worried aboutconsequences running out to infinity. That's the usualconcern, the Palsgraf-type concern about foreseeability,but this is not running out to infinity. This isjust -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You know, I'm having areally hard time because of Paroline, where youbasically admit that proximate cause, i.e.,foreseeability, because I see them -- MR. HORWICH: Yes. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- as almostinterchangeable, is almost always to be charged, is Officialalmost always an element that is required when you havea -- results from -- MR. HORWICH: Yes. To be clear, we're notsaying there's no proximate cause requirement. We'resaying that there is a sufficient assurance that thefunction of proximate cause, of limiting defendant'sresponsibility to the matters about which Congress isconcerned, is served in an overdose case when you knowthat you have a substance that is controlled in largepart because of precisely this risk, that then it causesexactly that harm. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Campbell, you have three minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANGELA L. CAMPBELL, APPOINTED BY THIS COURT, ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER MS. CAMPBELL: It's our position thatbut-for cause is the first question, and only when youreach a point where there is no but-for cause do youthen go on to say, is this one of these circumstanceswhere there is a -- two independently sufficient harms.If no, end of question, which was the motion forjudgment of acquittal at the time of trial. There wasno but-for cause. We made the motion for judgment of Officialacquittal on but-for cause. You don't need to make thatinquiry in this particular case. There may be caseswhere you make that inquiry. Of course, we didn't win, so we had to keepgoing along, and we asked for a substantial factor testbecause we thought maybe we could influence the judge togive us a better instruction, like the substantialfactor test that the Eighth Circuit had alreadyapproved, and he rejected it and gave them acontributing cause instruction, which is clearly notencompassed within the common law standards ofcausation. But-for cause is substantial factor. Now, to address the concerns about lettingdefendants go free, that just simply doesn't play a partin this analysis. Every criminal defendant in any ofthese hypotheticals would have some sort of criminalliability, either a lesser included offense. Thisparticular defendant, Mr. Burrage, could go to prisonfor years for the lesser included offense. You haveaccomplice liability. You have conspiracy. You haveattempt. All of these individuals are going to bepunished. You have sentencing discretion. The judgecan look at the fact that there was a death -- well,maybe not a primary cause in the death -- there was a Officialdeath, and enhance the sentence under the -- beyond theguideline range. All of those concerns are already addressedin the criminal law, and we do not need to change thecriminal law of causation and relax it to encompass moreharms. Because if we aren't willing to do that in acivil context where you have contributing negligence andshifting of burdens of -- shifting of the costs inhaving -- your hypothetical, you have differentpercentages' likelihood of causing the harm. So maybeyou give percent to the marijuana dealer and percent to the oxycodone dealer and percent to theheroin dealer. We don't have that in criminal law.That's a -- that's a policy consideration that isdifferent between civil law and criminal law. In criminal law, the person's going to go toprison under a mandatory minimum sentence, and in somecases for life with no parole based on this relaxedcausation standard that the government is asking thisCourt to incorporate into a statute where it doesn't sayit. And so we would respectfully ask for theCourt not to engage in that process, not to relaxcausation for the criminal -- criminal statute at playhere and in all of the criminal statutes that use Official"result in," and instead rely upon the general notionsof causation that are already established in the law. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m. the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficialAable :, :: : :aboveentitled ::absence : :: :absolutely ::accept : ::acceptable :accepted :access :accident :accomplice :acquittal :: :act : :: : :: : :acting :action :actions : :: :actor :acts :actual : ::add :added :addict : ::,addicted :,addicts :,,address : :: :addressed :addresses ::addressing ::adequate :admit :adopts :adversely :age :agree : :: : :: : :: : ::alito :,,: : :: :, ::,alitos : :amend :amount ::analysis :, :: :,,: : ::andrew :angela : :,: :answer : :: :answered :anybody :: :anyway :appeals :appearances :appendix :applied :applies :apply : :: :applying ::appointed : ::approach :approaches :appropriate :: : ::approved :area :arent :argue : :basis : :: : :: : :argument : ::, :, ::, :,: :,:arises :articulated :aside :asked :asking : :: : :aspect :asphyxiating :assailants :,:,, :assault :assistant :assume : :assumes :assuming ::assumption :assurance :attach :attack :attempt : :::beat : :beating :beginning :behalf :, ::, : :: :believe : ::benjamin : ::better : :: : :beyond : ::,,,:bit :blood :blow :, ::,, :body : :: :,borrow :bought :break :breyer : :: :,,: : ::,attempted :brief : :::Bb :back : :: :, :background :backwards :bad :banned :bar :based :basic : ::basically :briefs :bring :brings :brown : :: : :: :bs :built :burdens :burrage : :,:business :butfor : :,:, :,,Page :, :,,:, :,,: : :,: :,:,, :: :,,: : :: :,:, :,: : :: : ::, :,: :,buys :Cc :, : :call :, ::campbell : :: :,, ::,, :,,:, :,,:, :,:, :,: : ::, :,: : :: : ::,, :: : ::, :,:,, :,: :,: :,,cant : :: : ::, :,: : :: :,:,,care : :careful :case : :, ::, : :: : : Official: : :: : ::,, :: : ::, :,: :, :: : ::christman :circuit :circuits :circumstance :: : ::, :,: : :::, ::common : :: :, ::,,, ::company :compare :complexity :complicated :concede : :concept :: :concepts :concern : :circumstances :::,, :: : ::concerned ::concerns :cite :cited : :: :citing :civil :,,,: :,clarify :classic :clear : :clearly :closer :cocaine : :: :,,: :cocktail :: : ::cocktails :code : :: : :combination :come :comes :comment :commentators ::conclude :conclusion :concurrent ::, :condition :: : :,conduct :confuse :confused :congress : ::, :,: : ::, :,: : :: :congressional :congresss :connotes :consequence :: : :consequences ::consider : ::Page commission ::considering :conspiracy :,:, :constituents :contends :contents :context : ::, :: : :contrary ::contribute :: : :contributed :: :,,,: : :: :,: :contributes :: :contributing :: : :: : ::, ::, :,:, ::, :: :controlled :: : :convenient :conventional :conventionally:conviction ::corner :correct : :,: : :: : :costs :counsel :,: : ::: :,,: : :: :,,,: : :: : :: :,:, :: : ::, :,: : ::,, :: : :,cases : :: : ::,,,,:, :,: : :: : ::, ::catch :causality :,causally :causation :,: :,,,,:,, :,,:,, :,:,, :,: :, ::,, :: : ::, ::,, :: :,,:cause :,,,: : :,:,,,,: :,,,: :,:, :,: :,,: : ::, ::, :,: : :: :,:, :,:, :,: :,: :,,:,,,,:,,, :,:,,,:,, :,: :,:,,,,: :, ::, :,,:, :,:,caused :,: : ::, :: : :causes : :: : :: :,,: :,: : :causing : ::,, :central : :: : :certain : ::certainly : :: : ::, ::chance :change :changes :charge : ::chargeable :,charged : ::checklist ::,cheer :chief :, :,,:consideration :count : Officialcourse : ::court :,, :: : :: :,,:,, ::,,, :: :,courts : ::, :: :creates : :crime : :,: :criminal :,: : :: : ::, :,:,,,,:criminalize :criminalizes :criminally :culminated :cup :Dd :, :dangerous :day : ::days :dead :deal :dealer :,,,: :, :: : ::, :,:dealers :dealing :,deals : :dean :death :, :: : :: :,:, :: : :: : ::, :,:,, :,:, :,:, :,: :,: :,: :,:,,,:,,,:,, ::, :,:,,,,,,: :,: : :: ::describing :determine :develop :devils :didnt :, :: : :: : :die : :: : :: : ::died : :, :: : :,:,,,:,,,: :dies : :,debating :decide : :decided :decision :,:defeats :defend :defendant :: : :: : ::,defendants :: : :: : :: :differ :difference :: :different : :: :,: : :: : ::direct :directed :direction :directly :disagree :,defense :define :definition ::degree :department :depends :depressant :depression ::des :describe ::described :: : :: : ::disappeared :discover :discretion :discuss :discussion :disentangle :dispensing :dispute :,,:, :distinction :distributed :distributing :district :doctor : ::doctors : :documents :doesnt : :: : :: : :: : :: : :doing :,dont : :, :: :, ::, :,: :,,,: :,: : :: : :: : ::, :: :,: : :: : :: : :: : :doubt : ::,,,dressed :drives :driving :drop :,, ::,,,,: :,,:, :drops :,,:,,, ::drug : :: : :: : :: :,:,, :,: : ::drugs :,, :,Page : :,:,, :: :,:,, :: : :,dying :,Ee : :, :effect :, ::effects :,,:,eighth : :either :,: :,,: :element :,:, ::emphasize :encompass ::encompassed :ended :engage :english :enhance :entire :,equally :,,: : :error : :especially :esq :, :,,essentially :: : :establish :: :established :evaluate :everybody ::evidence : ::exact :exactly : : Official::: :examine :examiners :example : :: :examples :exception :excerpt :excuse : :exonerate :expand : :expands :expected :experience ::experienced ::expert :,:, :experts : :,: :,,: : :,: : :explain : ::explicate :explicit :express :expresses :extraneous :extrapolated :Ffact : :: :,: : :: :factor :,,:,,, ::,,,,:, :: : ::,, :,:,,,:,,,,: : :,factors :,: :facts :, :: : ::factspecific :factual : :: : ::factually ::failing :failure :fair :fall :famous : :farther :fatal :,federal :figure :figures :find : :,:fine :finished :first : :,: :,:firsttime :five : :focuses :folded :follow : :foresee : :foreseeability ::,,, ::,,, ::,,,: : :: : :: :,,:foreseeable ::, : :,: : :foresees :form :,formulating :formulation :formulations :forth :fortuity :found :four :fourday :free :friends :frightening :function :further :,,:Gg :gag :general : :: : ::generally ::ginsburg : :: : ::give : : :: : :: : :: : ::, : :: : ::,, ::, :goodness :government :: : :: :governments :: :grain : :griswald :guess : :: : :: : :: :,guideline :guy : : :guys :Hhadnt :, :hall : :happen : :happens : :happy : :hard :harm : ::harmless :harms : :given : :: ::gives :,go :, ::,, ::, :: : :: : :: :goes : ::going : :: : ::, :hate :healthy :hear :heard :held : :heres :heroin : : ::,,,,,: : :,:,, :: :,: : ::,, :,Page :,,,,:, :,,:,, :: :,,,: :,,,,:, :,:,,,,:,,,,: :,,: : :,: : ::, :,:,,,,: :,: :hes : : ::hesitate :high :higher :hold : :honor :horwich : ::,, :: :,,: : ::,, ::, :,:, :,:, :,,: :,,:,,,: :,,:,, :: : :: :,,: :,,: :,,:,, ::, :,: :house :hypothetical :: : :,,: : :: : : : : :: : :: : :: : ::individually :hypotheticals ::: : :Iid :idea : :: :illegal : :,:im : : :: : :: :,:imagine :,:important ::,, ::impose :impossible :: :imprecision :included :,incorporate :: : ::incorporating:increased :independent ::independently :: : :: :,,: :,,: : :: : ::indicate :indicates :indicia :individual : ::, :individuals :infinity :,influence ::inform :informative :informed :informs :infrequently :ingestion ::,injecting :injects :inquiry : ::insight :,:,,insignificant :insist :insists :instance :instruct : :instructed :: : :instruction :: : :: : ::, :,:, ::, :,instructions ::,insubstantial ::integral :intended : ::intending :intent : ::,intentional :interchangeableOfficial:interested :internal :interpreted :intervening :intuitions :involving :iowa :irresponsible :isnt : : :: :,issue : :,: : :ive :Jj : : :jail :joined :joint :judge : ::,judgment ::,juries : :juror :jury :, :: : ::, :,: :,:, : :: :, :: : :: :,,: : :justice : :,: :,,,:, :,,:, :,,: :, ::,, :,:, :,:,,,:,, :,:, :,:,,,,:,, :,: :, :: : ::,,,,:, :,,:, :,,: :,:, ::,, :,:,, ::, :,,: :,:,,, ::,, ::, :,:, :,: : :: :,:, :,: :,:,, :: :,,: :,,: : :justices : ::Kkagan : :,: : ::, :,:, ::,, :: :,: :,,keep :kennedy :,: :,: : :: :,:key :,kill :, : :: :killed : :: : :Page : :killing :kills :kind : ::, : :kinds :,:knew : :knocking :know : : :: :,, :: :,: :,,:,, ::, :: :, :: : :: : :: : :: :knowing :knows : :: : :Ll : :, ::lafave :language :,:, ::, :,: : :: : :: : :large : :laughter :law :, :,: : :: : :: : :,:,, :: : ::,,,,: :lawful :lead : leading :leads :leave : :led :legal : : :legally :,,legislative :lesser : ::,letting :level : :levels :liability : ::, :,:, :,:,,,,:,, ::,liable : :,:, :: : ::life :likelihood :: : ::likelihoods :: : :,limit :limited :,limiting :line :lines :list :little :, :logical :long : ::longer :look :, ::, :,: :looked :,,looking :,:lost :lot :lovely :lower :luck :lying :Mm : : :macintosh :main :majority :mandatory ::manufactured:marcus : :marginally :marijuana ::,, :: :matter : :: : :: : :matters :mean : ::,,,:,, :: :,:,, :,:,, :: :,:,meaningless :means : :: : ::,meant :medical : :medically :member :merely :meth :,methamphetamine:,mind :mine :Officialminimum : :: :minutes :mix :mixed :model : :: : :moines :molecular :mortal : :motion : ::multidrug :multiple : ::, :multitude :murder : :Nn :, :nature :necessary :,: : ::need : :: : :: : :: :nefarious :negligence :neither : ::nervous : :: :never : :new :,normal :notion :notions : :november :number : :: :numbers :numerous ::Oo : :objection :occurred :: : ::odd : :offense :,oh : ::okay : :: : :once :,ones :open :opinion :opportunity :opposing ::oral : :, ::order :ordinarily :ordinary ::, :ought : :outcome : ::overdose : :,: :,: : :: :,: :,: : :overdosed ::overdoses :: :overdosing :overwhelming :oxycodone :oxycontin :Pp :page :Page pages :palsgraf :palsgraftype :parole :paroline :part : :: : ::, :: : ::particular : :: : :: :,,:,, ::,particularly ::parties : ::, :party :,passed :passing :penal : :: : :people :,,:,,,,: : :: : :: :,,percent :,,: :,,: : ::, :,: : :: : ::,percentage :percentages :perfectly :: :period :person : :,:,,,: :,: : :: : : :,, ::,, ::,,,,:, :,: : :possibility :possible :possibly :precedent ::persons :,precisely :Officialproposing :proves :provide :provision :provisions :proximate :: :,,: : :: : :,: : ::, :: :,,:, :,: :,:,pull :punch :,punish : :: :premise :prescription ::,presented :presents :primary : :: : :principle :prison : :probabilistically:: :persuades :petitioner :,:, : ::, ::petitioners :physio :physiological :: :,pick :picks :pill : :pills :, ::play : :played : :: :,,:plays :please : ::point : :: : ::, :: :,: :,: :pointed : :pointing :poison :, :: : :policy :poor :posed :poses :position : :: : :: : :: :Page range : :reach :,relevant :rely : :::reaction :read : : :: : :: : :readily :reading : :real :realistically :reality :really : :: : :: : ::reason : :reasonable :: :, ::,,reasonably ::reasons :rebuttal : :reckless :recognize :recognized ::record :,,:refer :, :reference :reflect :reflected :,reflex :regarding ::regardless ::regular :reject :rejected : :relates :relative :,,relax :,relaxed :remaining :remove :report :represent :repress :required :requirement :requiring :research :,,reserve :respect :respectfully :respond : ::respondent :: :response :responsibility: :responsible :: : :: : ::,result :,,: : :: :,: : ::,, :: :resulted :: : :resulting :: :results : :: :,: : :: :,:rethink :right :, :: : :: : :: : :probabilities :: : :,probability :: :,,probable :: :,,punished :purchaser :purchases :put : :,:: :, :probably :puts : :: ::problem : :: : :: : :: : :: :,process : :: :procured :,,produce :produces ::producing :,:professor :,,:, :proof :proper : :properly ::proposed :,Qqualify :question :,: : :: : :: : :: :,: :, ::, :,:, ::,questions :quite : :: :quote :Rr :raised : : Official:situation : :stand : :scenarios :school :scope : :,,:, ::se :second : ::,see : :: :seen :selection : :sell : :,:selling : :,:,, :: :sells : ::, :sense : :,sentence : ::,sentencing :separate : :separated :served :serving :set : : :,setting :settled :severe :shaky :shifting :,shoot :show : :side :sight :sign :similarly :simple :simply : :simultaneously:,, :: : :: : :: :,: :,,:,, ::situations :skeptical :sleeping :,:, :slightly :small :soil :sold : :,:, :,solely :solicitor : :: :somebody :,: :,:somebodys :sorry : ::sort : :: :, :: : :: : :: : ::sotomayor ::,, :,: : ::,, ::,,sought :sound :sources :speak : :special :specific : :specifically ::standard : :: :,,: : :: : ::standards :start :, ::,started :starting :state : :states :,, :: : :statistics :statute :,:, :,:,, ::,, :: :,: :,,: : ::statutes : :statutory :steps :stomach :strange : :street : :strict :,,:,,strike :strikes :striking :stronger :structured :studies :stuff :subject :submission :submit :submitted :,substance :,: : :: : :: : :risk : :,,,: :, :: :risky :road :roberts : :,,: : ::,, ::, :,: :, :: : :role : :,:,room :rule :,,rules : :run :running :,Ss : :saliva :save : :saying :, ::, : :: :,: :,: :,says : :: :,: :,: : :::, :: : ::, :: :,,:,, :: :,,,:,, :: :scalia : :,,::::scenario :single : :stage :substances :Page : :,:substantial ::, :,:, :,,:,,,,: : :: :,,:,,,,,:,, :,:, :,:,,,,: : :: :,,substantiality ::substantially ::substantive :suffer :suffice :sufficed :sufficiency ::sufficient :: :, ::,, ::, :,: :,,: : :: : ::suggest :suggesting ::suggests :superseding :supplied :supply :,:, :suppose : :: :supposedly :supreme :,sure : :surprise : :survived :suspect : :system : :: : :Tt :,take : :: : :: : ::, :,:taken :,takes : : ::talk : :talking : ::target :tell :,,,:,,,,: :,: :,,:,tells :terminology :,:terms :test : :,:,, ::, :: :, ::, :,testified : :: :testifies :testify : :testifying :,: : :testimony ::, ::, ::, : :: :tests :text :textual :thank :,,: :,thats :, :,: : :: :, ::, :,:, :,: : ::, :: :,,: :,:, :,:,,,,:,, ::, :,: :,,:, :: : ::theory :theres : :: : :: : :: : :: : :theyre :, ::,,, :theyve : :thing : :,: : :things : :: :,:think :, ::, :,: :, :: : ::, ::, :,: : ::,, :: :,,:,,, :,:,,,Official: : :: :,:, ::, :,:,thinking :third :,,,thought :, :: : :: : :thousand :three :,,:,,,:, :,: : ::,, ::threeday ::threw :throwing :tied :time :, :: : :: : ::tolerance :tort :totally :touched :tough :toxicologist ::toxicologists :traditional ::traffickers :treatises : ::try :trying :, :: :tuesday :turn :two :, : ::, :,: : :: :,: : :: :,:twoday :type :types : :Uunable :unadorned :uncertainties :uncertainty ::understand :: :,understandable:understanding:understood :unequivocal :unfair :unimportant ::unique :uniquely :united :,, ::unlawful :unusual : :trial : :,::tried :triggers :troubled :true : :,:urges :usage : :use : : ::, :,:, :,:, :Page : : ::, :: : :user :,,: :,,:,,,:,users : :: :usual :Vv : :vague :vast :verdict :version :versions :versus : :victim : ::, : ::,, :victims : ::view : :: :violating :violation :Wwant : :: : ::, :,:,, :: : ::,, :: :,: :wanted : :: :wants : :warrants :washington :,:wasnt :,: OfficialPage way : :years : :: : ::, ::: :youd :youre : : : :,:, : : : : : :ways :, :wechsler : :wechslers :whats : :: : ::whos :wicked :wickedness :willing : ::win : :wonderful :wont :word : :,: :,: :,words : ::, : :: : :work :working :worried :worries :worrying ::wouldnt :,,: : ::, :: : ::write : :,:writes :written : :wrong : :x :,XY: : :: :,:, :,:Z :,, ::,, : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : :: : :year : : : :: : : : : : :yeah : : : : CERTIFICATION , Inc., hereby certifies that the attached pages represent an accurate transcription of electronic sound recording of the oral argument before the Supreme Court of The United States in the Matter of: MARCUS ANDREW BURRAGE, Petitioner, v. UNITED STATES; and that these attached pages constitute the original transcript of the proceedings for the records of the Court. REPORTER 