 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVIRGINIA, Plaintiff ::v. MARYLAND. : No. Orig.:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ANDREW H. BAIDA, Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf of the Plaintiff. STUART A. RAPHAEL, ESQ., McLean, Virginia; on behalf of the Defendant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW H. BAIDA, ESQ.On behalf of the Plaintiff STUART A. RAPHAEL, ESQ.On behalf of the Defendant REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFANDREW H. BAIDA, ESQ.On behalf of the Plaintiff PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. Original, Virginia v. Maryland.Mr. Baida.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW H. BAIDAON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFMR. BAIDA: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:There are two reasons why the State of Marylandhas the authority to regulate Virginia and its citizenswhen they seek to place structures in and withdraw waterfrom the Potomac River. First, as confirmed by the Black-Jenkins Award of and this Court's decision in Morris v. UnitedStates, the State of Maryland is and has been the owner ofthe Potomac River since , and Maryland has never --QUESTION: Mr. Baida, before you get into yourargument, can I just ask you a preliminary question? Imade the mistake of reading the Master's report before Iread the briefs. There's an awful lot of discussion ofthe entire river issue in there. Is that -- you're nolonger making that point?MR. BAIDA: Correct, we are not.Maryland is and has been the owner of the river, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY and it has never relinquished the sovereign authority thatits title to the river gives it to regulate what takesplace on and over the bed. And the second reason --QUESTION: Do you think the compact coverswithdrawals of water by Virginia? I mean, does itdirectly cover that at all?MR. BAIDA: It's not the privilege of making andcarrying out orders, Justice O'Connor, although thatprivilege would seem to apply to building something intothe river to exercise a riparian right, and there is ariparian right to withdraw water.QUESTION: Well, do you -- do you take theposition that Maryland could reject every effort by Virginia to withdraw water from the river?MR. BAIDA: No, Justice O'Connor. We -- we havenever taken that position.QUESTION: What is your position then?MR. BAIDA: That Virginia has riparian rightswith respect to the Potomac River.QUESTION: Which includes the right to use someof the water.MR. BAIDA: Correct. QUESTION: And take it out of the river.MR. BAIDA: Correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: With your permission.MR. BAIDA: Correct.QUESTION: But only with your permission.QUESTION: It's only the last step that's theproblem. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Is that right? Only with Maryland'spermission --MR. BAIDA: Subject to a standard ofreasonableness, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: Is that reasonableness in partassessed by the fact that Maryland is a sovereign?MR. BAIDA: It's --QUESTION: Pardon me. That Virginia is a sovereign?MR. BAIDA: No. It's assessed by the fact thatMaryland owns the river, but that Virginia, as -- as ariparian owner, has rights with respect to the river thatMaryland must be reasonable with respect to which in itsregulations. QUESTION: Virginia rights are -- Virginiarights are no greater than any private landowner?MR. BAIDA: That's precisely correct.QUESTION: Even -- even assuming that's true, I-- I thought a right is a right. I -- I thought we have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY right to something. It doesn't mean somebody can turn itdown.MR. BAIDA: And -- and --QUESTION: And riparian rights include the rightto take the water. That's clear.MR. BAIDA: And --QUESTION: And that's the right to take water,not -- not the right to come and beg Maryland to takewater.MR. BAIDA: The river, Justice Scalia, isentirely within the State of Maryland, and that isundisputed from the -- the language of the Marylandcharter back from . The entire river is in Maryland.QUESTION: But the compact reserves to the State of Virginia and its citizens riparian rights. If riparianrights include, as I think they do, the right to takewater, it seems to me that aspect of the case is -- isquite easy to decide.MR. BAIDA: Maryland's ownership of the Potomacgives it to right -- gives it the right to regulate whattakes place on and over the bed. There are riparianrights, but as this Court has recognized, those riparianrights have always been subject to government regulation. QUESTION: I'm mixed up. I'm sorry. Maybe -- Ididn't think the case was basically about taking water out th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY of the river. I thought it was about building somethingfor the purpose of taking water out.MR. BAIDA: There --QUESTION: Is -- is it actually that you'resaying -- I may have misread this and so is it actually --you're saying if -- if somebody -- if the Governor ofVirginia goes to the river with a bucket and takes water,a little bit of water, to wash some pans that he has, thatthey have to get Maryland's permission? Is it abouttaking the water out of the river? Is it about buildingsomething, or both?MR. BAIDA: It's about both.QUESTION: All right. So now you're justaddressing the problem of taking water out of the river. So can a person who lives next to a river under the commonlaw from or whatever -- now, can he go to the riverand just take some water when he's thirsty?MR. BAIDA: Yes. QUESTION: Yes. All right. So Virginia is justtaking water when they happen to have a lot of people whoare thirsty. (Laughter.) QUESTION: So what's the -- what's the specialthing about the water? I thought it was building a waterintake system. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. BAIDA: It's -- it's about both. The rightto build into the Potomac which the compact --QUESTION: All right. Let's imagine there wereno building. Then would you have an objection?MR. BAIDA: Yes, because --QUESTION: Because you can't take water out whenyou're thirsty.QUESTION: There are too many thirsty people iswhat your objection is. Right?MR. BAIDA: The -- the objection is simply thatMaryland has the right to regulate what takes place in itsterritory, and what takes place --QUESTION: It doesn't. What they do is they --they build a -- a hole which fills up with the water from the Potomac and that hole, which happens to be inVirginia, is filled up with water and they drink it. Now,is there any objection? They haven't built a thing.MR. BAIDA: I think that's a different question. That's --QUESTION: No. I'm asking you, are youobjecting to the building or are you objecting separately-- because I hadn't focused on that -- to just takingwater without building anything?MR. BAIDA: If they're taking -- if they are --the low-water mark on the Virginia side -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: No. They have nothing built overthere. What happens is water comes up out of the Potomacinto Virginia and they drink it.MR. BAIDA: But I'm trying to understand thenature of your question, Justice Breyer. When they builda hole, are they building the hole in Virginia? QUESTION: In Virginia. MR. BAIDA: So they're building a trench inVirginia. QUESTION: Yes, that's right.MR. BAIDA: Maryland may have some objections tothat at some future point in time, but that's activitythat's taking place in Virginia. QUESTION: Yes. That's what I thought the case was about. QUESTION: Unless the trench creates a new low-water mark for the Potomac. I mean, I think that's whatMaryland's argument would be, that when you make an inletinto Virginia, that's -- that's the low-water mark of thePotomac.MR. BAIDA: Well, that may -- that -- I don'tknow whether that would actually change the --QUESTION: I didn't want to get it mixed up. All I wanted to do is I focused on this case as a matterof building something. I didn't focus on it as a matter th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY of taking water out. And I'm -- and that's -- that was myproblem. Now, maybe just forget my problem. Maybe I'mthe only one who had it. So skip --QUESTION: Let -- let me ask you this. There'sa Potomac River Flow Allocation Agreement of . Doesit deal with the right of Virginia to use water or take itout?MR. BAIDA: That imposes restrictions on thethree major users of the Potomac River, the WashingtonAqueduct, the Army Corps of Engineers, the -- the FairfaxCounty Water Authority and the Washington Sanitary --Suburban Sanitary Commission, and imposes limitations onthe amount of water that they can take --QUESTION: On the amount, but it acknowledges --MR. BAIDA: -- in periods of low flow.QUESTION: -- that water can and will be removedby Fairfax County?MR. BAIDA: Subject to a permitting system thatwas in place at the time and still is in place. And theonly permitting system that's ever been in place withrespect to the Potomac River has been the permittingsystem established by the State of Maryland. And I think I'd like to just go back to theinitial point I tried to make at the beginning, which iswhy Maryland has the right to do what it's doing here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Before you do that, can I ask apractical question? How is Maryland, if it is, adverselyaffected by this pipe and the water intake? Is there anyadverse impact on Maryland or is Maryland just trying tosay, we are the sovereign? So even though our people arenot being adversely affected, you need to get a permitfrom us. Is there any adverse impact on Maryland or itsresidents?MR. BAIDA: Well, the Maryland administrativeand judicial review proceedings answered that question"no."But the reason why Maryland took the -- theaction that it did was because Fairfax County already hadan existing waterway intake pipe in the -- in the river. They wanted to build another intake pipe feet into theriver, and the edge of it would be inches above waterwith a -foot walkway. Maryland took the position let'ssee if there are less intrusive alternatives that areavailable. Virginia wanted to do this. Fairfax Countywanted to do this because it was concerned about theeffect of the -- the water on the shoreline which is wherethe existing intake pipe was and wanted to get cleanerwater from the -- from the middle of the river. And soMaryland took the view, well, let's see if there are less th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY intrusive alternatives available, and --QUESTION: Why?QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: Because -- because there wasn'tenough water for the people in -- in Maryland? That's --it -- one thing is, well, we're sovereign and you -- wehave to give our permission. Another is our people arenot going to have enough water if Virginia does this. Ithink you're saying Maryland had no such objection.MR. BAIDA: Maryland had no objection to theFairfax County Water Authority withdrawing water. Maryland's objection was to minimize the impact on thePotomac River.QUESTION: What authority did you have to minimize the impact? The compact between the States givesthe State and its citizens riparian rights, including theright to build structures into the river so long as theydo not impede navigation. Was Maryland's objection that-- that this new structure would impede navigation of theriver? It's a -- it's above the navigable portion anyway,isn't it? MR. BAIDA: Yes, it is.QUESTION: So. So what was your objection?MR. BAIDA: Because the riparian rights that --QUESTION: It was ugly? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. BAIDA: Well, there was -- that was part ofit because it -- it was in the scenic portion of thePotomac River.QUESTION: Well, you should have reserved thatright in the -- in the compact. The compact could havesaid, you know, provided it does not impede navigation orbe ugly. (Laughter.) MR. BAIDA: What the -- what the compact does,Justice Scalia, is it provides that the Potomac Rivercould be used as a common highway by the citizens of bothStates, and it also secures important private propertyrights. Private property rights, again for the citizensof both States.QUESTION: All right. Let -- if I may, let meinterrupt you there. Do you concede that the State hasany rights under article VII of the compact?MR. BAIDA: That the States?QUESTION: The State, the State of Virginia, theCommonwealth of Virginia. Article -- article VII talksabout citizens.MR. BAIDA: That --QUESTION: It doesn't talk about thecommonwealth.MR. BAIDA: That's exactly what this Court has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY said in --QUESTION: Well, is that -- I mean, is that apremise of your argument? MR. BAIDA: Yes.QUESTION: Do you -- do you also deny that theState with respect to withdrawal of water for its citizensthat the -- do you deny that the State stands in the shoesof its citizens?MR. BAIDA: The -- the State -- the Commonwealthof Virginia brought this action on behalf of its citizensto seek --QUESTION: No. I realize that, but are youdenying that it may properly do that?MR. BAIDA: No. No, we are not.QUESTION: So, in effect, are you saying theState -- it -- it is just as though the State had expressrights under article VII because in making the claim thatit's making, it stands in the shoes of its citizens, andits citizens do have rights. Is -- is that -- do youconcede that?MR. BAIDA: Yes. The -- we've never denied thatthe --QUESTION: Then it's irrelevant that the -- thatarticle VII speaks only of citizens and not of the State. Is that correct? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. BAIDA: No, it's not irrelevant, Justice --QUESTION: Then what -- what difference does itmake?MR. BAIDA: Because all that the compact does,it secures -- it -- it makes a -- there is -- the compactdrafters recognized the difference between jurisdictionand sovereignty and private property rights, and when theywanted to, they knew exactly how to go about addressingissues of sovereignty.QUESTION: Now, one of my questions in this caseis this. You've answered Justice Souter and he posed hisquestions this way based on article VII or paragraph --clause VII of -- of the compact. But must we notinterpret that too according to the Black-Jenkins Award, particularly paragraph at page C- of -- of the -- ofthe Special Master's appendices? That uses the -- thatsays Virginia -- not citizens. That says Virginia hasriparian rights, and both of those two phrases are notused in the compact. The phrase, riparian rights, I don'tthink is used in the compact, and the compact talks aboutcitizens.But the Black-Jenkins Award goes -- it seems tome, interprets authoritatively -- and you correct me ifI'm wrong -- what the compact means. And I read the Black-- at least I think it's a permissible reading -- to say th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY that Virginia -- and we'll argue about as a sovereign. That -- that's -- that's a phrase I add -- has riparianrights. So we really do have to focus not just on sectionVII, but on part of the Black-Jenkins Award, do we not?MR. BAIDA: Yes. And we -- Maryland's view isthat that part of the award confirms Maryland's rightsover the river. And I'd like to explain this a little bitmore fully. What the Black-Jenkins arbitrators did was theyrejected Virginia's claim to any right in the soil -- anyright in the soil -- beyond the water mark, any right toany of the islands in the river, and any right to any partof the bed of the river. Now --QUESTION: Yes, but it said, as has been pointed out, that Virginia was given a proprietary right and aprivilege to erect any structures necessary to the fullenjoyment of Virginia's riparian ownership, whichpresumably encompasses taking out water.MR. BAIDA: And the presumption, JusticeO'Connor, is overcome by looking at the rest of the award,and what the -- the arbitrators did, they did giveVirginia title to the middle of other bodies of water,namely the -- the Tangier Sound, the Pocomoke Sound, andthe Pocomoke River. But they specifically rejected --QUESTION: Yes, but do you deny that Virginia th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY has riparian ownership up to the low-water mark of thePotomac?MR. BAIDA: The arbitrators said that Virginiahas full dominion over this right in the soil up to low-water mark, but beyond that point, Virginia only has aright to use the river. A right of use is not dominion,it's not title, it's not sovereignty.QUESTION: But it says --QUESTION: Why? But it is a right of use, andthat's what you're -- and that's what you're contradictinghere. That's all they want. They're not trying to governthe river. They just want to use it.MR. BAIDA: A right of use, Justice Scalia, issubject to governmental authority and regulation, and that's exactly what this Court said --QUESTION: Well, but it says here in the Black-Jenkins Award and in the earlier compact, the privilege toerect structures necessary to the full enjoyment of theriparian ownership. That might mean a pipe to take waterout.MR. BAIDA: This Court has said in, for example,Massachusetts v. New York that Massachusetts' right to useLake Ontario was still subject to the regulatory authorityof New York because New York had title to the bed of LakeOntario. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Mr. Baida, can I ask you sort of abasic question? In your view is there any differencebetween the right that Virginia has, the riparian rightsof Virginia, on the one hand, and the riparian rights ofMaryland's citizens who -- who own the property on theMaryland shore of the river? Do -- are they equivalent? Or what is the difference between the riparian rights ofthe people on the opposite sides of the river?MR. BAIDA: The -- Maryland is to treat themidentically, and that's set forth clearly in article VIIof the compact.QUESTION: So that either -- on either side ofthe river, a property owner could stick a pipe in anddrain the river.MR. BAIDA: Not -- not if it has any kind ofadverse impact from Maryland's perspective, whether it'sin Maryland -- if -- if the City of Rockville wanted to dothis, it would encounter presumably exactly the same kindof reaction that Fairfax County initially did.QUESTION: You say the riparian rights on eitherside of the river are subject to the paramount authorityof the Maryland -- the State of Maryland to -- to governwhat happens to the water.MR. BAIDA: Yes.QUESTION: And -- and in the exercise of that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY authority, could Maryland give a higher priority to thecitizens of Rockville than to the citizens of Vienna,Virginia? MR. BAIDA: No, and this Court said in Yates v.Milwaukee that -- that the riparian right cannot bearbitrarily and capriciously denied. And that --QUESTION: No. It's not arbitrary andcapricious. They make a lot of findings and they saidthere's too much traffic in Virginia. Virginia would bebetter off if it's rural.(Laughter.) MR. BAIDA: Well, Your Honor, I think --QUESTION: And -- and what is -- what is thesource for your statement that Maryland has to be non-arbitrary? Is this riparian water law or is this someconstitutional obligation that one State owes to another?MR. BAIDA: I -- I think it's again set forth inYates v. Milwaukee where the Court said that a Statecannot -- or a government -- municipality cannotarbitrarily and capriciously deny someone the exercise ofa riparian right.QUESTION: So in your opinion --QUESTION: But -- but that's based on -- on --that's a statement of riparian law?MR. BAIDA: Yes. I think -- I mean, it's a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY property right. It is a property right, and it can't bearbitrarily --QUESTION: So we're talking about -- all we'retalking about is property rights here. We're just talkingabout the definition of what a riparian right is.MR. BAIDA: Yes.And just so I'm clear, Justice Kennedy, the ruleof law, not administrative hyperbole, is what governed thejudicial and the administrative review proceedings thatled to Fairfax County getting this waterway intake pipepermit. I mean, it -- there was -- it went through theprocess. Maryland thought it had valid reasons forrestricting the -- the permit, and Maryland was -- wasoverruled, and the permit has since issued. And so thisis not a case of Maryland just arbitrarily deciding, well,we don't like what's happening over there, and -- andthen --QUESTION: So your opinion is --QUESTION: You -- you used the word arbitrary. I didn't. I just want to know the source of law whichgoverns Maryland's obligation under your point of -- underyour submission to make these determinations. And yousaid it has to just be fair among riparian owners becausethis is what riparian law requires it to do.MR. BAIDA: And I think it's also required by th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the Constitution. QUESTION: Your -- your point --QUESTION: What provision of the Constitution? MR. BAIDA: I think the Due Process Clause. Maryland just can't arbitrarily and -- and capriciouslydeprive someone of a property right.QUESTION: Oh, but that's just an obligation ithas as to all of its citizens. Virginia doesn't have anyspecial standing as a State.MR. BAIDA: No. And -- and again, it's becauseof what Maryland gave up in this compact and -- and whatthe Black-Jenkins Award provided.And again, we have to go back -- and the -- theproblem with -- with the Special Master's recommendation from Maryland's perspective is that he began at the wrongplace in history. He began with the compact. He shouldhave begun with the charter because the plain language ofthe charter gives Maryland this river, and -- and so thequestion at that point, since Maryland owns this river,Maryland does have sovereign authority over it. So --QUESTION: What was wrong with the SpecialMaster saying, yes, Maryland has this decree. Itlooks -- this grant. It looks pretty good. But Virginiahas these other grants. And I think that they're botharguable. So the States sensibly twice dealt with it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY But your argument seems to hang on that document indisputably was it, and that everything elseflows from there. The Special Master said, notnecessarily so. They couldn't even resolve it in . They finally resolved it in , but it wasn't aninevitable truth that it was rather than the Virginiagrants.MR. BAIDA: Justice Ginsburg, the -- the flaw inthe reasoning is that it ignores the plain language of thecharter which this Court said includes the Potomac Riverin unmistakable terms to the further bank. It doesn'tmatter what kind of competing claims existed as of when the compact was written.What matters is who had title, and under Virginia's view, Maryland was a -- this -- Maryland wasbasically a deed holder. This was a royal deed, and underVirginia's view, this royal deed could not create rightsuntil it was interpreted by either the arbitrators or thisCourt.QUESTION: But there were other royal deeds too,different kings, but there were royal decrees that -- thatVirginia had.MR. BAIDA: Which this Court noted did not doanything to divest Maryland of the authority it had underthe -- Maryland was first in time. First in line, first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY in time. And so it had it in . There was asubsequent deed that was given by --QUESTION: I thought there was -- the earliestin time was in, wasn't it, or something? The --MR. BAIDA: But in -- yes, in Virginia wasinitially set up but then its charter was annulled in. It converted to a royal colony which meant thatKing Charles I in had the right to carve Maryland outof Virginia, which is what he did. He created Maryland asa proprietorial colony. At that point, the only way thatMaryland could lose any rights it had under its charterwas through a quo warranto proceeding. It was initiatedin . It never resulted in anything, as thearbitrators in noted. And so Maryland --QUESTION: But -- but are you saying that thecompact in and the Black-Jenkins Award in -- were-- were simply wrong because they didn't follow thatinterpretation that you're giving now?MR. BAIDA: No, I'm not saying the compact waswrong at all, Mr. Chief --QUESTION: Are you saying the Black-JenkinsAward was wrong?MR. BAIDA: No. The -- I think -- all -- allI'm saying is that Maryland had this authority as a resultof the plain language in the charter. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, are you saying that theimplicit assumption at least of both the Black-Jenkins Award and the compact -- the implicit, if notexplicit, assumption was that Maryland owned the river?MR. BAIDA: No. I think a fair reading of thatdocument -- of -- of the -- the compact and the award was that reasonable minds may have differed. And sothe States decided this is how we're going to addressissues of navigation.QUESTION: Well, but I thought I was arguing --making your argument for you. So -- so you -- but then,it seems to me, that justifies the Special Master'sapproach. You -- I thought you were saying, oh, now, heproceeded on the wrong premise. This -- the -- theboundary line was settled. All -- all we're talking aboutis -- is the rights -- or -- or ownership and stuff. Butyou're saying no. If it's everything is up for grabs,then the compact and the Black-Jenkins Award, what dowe look to?MR. BAIDA: If I said that, let me retrieve itimmediately because that was not what I meant to say. (Laughter.) MR. BAIDA: What I -- what I meant to say wasthat Maryland's title has not changed one iota in almost years. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Mr. Baida, maybe I'm missingsomething here, but I did not understand that the State ofVirginia is contesting the ownership of Maryland of thebed of the river. Is -- is that -- is that contested byVirginia? I thought that they concede that the riverright up to the low-water mark on the southern shore ofthe Virginia shore belongs to Maryland. But that -- butthat does not answer the question of whether the riparianrights given to the citizens of Virginia and to the Stateof Virginia requires that -- that they obtain permissionfrom Maryland before withdrawing water or creating astructure to withdraw water.MR. BAIDA: I agree, Justice Scalia, but it goesa long way in resolving that question because by acknowledging that -- that the boundary is not in dispute,by acknowledging that Maryland does, indeed, have title tothis river, Virginia has acknowledged Maryland'sregulatory authority --QUESTION: No, it hasn't because it --QUESTION: No, it hasn't. QUESTION: But it's all -- it's all subject tothe fact that the owners on both sides of the river haveriparian rights. Right?MR. BAIDA: Correct. QUESTION: Now, my question -- Justice Kennedy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY asked it earlier, and I'm not sure you got an answer. Whodefines the riparian rights? I guess on Maryland's sideof the river Maryland can define the riparian rights. Whodefines the riparian rights on the Virginia side of theriver? Do you think Maryland has the authority to dothat, or is there a common law that's binding on us orsome kind of overriding Federal constitutional principleat stake?MR. BAIDA: I think a fair reading of thecompact is that both States agreed that they couldn'tagree on where the boundary was, and so they decided --QUESTION: I think the fair reading is thateverybody thought there would be plenty of water, so wedidn't have to decide this. All we're worried about istransportation down the river, and it's not -- and nowwe've got a -- a possible problem on what is enough waterto go around.MR. BAIDA: And -- and --QUESTION: And I don't know that the compactaddresses the question of who defines the riparian rightson the Virginia side of the river.MR. BAIDA: And I think that both States agreedthat wherever the boundary was, the citizens of bothStates would have the same rights of access to the river.And -- and for that reason, they -- they -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Does that mean that because Marylandcan define the rights on the Maryland side of the river,it may also define them on the Virginia side?MR. BAIDA: I think that the -- the view -- afair reading would be that wherever the boundary was --QUESTION: But is it your contention that that'swhat it is?MR. BAIDA: If -- if at the end of the day theboundary is on Virginia's side, yes, Maryland gets todecide because it's activity occurring in Maryland. Thisis Maryland --QUESTION: What if -- what if the Virginialegislature passed a statute governing riparian rights on-- all over the State in other bodies of water, not limited to the Potomac? Could that statute govern theriparian rights of Virginia property owners on thePotomac?MR. BAIDA: Not if Virginia does not own thePotomac. And I'd like to --QUESTION: May I ask just one quick questionbefore you sit down?QUESTION: I just think it's not --QUESTION: Does -- does Maryland requireVirginia's citizens to have a Maryland fishing license tofish in the Potomac? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. BAIDA: No, because that's settled byarticle -- I think article VIII of the compact.QUESTION: It just says that they have rights tofish, but just as you argue that riparian rights andrights to take water can, nonetheless, require priorpermission, you could also take the -- you ought to alsotake the position that the right to fish requires priorpermission. So you ought to get a Maryland fish -- I'mdarned if I'm going to get a Maryland fishing right --fishing license --QUESTION: Do you want to reserve the rest ofyour time, Mr. Baida? MR. BAIDA: I would. Thank you, Mr. ChiefJustice. QUESTION: Very well.Mr. Raphael, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF STUART A. RAPHAELON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANTMR. RAPHAEL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The Special Master correctly decided theregulation issue for two reasons. First, the language ofthe compacts in question is plain and unambiguous, andsecond, for more than years, Maryland never disputedthat it was entirely -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Does that plain language tell us whatriparian rights are?MR. RAPHAEL: The plain language of article IVof the Black-Jenkins Award uses the term riparianownership.QUESTION: But you said plain language of thecompact, and now you're all of a sudden talking aboutBlack-Jenkins. MR. RAPHAEL: It's both. QUESTION: The compact does not use the wordriparian.MR. RAPHAEL: That -- That's correct. But wethink that the plain language --QUESTION: So you say it's the plain language of the compact with the gloss of the Black-Jenkins Award.MR. RAPHAEL: We think it's both.QUESTION: What do you make -- and I don't havethis in front of me, so maybe I -- I'm missing something. But I thought the Black-Jenkins Award also put a --included a disclaimer that it wasn't, in fact, modifyinganything in the compact. Am I right?MR. RAPHAEL: That's -- that's correct becausethe enabling legislation for the Black-Jenkins Awardprovided that neither of the States would be deprived ofany of the rights or privileges, nor would the citizens be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY deprived of rights or privileges that they had under theCompact of .QUESTION: How -- I'm sorry.Assuming that then, how do we get from thelanguage of article VII in the compact that refers tocitizens to the language in Black-Jenkins that talks aboutthe States?MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, the citizens inVirginia only had those rights under the compact becauseVirginia as a sovereign entered into an interstate compactwith Maryland.Secondly, Maryland recognized in the enablinglegislation that provided for the Black-Jenkins Award thatthe rights were the rights not only of citizens, but of the States. That language is used in the enabling act.QUESTION: So you -- you say that ininterpreting the Black-Jenkins Award, Virginia's riparianownership is -- is defined by its -- in part by itssovereign status?MR. RAPHAEL: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: So that sovereignty is inherent inownership?MR. RAPHAEL: I think that's correct. If -- ifyou look at the opinion that accompanied the Black-JenkinsAward, the arbitrators said that Virginia had proven her th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY use of the Potomac River since her earliest days and thather rights were, therefore, indisputable and that Marylandassented to Virginia's use when she signed the Compact of.Now, that compact, Your Honor, was entered intoat a time when the boundary was disputed, and regardlessof where the boundary was set -- I think Mr. Baida admitsthis -- it was recognized that that compact did not setthe boundary, but each State agreed that wherever theboundary ultimately would be set, the citizens of eachState and the States themselves would have certain rights,and those rights included the right to property in theshores, and all advantages and emoluments thereuntobelonging, and the privilege of making and carrying out wharfs and other improvements. QUESTION: Except for the sense of the document,at least of the compact, as I read it, is that the Stateis treated just like any other owner.MR. RAPHAEL: I don't think that that's correct,Your Honor, because article --QUESTION: Well, can you point me tosomething --MR. RAPHAEL: Yes.QUESTION: -- in the compacts or the -- or theBlack-Jenkins Award to the contrary? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. RAPHAEL: Well, the Black-Jenkins Awardclearly deals with Virginia as a State. The compact dealswith Virginia as a State in article VIII, for example,where it requires that neither State could regulatefishing or navigation without the concurrence of the otherState. Articles X and XI and XII also deal with therights of the citizens. Wherever the compact involved amatter in which a State would touch the activities of thecitizens of the other State, it said so expressly.And it's inconceivable to think that the -- thedrafters of the compact would have agreed that concurrentlegislation would be required for fishing and navigation,but Maryland could somehow regulate Virginia's right tobuild improvements from the shore. It's inconceivablethat they would have ratified the compact if that had beenrequired.QUESTION: Why -- why is it concurrent forfishing? Article seventh says that the -- that thecitizens of both States -- the right of fishing in theriver shall be common to and equally enjoyed by thecitizens of both States. MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct, Your Honor. Article VIII requires concurrent legislation for fishingand navigation rules in the Potomac River.QUESTION: For the preservation of fish or for th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the performance -- for preserving and keeping open thechannel?MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: Has -- has Virginia issued -- is aVirginia fishing license valid in the -- in the Potomac?MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, until , the Stateshad concurrent legislation governing fishing in thePotomac River. In -- and that was based on articleVIII of the compact. In , Maryland attempted toabrogate that requirement and to assume unilateralauthority over the Potomac River. Virginia filed suithere. This Court appointed a special master to hear thecase. The States resolved their dispute as to the tidalPotomac with the creation of the Potomac River FisheriesCommission, which is a bi-State agency that now regulatesfishing in the -- in the tidal Potomac. As to the non-tidal Potomac, since eachState has had laws on the books that recognize permitsissued or licenses issued to citizens of the other Stateas valid licenses for fishing in the non-tidal Potomac.QUESTION: What's left of the dispute now? Is-- does Virginia now have a permit to withdraw the water?MR. RAPHAEL: The -- the permit, JusticeO'Connor, was issued to the Fairfax County WaterAuthority. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Yes. Is that all you're arguingabout?MR. RAPHAEL: No, Your Honor, because we contendthat no permit was required in the first instance, and wealso challenged that specific permit because the Marylandlegislature required that it contain a condition requiringthe water authority to put a flow restrictor into thepipeline for the sole purpose, the Maryland legislaturesaid, of allowing Maryland to control growth anddevelopment in northern Virginia. We object to that. Theauthority objected to that subject to the outcome in thiscase. We object to any --QUESTION: So we're -- we're talking now about aflow restrictor in the pipe?MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: I mean, that's what it comes down to.MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. And --QUESTION: Well, but Virginia objects on generalprinciple, I take it, to the idea that Maryland canrestrict the amount of water it takes out of -- of thePotomac.MR. RAPHAEL: That's exactly right, and I don'tmean to say my answer is limited to just the FairfaxCounty Water Authority. We object to the continuation byMaryland of a permit system that requires Virginia to get th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY Maryland's permission anytime we want to withdraw waterfrom the Potomac River or build improvements appurtenantto the shore.QUESTION: But do you -- what about the generalright of a riparian owner on a river to withdraw water? Would you say that right includes the right to withdraw anunlimited quantity of water?MR. RAPHAEL: I don't believe that that would bea riparian right, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, then who decides what limit canbe -- can be imposed on the riparian owner's right towithdraw water?MR. RAPHAEL: With respect to the Potomac River,there's a low flow allocation agreement in place that Congress required which allocates the flows during periodsof low flow. There is a water coordination agreement of in place by which the three main utilities in theDistrict of Columbia have agreed to provide for a futurewater supply. This Court said in Colorado --QUESTION: But assume there are no agreements.QUESTION: -- riparian question that's notcontrolled by those documents. QUESTION: Assume there are no agreements atall. Would Maryland have the right to say no more than X th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY amount of water may be withdrawn by any riparian owner inMaryland or Virginia? MR. RAPHAEL: No. We don't believe they do havethat right.QUESTION: Could you drain the river?MR. RAPHAEL: Not under the low flow agreementand not under the water supply coordination agreement,absolutely not.QUESTION: No. But let's assume there werenone.QUESTION: We've -- in some originaljurisdiction cases, we have decided on amounts of water. In fact, in the Texas against New Mexico case, there's a-- there's a river master on the Pecos River operating under one of our decrees.MR. RAPHAEL: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. ThisCourt said in Colorado v. New Mexico that before thisCourt will enjoin any State from diverting water from thePotomac River, the State --QUESTION: Well, they weren't talking about thePotomac River.MR. RAPHAEL: I'm sorry. That was the VermejoRiver. This Court requires a showing that the diversionwould cause clear -- by clear and convincing evidence thatthe diversion would cause injury to the State seeking to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY prevent the diversion.In this case, Maryland has circumvented thatrequirement by controlling the tap. Maryland doesn'tcontend that anything Virginia has done to date injuresthe river.QUESTION: No, but I mean, your -- your --QUESTION: If they did so contend, could theyenforce that contention?MR. RAPHAEL: There -- there would be manyplaces where they can raise that issue if Virginiaprevails in this case. They can raise it in the contextof the Federal and Virginia permitting requirements, the and section permitting requirements. QUESTION: I'm just trying to -- trying to -- we have an original jurisdiction case involving a fightbetween two States. And assume nobody had made anyagreements other than those determining the ownership ofthis river. Would then Maryland have no right to -- tolimit the amount that Virginia could withdraw?MR. RAPHAEL: If -- if Maryland has a claim thatVirginia's withdrawals injure it, it has a place where itcan raise that claim.QUESTION: And that's here.QUESTION: That's --MR. RAPHAEL: It could be here. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: -- just what it's doing here.MR. RAPHAEL: It could be in the Army Corps ofEngineers permitting process.QUESTION: Now, well, let's -- let's forgetthe --QUESTION: -- findings. I'm trying to put to --QUESTION: Assuming that the one --QUESTION: -- one side all the agreements andjust have a brand new problem. Maryland or Virginia arefighting about who can control withdrawals of water fromthis river. And is there any principle that -- that saysthat someone other than the owner of the river can makethat decision? MR. RAPHAEL: Federal common law would govern that, as this Court said in Colorado v. New Mexico. Thefact that that the river was in Colorado didn't giveColorado a right to withdraw water from that river.QUESTION: Well, Virginia would have the sameclaim against Maryland if Maryland took out too muchwater.MR. RAPHAEL: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And that's Federal common law becausetwo States are involved?MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. They're co-equalsovereigns contending about an interstate river that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY supplies water to the citizens of -- of both States.QUESTION: All right. Let --QUESTION: What about a citizen of Virginia whoowns property on the -- up to the low-water mark of theriver and wants to build a dock and a pier out, thatextends out into the river? Does that citizen have to getpermission from Maryland to do that? MR. RAPHAEL: Under -- under our view of thecase, no, because the compact gave that citizen the rightto do it, subject to Federal regulations, subject toVirginia regulation. And Maryland can contend either inthe permitting process or independently that any action bya Virginia citizen that -- that it can show causes injuryto Maryland shouldn't be allowed. But --QUESTION: Is that what the Special Masterspecifically held in your view?MR. RAPHAEL: The Master ruled that under thecompact and the award, Virginia and its citizens have theright to withdraw water and to construct improvementsappurtenant to the shore without having to get permissionfrom Maryland. Yes.QUESTION: What if Maryland takes the positionthat it obstructs navigation? Who's going to decide that? Virginia? MR. RAPHAEL: No, Your Honor. The primary place th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY will these -- where these disputes will be decided is inthe -- as a practical matter is in the Federal permittingprocess. It's very much like then-Associate JusticeRehnquist wrote for the Court in Milwaukee v. Illinois,that the Federal permitting process -- that was a -- aFederal water pollution control act case -- that theFederal permitting process provides an adequate forum forthe State to raise concerns that it has about --QUESTION: Because this is a navigable river,the Federal Government has such a scheme in place.MR. RAPHAEL: That's exactly right.QUESTION: But if -- if it did not, I -- I takeit the answer would be in -- in a Federal question suitbrought by Maryland against the Virginia citizen? MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: Yes. MR. RAPHAEL: I think the key evidence of -- letme move beyond what we think is -- is the plain languageand -- and discuss also what the Master looked at withrespect to Maryland's practice historically.The -- the key evidence here comes from . This is at a time when Maryland and Virginia were tryingto settle their boundary dispute. In the boundaryarbitration, Maryland contended that the boundary lineshould be on the Virginia side at the low-water mark and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY go around any improvements then existing or which, quote,may hereafter be extended by authority of Virginia,unquote. That's at page of the Virginia lodging.In the Maryland view in and in the viewthey maintained in the arbitration, it was entirely up toVirginia to decide when, whether, and where to buildimprovements from the shore. And they actually thoughtthat would alter the boundary line.QUESTION: Could you answer this question forme? And in part, I'm going back on the ground that we'vebeen traversing already.What is there in -- in the documents before us-- by that, I mean the compact and the Black-Jenkinsagreement, number one, or in the law generally, number two -- that gives Virginia special rights as a sovereign towithdraw water for its people as opposed to the right itwould have simply as an owner of -- of property towithdrawal rights for that property that it owns?MR. RAPHAEL: I think, Your Honor, all of theCourt's equitable apportionment cases recognize that theState has a sovereign interest in protecting the watersupply of its citizens where that water supply is servedby an interstate river.QUESTION: But -- but those are cases -- correctme if I'm wrong -- in which the State owns out to the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY to the centerline of the river.MR. RAPHAEL: Most of the cases --QUESTION: Correct me if I'm wrong.MR. RAPHAEL: Justice Kennedy, most of the casesinvolve a river which goes from one State into anotherState, and we don't --QUESTION: Yes, in which each State has aninterest in the river. But here --MR. RAPHAEL: That's right. QUESTION: -- Virginia owns only to the -- tothe low-water mark. And I want you to show -- tell mesomething in these documents which says that Virginia hasa special right -- special rights as a sovereign --MR. RAPHAEL: Article IV of the Black-Jenkins --QUESTION: -- other than what I just -- otherthan we know that Virginia is a party.MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, article IV of theBlack-Jenkins Award says Virginia has a right to the useof the river beyond the line of low-water mark as being --as may be necessary to the full enjoyment of her riparianownership. And Maryland stipulated --QUESTION: But her -- but does her riparianownership give it any rights that are different andgreater than a private owner of land?MR. RAPHAEL: Absolutely. It absolutely does. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: And what is the source?QUESTION: And -- and what is your support forthat proposition?MR. RAPHAEL: This Court's Federal common lawcases that distinguish between the rights of States withrespect to a water supply and the rights of individualcitizens.QUESTION: But those are cases in which theStates have an ownership interest -- an equal ownershipinterest in the river.MR. RAPHAEL: I don't think that --QUESTION: And is just riparian ownership.MR. RAPHAEL: Colorado v. New Mexico is a goodexample. The Pecos River -- percent of it came from Colorado, and it then flowed into New Mexico. But thisCourt effectively denied Colorado any use of that riverregardless of the fact that she owned the river. Ownership is not dispositive in -- in a dispute betweenStates over a -- a water supply that supplies the citizensof both States.Now, the Potomac River is an interstate river. The Congress recognized that in when it required thewaters to be allocated. A drop of water that begins inthe Shenandoah is not a Virginia drop of water anymorethan it's a Maryland drop of water when it's in the main th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY stem of the Potomac.QUESTION: I think at the -- I think at theleast, would you concede or would you -- that the Black-Jenkins agreement goes a step beyond the -- the compact inthis regard?MR. RAPHAEL: We think it's at least coextensivewith the compact, but I -- I don't -- I think that thatposition would be defensible but it does go beyond --QUESTION: Well, isn't it --QUESTION: But you --QUESTION: -- isn't it limiting in this extent? There is something in this fourth article of the Black --of the arbitration award that refers to without --without impeding navigation -- that's been there throughout -- or otherwise interfering with the proper useof it by Maryland. What would those words suggest otherthan Maryland can permit the use to assure that its properuse is not interfered with?MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, those words giveMaryland a right of action and a cause of action againstVirginia or the user if it -- if the use interferes withMaryland's use of the river. That doesn't mean Marylandgets to decide. No State can control another State'saccess to the water supply and no State can be a party toa dispute and -- and then fairly decide that dispute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: But you are depending then on whatyou referred to as Federal common law and not the words ofthe compact and not the words of -- of the -- the Black-Jenkins.MR. RAPHAEL: No. Your Honor, we rely on -- onthe -- the plain language of the compact and the Black-Jenkins Award which clearly give Virginia the right to theuse of the --QUESTION: But I -- I thought when JusticeKennedy pressed you, your -- you ultimately rested onFederal common law.MR. RAPHAEL: My understanding of JusticeKennedy's question was whether there's a distinctionbetween riparian -- the rights of -- of riparian users as private users and the rights of States as riparians. AndI was answering that question that yes, there is adifference, as this Court has repeatedly said. The civillaw as between riparian users does not bind States withrespect to their use of an interstate stream. That wasthe question I -- I was answering.QUESTION: Mr. Raphael, what -- it's yourposition that if -- I believe, that if a privatelandowner, riparian owner on the Virginia side, thesouthern shore, wants to build a pier out into the river,that pier would be permitted by Virginia? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: Why?MR. RAPHAEL: It --QUESTION: You see, I can understand theauthority for Maryland to permit it since Maryland ownsthe river bed. What -- what is the authority for Virginiato demand a permit from its riparian owners?MR. RAPHAEL: Virginia has the right to regulateits citizens' use of the river, and it -- it has beendoing that for many years through the local buildingpermit requirement that you can't build a -- a pier or awharf on the Virginia side, even though it goes beyondlow-water mark, without getting a -- a building permitfrom the -- from the county. Virginia has enacted --QUESTION: Because of its State ripariansovereignty over -- because of its State sovereignty overthe bank.MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. And Virginia hasenacted, subject to the resolution of this case, a -- theVirginia water permit protection requirement applicable toVirginia users of the river. So if -- if Virginiaprevails in this case, Maryland will regulate its users ofthe river and Virginia will regulate its users of theriver.QUESTION: But what if there's a -- a pier going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY out into the river that's been there for years and theowner wants to modify it, wants to build something more atthe end of the pier? From whom would he get authority todo that?MR. RAPHAEL: He would get that authority fromVirginia. QUESTION: But that's -- it's in the State ofMaryland.about.it?MR. RAPHAEL: The -- the construction --QUESTION: The end of the pier I'm talkingMR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor --QUESTION: The pier is not part of Virginia, isMR. RAPHAEL: The pier is appurtenant toproperty on the Virginia shore, and --QUESTION: Yes, but the pier is located in theState of Maryland.MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: Then why wouldn't he have to get theauthority to make the modification from the State ofMaryland? I guess the -- when they enforce the gaminglaws or whatever they are, the Maryland police are theones that have jurisdiction, aren't they? MR. RAPHAEL: I think you have -- we distinguish th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY between uses that are riparian and uses that are notriparian. percent of everything that's ever been builtthere --QUESTION: Well, repairing the end of a pier, isthat a riparian use or a non-riparian?MR. RAPHAEL: That would be a riparian use. Operating a casino on the pier would not be a riparianuse, and that's why Virginia has not objected to a widevariety of activities by Maryland on its side of the linethat don't go to whether Virginia has the right to buildthe riparian structure in the first place.QUESTION: And for that answer, I take it, you-- you do rest on article VII of the compact.MR. RAPHAEL: Article VII and article IV of theBlack-Jenkins Award. QUESTION: Yes. MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: What about operating a fishing pier,charging for -- who -- who would have the authority to taxthe fishing pier? Is that a riparian use or not riparian?MR. RAPHAEL: Well, there may be uses that arein between in gray as to whether it's a riparian use --QUESTION: Yes. I tried to pick one.MR. RAPHAEL: Let me -- here's -- I'm not surehow the question would be answered, but let me tell you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY what the guiding principles would be. Most of the uses,the States are going to agree, are riparian uses,traditional things, bulkheads, piers, wharfs, docks, waterintakes, as the Master found. There are a number of usesthat, we'll agree, are non-riparian. Building a casino inthe middle of the river. If there's a gray area inbetween and -- and we've got an argument that it'sriparian and Maryland has an argument it's not, that issuemay have to be litigated if we can't resolve it. Butthat's the framework I think that answers these questions.Now --QUESTION: Is that why the Special Master saidgambling, safety rules, health, tax, licensing, all ofthat is irrelevant to this case? MR. RAPHAEL: That's -- that's exactly right,Justice Ginsburg, because after Maryland -- after theboundary was set on the -- on the Virginia side at low-water mark in , Virginia doesn't dispute that Marylandacquired a wide range of police powers on its side of theboundary, but that specifically did not apply to thoserights that Virginia and its citizens enjoyed under theCompact of and which were preserved as a condition ofthe Black-Jenkins Award and which Maryland historically,at least until , recognized was entirely up toVirginia to decide what to do on Virginia's shore. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Does Maryland or Virginia tax the --the value of a -- of a major pier that goes out into theriver? I mean, it's worth something, and I assume there'sa tax on it. Anything that's worth anything is taxed.MR. RAPHAEL: Your Honor, there are somethinglike piers extending from the Virginia side of thePotomac River. All -- all of them are taxed by the -- byVirginia. Only -- there are only three properties thatare taxed by Maryland and those are unique. They'rerestaurant properties that are sited on property that's --the fee simple title to which is recorded in Maryland. Those are on the Maryland side of the line. So Virginiataxes percent of those improvements. Maryland argued that -- that you should -- the Court should look at its taxation of those threerestaurant properties. We think that that is theexception the proves the rule. Maryland doesn't tax percent of everything that Virginia has ever built.The Maryland construction in that it wasentirely up to Virginia to decide when and whether andwhere to build improvements remained their constructionuntil at the earliest . And it was in when thefirst permit was issued to a Virginia user that wasFairfax County, but the record is undisputed that thatpermit was not known to Virginia State officials. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: In the -- in the compact beginningwith article or clause VIII, there's some very particularassignments of sovereign powers, abrogation of sovereignpower, but that doesn't apply in VII. And it seems to methat that helps Maryland in this case. When the compactwanted to provide Virginia would have very specific policepowers, it provided it, but it didn't provide that withrespect to riparian rights. In fact, it doesn't evenmention riparian rights. It just talks about wharfs.MR. RAPHAEL: It refers to the advantages andemoluments.QUESTION: Referring to the compact.MR. RAPHAEL: Right. The article VII refers tothe advantages and emoluments of the ownership of land. QUESTION: But that -- it doesn't use the wordriparian.MR. RAPHAEL: That's -- that's exactly right.But the answer to your question, Your Honor, is that therewas no need in article VII to address that specificquestion because it was -- everybody would have assumedthat each State retained the authority to regulate its owncitizens.QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I'm not so sure. If --if three or four provisions of the contract -- of thecompact have very specific abrogations or assignment of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY sovereignty and the other one doesn't, I -- I would assumethat there is -- that that provision has not been made.MR. RAPHAEL: But, Your Honor, it's -- to ourthinking it would be inconceivable that George Mason who-- who negotiated that compact on behalf of Virginia, whoopposed the Federal Constitution because it gave Congresstoo much authority over -- over commerce, that he wouldhave signed an agreement with the understanding thatMaryland had the authority to decide when and whereVirginia could make use of the river.QUESTION: Well, other than he's operating fromthe baseline where Maryland owns the river.MR. RAPHAEL: That's -- but history is the otherway. That's Maryland's argument, is that it always had every stick in the bundle of sticks, but historicallythat's not the case because there were prior andsubsequent grants to Virginia which included the PotomacRiver. Five monarchs disputed Maryland's claim. And theissue was in controverse, as this Court has twice said inMorris v. United States and Marine Railway, and theyagreed in that the bundle of sticks was over here andthe two States agreed that regardless of where theboundary would be set, each State would have equal sticksfrom that bundle representing the right of equal access tothe river, and they further agreed that as a condition of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the award, those sticks in that bundle would never bedeprived of either State. And if Maryland didn't have theauthority to take away or regulate Virginia's rights priorto , they could not have gained that authority by theBlack-Jenkins Award.QUESTION: Yes, but it seems to me that as amatter of sort of looking at history and all, at the timethese documents were negotiated and prepared, I don'tthink anyone contemplated the possibility that a diversionof water from the river would be so great that it mightlower the low-water mark. And is it your view that --that Virginia could syphon off enough water to reduce the-- move the low-water mark about, say, a foot, but notobstruct navigation? Clearly, they couldn't take that much out. But could they change the State -- the boundaryof the State by doing that?MR. RAPHAEL: Part of that question, Your Honor,goes to the -- goes to whether the boundary is at thehistoric low-water mark or at the mean low-water mark.QUESTION: I see. MR. RAPHAEL: And I don't think the Court hasanswered that question, and that may require resolution inthe future. But --QUESTION: I don't know how you'd know what thehistoric low-water mark was if you -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY MR. RAPHAEL: This Court determined in Ohio v.Kentucky what the low-water mark was as of .QUESTION: We can do that kind of stuff. (Laughter.) QUESTION: You -- you would say -- but assuming-- assume there is a -- a -- now an understanding of whatthe border is and it's a fixed border. Could Virginiachange that by drawing -- withdrawing water in your view?MR. RAPHAEL: Again, I think it's going todepend on whether it's the historic low or the mean low,and if -- you have to answer that question before I thinkyou can answer the question. QUESTION: But you do say that even if it mightnot change the boundary of the State, they could withdraw as much water as they want as long as it doesn't interferewith the transportation on the river.MR. RAPHAEL: And as long as it doesn'tinterfere with Maryland's use, and once it does, Marylandhas a remedy. It can object in the permitting process. It can file an original action. It could sue the Virginiauser making use of that water. The issue, though, is whether Maryland gets todecide in the first instance what Virginia's rights are,and this Court has never given one State the authority tocontrol another State's water supply. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Well, generally riparian owners areown -- have the -- the right to withdraw water subject tothe overriding control of the governmental body thatcontrols the -- the lake or the river, whatever it is.MR. RAPHAEL: That's right.QUESTION: But you're saying that's not truehere.MR. RAPHAEL: It is true here. Virginians canwithdraw water subject to paramount Federal control andsubject to Virginia's control.QUESTION: But not subject to the control of theowner of the river.MR. RAPHAEL: They can withdraw water subject toVirginia's control.QUESTION: But riparian ownership usuallycontemplates beneficial use of the waters on the riparianland, not just general withdrawal for inland uses.MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct, Your Honor. Butthis Court has said in a number of cases, including NewYork -- New Jersey v. New York, Connecticut v.Massachusetts, that a common law limitation that may limitit to the shoreline use of the riparian use would notapply as between States. And article VII of the --article IV of the Black-Jenkins Award refers to Virginia'srights as a sovereign to the use of the Potomac. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY QUESTION: Strictly speaking --QUESTION: No, it doesn't say as a sovereign. It -- it says Virginia. It does not say as a sovereign. This is very important. MR. RAPHAEL: Well --QUESTION: I'm right. MR. RAPHAEL: It doesn't use the word sovereign,but I don't -- I fail to see the distinction --QUESTION: Of course, it does not use the word.MR. RAPHAEL: -- because both in the award andin the -- in the opinion, the arbitrators were talkingabout Virginia as a commonwealth, as a State, not -- notVirginia as -- as a mere property owner.QUESTION: Well, they were talking about Virginia as a sovereign when it has a right to regulate,but the question is whether they were talking aboutVirginia as a sovereign when it withdraws water.MR. RAPHAEL: Well, the issue of withdrawingwater, whether that's a riparian use, has been -- has beenstipulated. The Master said at page of his report thatMaryland never disputed that this was a riparian use or ause covered by the compact. So that's not an issue.QUESTION: I think it's fair to say that articlefourth acknowledges that Virginia is what you might call ariparian sovereign. It has sovereign rights over -- over th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the bank of the river. It says is entitled not only tofull dominion over the soil to low-water mark, blah, blah,blah, blah, but such use of the river beyond the line oflow -- as may be necessary to the full enjoyment of herriparian ownership.MR. RAPHAEL: That's correct. QUESTION: And I think that's referring tosovereign ownership.MR. RAPHAEL: I -- I agree with that, JusticeScalia. I'd like to correct one misstatement I think myfriend, Mr. Baida, made with respect to the Low FlowAllocation Agreement. That agreement and the -- theenabling legislation that provided for it was amended to make clear that Maryland did not have the authority tocontrol Virginia's withdrawals. That issue was put asideto another day, and the Low Flow Allocation Agreement, forexample, says that no party can withdraw water from thePotomac River without being subject to a permit whichimposes the low flow conditions or becoming a member partyto the agreement. And we point out in our papers thenumerous instances in the 's where Virginia went onrecord saying Maryland did not have the authority toregulate Virginia's water withdrawals.Whether you look at this case under the -- under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY the compacts in question or under the -- under Federalcommon law, you cannot give one State the authority tocontrol another State's water supply. This case isimportant not only because of Virginia's rights to buildwharfs and improvements. It's important because ifMaryland prevails, they can control growth and developmentin -- in Virginia. Under Mr. Baida's theory, as long asthey treat everybody equally, they can do anything theywant, and that would include things like in whenthere was legislation before the Maryland General Assemblythat would have made users of the -- of the waters pay forwater withdrawal. Maryland could decide that it doesn'tlike growth and development on either side of the river,and therefore it's treating each State equally by not allowing any use. It's impossible to square that type ofposition with the plain language of article IV of theaward or article VII of the compact.And if there are no further questions, thank youvery much. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Raphael.Mr. Baida, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANDREW H. BAIDAON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFMR. BAIDA: Prior to this case, Virginia hasnever taken the position that it has any authority to take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY any kind of regulatory action at all with respect to piersand wharfs beyond the water mark. And in fact, whatVirginia has done is it has sent hundreds of its citizensto Maryland and it has told its citizens that theirconstruction projects from the Virginia side of thePotomac River fall outside of Virginia's jurisdiction butfall within Maryland's because Maryland owns the bed ofthe river. That ownership gives Maryland the right,putting aside just for the moment any agreements -- itgives Maryland the right to regulate withdrawals of waterfrom Maryland.And so what we're left with at this moment isarticle VI, the fourth paragraph, of the Black-JenkinsAward, and it says it does give Virginia full dominion over the right in the soil, but Justice Scalia, I woulddisagree it gives Virginia any sovereign rights to use theriver beyond that point because if it gave Virginia theunrestricted right to use the Potomac River beyond thatpoint, that's called quiet title. That means Virginiagets to do what it wants. Maryland can't regulate it, andthis Court said in Idaho v. Coeur d'Alene Tribe that thatkind of regulatory action, if unrestricted, is theequivalent of a quiet title action.The Black-Jenkins arbitrators rejectedVirginia's claim to any title to the middle of the river. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY They set Virginia's boundary at low-water mark on theVirginia side. They could have done the boundary line. They could have drawn it around the piers and wharfs. They showed an unbelievable dexterity in drawing theboundary through Smith Island. They went from the bottomof the Chesapeake Bay up through the bottom third of SmithIsland and back down again. They didn't do that on theVirginia side of the Potomac. They set low-water mark onVirginia's side.Title to -- Virginia has title to low-watermark, but only a right of use beyond that point. It hasnot an unrestricted right of use. The right of us issubject to governmental authority. The government thatgets to regulate it is the government that owns it. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Baida.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY 