 The above-entitled matter came on for oral Official IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Washington, D.C. Tuesday, February , Petitioner - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x MARYLAND, : : No. - : ALONZO JAY KING, JR. : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at : a.m. APPEARANCES: MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioner. KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ., Chief Deputy Attorney General, Baltimore, Maryland; on behalf of Petitioner. KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of Respondent. v. Official C O N T E N T S PAGE On behalf of the Petitioner For United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioner On behalf of the Respondent On behalf of the Petitioner KANNON K. SHANMUGAM, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ. MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ. ORAL ARGUMENT OF REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE, ESQ. Maryland v. King. please the Court: Respondent King. Official P R O C E E D I N G S (: a.m.) CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear MS. WINFREE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it Ms. Winfree? ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER argument next this morning in Case -, Since , when Maryland began to collect DNA samples from arrestees charged with violent crimes and burglary, there have been matches, prosecutions, and convictions, including that of I'll bet you, if you conducted a lot of unreasonable searches and seizures, you'd get more convictions, too. it does, in fact, point out the fact that -- that the statute is working, and, in the State's view, the Act is (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: That proves absolutely MS. WINFREE: Well, I think, Justice Scalia, JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that's really good. nothing. constitutional. Official the -- in the statute. MS. WINFREE: No, not -- not just to JUSTICE SCALIA: So that's its purpose, to determinations for people who are validly in their custody. enable you to identify future criminals -- the perpetrators of future crimes? That's the purpose of it? I thought that that wasn't the purpose set forth in identify people -- the purpose of the statute is to enable the State to identify perpetrators of serious crimes and -- and to use the information to make bail time understanding the bail argument because, in my time, most bail decisions were made at the time of results didn't come up until August. Justice Sotomayor. MS. WINFREE: He was detained anyway. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And -- and there might be a case where someone's gotten out, but it would be the rare case. arrest. And, here, the arrest was in April, and the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And, yet, he was detained anyway, correct? JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And I'm having a hard MS. WINFREE: That's true, MS. WINFREE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that doesn't routinely for a couple of reasons. For one, as in include the time to collect the sample, send it to you, or the time to do the match. It's just to do the genome rapid, correct? routinely for the bail determination. absolutely correct, Justice Sotomayor. We don't use it Mr. King's case, there has been, in the past, a more substantial delay in getting those results back. Our -- our lab now is getting results between and days. Now, that, of course -- that's for the whole process, Justice Sotomayor. It's for getting the sample and getting it into the system, the DNA profile, and getting the match back. That's what we're being told. It's from to days. Maryland's procedure, certainly has the ability to go back to -- to the judge and ask that sentence -- or that -- I'm sorry -- that bail determination to be modified. And, in point of fact, though, we don't have Now, of course, that wouldn't be timely for that first bail determination, but the State, under MS. WINFREE: No, that's for the whole –-Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's -- you don't use it MS. WINFREE: At this point, you're any particular statistics in Maryland. Official In California's amicus brief, which was joined by the other States and D.C. and Puerto Rico, they actually do cite two particular examples where -- where two people, Castillo and Shamblin, were arrested. One was arrested on a credit card charge and another on a drug charge. Mr. Castillo was actually released on his -- on OR, and, when his sample was matched, it came back to a -- an unsolved rape and sodomy, and his OR was revoked. procedure limits the collection to certain violent offenses, right? MS. WINFREE: It does, Mr. Chief Justice. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But your argument would not be so limited, would it? Under your theory, there's no reason you couldn't undertake this procedure with respect to anybody pulled over for a traffic violation? MS. WINFREE: Well, in Maryland, it's not In Mr. Shamblin's case, he was granted diversion because his drug charge was a relatively low-level offense and, when the match came back, it --it tied him to a rape and murder. His diversion was revoked, and he's currently pending charge -- pending trial on both of those charges. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your -- your Official MS. WINFREE: Well, what I would say to that Now, with respect to --CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I understand. just the fact that we have those -- those violent crimes and burglaries. Actually, we don't collect DNA unless someone is physically taken into custody. But there's no reason you couldn't, right? I gather it's not that hard. Police officers who give Breathalyzer tests, they can also take a Q-tip or whatever and get a DNA sample, right? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how long does it take to -- to undergo the procedure? You know, you say, ah, and then -- you know. traffic stop, this Court might well decide that a motorist has a reasonable expectation of privacy not to --is that, with respect to a traffic stop, this Court said, in Berkemer, that a motorist has an expectation that a traffic stop is going to be relatively brief and temporary, that he or she will be given a citation and sent on their way. MS. WINFREE: It doesn't take long, but what I was suggesting is that, because of the nature of a JUSTICE GINSBURG: How about a Terry stop? A Terry stop? Official But the Court further said that there could be a circumstance in a Terry stop, if the officer had MS. WINFREE: In a Terry -- well, this Court, I guess we would look at two -- one case in particular, this Court's case -- decision in Hayes v. Florida. That involved a defendant who was taken into custody, so his -- he was not arrested, but taken into custody for -- to get his fingerprints, and this Court held that that was not -- that was not constitutional. reasonable suspicion to believe that -- that the individual was -- JUSTICE GINSBURG: But these -- these are all cases -- I mean, the dominant use is to solve what they call cold -- cold cases, and you gave one example. This case is another. A rape committed years before, right? was no -- nothing, right? And the suspicion comes up only because the DNA sample comes back as a match. So is it the -- this is a very reliable tool, but it's not based on any kind of suspicion of the individual who's being subjected to it, right? MS. WINFREE: That's correct, Your Honor. And, if I could go back to your question And there was no reasonable suspicion, there Official JUSTICE SCALIA: I know. (Laughter.) MS. WINFREE: Well, happily, we don't have about the Terry stop, the cornerstone of our -- and I do believe that this Court could -- could -- who knows how this Court would come out in that situation, but I think, in terms of our argument, the corner -- to decide that one today. But what -- what I -- the cornerstone of our argument is that when an individual is taken into custody, an individual is arrested on a probable cause -- a probable cause arrest, that person, by virtue of being in that class of individuals whose conduct has led the police to arrest him on -- based on probable cause, surrenders a substantial amount of liberty and privacy. JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Ms. Winfree, that can't be quite right, can it? I mean, such a person -- assume you've been arrested for something, the State doesn't have the right to go search your house for evidence of go search your car for evidence of unrelated crimes. MS. WINFREE: That's correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: Just because you've been unrelated crimes; isn't -- isn't that correct? MS. WINFREE: That's correct, Justice Kagan. JUSTICE KAGAN: It doesn't have the right to Official MS. WINFREE: That's correct, but what we're seizing here is not evidence of crime. What it is, is arrested doesn't mean that you lose the privacy expectations and things you have that aren't related to the offense that you've been arrested for. information related to that person's DNA profile. Those numbers -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well -- and if there were a real identification purpose for this, then I understand that argument. But, if it's just to solve cold cases, which is the way you started, then it's just like searching your house, to see what's in your house that could help to solve a cold case. rummaging in your home to look for evidence that might relate to your personal papers and your thoughts. It's a very real difference there than swabbing the inside of an arrestee's cheek to determine what that person's nothing more about that individual. JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but, if that's what you're basing it on, then you're not basing it on an arrestee. I mean, then the Chief Justice is right, it MS. WINFREE: Well, I would say there's a very real distinction between the police generally CODIS DNA profile is. It's looking only at numbers that tell us Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So, now, I which says you can't do a search without a warrant and probable cause, and Samson, and most of your brief argument was based on Samson. As I read Samson, it was the special Why don't we do this for everybody who comes could be any arrestee, no matter how minor the offense. It could be just any old person in the street. in for a driver's license because it's very effective? MS. WINFREE: I think the difference there is these people are lawfully in custody, having been arrested based on probable cause, and that -- see two lines of cases, okay? The Fourth Amendment, relationship between the parolee or the probationary person, that line of cases, and the assumption being that they're out in the world, I think, by the largesse of the State. So the State has a right to search their home, just as it would their cell, essentially. permits you to intrude, search their home, search their car, search their person, to solve other cases? MS. WINFREE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because you're going to have to tell me why searching their person is different Why is that true for an arrestee? What about -- what creates this special relationship that Official or police to search an arrestee's home or his person Now, in terms of the -- the individual's than searching their home or car. MS. WINFREE: Well, if I could start at the back end of your question, Justice Sotomayor, we're not suggesting -- and this statute doesn't permit the State beyond -- beyond simply swabbing the cheek for the DNA. relationship to the State, an arrestee is not that dissimilar. There is, obviously, a range of -- of relationships with the State. Those of us who are out on the street, ordinary citizens are at one end, people who are imprisoned upon conviction are at the other end. And -- but, in terms of when an arrestee is physically in custody, he has a reduced expectation of privacy, and that's what makes, in our view, it makes this case more similar. To be sure, this is not Samson. It's -- there's no -- there's no one case in this Court's jurisprudence that's exactly like this. balancing. MS. WINFREE: Well -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what I want to know is what's the legal theory now? How far do we let the JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's no other case, but Samson, in that line that permits searches on this State go each time it has some form of custody over you, Official that -- that the police could swab a student for -- for in schools, in workplaces, wherever else the State has control over your person? MS. WINFREE: Well, those are different situations, Justice Sotomayor. We're not suggesting a DNA sample. We're talking about a special class of people who, by their conduct, have -- have been arrested based on probable cause. MS. WINFREE: Yes, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: As I read this, this concerns people arrested for a felony, a crime of violence, attempted crime of violence, burglary, or about people who are driving cars and traffic stops and all these other things? decide is whether a person, where there's probable cause to arrest a person for those four crimes, their fingerprints are all taken. MS. WINFREE: That's absolutely correct. JUSTICE BREYER: The only thing we have to MS. WINFREE: Yes, Justice Breyer. JUSTICE BREYER: And so we're not talking JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ask you a particular specific quick question? attempted burglary. MS. WINFREE: Yes. Official JUSTICE BREYER: And whether they also can MS. WINFREE: That's correct, JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Nothing else. Thank CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Mr. Dreeben? ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL DREEBEN, FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, take DNA. That's the issue? Justice Breyer. you. MS. WINFREE: If there are no further questions, I'll reserve the remainder of my time for rebuttal. Arrestees are in a unique category. They are on the gateway into the criminal justice system. They are no longer like free citizens who are wandering Amendment rights. The arrest itself substantially reduces the individual's expectation of privacy. The arrestee can be searched and sent to arrest. His property, whether around on the streets retaining full intact Fourth SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, or not connected with a crime, can be inventoried. and may it please the Court: Official When he's taken into the jail situation, he previously arrested. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but that individuals who are like free citizens, and they are not can be subjected to a visual strip search. If he's admitted to the population of the jail, he'll be given a TB test and a thorough medical screen. These are not like free citizens in another significant respect. Arrestees are rarely arrested for the first time. They tend to be repeat customers in the criminal justice system. Up to percent of arrestees have been doesn't mean, for example, that you can go into their house without a warrant. into the house will expose a substantial number of highly private things to the view of the State. Taking a DNA sample is not of that character. It is far more like taking a fingerprint. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that -- this is a factual question. I understand your emphasis on the fact that it only looks at loci, and they are supposedly not connected in any way with other information. MR. DREEBEN: That is certainly correct, Chief Justice Roberts, and the reason for that is going Does the sample that you retain, can it be Official MR. DREEBEN: Well, by law, the -- the evaluated more broadly? In other words, saying, well, the law says we only look at these , but we have this saliva, we want to look at all sorts of other stuff. government, under CODIS, and the States cannot look at anything except identification information. The sample contains the entire genome. The sample cannot be looked at as a matter of law. concludes, as is probably correct, that the individual will retain a reasonable expectation of privacy in the genomic material that does not reveal identity, then additional Fourth Amendment scrutiny would be required before the government could make use of the rest of the genome. indicator that is highly similar to fingerprints with one significant difference: It is far more accurate. When Respondent committed his rape -- JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Dreeben, is it really? Because, if this were like fingerprints, I think that you would have a quite good case. But, as I've been reading about this, it -- it seems as though the technology is not the same as the fingerprint And I think it's critical to this case to --for the Court to understand that, if the Court Here, it's making use of an identity Official back to you in minutes, right? identifier that fingerprints does. So am I wrong about that? MR. DREEBEN: You are not wrong, Justice Fingerprints, you go in, you put in a technology; and, because the technology is different, it is used differently. fingerprint, there is identifying information that comes This, you put in something, and Ms. Winfree said was to days, in this case, it's four months, and it doesn't seem to be used because the technology doesn't allow it to be used as the kind of routine Kagan, but the future is very close to where there will be rapid DNA analyzers that are devices that can analyze and produce the identification material in -- in the DNA within minutes. And the design of this program is to put them at the booking station, so that DNA can be taken, and, within minutes, that information is known. surprising. Then do you think the States are wrong? I mean, they all say in their brief, in footnote , DNA In that circumstance, it will be highly relevant to the immediate release/custody decision, which it already can play a role in -- JUSTICE BREYER: That -- that part is Official So I guess the technology is there, now, to process this in days, not days. JUSTICE BREYER: In the case of -- do you have any information -- are there instances with fingerprints where returns have not come back for as long as days? Or are they all, or almost all, done in minutes? identification database samples have been processed in as few as days in California and -- although around days has been average. MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Breyer -- Yes, Justice Breyer. There is no question it can be done quickly because of the volumes. I'm not contending that, today, it is -- MR. DREEBEN: Correct. JUSTICE ALITO: When did -- when did the MR. DREEBEN: Fingerprint histories tend to come back quickly, except if the prints are unrecognizable or unreadable. It is very significant, I think, that fingerprints are used for crime solution, as well as --JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get on to -- before you go to that, fingerprints have been taken, I believe, from people who are booked for offenses for many, many, many years; isn't that right? Official MR. DREEBEN: That, I cannot tell you, It returns about , hits a year. JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the question that I FBI's AFIS system for comparing fingerprints by computer begin? Justice Alito. It is now in use. It is in use both for identification, and, contrary to the representation of Respondent in his brief, fingerprints are run against the latent fingerprint database, which reflects fingerprints from crime scenes. MR. DREEBEN: No, I certainly do not think that it would have been unconstitutional at any point because the State has a compelling interest in taking biometric identification information from the individual that is arrested and using it for a myriad of purposes, determining criminal history, attempting to solve crimes, funneling that information back --had was this: If the constitutionality of taking fingerprints is dependent on the speed with which a fingerprint comparison can be done now by a computerized system, would that mean that the taking of fingerprints was unconstitutional back in, let's say, the 's, when that wasn't possible, and fingerprints could only be compared manually? JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Dreeben, could I Official under CODIS, yes. JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you check it -- does MR. DREEBEN: I do not know precisely MR. DREEBEN: That is the routine method understand how this works, exactly? The swab is taken, and if I understand -- there is a database which is known offenders, and there is a database which is kind of crime scene DNA, is that correct? MR. DREEBEN: That is correct. JUSTICE KAGAN: And, when the swab is taken and it's put into the system, you check that against the crime scene DNA database, is that correct? Maryland check it against the known offenders database? whether Maryland does that. The Federal system does not routinely do that. Upgrades to the software system will permit it to do that, and many States do it. JUSTICE KAGAN: Because that suggests that, right now, it's functioning as let's solve some crimes, which is a good thing -- you know, that we should solve some crimes, but not as an identification device because you're -- if it were an identification device, you would be comparing it to the known offender database, not to the cold case database. MR. DREEBEN: I agree with that, and I think that, in California, the brief for the States indicates Official identification. California cross-checks, so it does And, as I suggested, with the advent of that many States do that, and California itself uses it to resolve discrepancies in identity when a fingerprint comes back and it returns to multiple names, or the fingerprint is not good enough to permit an perform an identification function. rapid DNA, it's not that it is unconstitutional before rapid DNA, but rapid DNA will permit DNA identification to replace fingerprint identification because it's far more accurate, and it has far more utility in the secondary purpose of fingerprints, which is to match them to latent prints and solve crimes. facilitating the release/custody determination. Any judge who is looking at a bail case would like to know -- I have a guy who has been arrested on grand theft auto. He has no criminal history. explain how it works, mechanically? Because I Should I release him back on the street? Well, it's a first offense, he has family ties, maybe yes. If that judge --understand -- at least maybe this is just the Maryland And this is highly relevant to both of the major purposes for taking DNA, crime solution and JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dreeben, can you Official Then you have probable cause and you get a MR. DREEBEN: That serves an enhanced you found out that he was a perpetrator of a rape reliability function, to ensure that there is no mix-up, and it provides an evidentiary function of permitting the new DNA match to be admitted in a sample that is taken under the warrant. statute, but if you can't use the swab that is taken from the arrestee when he is arrested -- it can't be used, it's inadmissible -- then you do it again. You do it -- but what it does supply is probable cause because years ago. warrant and do it again. What -- what is the reason for the doubling -- the doing it twice? MR. DREEBEN: No, Mr. Chief Justice -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It depends on -- if It has nothing to do with undercutting the value of taking DNA on the spot because I was indicating the judge who would know this defendant's DNA came back and returned a cold case hit to a murder-rape. He's not such a good risk to be put back on the street. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That argument only makes sense if we're in your -- your future world where it's minutes, right? we have a situation such as Maryland says, to Official And the whole point of this is we are It has to know who is this person, which days, the footnote, whatever, the amicus brief says something else, but you are not going to put off the bail hearing for weeks? MR. DREEBEN: No, but bail can be revoked, and the government will go back in and make a motion to revoke bail, if new information emerges that indicates this individual is a danger to the community. talking about arrestees, somebody who has taken a step into the gateway of the criminal justice system. The criminal justice system, at that point, has to deal with this person. includes what has this person done, so we know whether to release him and, if we keep him, in what situations do we keep him. you can't go into his home. MR. DREEBEN: Yes, it does, Justice --JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean -- you know, if the whole issue is how dangerous is he, you should be able to go into his home, into his car, to any place he has visited, to just sort of run rampant in his life to make sure that he is not a bail risk. JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't explain why MR. DREEBEN: We are not asking for that, Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you are because what you are saying really is law enforcement need, alone, and I don't think that the Court's balancing test suggests that these two cases are equivalent. My first submission is that because we are talking about -- without any suspicion whatsoever of another crime, permits you to take this information from the person and use it. MR. DREEBEN: I'm saying that because an arrestee is someone whose conduct has given rise to probable cause that he committed a crime, he's in a different position from ordinary citizens. And this Court does, as it did in Samson and in Knights, balance the expectations of privacy against the governmental minimal in the cheek swab, and the information obtained. It's identical -- subject to the -- a criminal sentence. situated in that respect, Mr. Chief Justice. And I will acknowledge that there is no case on my side that decides the case this way. And there's no case that -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: According to Samson and Knights, you're dealing with people who are still interests. And, here, the expectation of privacy is MR. DREEBEN: Well, they're differently Official warrantless intrusions on ordinary citizens. JUSTICE KAGAN: But the typical special MR. DREEBEN: Well, we have a strong law enforcement interest with respect to people who are arrested based on probable cause. They are no longer similarly situated to other people. They can be deprived of their liberty. Their property can be searched upon entry into the jail. on Respondent's side that decides the case for him. The Court, I think, has treated the category of what he calls special needs cases -- what the Court has called special needs cases -- as dealing with suspicionless or needs case is one in which we say there's no law enforcement interest, that there's an interest other than the interest in solving crime. Mr. Dreeben, you started by saying -- you know, they have a reduced expectation of privacy, and we have important interests. You went right into free-form balancing. That's typically not the way we do it. we do it is you need a warrant, and if you -- there is some exceptions, then you have to put yourself into a well-recognized exception where you can search without a warrant. And that's especially the case when there is JUSTICE KAGAN: When you started, If we said to you, look -- you know, the way Official How would you do it? How would you do it JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The key principle is the Fourth Amendment -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it -- is it your no suspicion whatsoever. short of free-form balancing? What exception are you a part of? MR. DREEBEN: We're not asking for a new exception. What we're asking for is for the Court to apply what it called "the key principle of the Fourth Amendment." It said that in Bell v. Wolfish. It said that in Martinez -- position that this is a search incident to an arrest? think the fact that -- incident to an arrest? the pockets out and -- and seeing what's in the person's overcoat and so forth. It is a search incident to an arrest. MR. DREEBEN: It is certainly a search --JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just -- just like taking MR. DREEBEN: No, Justice Kennedy, it's not. That stands on its own doctrinal footing. But we do MR. DREEBEN: You can certainly look at it as an incident of the arrest. The Court's search JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't this is a search Official And DNA does that in a far more powerful way than fingerprints has done -- incident to arrest cases have been bottomed on different justifications than the ones that we're advancing here. I'm entirely happy if you, Justice Kennedy, view it as an incident to arrest in that sense because I think that it is appropriately viewed as something that the government has a compelling interest in doing once a person has been arrested, and that is, knowing who that person is, which includes knowing what the person has done. JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but our -- our search incident to arrest cases don't allow that. That's sort of the point. They -- they allow you to search for firearms, they allow you to search for material that relates to the crime for which the person has been arrested. stuff. Justice Scalia. A search incident to arrest allows a full search of the person for any destructible evidence because a person who has been arrested has a tremendous incentive to destroy evidence. And I just want to come back -- But you can't search the person for other MR. DREEBEN: That's inaccurate, Official Arizona v. Gant, and it relates to cars. But I think JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait. Evidence relating to matters other than the crime of arrest? MR. DREEBEN: Yes, on -- on the individual's person. The crime of arrest limitation appears only in it's critical to note that Respondent has conceded that an individual can have their DNA taken once convicted. Suppose we have the same individual who's picked up on grand theft auto, and that individual knows that, if he's convicted of grand theft auto, he is going to have his DNA taken, but he also knows that he's committed a string of rapes. And, if the government cannot take his DNA now, it will not connect him -- may I complete the sentence -- it will not connect him to those rapes. The government has a tremendous need for this information at the time of arrest to solve crimes, exonerate the innocent, and give closure to victims. Mr. Dreeben. Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, So he has a tremendous incentive to flee. Mr. Shanmugam? ORAL ARGUMENT OF KANNON K. SHANMUGAM ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT Official MR. SHANMUGAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief Maryland searched my client without a The State cites no -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: He was held -- he was held Justice, and may it please the Court: warrant, in order to investigate crimes for which there was no suspicion. It is settled law that warrantless, suspicionless searches are presumptively unconstitutional. MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- and his -- and his custody was restrained. He was in a police station. indicates that. constrained in all of those respects. He would have to take off most of his clothes, subject to a patdown MR. SHANMUGAM: That is also correct. JUSTICE KENNEDY: Were handcuffs put on him MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. JUSTICE KENNEDY: So his liberties were during the transport process? Do you know? MR. SHANMUGAM: I don't know that the record JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they -- they could --they could have been? with probable cause --search? Official MR. SHANMUGAM: We're – JUSTICE KENNEDY: They could look -- they MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes. Just to be clear, Justice Kennedy, we're not disputing the proposition could look in his -- in his briefcase? that certain intrusions on privacy are permissible as to arrestees, but where we fundamentally disagree with the State and the Federal Government is with regard to the argument that this Court should take the rationale of rationale to the point of arrest. is some merit to your argument in that regard. In signed a -- a consent form as part of the probation. condition of parole. That is -- that is correct. say he served his time. He's no longer subject to the criminal justice system. He's not on parole; he's not a probationer. You concede that the DNA evidence can be taken from him, correct? CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that is right. But I'm curious as to why your position is that -- let's The government -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think -- I think there MR. SHANMUGAM: I would concede, Samson v. California and essentially extend that Samson, he was a parolee, and he actually, as I recall, MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. An agreed Official supervision; that is to say, we're not arguing that, at But what we are arguing is that -- to look at this Court's cases in Samson and Knights, they both Mr. Chief Justice, that it -- that it could be taken at least while he is still under the supervision of the State because, after all, both Samson and Knights were cases in which the individual was still under State the point of conviction, that the resulting lessened expectation of privacy extends in perpetuity as, say, a firearm or felon disability does. centrally depended on the proposition that it is the fact of conviction that deprives an individual of the full protections of the Fourth Amendment. pertinence of the fact -- I mean, this is not something that people are or can keep private. I mean, if you're in the interview room or something, you take a drink of water, you leave, you're done. I mean, they can examine the DNA from that drink of water. compromise the -- the expectation of privacy? question as to whether or not there would be a search when DNA is collected from cells that could be said to CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is the MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Mr. Chief Justice -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't that MR. SHANMUGAM: I think it's an open CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, it's not a -- MR. SHANMUGAM: -- the privacy interest. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: My question was not have been involuntarily or voluntarily abandoned. And, to the extent that there's an argument that there would still be a search, it would be based on this Court's reasoning in Skinner, where the Court would constitute a further invasion of the test of the individual’s -- the privacy interests at stake here. First of all, there is an intrusion into the body, and that is what triggers the applicability of the Fourth Amendment here, Fourth Amendment purposes. there is a legitimate expectation of privacy in the contents of an individual's DNA. And, to the extent trying to get at whether it's a search or not. It's whether -- it's getting at the reasonableness of the expectation of privacy that the -- your DNA is protected from examination when it's left wherever you happened to have been. to be sure, but it is also a relevant intrusion for But, second, and perhaps more importantly, MR. SHANMUGAM: I would say two things about Official suggested that the subsequent analysis of a urine sample that this Court were to engage in balancing, we a person's DNA? MR. SHANMUGAM: Yes, and we think that the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know, but you're simply just -- you're -- I guess that's begging certainly think that interest is – that part of the -- isn't that part of the question, whether there is a legitimate expectation of privacy in answer to that question is yes, that an individual has -- the question. And -- well I'd just be repeating my question -- how legitimate is it to you to expect privacy in something that the police can access without you even knowing about it, without any voluntary or involuntary -- if you take a drink of water, if you leave behind a cigarette butt? MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- Mr. Chief Justice, I've heard Mr. Dreeben to concede, as I think he must, that an individual retains a legitimate expectation of the individual's DNA. what types of information would qualify. But I think it really is settled that there are profound privacy privacy in at least some of the information contained in And I suppose we can have a dispute about Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, isn't concerns raised by the government's coming into But, here, there is a search. You have a Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Shanmugam, I -- I reasonable expectation of privacy or not. MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- Justice Scalia, I If there's no reasonable expectation of privacy, there's possession of an individual's DNA. wouldn't have made the concession that you've made, that this case is about reasonable expectation of privacy. no search. physical intrusion. You -- you pull a guy's cheek apart and stick a -- a swab into his mouth. That's a search, didn't think I was conceding anything, but if I -- engaging in balancing here. Indeed, that is really our principal submission to this Court. intrusion is worse when you just take a swab and you go inside somebody's cheek, as opposed to rolling fingerprints? Which is the greater intrusion? settled that intrusions into the body constitute a search for Fourth Amendment purposes. JUSTICE ALITO: Which is -- JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I thought you did. MR. SHANMUGAM: If I was -- let me just be clear. We don't think that this Court should be JUSTICE ALITO: Well, do you think the MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, we think that it is Official MR. SHANMUGAM: I suppose that the argument parenthetically, that, in the first half an hour of this Now, we --JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the thrust of a lot of what we -- we have been presented with in the briefs and what we have heard this morning -- and, by the way, I think this is perhaps the most important criminal procedure case that this Court has heard in decades. could be made, Justice Alito, that there is a similar trespass on the person and, therefore, a search when fingerprints are collected. I would note, argument, we heard no explanation, either by the State or by the Federal government, as to their theory as to why fingerprinting is constitutional. st century? What is the difference? If it was permissible and it's been -- it's been assumed to be so for decades, that it is permissible to fingerprint anybody who's booked, why is it not permissible to take The -- the attorney for the State began by listing a number of crimes just in Maryland that had been solved using this. So this is what is at stake: Lots of murders, lots of rapes that can be -- that can be solved using this new technology that involves a very minimal intrusion on personal privacy. But why isn't this the fingerprinting of the contains far more information and far more personal a DNA sample from anybody who is arrested? fingerprinting is distinguishable on three grounds. First of all, as a practical matter, an individual's DNA information than an individual's fingerprints. But, as a doctrinal matter, we think that fingerprinting is distinguishable -- JUSTICE ALITO: Well, as to -- as to the first, in our cases involving searches for -- where a urine sample is taken to determine drug use, the urine can be analyzed for all sorts of things besides the presence of drugs, and the Court has said, in those cases, we are only going to consider that -- we are respect to the determination of whether the person has taken drugs, not all the other information -- Justice Alito, in those cases, cases like Skinner and Von Raab and Vernonia, there was a special need, apart from the ordinary interests in law enforcement. And, MR. SHANMUGAM: But that is because -- JUSTICE ALITO: -- that might be obtained from it. MR. SHANMUGAM: But that is because, considering that this is a reasonable search with Official MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Alito, we think that here, it is clear that the primary purpose of the Official JUSTICE KAGAN: What are your other two MR. SHANMUGAM: With regard to And that is why those special needs cases are distinguishable. And I think that that's why the Maryland statute and, indeed, the similar statutes on the Federal and State levels, was the ordinary interest in crime control, to solve unsolved crimes. State, essentially, disavows any reliance on the Special Needs Doctrine -- distinctions? fingerprinting, we think that, notwithstanding the physical intrusion involved with taking an individual's fingers and putting them on the pad, that the better view is that fingerprinting is not a search, and, to the extent that this Court has addressed the question, it has suggested that fingerprinting is not a search because an individual has no expectation of privacy in their fingerprints because their fingers are constantly exposed --JUSTICE BREYER: I would like a complete answer to what Justice Alito and Justice Kagan both were asking, I think. I mean, to summarize that, if I look, in terms of intrusion, I am not talking legally, I am talking practically. It doesn't seem to me -- I can argue that it is certainly a much lesser intrusion than Official arrested and sent to jail when they were innocent, so it works both ways. fingerprints. You have to stand there, have the thing rolled; your -- stick out your tongue. I mean, it's hard to say it's more, for me, I'm not saying for others. Accuracy, it's much more accurate, and that doesn't just help the defendant. There is a whole brief here filed by the victims that have case after case, where people spent years in prison, wrongly, and where this system and the CODIS helped victims avoid being much more accurate. And three and four and five, how it's different and worse in practice, is what I would talk about what information you could get out of it, there is a brief filed by leading scientists in the field, and I came away from the brief thinking there isn't much more information because fingerprints can be abused, too. fingerprints. Photos, try photos; my God, you could learn a lot, who he was, who recognized -- you know, so ask you to summarize. MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. Well -- JUSTICE BREYER: And, by the way, when you So, one, it's no more intrusive; two, it is Of course, you can learn loads from Official MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, let me -- JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So, now, you tell (Laughter.) JUSTICE BREYER: -- I would like you -- I would like you to tell me, okay, it's different from all these things could be abused. But I came away from that brief, frankly, to think, well, in terms of the possibility of abuse, it's there, but these other things, photos, too. me, in light of that hostile question -- fingerprints and worse because of one, two, three, and I will write it down, and I'll remember it. I promise. have been waiting for three. Will you drop the shoe? (Laughter.) MR. SHANMUGAM: Let me -- I will gladly get to three with regard to fingerprinting, and then I would like to say a word about balancing, in the event that the Court reaches it. Obviously, we don't think that balancing is appropriate here because we don't think that the Special Needs Doctrine is applicable, and we don't think that Samson should be extended to arrestees. other reason why we think fingerprinting is different, above and beyond the fact that we think the better view JUSTICE SCALIA: He gave us one and two. I But, with regard to fingerprinting, the Official The primary purpose of fingerprinting is to identify an individual who is being taken into the something like, give us years, and those won't look very different. is that fingerprinting is not a search, is because fingerprinting, as it is currently practiced, does serve a special need. criminal justice system. JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Shanmugam, that seems to me a real distinction in this case, as it's been litigated. I take what the government is saying is In other words, we will be able to do, in years' time, exactly what we can do with fingerprinting, except it will be, as Justice Breyer says, more so give us a break. would be that, under the Special Needs Doctrine, what is relevant is not how a system could conceivably operate; program at issue. years' time with a DNA testing program, the primary purpose of which was pretrial supervision or accurate. So we are just about years ahead of that, what is relevant is the primary purpose behind the So, if the government were to come back in MR. SHANMUGAM: And my response to that identification, one of these other purposes that is Official That is simply a consequence of the fact JUSTICE KENNEDY: A person -- a person has knowing whether that person committed other crimes? being offered, then, sure, the analysis would be different. that this Special Needs Doctrine, unlike the rest of the Fourth Amendment, looks to purpose, namely, the purpose of the program at issue. been arrested for a felony and is in custody, do the police -- does the justice system have an interest in MR. SHANMUGAM: The justice system always has an interest in law enforcement and solving crimes, and we certainly don't dispute that proposition. But what we do dispute is Mr. Dreeben's principal submission enforcement can do certain things to arrestees, it can do others. felony, have an interest in knowing, at the outset or within a few weeks' time, whether or not that person has committed other crimes? MR. SHANMUGAM: The difference between an arrestee and an ordinary citizen, Justice Kennedy, is The primary thing is -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question is whether or not the police, who have John Doe in custody for a to this Court, which is that simply because law Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they also have a reason for keeping him in custody. MR. SHANMUGAM: They have that interest, but, if they want to investigate other crimes, they have to do what they would have to do as to an ordinary citizen. They have to have a warrant or some level of individualized suspicion. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There are two MR. SHANMUGAM: Related -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: And my -- my question is, that, as to an arrestee, the police have probable cause to believe that the arrestee committed a particular offense. do they have an interest -- a legitimate interest in knowing if that person has committed other crimes? interest here is the law enforcement interest. And I found that persuasive because of the concern that it's different -- two different interests. One is we want to solve unsolved crimes; and the other is we want to be sure -- we have someone in our custody, and we want to be sure, before he is released back into the community, that he isn't a person who has committed five violent crimes before that. going to take months to get the DNA back anyway, so they Now, your brief says, well, the only Official MR. SHANMUGAM: The touchstone of the CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's But if we are in a position where it now the information back, I think that's entirely are going to have to release him or not before they know it. takes minutes -- or will soon take minutes to get different because, there, you can find out whether -- it's just tied in with the bail situation, do you want to release him or not? analysis, under the Special Needs Doctrine, is what was the primary purpose of the program at issue. And there is no evidence that pretrial supervision was a purpose of any of these. because -- that's because we are not yet at a situation where it takes minutes. Sure, it's not going to do you any good if it's taking months or whatever it took in this case. determination. MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, as I said to Justice Kagan, the constitutional analysis may very well change at later point. But I think it's important to underscore that neither the State of But, if it's at the point where it's minutes, it would be critical to make that Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's put it So we are not saying you have to give a DNA MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, outside the sample, but it will enter into my calculation if you refuse to do it. Maryland nor the Federal government identifies a single instance in which a pretrial supervision decision in their jurisdictions was altered as a result of the DNA test. this way. Let's -- let's say the judge or the magistrate is going to make a bail determination and he says, well, it's important to me to know whether you are going to commit another crime. programmatic context, ordinary Fourth Amendment rules mean? Is that okay or not? circumstance, where there is no individualized arrestee stands -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we do it -- doesn't that sound just like a Breathalyzer? You are pulled over, they say, we want you to take a Breathalyzer test. They say, you don't have to, but, if would apply. And ordinary -- CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what does that MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think, in that suspicion, a search cannot occur. And an Official analysis might operate somewhat separately -- somewhat Why isn't that the same thing. MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- you know, I will say that the one thing that is slightly different about your you don't, your license is suspended for months or whatever. hypothetical, Mr. Chief Justice, is that the analysis might be somewhat different where what you are talking about is a condition of release. I think you would trigger the Unconstitutional Conditions Doctrine and the differently. answer with Justice Kennedy and then to get back to the rest of Justice Breyer's question, Justice Kennedy, with regard to arrestees, the intrusions on privacy that are permissible are all intrusions that relate to the arrest. Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine, which you mentioned, detention, so the strip searching example, those doctrines have discrete justifications that limit their scope. So the Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine permits searches for officer safety, to prevent But, just to conclude with regard to my So to take the two principal examples, the and searches associated with an individual's continued Official Now, none of those rationales apply here, and I would note, parenthetically, that in JUSTICE KENNEDY: But we are also talking about identity. I assume that, in Maryland and in a destruction of evidence, and at least in the vehicular context, to search for evidence related to the offense of arrest. Schmerber v. California, this Court suggested that the Search Incident to Arrest Doctrine would not permit searches into the body. It will permit only -- number of States, the time between release on bail and return for trial is more than four months. that this person has a criminal record or that they mandatory ground for reconsideration of bail. And you say there is no interest in that. government has an interest in knowing about prior simply saying is that the primary purpose of DNA testing, unlike fingerprinting, is to investigate unsolved crimes. offenses that an individual has committed. What I am That is the ordinary interest in law enforcement, and when the government is indicating -- And, if it's found, as an identity matter, are -- suspected of serious crimes, that is a MR. SHANMUGAM: I am not disputing that the MR. SHANMUGAM: Fingerprints taken upon fingerprinting -- Mr. Shanmugam, I thought fingerprinting was used to determine whether they -- the person has a record. We have this person, and now, we check the fingerprints to find out if he has a prior record, that's different from to find out if he has committed a crime that we don't know about. But -- but are fingerprints used to determine whether the person has a prior record? fingerprinting before it was possible to make really has, from the outset, served the purpose of identification because fingerprinting really came into being approximately years ago because, in large booking are primarily used for the purpose of identification, and, by identification, I would include determining whether the individual had a prior criminal record because, as IAFIS is currently structured, that is information that is returned once there is a hit for that initial search. Now -- JUSTICE ALITO: What was the purpose of urban areas, officers could no longer identify Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought fingerprint comparisons by computer? MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, I think fingerprinting Official Now, to be sure, fingerprinting does serve a roughly corresponds to --arrested on this occasion, so that, if the person was arrested again, then the police would know that it was the same person. individuals on sight. law enforcement purpose as well. As Mr. Dreeben indicated, there is a latent fingerprint database that JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I would assume that, before it was possible to do computer searches, the way in which fingerprinting established identification, what it did in that respect was to identify the person taking the fingerprints of somebody who was booked and anything to compare it to. And they certainly -- you couldn't do it manually. the purpose of fingerprinting, as it developed over fingerprints were being collected, individuals could proceed to be identified based on prior --determining whether that person -- you didn't have JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we go back to -- JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, so you know that, on day one, you have arrested -- you've arrested Mr. X, and MR. SHANMUGAM: That is true. But, again, time, was identification in the sense that, as There was no way of -- no practicable way of Official And, indeed, as we understand it -- and I think Mr. Dreeben's discussion of this is probably MR. SHANMUGAM: But I think it's important then, a year later, you arrest somebody else, and you know it's Mr. X again. And DNA can do exactly the same thing, except more accurately. to realize, Justice Alito, that at least, as the DNA system is currently constituted, when an arrestee's profile is prepared, it is compared against the offender and arrestee indices, not the forensic index. consistent with this, at least on the Federal level, it is not permissible to take that profile and search it against the offender and arrestee indices. States. We don't have any reason to believe that that is what takes place in Maryland. But, again, this is really what distinguishes the way in which fingerprinting is -- clear up. There is something to what you say. I see what you are saying. But what does this word "identification" mean? It's used for identification. We have a person, he's been arrested. JUSTICE BREYER: I think I can totally lose this because -- because I have a confusion that you can Now, that very well may occur in certain He writes his name down, Mr. Smith. Maybe Official And, now, you say, well, what is fingerprinting doing that photos aren't doing, in terms determining or confirming the identity of an individual. JUSTICE BREYER: What does that mean, MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. JUSTICE BREYER: What does it do? MR. SHANMUGAM: We think it means he's lying. We have his picture. Well, his picture's pretty good. If he turns up in a bar somewhere in the future, we can look, see, and that's awfully good. of identification? What does it do, in terms of just identification? confirming his identity? We have -- you mean what? What exactly? JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, really? I mean, do you think the fingerprints -- where do you go to find out if he's Alonzo King? A lot of people have never had their fingerprints taken before. are in the criminal offender --this case, that the individual in the government's custody was Alonzo King. MR. SHANMUGAM: Confirming, for instance, in MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, but million people JUSTICE BREYER: That's what it's for? To determine what his name really is? Official MR. SHANMUGAM: And his criminal -- and, to JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. You want to determine what his name really is, plus his adjudicated criminal be sure, his adjudicated criminal history, which can also be -- history, and, here, we have the DNA, which I guess might or might not help determine what his name really is, and, with criminal history, it does about the same. And also fingerprints are sometimes used to -- for unsolved crimes, and they are sometimes used for unsolved crimes, but your point really is more for unsolved crimes. Have I got it. MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Breyer, no, I think, with respect, you haven't. With regard to DNA testing, configured -- is compared against the forensic index. That is the index of samples from unsolved crimes. And so that is really in contradistinction to how the fingerprint database works. really worried about the question you haven't satisfied me with, which is I agree completely that, today, it's used primarily and almost exclusively for purposes of solving other crimes. a DNA profile -- at least as the Federal system is JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I -- I am But let's -- is this -- the question that I Official You said we have to look at the MR. SHANMUGAM: Sure. Well, MR. SHANMUGAM: Justice Sotomayor, assuming JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me what the -- tell me what the -- why you would then say that would still think one of my colleagues asked, is that only because technology hasn't moved fast enough? constitutional principles years from now, when they will use it to pull up a guy's criminal history, not unsolved crimes, but criminal history. Get to that day. Justice Sotomayor -- be unconstitutional? that this Court does not accept the proposition that arrestees are somehow subject to a lessened expectation go under a normal Fourth Amendment, you need probable cause to search. warrantless, suspicionless searches are unconstitutional is the special needs exception, and that exception looks to the primary purpose of the program at issue. MR. SHANMUGAM: Right. And the only other potentially applicable exception to the principle that used for other purposes wouldn't necessarily be of privacy, the only other -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. Let's assume we And the mere fact that DNA testing could be Official JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Shanmugam, just system -- to a DNA system, and what that system is going to allow us to do is it's going to allow us to identify, and it's going to allow us to bring up the old criminal history, and it's going to allow us to see whether there are also unsolved crimes that we can tag to this person and discover that he's really, really dangerous. dispositive of the inquiry. If the primary purpose of DNA testing is still to investigate unsolved crimes, the program would still not qualify under the Special Needs Doctrine. suppose -- I mean, I guess the question is would this be unconstitutional? It's not the world we are living in now, but let me -- years from now, the government says, we are really switching over to a fingerprint system into effect. Is it constitutional? and that would simply be because you would have a system fingerprinting is being used today. But, again, I don't think -- JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was interested in a broader thought process, actually. Do you mind giving where DNA testing is essentially being used as All right? And so the government puts that MR. SHANMUGAM: I think that it could be, it to me? MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, there is, and that And so I just want to say a word about the Official MR. SHANMUGAM: Well -- well – JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Which is, there is relevant privacy interests and the relevant governmental interests and to explain why we think that the relevant privacy interests outweigh those governmental interests. something inherently dangerous about DNA collection that is not the same as fingerprinting. gets me back, finally, to the rest of Justice Breyer's question from a few minutes ago because Justice Breyer had kind of asked how the analysis should work, in the event that the Court were to proceed to balancing. concerns associated with the government's collection of an individual's DNA. And, leaving aside the question of how much personal information is contained in the loci -- and we certainly think that there is significant personal information, even as to those loci -- I don't think there can be any dispute that, when you evaluate the entirety of an individual's DNA, there is a great deal of personal information contained there. And, in our view, that has to be taken into account when On the privacy side of the ledger, we certainly believe that there are profound privacy engaging in balancing. Official that it was of no moment that the heat-sensing device that was at issue in that case did not detect any information about the intimate details of activities within the home. Now, the government's response to that is essentially the "just trust us" defense; namely, that the government is not looking at all that information, it is only looking at a certain subset of that information. But that has never been how this Court has analyzed privacy interests, at least outside the special needs context. Probably the closest analog is this Court's decision in Kyllo v. United States, where the Court said drink of water and leave -- leave the glass behind. said at the outset, we believe that there might still be -- indeed, we think the better view under this Amendment search there. The only difference would be that you don't have the intrusion into the body that makes the question of whether or not there is a search here an easy one. Now, I want to say just a word about the Court's cases is that there would still be a Fourth CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You -- you disclose all of this intimate private information when you take a MR. SHANMUGAM: But, Mr. Chief Justice, as I Official JUSTICE ALITO: What if someone has a bloody in United States v. Davis, which I would encourage you to look at, if you are interested in this issue, because it holds that the extraction of the DNA from an item that was lawfully in the government's custody still constitutes a search. governmental –- shirt and throws it away in the trash -- in a public trash can along the street, you are saying that the police can't analyze that without a search warrant? MR. SHANMUGAM: The argument would be that the subsequent analysis of the DNA, nevertheless, still constitutes a search. And the most significant decision on this issue, to date, is the Fourth Circuit's decision Let me say just a word, though, about the governmental side of the balance here because I think this is important. Ms. Winfree started with the statistics about the efficacy of DNA testing of arrestees, but our submission is, simply, that, when you look at the relevant subset of cases, namely individuals who have been arrested, but who are not subsequently convicted of the offense of arrest, the law enforcement value of DNA testing is relatively modest. My understanding is that --JUSTICE ALITO: But your client was Official MR. SHANMUGAM: That is correct. JUSTICE ALITO: And it was a serious MR. SHANMUGAM: Well, my client -- JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't that correct? And he under the Maryland statute, that crime was not a serious enough crime to qualify for DNA collection at that point. convicted of the offense of arrest. offense, punishable by up to years imprisonment. was sentenced to years. MR. SHANMUGAM: That is -- my client was convicted of the crime of arrest, to be sure. But, purposes -- for Fourth Amendment purposes, do you think sample from someone who is convicted of an offense that would qualify as a felony under common law? MR. SHANMUGAM: We think that it would be permissible to collect DNA from any individual who has supervision of the State. And that is simply because those individuals have a lessened expectation of privacy. But just to get on the table --JUSTICE GINSBURG: When they're no longer in JUSTICE ALITO: For Fourth Amendment that it is -- that it is permissible to take a DNA been convicted and is subjected to the continued Official time of arrest? MR. SHANMUGAM: I'm sorry? A felon who has JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does a felon -- does a MR. SHANMUGAM: We don't -- we don't think, in that circumstance, Justice Ginsburg, that the the custody of the State, does the government have to destroy it? They served their time, and their privileges have been restored. government would have to destroy the DNA sample. But we -- JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does a felon who's been arrested have a reduced expectation of privacy at the been -- person who has been arrested for a felony have a reduced MR. SHANMUGAM: I would not say that that person has a reduced expectation of privacy. What I would say is that there are certain intrusions on privacy, some of which are quite substantial, that are permissible because there are justifications unique to the arrest. strip search of an individual who is being admitted into the general jail population, based on the special need of ensuring prison safety and preventing contraband from expectation of privacy at the time of his arrest? So, in Florence, this Court permitted the Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. Ms. Winfree, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF KATHERINE WINFREE ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER discusses the -- that this is not science fiction. So we are very, very close to that. being introduced into the prison. MS. WINFREE: On the question of rapid DNA, the FBI estimates that we're about to months away from that world, and I would cite the National District Attorneys Association's amicus brief on page where it questions that arose during Respondent's presentation. Justice Kennedy, the State does have a compelling need custody, and arrestees do not have a legitimate expectation of privacy in their identity. identify suspects and to aid in solving crimes. identification is, is somewhat broader than Respondent's. It's not just what his name is and what his face is and what his fingerprints show. It is that CODIS DNA profile, those numbers, so that -- in our view, that's a broader definition of -- of identity. and a compelling interest in knowing who is in its And I wanted to just address a couple of the We have a legitimate and compelling need to And our -- and our definition of what Official And, if the primary purpose of And I wanted also, just finally, to address Justice Alito's question. This is the fingerprinting of the st century, but it's better. Typically, DNA evidence is used to identify rapes and murderers. Fingerprints typically do not solve those kinds of crimes. fingerprinting is just to identify, it also is used -- fingerprinting, now, is used -- the prints are compared against the latent database in IAFIS, and they are used to solve crimes. But they typically don't solve the kind of crimes that we are talking about here, and it wouldn't have been solved in Mr. -- in Mr. King's case. years? You say, in years, we will have this rapid DNA available, but we don't now. have today? component of our argument, Mr. Chief Justice, that, certainly, with respect to a bail determination, we will be able to make it more rapidly at the time that that rapid DNA comes into effect. But -- Don't I have to base a decision on what we CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How can I base a decision today on what you tell me is going to happen in MS. WINFREE: Well, that's really only one JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but, if we believe Official that now. Maybe you can in years. MS. WINFREE: It has a corollary purpose, Justice Scalia. What we are suggesting and arguing is that solving crimes, to be sure, is the key component, but in solving crimes and connecting an arrestee to a crime that's unsolved informs a judge's determination about whether to release that individual. that the purpose of it has much to do with whether it's legitimate or not, you can't demonstrate that the -- that the purpose is immediate identification of the people coming into custody, you just can't demonstrate The purpose now is -- is the purpose you began your presentation with, to catch the bad guys, which is a good thing. But -- you know, the Fourth Amendment sometimes stands in the way. can happen; they do happen all the time. And, in Maryland, it's going to have -- it's going to be happening before rapid DNA. Right now, we are able to days. decision on the futuristic world, which is really only years out, with rapid DNA anyway. But we can make those bail determinations now, and, in fact, they are make that determination in a period between and So we are not asking you to base your And, as Mr. Dreeben said, bail modifications Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the important for where we house prisoners and -- and how we supervise them in custody. above-entitled matter was submitted.) OfficialOfficial Alito's : allow : : appropriately : : :, : appropriate apply : : arrestee : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : approximately : B back :,, :, :, : : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : bad : bail :,, :,, : :,, : : : :, : :, balance : : balancing : : : : : : :, :, Baltimore : bar : base :, A abandoned : ability : able : : : : above-entitled : : absolutely : : : abuse : abused : : accept : access : account : Accuracy : accurate : : :, : accurately : acknowledge : : :, : :, :, : :, : :,, allows : Alonzo : :, altered : Amendment : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : amicus : : : : : : : Act : amount : activities : additional : analog : analysis : address : : addressed : adjudicated :, admitted : : : advancing : advent : AFIS : ago : : : agree : : agreed : ah : : ahead : aid : Alito :, :, : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : analyze : analyzed : : : analyzers : answer : : : anybody : : : anyway :, : : apart : : APPEARAN... : appears : applicability : applicable : arrestees : : :, : : : : : : : : arrestee's : : : aside : asked : : asking : :, : : associated : Association's : : assume : : : : : April : areas : argue : arguing :, : argument : :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : Arizona : arose : arrest :, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, : assumed : assuming : based : : assumption :, : : : : : : attempted : : attempting : basing :, began : : : : attorney : arrested :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :,,, awfully : a.m : : : : begging : behalf :, Attorneys : :,, : August : : : auto : : believe : : : available : average : avoid : : : : : : : Bell : Berkemer : bet : Official better : : : : beyond :, : biometric : bloody : body : : : : booked : : : booking : : bottomed : break : Breathalyzer : :, Breyer :, :,,, :,, : :,, : : :,, : : :, :, : : : Breyer's : : brief : : : : : : : :, : : : : briefcase : briefs : bring : broader : :, broadly : burglaries : burglary : :, butt : C citizen : : citizens : : :, : : : : : comparing : : comparison class : : clear : : comparisons : : : : client : : compelling : : :,, close : :, : closest : closure : change : clothes : character : charge :,, CODIS : : : : : cold :, : complete : : completely : component : : compromise : :, : computer : : : : colleagues : collect : : : : centrally : century : : certain : : : : : : certainly : : : :, : : : : :, : charged : charges : check :, : : cheek : : : :, C : : calculation : California : : :, : : California's : call : called : : calls : car : : : : card : cars : : case : :, : : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : :, cases :, computerized : concede : : : conceded : conceding : conceivably : : : concession : conclude : concludes : condition : conduct : : : conducted : configured : : comes :, collected : : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, : :,, : : : Chief : :, :,, : collection : : : :, : :, : :, : come : : :, : : : : : :,,, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : cause :,, cigarette : Circuit's : circumstance : : : : citation : cite : : cites : :, : : :, : : : : : Castillo :, catch : category : : : : :, :,, : : cell : cells : coming : : : : :, : concern : concerns : : commit : committed : Conditions : : common : community : confirming : :,, compare : compared : connect : confusion : Official :, : corner : cornerstone : : corollary : correct : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : :, : : corresponds : counsel : : : : couple : : D :, : : :, : : : danger : :,, dangerous : D : date : : : crimes : : : : : :, database : : : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, Davis : :, : day : : :,,, days :, : : :, :,,,, : :, : : : :, deal : : criminal : dealing : : : : :, decades : : : : : decide : : : : : :,, decides : : :, : : : : : deprived : deprives : Deputy :, design : destroy : :, destructible : destruction : details : detained :, detect : detention : determination :,, : : : : : :, determinations : : determine : : :, : :, determining : : : : constitutionali... course :, : Court :, : :, :,, :, : :, criminals : critical : : :, : : : : : cross-checks :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : curious : currently : curiae : : : : developed : device :, : decision : : : : :, :, : devices : decisions : : : defendant : : : : defendant's : difference : different : : Court's : : : : : : :, creates : credit : crime : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : defense : definition : : : : : custody : : delay : :, : : demonstrate :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, customers : differently : Department : : : depended : disability : disagree : dependent disavows : disclose : depends : : connected : convictions : : : connecting : consent : consequence : consider : considering : consistent : constantly : constitute : : constituted : constitutes : : constitutional : : : : : : constrained : : contained : :, contains : : contending : contents : context : : : continued : contraband : : : contradistinct... contrary : control : : convicted : : : :,,, conviction : Official discover : discrepancies : discrete : discusses : discussion : dispositive : dispute : doctrinal : : Doctrine : : : : : :,, : : doctrines : :, : Doe : disputing : doing : : :, either : emerges : emphasis : enable :, encourage : enforcement : :, : :, : : : : engage : engaging : examine : example : : : examples : : exception : :, : :, exceptions : exclusively : : factual : family : far : : : :, : :, fast : FBI : FBI's : February : Federal : : exonerate : expect : expectation : felon : : : : : : : : : dissimilar : distinction : : distinctions : distinguishable :, : distinguishes : District : diversion : : DNA : : : enhanced : ensure : ensuring : enter : entire : entirely : dominant : doubling : Dreeben : : :, : : :, : :,, :,, :,,, : :, entirety : entry : :,, equivalent : :, : especially : : :, :, : ESQ :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : : : :, : : expectations : : essentially : explain : : : explanation : : : : :,,, : : :, felony : :, : : fiction : field : filed :, finally : : find : :, : fingerprint : : : : :, :, : : : : : : fingerprinting :, :, :,, :,, :,,, : :, :,,:,,: : : : :,,fingerprints : : :,:, : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : Dreeben's : : :,,, : :, drink :, : : : : driver's : :,, : :, driving : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : E E : :, easy : effect : drugs :, D.C :,, effective : efficacy : drop : drug :, : : : : established : estimates : evaluate : evaluated : event : : extended : everybody : extends : evidence :, extent :, expose : exposed : extend : :, : : : : : :, : evidentiary : exactly : : : : : examination : : extraction : Fface :facilitating:fact :, : : :: :,: : Official :,,, : : : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : function : :, functioning fundamentally : : God : going : : happening happened : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :, Hayes : happily : happy : hard : : : funneling : further : : good : : hear : : :, histories : history : :, : : : : :, : gotten : government :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :, governmental government's : : : : : grand : :, granted : great : greater : ground : grounds : guess : : : : : guy : guys : guy's : : heard : :,, hearing : heat-sensing : held : :, help : : : helped : he'll : highly : : : : : :,, :, : hit : : hits : holds : home : :, : : :, : Honor : hostile : hour : house : :, : : : hypothetical : H half : handcuffs : happen : :, IIAFIS ::identical :identification : fingers :, firearm : firearms : first : : future :, : : : futuristic : : : : : :, five : : flee : Florence : Florida : footing : footnote : : forensic : : form : : forth : : found : : : four : : : : Fourth : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : frankly : free : : : : free-form : full : : GG :Gant :gateway ::gather :general :,:generally :genome ::,genomic :getting :,,:, : Ginsburg :: :: ::give : : :, : given : : :giving :gladly :glass :go : : :, : : :: :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : :,, :, : : :, : : identified : identifier : identifies : identify :,, : : : : : :,identifying : identity : : : :, : : :,immediate : : important : : : : : : : importantly: imprisonedimprisonment: : inaccurate : inadmissible incentive : : : incident : :,,:,,,:, : include : includes : : : Official involved : : : involves : involving : issue : : : : : : : :, item : Jjail :, : : :JAY :John :joined :JR :judge : : : ::judge's :jurisdictionsjurisprudence::justice : : including : index : : : indicated : indicates : : : indicating : : indicator : indices :, individual : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : : : individualized : : individuals : : :, : : individual's : : : : : : :, : : :, individual’s : information : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, :, : : :, : :, :, informs : inherently : initial : innocent : : inquiry : inside : instance : : : instances : intact : interest : :,,, : : : : :, : :, :,, :,, : interested : : interests : : : : : :,,, : interview : intimate : : introduced : intrude : intrusion : : :, : : :,, : intrusions : : : :, : intrusive : invasion : inventoried : investigate : : : : involuntarily : involuntary : : : keep :,KANNON : : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, :,,, :, : :,,, KATHERINE :,,, :, :, : :, :,, :, :, keeping : :, : Kennedy : :,, : :,, : :, : :, :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :,, :,, :,,, :, :, : :, King's : : :, :, Knights : :, : : :,:, : : :, :, : : :,,: :,:,,:,, : :, : : :,: :,: kinds : King : :, : : : kind : : know :,key :,:,: : : :, : : :,: :,:, : : : : : : :, : : knowing :,: :,: : :,,,:,,,: :,,: :,: :,,: :,,:, : :, : : :,: :,:,,,: :,,:,,:,,,: :,:,,,: :, K : : : :, : : :,, justifications : : : KKagan :,:, : : Official liberties : manually : minimal : liberty : : : : Martinez : minor : long :, : : longer : : : : : look : : license : : Maryland : life : : :, light : : : limit : :, : limitation : : : limited : : : limits : : : line : : : : lines : : listing : litigated : living : loads : loci : : Maryland's : minutes :, : : : :, :, : : mix-up : modest : modifications : modified : moment : match :, months : : : : : : : : : : matched : matches : material : : : morning : motion : : matter : : motorist :,mouth : moved : multiple : mean : : murder : : :, : : :,, : matters : : :, : : : : : :, :, : murderers : murders : : : : :, murder-rape: : : : : : :,,: myriad : : NN :, : name : looked : looking : : :, looks : : : : lose : : means : lot : : mechanically: : lots :, low-level : lying : Mmedical : mentioned : : :, : names : National : nature : necessarily : :, : : : : : : : neither : never : : nevertheless : new : : : : normal : note : : notwithstandi... : : number : : : numbers : : : OO : : obtained :obviously :::occasion :occur ::offender ::, : offenders ::offense :: :: :: ::,,offenses :: :offered :officer :: known : :,, knows : : : Kyllo : L lab : large : largesse : latent : : : : Laughter : : :, law :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : lawfully : : leading : learn :, leave : : :, leaving : led : ledger : left : legal : legally : legitimate : :,, : :, : lessened : : : lesser : let's : : level : : levels : : :,, magistrate : : : major : making : mandatory : mere : merit : method : MICHAEL : : : million : mind : need : : :: : : : : :, Oh ::officers :needs :,, okay : : Official : :, : percent : perform : period : permissible : physical : : : : :, :, : : : practice : practiced : : photos :, precisely : prepared : presence : presentation : : physically : : :,, : : :, : : : : : :,,, : : :,,, : opposed : oral : :,, permit : :, : old : : once : : : ones : open : operate : : : : : order : ordinary : : : : : : : :, : outset : : : outside : : outweigh : overcoat : P P : pad : page : : papers : parenthetically : : parole :, parolee : : part : : : :, particular : : : : : patdown : pending :, people :, : : :,, : : person's :, potentially : : persuasive : : : : :,, : : :, : Petitioner : pertinence : : powerful : practicable : practical : practically play : permitted : please : permitting : : : :, :, permits : : : : : perpetrator : : perpetrators : perpetuity : person :, :,,, : :, : :, : : :,,,, :, : : : :,,, :, : :,, : :,, : : :, personal : : picked : picture : picture's : place : : plus : pockets : point : : : : :, : : : :, : : police : : : : : : : :, : : : position : : : : possession : possibility : possible : population : prints : : : : : private : : : presented : privileges : probable : presumptively :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : pretty : prevent : preventing probably : pretrial : primarily : : : previously : : primary : :,, : : : : : : principal : : : principle : : : principles : prior : : :, : prison : : : : : probation : probationary probationer : procedure : :, : : proceed : : process : : : : processed : produce : profile : : : :,: : profound : : program : :, : : : : prisoners : privacy : : : : : : :, programmatic: : :, : :,, :,,, :,, promise : property : : : proposition : : proves : provides : public : Puerto : pull : : pulled : : punishable : purpose :,, : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, :, : : : : :,,, purposes : : : : : : : :, put :,, : : : : : : puts : putting : p.m : Q qualify : : Q-tip : RR : : : Raab :raised :rampant :range :rape :, : : :rapes :,: :rapid : : :,, : :, : :rapidly :rare :rarely :rationale ::rationales :reaches :read ::reading :real :,, : reasoning : reasons : rebuttal : : : recall : recognized : : record : : :,, : reduced : : :, : : repeat : replace : representation : required : reserve : resolve : respect : : reconsideration repeating : reduces : reflects : refuse : regard :, : : : : : : : : : :, respects : :, : Respondent relate : : related :, : : relates : : : : : : : :, Respondent's : :, response : :,,:,, : :, : : : : : : :, : : rights : rise : risk : : Roberts : : : :, : :,: :,: : : :,:, :, : : :,,: : : : Official : : : prosecutions : : : :, : :, : : : reason : : : : : : : released : : : release/custody protected : questions : protections : reasonable : :, : :,, : quick : quickly :, quite : : reasonableness : retaining : retains : return : returned : returns : : : : relevant : : : :, : : : :, : reveal : reliability : revoke : reliable : reliance : remainder : Rico : remaining : remember : revoked :, right : :, : :, question : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : relating : relationship :, : relationships realize : really : : : : : :, : relatively : :, : :,,, :,, : : : : release : : :, : : : : rest : : role : rolled : rolling : room : : : restored : roughly : restrained : routine : result : resulting : results : : : : routinely :,: retain : rules : rummaging Official similarly : simply : : :, : : : : single : situated : Shamblin's : : : : situation : : : :, Skinner : slightly : Smith : sodomy : software : Solicitor : solution : : : :, : :,,, situations : :,,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :,, : :, : : : solved :, solving : : : : :, somebody : solve : : : : somebody's : :, : : :, : : : : :,:, : : sound : special :,: :,,: :,: :,: : : : : : specific : speed : spent : spot : stake : : stand : stands : : : State : : : :,:,,,: : : : : :,:, :, : : : : : : : :, start : : : : : :,, started : :, : : run : : S S : : safety : : saliva : sample :, : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : samples : : : Samson : search :, served : : : serves : set : :,,, : : : : :,,, settled : : :, : : :,,, Shamblin : : : :, :, Shanmugam :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : searched : :, : : : : :, searches : :, : : : : : : :, satisfied : : : saying : : : : : : : : : : : says : : : : : : : : Scalia :, : : : :, : :,, : : : scene :, scenes : Schmerber : schools : science : scientists : scope : screen : scrutiny : searching : : : : second : secondary : see : : : : : seeing : shirt : seizing : shoe : seizures : send : short : sense : : show : sent : : : : sentence : : : sentenced : separately : serious : : :, serve : : side : : : : sight : signed : significant : : : : : similar : : : : : someone's : somewhat : :, : States :,,: : : : : :, : soon : : : sorry : : : : sort : : State's : sorts : : station : Sotomayor : :,, : :,, : statistics : : : statute : : : : : : : statutes : step : stick : : stop :,, :, : : stops : street : : : : : streets : string : strip : : : strong : structured : student : stuff : : subject : : : : subjected : : : submission : : : : submitted : subsequent : : : subsequently : subset : : substantial : : : : substantially : suggested : : : : suggesting : : : : suggests : : summarize : : supervise : supervision : : : : : : supply : supporting : : : suppose : : : : supposedly : Supreme :, sure : : : : : :, : : : : : : : surprising : surrenders : suspected : suspects : suspended : suspicion : :,, : : : : : suspicionless : : : swab : : : : : :, swabbing : : switching : system : : : :, : Official :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, TT :,table :tag :take :,,: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::taken : :, : :: :: :,:, : :, : : :,: :: :takes :,:talk :talking :,: ::, : : :TB :technology: :,,: ::tell : : : :,:, : temporary :tend : : : : :, : thinking : thorough : thought : : :, : thoughts : three : : :,, throws : thrust : tied : : ties : time :,,:, : : : : : :, : : : :,,: : timely : today : : : : :,told : tongue : tool : totally : touchstone : traffic : : :, : transport : trash :,treated : tremendous : :,trespass : trial : : trigger : triggers : true : : : trust : try : trying : terms : : : : : :, Terry :, :, : test : : : :, testing : : : : :, :, tests : Thank :, : :, : : : theft : : : theory : : : thing : : : : :, : : things : : : : : :, : think : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : : :,, :, : : :, :,, Official :, : wandering Tuesday : turns : twice : two :, : : : : : : :, :, : types : typical : typically : :,, U unconstitutio... :, : : : :, : undercutting : undergo : underscore : understand : : : : :, : : understanding : : Upgrades : urban : urine : : : use : :, : :, :, : : : : uses : utility : V v : : : : : : : : : validly : value : : vehicular : Vernonia : victims : :, view : : : : : : : : : : want : : : :, :, : : : : : wanted : : warrant : : :, :, : : : warrantless : : : :,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, : : :,, : : Wolfish : word : : : : : words : : work : working : Washington : workplaces : :, works : : : : world : : : : : wasn't : : water :, : : way : : : : :, : worried : : : : :, : : : worse : : : wouldn't : well-recognized wrong :, : : : : : :, : : :: : : - : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :st : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,:, : s :, : :undertake : unique : viewed : violation : United :,, violence : : ways : weeks : : : unrecognizable volumes : : : : : unreadable : unreasonable : : : unrelated : unsolved : : : : :, :, : went : : violent : : we're : : : : : :,, virtue : : :, visited : : :, visual : : : whatsoever : : voluntarily : voluntary : Winfree : Von : W wait : waiting : :, :,, : :,, : :, :, : : :, : : : : write : writes : : wrongly : x :, : :XYyear : : years : : : ::,,,: :: :,:, : Official : : : : : : : :, : :, :, 