Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  SPOKEO, INC.,                       :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          THOMAS ROBINS.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. WILLIAM S. CONSOVOY, ESQ., Arlington, Va.; on behalf of            Respondent. MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,       Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   WILLIAM S. CONSOVOY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.,       On behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,           supporting Respondent                               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ANDREW J. PINCUS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next today in Case ­, Spokeo v. Robins.                    Mr. Pincus.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. ANDREW J. PINCUS                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. PINCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  This Court has said that the irreducible       constitutional minimum for standing is injury in fact;        that the plaintiff suffered actual or imminent, tangible        harm.             In Lujan, the Court said that Congress may        elevate to the status of legally­cognizable injuries,       concrete, de facto injuries that were previously       inadequate in law.               Here, the Ninth Circuit held that there's no        need for any de facto injury. A statutory violation           that in some general sense relates to the plaintiff is          all that's necessary, even though it has no tangible ­­                                             JUSTICE KAGAN: Why is it you think ­­        MR. PINCUS: ­­ consequences ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Let's say I agree with you          that there needs to be a concrete injury; that Congress           Alderson Reporting Company Official needs to have recognized something that looks like a         concrete injury. But why isn't that exactly what         Congress did here? So let me just frame it in a            hypothetical.             Suppose that there's just a statute ­­ it's         a little bit of a simpler statute, and you can argue            with me or tell me why it might or might not be            different, but I just want to understand your position.                      Suppose that there is a statute that just         says that one of these credit reporting agencies shall         not disseminate inaccurate information about people, or       shall ­­ shall not do it willfully or negligently or          what have you, but shall not disseminate inaccurate        information about people. And then there's a cause of           action that says if they disseminate inaccurate       information in a credit report about you, you can sue.           All right?              Is that enough of a concrete injury for you?                      MR. PINCUS: No, it's not, for ­­ for three          reasons, Your Honor.               And let me preface my response by saying        that, of course, that isn't the case with respect to          three of the claims in this case, which don't have          anything to do with inaccuracy.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. But let me focus on          Alderson Reporting Company Official what seems to be ­­                            claim.             MR. PINCUS: I'm happy to focus ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ the gravamen of the        And why isn't the dissemination of false       information about you in a credit report, why isn't          that ­­ why isn't it ­­ it perfectly sufficient if          Congress says that's a concrete injury?                   MR. PINCUS: Well, I ­­ I guess as a            threshold matter, I think what the Court has said in           other contexts is that Congress should clearly say that         it is going beyond the tangible injuries that this Court          has defined. The Court has had a clear statement rule.                        And so another difference between your      hypothetical ­­ I'm not sure whether your hypothetical        casts Congress clearly saying, and by the way, we are          creating a cause of action for people who otherwise          couldn't get into court.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.                 MR. PINCUS: Let me start ­­ well, maybe I          can answer your question this way.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: You said that there were        reasons why that was not a concrete injury ­­                     MR. PINCUS: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ the dissemination of       Alderson Reporting Company Official false information about a particular person.                   Why? Because to me, I'll just say, seems         like a concrete injury to me.                               MR. PINCUS: Well, first ­­ first of all ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: You know? If ­­ I mean, if            somebody did it to me I'd feel harmed.                    And I think that if you went out on the           street and you did a survey, most people would feel           harmed. Most people would feel as though they had some           interest that had been invaded. And Congress recognized         that, thought it was a significant problem, passed a          statute to deal with that problem.                  MR. PINCUS: First of all, the ­­ the common          law tradition, which the Court has looked to, did not          say that the dissemination of any false statement was an          injury.                         To prove defamation ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: That's quite right. It's        not ­­ it's not completely in the common law tradition.          But we've said many times that Congress gets to look          beyond the common law tradition and gets to identify         real world problems out there in the world, harming         people in real­world ways. And that, it seems, is what           Congress did here.               MR. PINCUS: Well, let me answer your        Alderson Reporting Company Official question in two ways. I ­­ I want to explain why ­­ why                it isn't, and then I also want to explain why it's not             what Congress did here.                So why it isn't: There are places that the          Court has looked for guides. One is the common law,           other ­­ other kinds of torts, for example.                                In ­­ in the restatement ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can ­­ can you explain,        then, the common law versus the legislature? So if we           have some historic practice where damages are awarded to         someone who has no out­of­pocket loss, if the common law          says so it's okay but if Congress says so it's not?           That's very strange.               MR. PINCUS: I don't think so, Your Honor.          I think ­­ well, this question takes me a little afield            from ­­ from Justice Kagan's question. But I think the            common law had some very specific areas where it defined          actual harm; for example, any intrusion on a property          right is actual harm, but there has to be a property            right for that to be so.                  So I think Congress could create a property          right. And if it did that ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You're       saying ­­ contrary to one citation, you're actually ­­        Ashby v. White ­­ that it isn't a right that Congress            Alderson Reporting Company Official has given you?                 I ­­                        MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, I think ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, most of the         common law rights, like property rights, are ­­ are         given to you by statute. They're not given to you by            the common law. Most people are coming in to sue on the             basis of a statute.                 MR. PINCUS: And ­­ and the question is ­­         there are several ways that they can establish standing.         One is to have the tangible harm, to meet the general           tangible harm test that this Court applies, generally,        in the standing context. And that can be economic          injury, it can be other kinds of injury. And the Court            has applied that in a ­­ in a wide variety of contexts.                          The Court has also ­­ it is also clear that          in the property rights context, when Congress just        doesn't create ­­ or the common law doesn't just create          a right to sue but confers a property right, the right            to exclude, generally, as the Court has put it, that any           intrusion on that property right, on that right to         exclude, is tangible harm.                            And the Court has made clear in the ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if I have a dozen or            more cases that didn't involve property rights, where we         Alderson Reporting Company Official didn't require economic harm, those would mean nothing        to you?                          MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, I ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Those legal rights, we       just decided through the centuries, all those cases        wrong?             MR. PINCUS: Well, I don't think ­­ there          certainly aren't any cases that my friends cite that ­­         that meet that test. It's not just economic harm. It            can be psychic harm. There are other ­­ it can be            discrimination.             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, what's the answer,       then, to Justice Kagan's question?                             MR. PINCUS: Okay. I ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: You said it could be        psychic harm, there could be economic harm, there could         be all different kinds of harm. And that being so, why            isn't what she said right, that one kind of harm could           be the harm suffered when somebody tells a lie about           you, or gives false information?                 What's different?                          MR. PINCUS: It could be.      If I can just finish my answer to ­­ to           Justice Sotomayor, because I just want to make clear,          and I think the College Savings case is a perfect            Alderson Reporting Company Official analogy here, that every cause of action does not confer          a property right. The Court there made that clear, and           that's why the property right rationale doesn't apply        here.             Now, turning back to Justice Kagan's      question, I think there are other areas, other than          defamation where there's some guidance about what       constitutes tangible harm.               For example, in the False Light cases, the        restatement has a comment that I think ­­ this is a             Restatement (Second) of Torts E, comment (c) that's        very on point.               It says, "Complete and perfect accuracy of       published reports concerning any individual is seldom       attainable by any reasonable effort. And minor errors,         such as a wrong address or a mistake in the date of              employment, or similar unimportant details, would      not" ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: These are not ­­ these ­­        these are not unimportant details. This is a ­­ they            basically got everything wrong about him. You know,         they got his marital status wrong, they got his income          wrong, they got his education wrong. They basically         portrayed a different person than ­­                  MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, your       Alderson Reporting Company Official hypothetical, though, is any false statement. And I'm         trying to respond why a ruling by ­­ a rule by Congress              of any false statement wouldn't qualify.                  us ­­             So there is some legal precedents that tells        JUSTICE KAGAN: Here's the thing,      Mr. Pincus. It seems to me that the ­­ the one thing             that we have to say Congress is better at than we are is             identifying concrete harms. I mean, it's perfectly         fine, and I agree with very large portions of your brief            when you say they have to have identified a concrete           harm. It's like, fine, yes, they do.                    But now the question is, did they identify        one? And it seems pretty clear what they wanted to do            here; that this statute is entirely about preventing the         dissemination of inaccurate information in credit      reports which they seem to think is both something that          harms the individual personally and also harms larger        systemic issues. And then they gave the cause of action           to the people it harmed personally.                  And I guess ­­ I mean, don't we owe them a             little bit of respect that they've actually identified a         real­world harm that it ­­ that's out there?                    MR. PINCUS: Well, I think there's a         threshold assumption in your question that Congress       Alderson Reporting Company Official actually identified that as a real­world harm. And I           think there are two problems with that.                   First of all, the structure of the statute        indicates that that's not so. The willfulness cause of          action that provides for statutory damages applies to        every violation of the statute that's willful, including        those that don't involve false statements.                  So by enacting ­­ if the argument is by         enacting the willfulness cause of action, Congress said        inaccuracy is so clearly harmful that it should be         actionable in any case, it couldn't ­­ it's just not          possible to look at the ­­ the way the statute was           constructed and say that that was so.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, how much more do you         think the plaintiff in this case would have to allege or           prove in order to show injury in fact?                    MR. PINCUS: I think if the plaintiff could          show that ­­ that there was some ­­ some consequence to           him, some ­­ from the false information: Something         happened to his credit. Something happened to an         employment ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's a really hard         thing to do, Mr. Pincus.                             MR. PINCUS: Well, there's actually ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: People get these reports,       Alderson Reporting Company Official and you don't know what they're doing with these         reports. They might have not given you a job for that             reason, or they might have not given you a job for some             other reason. They might have not given you credit for           that reason, or they might have not given you credit for           some other reason.                  I mean, it's actually the quintessential    kind of injury that you will never be able to detect and            surely not to prove.                MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, I'm not sure         that's so. I mean, I think defamation claims are            exactly the same situation. People don't know        necessarily. If ­­ if the ­­ if the statement is not            defamation per se, people have to go out and find proof,           or at least find ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose ­­ I suppose the           argument underlying some of the questions you've been        asked assumes this: If neighbors are making false         comments, talking about someone, this is not actionable        enough unless it's defamation.                On the Internet with ­­ in this cyber age         that we have where all this information is out,         there's ­­ there's ­­ has to be some real injury.                      Is it different because this is a credit         agency that is regulated?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Does a credit agency have less latitude when         it is defending on the ground of no concrete injury than           other entities?              MR. PINCUS: Well, I think there's a         threshold question, Your Honor, of whether Congress made        the determination that there should be a different         treatment for ­­ for credit agencies. And I think for            the reason that I gave about how the willfulness claim           came into the statute, it's hard to say.                                But I think also ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But does the statute apply        just to crediting? That's what ­­ that's what I was            asking.             MR. PINCUS: It does. Although, one of the          real­world litigation problems with this statute is that        lots of the claims are asserted against entities that         claim they're not credit agencies. And that sort of, in           the real­world of litigation, falls out, is not        something that often gets decided before the class gets         certified.                         this case.                          But I think it's important to ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not disputed in       MR. PINCUS: Excuse me?     JUSTICE GINSBURG: It may have been disputed        Alderson Reporting Company Official at an earlier stage, but now it's accepted that the          defendant is a credit reporting agency.                   MR. PINCUS: Well, it hasn't been ruled on         by the lower court. So as the case comes to this Court,             yes, that's ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: We must assume that       that's true.              posture.             MR. PINCUS: ­­ that's the ­­ that's the         But ­­ but I think, going back to         Justice Kennedy's question, I think what Congress did         here was to create a massive number of regulatory          requirements that are imposed on credit reporting       agencies. And all of those regulatory requirements        together were supposed to produce accuracy.                    I ­­ I think there can't be a ­­ it's not            logical to impute to Congress a finding that the          violation of any one of those many, many, many         requirements is actionable ­­                                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that ­­     MR. PINCUS: ­­ in the absence of real harm.          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that, though, a       question of the application of the statute?                               MR. PINCUS: No. I think ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't invalidate      Alderson Reporting Company Official the injury here because this is the quintessential        violation of the statute.                He's saying they don't have reasonable      procedures to check their accuracy. We know from the          purpose section of the statute that that's what Congress         wanted, reasonable procedures. He's going to have to         prove that.               Number two, he says, the information about      me is false. I'm going to assume, for purposes of this            argument, because we have to, that ­­ and so does the           court below with respect to standing ­­ that much of          that information is inaccurate.                  I will tell you that I know plenty of single          people who look at whether someone who's proposed to         date is married or not. So if you're not married and            there's a report out there saying you are, that's a           potential injury.              Now, I know the court below said it was          speculative, but that's what Congress was worried about:        both creditworthiness, and ­­ and your stature as a         person, your privacy, your sense of self; that I can           identify myself with some ­­ others can identify me with          some accuracy.              MR. PINCUS: Well, respectfully ­­ I'm       sorry. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So I guess my question         is, we've now taken a word, "concreteness," that the          Court in recent years has applied to injuries by         citizens and when they can bring actions or not. A           generalized grievance, we said, of a taxpayer is not          concrete enough.              We've taken this doctrine, and you're trying       to superimpose the word "concrete" into legally­created       rights. But for ­­ for two decades ­­ on, I mean, two              centuries, we've always said in our case law that injury          in fact is the breach of a legally­recognized right.                      Where do we have a right? I think that's            Justice Kagan's question.               JUSTICE KAGAN: No.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's a requirement.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't you answer        Justice Sotomayor's question first?                MR. PINCUS: Respectfully, I don't think        that the cases say that. We discuss them in detail in            our ­­ in our blue brief.                    I think what the Court said in Warth and        Linda R.S. was about what the Court said in Lujan, which           is, de facto injuries, as to which there's no cause of           action, can be made actionable when Congress creates a         cause of action. That's quite different from saying         Alderson Reporting Company Official that something that doesn't qualify under this Court's        injury­in­fact standard as tangible harm can be made        actionable, which is what the Ninth Circuit decided        here.                         And I also ­­ I want to also ­­          JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I agree with you         entirely on that.                                       MR. PINCUS: Okay. Can I just ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: Go ahead.     MR. PINCUS: I ­­ I just want to also sort             of distinguish ­­ in responding to your question, I         think there are two questions. One ­­ one question is:           Is a false statement ­­ does a false statement by itself             inflict tangible harm within the meaning of this Court's         generally­applicable injury­in­fact standard? If it      does, it does. The Court has never said that, and we            argue that it doesn't.                The second question is: Can Congress expand        beyond where the Court has gone in defining things that          should qualify a sufficient injury to trigger        Article III jurisdiction?               And we think there are two questions there.        One is: Has Congress, in fact, done that? And there's            a question whether Congress has done that at all.                     And I think Justice Kennedy, in his        Alderson Reporting Company Official concurrence in Lujan, said if Congress is going to do          that, it should say clearly because that obviously is a          change in the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.                                And so Congress might be taken to ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: Congress does it by doing        it, you know? Congress doesn't announce exactly ­­                                MR. PINCUS: Well, I'm not sure ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ here we are, we're just         going beyond the common law. It just does it. And ­­            and it does it ­­ and it did it here.                      It said, you know, what are we concerned        about? We're concerned about following the kinds of         procedures that will make sure that there are accurate         credit reports. And then Congress told you exactly why          in the purposes section of the statute. And my gosh,           it's all over the legislative history.                  The most serious problem in the credit       reporting industry, Congress says, is the problem of        inaccurate and misleading information.                MR. PINCUS: Well ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: And ­­ and so Congress has         clearly done that here.                And I guess I ­­ if you want to just explain             to me why it is that Congress can't do ­­ I think we've              said that Congress can do that, can go beyond the common           Alderson Reporting Company Official law, and certainly can go beyond anything that we've         ever said is a concrete harm as long as they've           identified a concrete harm.                 MR. PINCUS: Well, a couple of responses to          that. If it's a concrete harm in the first place, of             course, then they haven't really gone beyond this        Court's test.                I ­­ I think ­­ Let me ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Of course, harms can arise        in the world, and can be identified in the world even           though they haven't arisen before, or been identified        before.             MR. PINCUS: But the ­­ but the Court's ­­ I           think the question ­­ and I take the burden of my            friend's argument to be that Congress can define things         as sufficient to satisfy standing, even if they        wouldn't, if they just were asserted at a court,          satisfied the tangible harm requirement.                 So I ­­ I guess, to respond to your           question ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: If you're saying that, I        agree with you.               MR. PINCUS: Okay. Well, then ­­ well, I          think then the district court here held that that         tangible harm requirement wasn't satisfied.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Pincus, I would have         thought that your answer to Justice Kagan would have         been Congress did not identify, as the harm for which it           allowed suit to be brought, misinformation. It did not.          It identified as the harm the failure to follow the ­­          the procedures that it imposed upon credit reporting        agencies.             It said nothing about people who ­­ who have         been hurt by misinformation being able to sue. It said           anybody can sue who's been reported on if the agency          failed to use the procedures.                 So in fact, Congress has not identified       misinformation as a suable harm. That's not what this           statute does.              MR. PINCUS: And I apologize if I haven't           been clear. That is exactly ­­                              JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that your answer?       MR. PINCUS: That is exactly our argument ­­                    (Laughter.)             MR. PINCUS: ­­ that Congress here created a         remedy for any regulatory violation. And many, many,         many, many ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: But why did Congress do        that, Mr. Pincus? Congress did that ­­                   MR. PINCUS: Well, can I ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ Congress did that as a         safe harbor.              We are not ­­ it's a kind of         industry­friendly act that Congress did. It said we're         not going to punish any old inaccuracy. We're giving          you a safe harbor. If ­­ as long as you followed a              certain set of procedures, don't worry about it.                    But did that procedural requirement ­­ this       is ­­ this is exactly what Lujan says, "It's a          procedural requirement, the disregard of which could       impair a concrete interest of the plaintiff."                    And we distinguished that from procedural      requirements in vacuo.                           MR. PINCUS: Well ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: And that's what this is.        It's a procedural requirement, the disregard of which         can impair your interest in being represented accurately        in credit reports.               MR. PINCUS: Well, there is some problems        with that, Your Honor. I mean, there are many of the ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. That ­­ that         would lead to the conclusion that anybody can sue ­­                     MR. PINCUS: Exactly.                JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ not just somebody who ­­        whose information was ­­ was wrong.      Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PINCUS: Because most of the ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: No.    MR. PINCUS: If I may, Your Honor.         Most of the statutory and regulatory                                                      requirements have nothing to do with falsity. They have          to do with not following rules. There's nothing in the           cause of action that says you can only sue for          willfulness if you ­­ if the statement is false. It           says any willful violation of this entire regulatory        statute.                         So the idea that Congress ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: "Any person who      willfully fails to comply with any requirement imposed        upon this subjecter with respect to any consumer is         liable to that consumer."                So it's not the whole world; it's the        consumer that you dealt with ­­                             MR. PINCUS: But, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ or that the agency ­­        that the agency dealt with.                 MR. PINCUS: But, Your Honor, if the        argument is that by enacting that, Congress meant to         identify as a harm false statements, there's nothing         that requires proof of a false or inaccurate statement          in order to bring the claim.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but, Mr. Pincus, the        gravamen of this claim, as I said, and as more           importantly, as ­­ as the ­­ the Respondent has said, is           in (e), which does talk about accuracy. And it          makes it clear that the procedures are linked to         accuracy.             And I totally take your point that, well,         how about the person who there's ­­ there's been no          inaccuracy. Well, that person does not have standing.         That person cannot come in and say that he's suffered a           concrete injury. But the person who has been         inaccurately represented can come in and say he's        suffered exactly the concrete injury that this statute        is designed to protect against.                 MR. PINCUS: But ­­ but, Your Honor, I don't           see how you can say that a cause of action that says             nothing about inaccuracy applies to a previously        enacted ­­ one of the many provisions of the statute, to           create ­­ to say that Congress was focused on         inaccuracies.             saying ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you ­­ are you        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Kennedy.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you saying in this        case that Congress could have drafted a statute that          Alderson Reporting Company Official would allow this individual to bring suit?                   MR. PINCUS: I think Congress ­­ yes, I          think it might be possible. And let me explain how,           Justice Kennedy.                I think, first of all, to respond to one of         Justice Kagan's earlier questions, I don't think it's         crystal clear what Congress was doing here because I         think the most likely interpretation of this provision        was it was enacted against the background of this         Court's jurisprudence, which requires tangible harm.                  And it ­­ what Congress was most likely        saying was, we know that quantifying, monetizing that        tangible harm in this context is hard. So if there's a            willful violation, we're going to give you a minimum          recovery.               I think the reason why it makes sense to        require Congress to speak clearly, if it is going beyond          what this Court has required for tangible harm, is         precisely because it is necessary to identify that        Congress actually intends to give access to the Federal         courts beyond that which would be true under this         Court's otherwise applicable jurisdiction ­­ rule. And        it didn't do that here because of the willfulness         layered on top of all of the statutory violations.                     And I think also, the fair way of looking at           Alderson Reporting Company Official this statute is as a complex of regulations which          Congress thought, taken together, would improve      accuracy.               I don't think you can say that any single        one of them ­­ the violation of any single one of them,            Congress thought, was going to so likely to inflict         injury on some person that they should be entitled to ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Do all of them go to         accuracy, or ­­                          MR. PINCUS: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ do some of them go to          privacy and other matters?                MR. PINCUS: Most of ­­ one is about having          an number available. One has to do with notice           to ­­ to people who look at information ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: And that would be a        violation, right, if ­­ if you didn't provide that?                                 MR. PINCUS: Under ­­ under ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: And ­­ and presumably       anybody, if ­­ if you believe Respondent, anybody who ­­         whose information is not accurate can sue to get the          statutory damages for failure to provide an number.                     MR. PINCUS: Well, I think Respondents would         say even if the information was accurate, you could sue          to get the statutory damages. I think Justice Kagan           Alderson Reporting Company Official might limit it to people who were inaccurately ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I ­­ when         we normally have a standing inquiry, you ­­ there can be            some people who have standing under a particular statute          and some who don't.                Is ­­ is your position simply that you have         to look at whether the plaintiffs have been injured in          fact, and that some plaintiffs will be able to proceed          if they can make that showing and others may not?                      MR. PINCUS: Absolutely, Mr. Chief Justice;       that's our position. That's ­­ and the district court          held in this case, looking at the allegations of the          complaint, that the Court's injury­in­fact standard      wasn't satisfied by the Ninth Circuit ­­                              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, was this ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: By the particular      violation? Injured in fact by the particular ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Not by failure to have an          number, you're saying?                JUSTICE KAGAN: No. But would this man be          able? I mean, this is very much in line with the Chief              Justice's.             Would he be able to sue based on the fact          that there was inaccurate information about him?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. PINCUS: No, because the district court        found that all of the allegations of ­­ all of his           arguments about why there was any tangible harm to him          were speculative and flunked this Court's standard.                               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Pincus ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess ­­ I guess what I ­­             that's okay.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before you sit down,       the ­­ the brief suggests that the real danger of          allowing this kind of action is that it ­­ it will be            brought on behalf of a class, and you could get millions            of plaintiffs and billions of dollars.                  If we should hold that Congress can give        consumers a right to redress for false credit reporting,          if we held that, would you have grounds to oppose          certification of a class.                 MR. PINCUS: Well, I think the problem here,          Your Honor, is if you accept the broad theory that          plaintiffs and the government espouse, which is all you         have to show is a statutory violation, it's a pretty            clear pathway to class certification because there is        only common issues. And that's what has happened in          case after case.               Now, if falsity has to be proven, then        obviously that is an individualized issue that might        Alderson Reporting Company Official make it more difficult.                            I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.                   Mr. Consovoy.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM S. CONSOVOY                      ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                MR. CONSOVOY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Mr. Robins has Article III standing for       three independent reasons.               First, the violation of the statutory rights       under the Fair Credit Reporting Act constitutes injury        in fact.              Second, even if not, his entitlement to       monetary relief as a consequence of that violation shows          he has the personal stake that Article III requires.                     And third, the fact that his claim follows        from the common law of defamation conclusively       establishes that it is a case or controversy within the           meaning of Article III.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ your ­­ your number          two ­­ I mean, we can ­­ it sounds to me quite circular.              You say ­­ you say he ­­ he has a personal stake because              he has a ­­ because Congress said he has a personal             stake. Alderson Reporting Company Official Is ­­ do I understand your argument?        MR. CONSOVOY: I view it just like a                                  contract case. So if this were a contract instead of a             statute, and the same duties and liabilities came to be,          and it was a liquidated damages clause, he had a duty             that was violated; he had an entitlement to money.                     The one thing the Court would not do in that          case is look behind the entitlement to see whether he          really was harmed in some other way than other ­­         otherwise being owed the money.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: All Congress has to do is         provide for damages, right?                than that.                          MR. CONSOVOY: No. It has to do much more           JUSTICE SCALIA: Well ­­    MR. CONSOVOY: It has to still create an         interest, a discrete, legal interest that's personal to         him; that only ­­ that is not a generalized grievance;           that is not undifferentiated harm. It has to do all of            those same things.                           The ­­ the point where we get ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but that is a harm.           It is a harm. And you said it's a harm because he ­­ he                 can't get the money that he was provided. But that's           circular. Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. CONSOVOY: So ­­ so the harm ­­ the          violation of a legally­vested interest at common law in          this Court's decisions throughout has always been deemed        a concrete harm.                 Going back to Tennessee Electric where the     Court narrowly used to say that a legal right was an            injury. Then, in Camp, the Court expanded beyond that          to say no, practical injuries too can be legal injuries.          But it never negated the earlier, more difficult test.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about a law         that says you get a ­­ $, statutory damages if a            company publishes inaccurate information about you?                  You want ­­ you have an unlisted phone        number. You don't want people calling you. The company           publishes your phone number, but it's wrong. That is          inaccurate information about you, but you have no injury         whatever.             Can that person bring an action for that        statutory damage?              do there.                          MR. CONSOVOY: Congress has a lot of work to           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry?      MR. CONSOVOY: Congress has a great deal of          work it needs to do to show ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But ­­ but can you         Alderson Reporting Company Official have ­­ do you have standing?                     Do you have injury in fact when you don't      want people calling you; the company publishes a false          telephone number.                          MR. CONSOVOY: So the call ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Whether Congress has       a lot of work or not, at the end of the day, can you              recover those statutory damages?                MR. CONSOVOY: If Congress identified the       interest of you receiving a phone call, and that's the           injury, and you don't receive the phone call, you         haven't suffered the injury Congress identified.                  sorry.                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no, no. I'm          MR. CONSOVOY: I'm sorry.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The injury they       identify is we don't think companies should public        false ­­ publish false information about you.                   Is it the end of the standing inquiry to say          they published false information about me, or do you         have to ask were you injured in some way by that           publication?             MR. CONSOVOY: No. The ­­ Congress has done          its job there.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's in ­­ so         Alderson Reporting Company Official what ­­ what would you say the injury in fact, not in            law but in fact, is in that case?                    MR. CONSOVOY: So I don't think the         contradistinction is between an injury in fact and an         injury in law. A legally­vested interest, whether it's          created by Congress or created by the common law, is          itself a concrete injury.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But our cases have        always said actual injury in fact. And I thought that            meant that that was different than actual injury in law.                      You're saying when we say injury in fact, we         really mean injury in fact or injury in law?                     MR. CONSOVOY: No. I ­­ I don't really            think there is a term "injury in law." I ­­ I've not               seen it in the cases.                 What I do see, going back to Camp, which is           the first case that uses the phrase "injury in fact,"          that concept was designed to get at two really important          things:             One, that the harm is not speculative. And         not to play word games, but I think it means that you             are, in fact, injured, as opposed to that you have          actually been injured.               grievance. And the second, that it's not a generalized         Alderson Reporting Company Official                         JUSTICE BREYER: No, but ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a very        different question. I understand generalized grievance.        You can't just say ­­ even I think you gather ­­ any             citizen in the United States can sue about this. You           have to particularize it to some extent.                   But that's a different question as to        whether there's actual injury.                MR. CONSOVOY: So I think the ­­ the Court           uses the phrase "concrete and particularized." That's        two companion words, I think, getting at these same          concepts.             Now, two things have to happen: One, to         show that it's a differentiated claim, that it's not a           generalized grievance, you have to identify a subclass         of people who are distinctly harmed other than the         general population. That's the concrete part. That's         what Schlesinger says.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I would think that's         the particularized part.               MR. CONSOVOY: The particularized part is       that you're among those people. You need both things.                      JUSTICE BREYER: But how in the       Chief Justice's ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but the law ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: Concrete ­­ concrete has       nothing to do with particularized. It means it is ­­ it            is ­­ the only way to put it is an injury in fact. It's               a ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I was going to say,          the ­­ the Lujan case says de facto, which is actual,           existing in fact, having effect, even though not        formally or legally recognized.                MR. CONSOVOY: So ­­ yes. And then the          concurring opinion explained that it didn't ­­ your        concurring opinion, Your Honor, said that it ­­ Congress         could also play a role in that in identifying those           injuries. And here it did.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but this is my own         view of this, maybe no one else's. But you sound as if             you're describing a forum of what used to be called the            "public action," of which there were no such examples in          Federal law. Most states have them. And because you           want people who aren't hurt in fact to be able to sue.                        And the example here is not just the        Chief Justice's, which is one, but the more immediate         example, which seems to be in this case ­­ I didn't            think it was but it now seems to be ­­ are people ­­            perhaps not this plaintiff ­­ but people who in fact          notice that someone like the defendant has filed bad         Alderson Reporting Company Official procedures leading to false information. And those        people who were not injured bring a lawsuit, and they           say they're following bad information. That's it. Bad          procedure. And Congress gave me a hundred dollars, so           give it to me.                Now, that's the person I didn't know was in          this case, because this plaintiff seems to argue        specific discrepancies in fact that, in all likelihood,        hurt him. Okay? But we're leaving him out of it.                        Now, I want to know what the government         thinks of the case I've just put.                   Do ­­ does the government think a person who          admits nobody said anything wrong about me, they did say          something about me, it was all correct, but they are          using bad, bad in ­­ practices for assembling consumer         information ­­             In the government's view, does the person in        my hypothetical, similar to the Chief's, maybe       identical, does he or does he not have standing? Yes or            no?             MR. CONSOVOY: I'll be responding to you:        He does not.               JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. If you say he does          not, then we are limiting this case to the case of           people who are victims of not just bad practices but          Alderson Reporting Company Official false information about them, and that's what the words         "with respect to any consumer" mean.                              MR. CONSOVOY: That ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: They mean any consumer who        has obtained ­­ who suffers from false information.                                MR. CONSOVOY: That ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: If that's the government's       position, then it's not a public action. It's a private             action.             MR. CONSOVOY: That is ­­ that is        Respondent's position.                                                                          JUSTICE KAGAN: That's ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: In relation to that ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ that ­­ that's ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Could I just say ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito.      JUSTICE ALITO: In relation to that, can I         just ask you something about that, that goes to how          Spokeo operates: Is there anything here to indicate         that anybody other than Mr. Robins ever did a search for            him?             (Laughter.)             aware of.              MR. CONSOVOY: Not in the record that I'm         JUSTICE ALITO: Then how could ­­ then isn't         Alderson Reporting Company Official that quintessential speculative harm?                In my understanding ­­ you ­­ correct me if         I'm wrong ­­ you don't have files someplace for every          person in the United States or ­­ you have databases,          and you will do a search if somebody asks you to do a              search.               I assume you wouldn't say that somebody as       to whom there never had been a search would have           standing, right? Even if ­­ you know, even if it would            be the case that if there was a search it would come up              with a lot of false information.                   MR. CONSOVOY: So for it to be a consumer           report, there must be communication to a third party.          So we have alleged communication to third parties. At          the pleadings stage, that must be accepted as true at          this point.              But Spokeo, I believe, on their website,        does not share that information who searched for you.         And this ­­ this is really important. It is almost           impossible to know.               If he applied for a job with a major           employer in this country who had , job applicants,         and they pulled his report, here is what Spokeo is          selling: We are the arbiter of truth. If it says he             went to College A on his resume, and we tell you he went              Alderson Reporting Company Official to College B, he is a liar. If ­­ if he says he is                 years old and we say he is years old, he is a liar.                           That is their business. That is what they         are selling.                          There is no way ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought they had         some ­­ I thought they had some disclaimer that Spokeo           does not verify or evaluate each piece of data, It makes           no warranties or guarantees about any of the information         offer ­­ offered.                           MR. CONSOVOY: And ­­ and ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that saying        if it's not accurate you're a ­­ he's a liar?                        MR. CONSOVOY: And ­­ and then it sells ­­         then it promotes its ­­ its service ­­ and this is in            the FTC report and also in the complaint ­­ to human           resources executives saying, if you want to run employee         checks, come to us.                It would be a strange business if they said,          Come to us, but who knows if what we're telling you is            true.             And ­­ and ­­               (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that's what         the disclaimer is saying.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. CONSOVOY: But the ­­ whether the        disclaimer is valid ­­ well, that is ­­                   (Laughter.)             MR. CONSOVOY: ­­ that is exactly what the         disclaimer says, but of course, Congress stepped into        the breach ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: You've got to do the best         you can, you know? I mean ­­                                MR. CONSOVOY: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SCALIA: I said you've got to do the           best you can.                           MR. CONSOVOY: You do. We all do.         JUSTICE SCALIA: The person who hires       somebody, if ­­ if they all have this disclaimer, which          I expect they all do, you ­­ you either go without any            information or you accept one of them.                   MR. CONSOVOY: Except Congress stepped in       and said, if you are operating as a consumer reporting           agency, you have duties and responsibilities.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: I want to ask about what          you think Congress did.                You're ­­ you're saying it's limited to ­­       to people about whom false information has been given.         Suppose Congress enacts a statute that says everybody         has a right to sue for exorbitant expenditures by the           Alderson Reporting Company Official Department of Defense. This affects everybody, you        know, the $ toilet seat and so forth. Everybody can           sue. That clearly would not be allowable.                    But suppose somebody is a ­­ a disappointed          bidder for the toilet seat, and he sues under that          statute. And he said, oh, yes, the statute didn't ­­          didn't just say the disappointed bidders can sue, or         that anybody who's proximally affected can sue. It said          that everybody can sue. But I, in fact, have been           proximally injured, and therefore, I ought to be able to           sue.                         Do you think that would be true?       MR. CONSOVOY: Likely not. Likely not, and         here's why ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why is this case any         different? You're ­­ you're saying only people who have          been injured, assuming that ­­ that false information is         injury ­­ only they can sue. But the statute doesn't           say that only they can sue. It says that everybody           about whom Spokeo did ­­ did a report can sue.                       MR. CONSOVOY: So it says ­­ this statute         does things that the hypothetical statute does not.        This statute says, starting with the cause of action, if          you have done something that violates a statute with          respect to a specific consumer, that consumer can sue          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.    MR. CONSOVOY: Then second ­­ then you look         you.                         in the provision that we are basing the claim on here,           the reasonable procedures provision.                  So that provision in particular, which is     the only one ­­                                       JUSTICE SCALIA: That's fine.     MR. CONSOVOY: ­­ before the Court ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do you get the ­­ the          necessity of injury in fact?                             MR. CONSOVOY: So why ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do you get the        necessity that there has been false information which        you assert is there?                MR. CONSOVOY: So it says, "reasonable       procedures to ensure maximum possible accuracy. "                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Procedures to ensure      maximum. That doesn't mean there has to be accuracy.                      MR. CONSOVOY: No. Congress actually did        something better for the industry. They gave them a          limitation on liability. So Congress thought about        giving strict liability here.                And keep in mind, Justice Scalia, Congress       preempted almost all State law claims here. They         Alderson Reporting Company Official preempted State law defamation. So the notion that this          isn't about defamation when they preempted State law        defamation strikes me as a very different argument.                     So you're only in Federal court, and that        Congress said we could impose strict liability.                   JUSTICE BREYER: You have to say, don't you,         in answer to Justice Scalia, that the words, "follow         reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible      accuracy in respect to any consumer," the one who can          sue, means that the ­­ when you fail to do it in respect             to a consumer, you say something false about that          consumer. It doesn't use those words, and we would have           to so construe it in order to save the constitutionality          of the statute.               MR. CONSOVOY: And every lower court to        reach this question has held that ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: But that wouldn't be true.        You could fail to ­­ to follow the procedures and still           come up with accurate information, like you could not         have an number.                MR. CONSOVOY: Correct, and that person       would not have standing.                JUSTICE SCALIA: It's impossible to read it        that way because it's simply not true.                   MR. CONSOVOY: So, Justice Scalia ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             MR. CONSOVOY: ­­ every lower court to reach        this question has held that this particular provision        requires falsity as an allegation. Multiple Courts of         Appeals.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I want to ­­ as           I understand ­­ I take the falsity out of the ­­ the             hypotheticals to get exactly what your position is on         the ­­ the breadth of Congress' power.                   So let's say the statute says anybody who's        publishing information about you has to pay the        individual $ a year. They think that's a good way to              regulate it. It's information about you, good, bad, or          indifferent, pay them $ a year, no more, no less.           Spokeo, or whatever that business is, pays you $ one          year.             Now you've been ­­ the statute has been        violated with respect to you, a particular individual.         Can that ­­ and there's statutory damages of $,.                                             Can that individual sue?    MR. CONSOVOY: So ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, does that       individual have injury in fact because the statute has         been violated with respect to him?                  MR. CONSOVOY: That, I think no, because         Alderson Reporting Company Official that statute would apply to everybody in the country.         There would be no ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, no, no, no. You          have to have published information about an individual.        Every individual who you publish information about gets        $ a year.                MR. CONSOVOY: Right. So I think that would           make it particularized but not concrete.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there'd be no        standing ­­ that person would have no standing, even         though Congress gave him standing?                 MR. CONSOVOY: Congress can confer      substantive rights that lead to standing.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.     MR. CONSOVOY: But not everything Congress       does will convey a substantive right that differentiates         you from the general population.                                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if the statute ­­        MR. CONSOVOY: This one does.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ says $, no        more, no less, he gets $, does he have standing to sue            under that statute?               MR. CONSOVOY: I don't think so, because it          would apply so broadly to everybody ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. Any ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official you have ­­ I said this just before. They have to have              published information about you. If they don't, they         don't have to pay you anything.                  MR. CONSOVOY: Right. And my ­­ my answer          is that that would make it particularized but not         concrete.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't there always a       materiality question?              In every violation there's always a      materiality question: What is the falsehood? Is it          material to anything? It could be a transposition of a            telephone number.              MR. CONSOVOY: That's right. There is a         de minimis aspect to the statute as well. But even ­­           well, that is right, and even innocuous things can also          cause ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Consovoy, can I just         make sure I understand?                 You said you ­­ you need for the information         to be inaccurate to have standing here. That is going           to mean that the class, as you've defined it, is not           going to be certified. And I think that that's the            right answer, but I just want to make sure that we're on             the ­­ we're on the same page here.                    MR. CONSOVOY: Yes. So the class was ­­ and           Alderson Reporting Company Official this is going to come up later this term in the Tyson            case. But the class has to be defined as broadly as it             was because of what's called a failsafe problem.                     You can't identify a class by an element of          the cause of action, and that's because it harms         defendants' rights. So if we had alleged the class here           was everybody who had inaccurate information, it would        be a trick against them, because if they defeated the           claim, the class would be empty, and they would get no           res judicata.              So at certification, we're going to have to        narrow the class, and we're going to have to come up           with common proof because we can't identify the class by          the allegation.              So what happens is, take the algorithm       issue. So we will have to allege under (b)(),          (b)(), that a common algorithm led to all the          inaccuracies. But if they do, that is a certifiable           class.                         And just ­­  JUSTICE KAGAN: And one very quick thing.        You said in your brief you're really only suing under          (e)(B).                         MR. CONSOVOY: Uh­huh.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I understand that to be          Alderson Reporting Company Official that you're waiving all claims of other things?                    MR. CONSOVOY: No. I think ­­ and let me            explain. We read the statute this way: There's A           reasonable procedures requirement. That is a general         framework. Some of that is discussed in the regulatory          commentary, explains what that is. But the specific         things mentioned in Count I, Count II, and Count III,          the furnisher notices, the user notices, and the        toll­free number are specific examples of reasonable       procedures they failed to follow.                                                     They support ­­  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying ­­      MR. CONSOVOY: ­­ the general claim.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying you get        the statutory damages for the four claims that you         listed, or is it only what you've called the overarching          claim?             And in one footnote you said these other        claims are ­­ are just supportive of the main claim.                                  MR. CONSOVOY: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So are you asking for        four times the statutory damages, or are you saying, no,          this is really one ­­ one claim, and so we're asking for            $ dollars a head, or , ­­ or for $ a head?                          MR. CONSOVOY: It's ­­ it's one claim.        Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's one claim.      MR. CONSOVOY: It is ­­ yes, Your Honor.         Now, these are big­picture questions, but      And ­­                                     this case can be resolved on a much narrower issue.                       This Court has always held that if the cause         of action you allege can be found in the common law, and            is developed from the common law as in Stevens, that you           have standing. This claim for false information follows         directly from the common law defamation.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Ninth Circuit       didn't address that question, did it? I mean, as I            understand it, I'm looking at the footnote, you know, on          page A, it says it doesn't matter because you ­­ the           statutory injury in law is enough.                  MR. CONSOVOY: Right. No. Well, but the          statute follows from defamation. Just as in Stevens, it          was about the statute, it wasn't about the particular         individual. They said the qui tam statute followed from          the common law there, just like this statute follows         from the common law defamation.                 And remember ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. How does it         follow from the common law of defamation? I mean,           you ­­ you could not bring a defamation action because           Alderson Reporting Company Official somebody said something false about you. It was either          in one of those areas where it is presumed to be           damaging, you know, such as it's, you know, about your          moral life or something like that, or ­­ or your          incompetence in your profession, or else you had to show          positive damage.                                      law.             How can you say ­­    MR. CONSOVOY: So ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ that it's from common        MR. CONSOVOY: ­­ in Steel Co., Your Honor,         the Court said it must be in the tradition of the common            law of the sort, not precisely replicated.                                                       JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I see. Okay.         MR. CONSOVOY: Not precisely replicated.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Close enough. Okay.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Stewart.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART          ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                           SUPPORTING RESPONDENT              MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               In Defenders of Wildlife, the Court gave the        following description of what injury in fact means: It          Alderson Reporting Company Official said injury in fact is, quote, "an invasion of a          legally­protected interest which is, A, concrete and       particularized, and, B, actual or imminent, not       conjectural or hypothetical."                  And so the injury part of it was the      invasion of a legally­protected injury ­­ interest. And          I think it's clear what work the words "in fact" are           doing in that description.                If Mr. Robins had alleged that Spokeo is        circulating a lot of inaccurate consumer reports and I'm          afraid they'll do one about me, that wouldn't be good          enough. That ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ what happened to        "concrete and particularized"?                           MR. STEWART: Well, particularized ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: We ­­ we say that in ­­         in ­­ in, gee, a whole lot of cases. And ­­ and that               didn't appear in that quote you gave?                                           MR. STEWART: It did. It's ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Say it again.      MR. STEWART: ­­ "actual or eminent" ­­       well, "concrete and particularized" and "actual or       imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical."                 And the Court has explained both the terms        "concrete" and "particularized" as aspects of the ­­ the         Alderson Reporting Company Official requirement that the wrong be done to the particular         plaintiff, not that it be done to the community as a           whole.             And the Court used the terms that way in         Schlesinger. I don't ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stewart, let's       say your ­­ your ­­ Congress thinks that the president          is not doing enough to stop illegal immigration. So it           passes a law that says, anyone in a border state ­­ so              it's particularized ­­ who is unemployed may bring an         action against an illegal immigrant who has a job. And            they get damages, maybe they get an injunction.                                Can Congress do that?    MR. STEWART: Well, I think there would be a           couple of different problems with that. The first would          be that there may be some ­­ there may be some legal            issues that Congress can't simply delegate to private        enforcement that are ­­ like the ­­ the criminal law,          for instance. There would be constitutional ­­       potential constitutional ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think that's         kind of avoiding the hypothetical. I mean, let's ­­                      (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But presumably you       would raise those issues after the action's been filed,         Alderson Reporting Company Official and ­­ and, you know, you could raise those issues as an            amicus defending the action.                MR. STEWART: I mean, I think that would ­­           typically when Congress has done this, and in all the          common law analogues that we've cited, the ­­ the class          of people who could file suit would be people whom the           prohibited conduct had a natural tendency to harm.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, we're talking       about Congress says, Well, these people who are        unemployed, illegal immigrants have jobs, they should be        able to sue to stop that because the ­­ you know,           because they ­­ Congress thinks the president isn't        doing enough.              MR. STEWART: I mean, I think it would be ­­            I think that would stretch the limits of Congress's         power to ­­ to treat those ­­ that broad class of           individuals as victims of all acts of illegal        immigration. And obviously the statute in ­­ that we're          dealing with here doesn't come anywhere close to that.                     And ­­ and I understand the Court's concerns         with the implications of our position, but I think it's           also worth pointing out, this is a mode of enforcement           that Congress has been using since .                   In the first Copyright Act, Congress enacted       a provision that said if there is infringement, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official copyright owner can get actual damages if he can prove          them, or failing that, he ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, you know         the ­­ you know the objection behind ­­ behind my          hypothetical.                         MR. STEWART: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which is Congress       can say, basically, to a group of citizens, you get to            enforce one of our laws because we're giving you a cause            of action. It doesn't matter whether you've actually         been injured or not; we just have to particularize it to           some extent.              And I would have thought that the ­­ the          president would be concerned about Congress being able        to create its own enforcement mechanism. I thought that           you would be concerned that that would interfere with         the executive's prerogatives.               MR. STEWART: I ­­ I think when we get to             the point of ­­ of the hypothetical where any unemployed          person in the State is treated as the legal vitamin of           every act of unlawful immigration that occurs into that         State, we ­­ we do have concerns.                   here says ­­              But the ­­ the statute we're dealing with        JUSTICE SCALIA: The statute we're dealing       Alderson Reporting Company Official with here treats everybody about whom false information        has been given as somebody about whom false information         that harms him has been given.                    I mean, the class is not ­­ is not        coextensive with those ­­ those that are harmed. And          it's the same ­­ it's the same in ­­ in the           Chief Justice's hypothetical: The class is not        coextensive with everybody who has been ­­ who has been          cheated out of a job by a ­­ by an unlawful immigrant.                          MR. STEWART: Well, again ­­ again, leaving        aside the ­­ the possibility that immigration is        something that can't be dealt with by private suits, if          there was some particularized connection required, if       the person could show that he applied for the job that           the illegal immigrant received, that ­­ that would be a          much different sort of statute.                 Here the statute we're dealing with doesn't       say ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: In the community ­­ in ­­        in the border states is not proximate enough for you.          Let's just say anybody who is unemployed in the         community where there is an illegal immigrant can sue.                     MR. STEWART: I think that's still probably         too ­­ too broad a class.                   And I understand the allure of the        Alderson Reporting Company Official hypotheticals, but you could do the same thing with         rational­basis review of substantive legislation. You       could come up with endless hypotheticals about statutes        that were just at the border between really stupid and          so stupid as to be actually irrational.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How ­­ how ­­ the         difference is that this is dealing with the requirement         of a case or controversy which has always been          recognized as at the core of Article III jurisdiction.         And we have a legion of cases that say you have to have              actual injury.              That's what makes it a decision appropriate        for resolution by the judicial branch. And it seems a           little bit more important than saying you can challenge         particular statutes.              MR. STEWART: Well, the point is ­­ I was           trying to make was that Congress has been doing this          since , and nobody's pointed to a statute that comes           close to the hypotheticals.                But to ­­ to return to the point about         injury in fact, the Court has said there has to be           actual injury. But it has defined "injury" as the          invasion of a legal ­­ legally­protected interest, the         violation of a legal right.                  The most recent addition of Black's Law       Alderson Reporting Company Official Dictionary gives, as its first definition of "injury,"        "the violation of another's legal rights for which the         law provides a remedy."                 JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ we've also said        that violation of a procedure, even if you are given a            right to the procedure, that alone does not suffice for          standing. That is a procedure ­­ that ­­ that is a             procedure in vacuo that leads to nothing.                   MR. STEWART: Well, what ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: We ­­ we said that, so it          has to be something more than just the violation of what           the ­­ what Congress says is a legal right. That ­­            that is not enough.                MR. STEWART: And at ­­ the Court has also          said that Congress can't give every citizen an ­­ an          entitlement to sue simply by calling it a legal right.                       But with respect to procedures, the Court       has said you can sue to complain about the deprivation          of lawfully­required procedures if those procedures are       intended to protect the ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Right ­­ right here we have         in the complaint, I guess, there were certain errors: A            photograph of the wrong person; a statement that he's in           his s; he isn't. That he's married; he isn't. He's            employed in a professional or technical field; he isn't.          Alderson Reporting Company Official That he has children; he doesn't. That he has a           graduate degree; he doesn't. That his economic health         is very strong; it isn't. And his wealth level is in            the top percent; it isn't. Okay?                    So that, I gather, is what he is complaining          about. Something like that.                                         MR. STEWART: Exactly.    JUSTICE BREYER: Fine.    Now, for purposes of deciding this case, are        we simply to refer to this and say, this is a case about              a person who's complaining this? And is this, which I           just listed, a sufficiently­concrete injury?                                          MR. STEWART: Yes. Absolutely. And I ­­          JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Was it ­­ then        that's not what the Ninth Circuit based its decision on.          The Ninth Circuit says he had standing by virtue of the           alleged violations of his statutory rights, without       respect to whether there was harm to his employment         process or related anxiety.                So I would suppose, if we're going to decide          it on that basis, we have to determine that the Ninth           Circuit's rationale was in ­­ was wrong.                   MR. STEWART: I'm sorry I don't have the          exact wording in front of me, but if you look at the            Alderson Reporting Company Official very first sentence of the Ninth Circuit's opinion, the         Ninth Circuit says, "the question we confront is whether         a person has injury in fact when false information about          him is disseminated."               Now, the ­­ the Court said we don't have to          decide what is added to the complaint by the allegations          that employment prospects were actually harmed.                     And it's ­­ and it's also true that the      Ninth Circuit didn't analyze the question that it framed         in quite the way we would have.                   It didn't rely on the defamation analogy; it        relied on the statutory right. But it still described          the question before it as whether a person has injury to            complain about ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: And ­­ and Mr. Stewart, if I          could just ­­ I mean, the ­­ maybe this is the sentence             that you're talking about.                At one point the Court says, "the interests        protected by the statutory rights at issue are        sufficiently concrete and particularized."                Now, look, it's not a good opinion, and then          it doesn't tell you why it is that they're sufficiently          concrete. But they clearly held that they were         sufficiently concrete. They understood that as part of         the test.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. STEWART: The ­­ the other point I would           make ­­ I ­­ I agree with that.                      And the other point I would make about         Defenders of Wildlife is the statute at issue in that          case said any person can sue to complain about         particular types of Endangered Species Act violations.       And the Court said, that's just too broad. Congress          can't do that.               But it didn't say, therefore, the      authorization to sue is a nullity, and we don't have to            worry about whether this plaintiff has standing to sue.         It analyzed in depth the allegations and the evidence         that the particular plaintiffs in Defenders of Wildlife        had put forward and said this is insufficient.                    And then later, in Bennett v. Spear, the        Court applied the same Endangered Species Act provision        at the behest of a plaintiff who did have standing.                       So it isn't the case that, if Congress fails         to draw exactly the right line, people who would have          been within the right line are out of luck. I think the              allegations of the complaint are ­­ are the important         thing to focus on.                With ­­ with respect to the defamation       analogy, I'd say Congress, in one sense, is broader than          common law, and in another sense it's narrower.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             It's broader in that the statute certainly       sweeps in categories of types of falsehoods ­­                   May I finish?                ­­ types of falsehoods that wouldn't have       been defamation per se at common law.                   On the other hand, it applies only to        Consumer Reports, documents that are intended to be used         for concrete, primarily economic purposes.                 Thank you.                          remaining. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Pincus, you have three minutes              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MR. ANDREW J. PINCUS                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. PINCUS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        Justice Kagan asked the question earlier      about how could people find this?                  You know, our legal system is people have to         have allegations that they're harmed. And I'd urge to          the Court to look at the public justice amicus brief on           the other side of the case for a whole series of claims             in which ­­ that people filed and they were able to make            allegations of actual harm.                The argument that the Ninth Circuit relied       on falsity is a fiction. The first sentence, the           Alderson Reporting Company Official overture of its opinion, mentions that there is an         allegation of falsity. There is not a word in its            standing analysis that refers at all to falsity. It          relied on statutory violations, period, including the       violations that say nothing about falsity.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So are we ruling on the         outcome or are we ruling on the reasoning?                    MR. PINCUS: Well, Your Honor, I ­­ I think,            as the Court comes ­­ the ­­ the question presented was           does the Ninth Circuit's rule that a mere statutory          violation unaccompanied by any harm is sufficient to        satisfy Article III?                 I think the Court has to address that issue.                    The next issue is: Did Congress elevate ­­        did ­­ did Congress say that false statements inflict a          certain kind of harm, and therefore, we're going to         single them out?               And I think, to rely on Congress, Congress         actually has to have made that determination. And there          is nothing in the statute that says that.                    As Justice Breyer said, you have to actually        read falsity into the statute in order to find falsity.                      Congress didn't say anything about the      particular harm inflicted by false statements.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PINCUS: If it wanted to do that, it          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: See, I look at this case                      should ­­             slightly differently. I think the breach of any legal           right you're given is ­­ gives Article III jurisdiction.                     There is a difference between that and        whether you're within the zone of interest of a statute.           And so what you're saying ­­ I ­­ I guess that's why the               circuits below have said you have to be able to allege           some falsity in the credit report to get recovery under          the statute because those are the people the statute was          targeted to.              MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, that's not right.        The ­­ all of the decisions that my friends refer to           were decisions, not where there were willfulness claims,        but where there were actual damages claims. No surprise          that the courts have said to prove actual damages you          have to at least show falsity.                  There has been no decision interpreting the       statute in the context of a willfulness claim to say           whether it does.               And I think the problem with the position on          the other side is they want to say Congress made this           decision that anything inaccurate is ­­ is harmful, but         there's nothing in the statute to say that. Congress          Alderson Reporting Company Official should speak clearly if it wants to do that, and then           this Court has to review that determination.                   And I think the question would be, has         the ­­ is the class defined by Congress sufficiently         congruent with tangible harm to ­­ to satisfy Article         III?                                     And I think ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But here you ­­      MR. PINCUS: ­­ the class of all        inaccuracies can't possibly be a class of people, most          of whom are going to suffer one harm.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: We have one brief, the        brief of the restitution scholars who say if this Court          says that you have to show ­­ how can ­­ some harm, what             happens to all the restitution cases where you measure         the relief by the gain to the defendant? There has been            no loss to the plaintiff.                 MR. PINCUS: Your Honor, restitution is all        about a measure of damages. And all those cases ­­           often they're breach of contract cases ­­ there's harm.         The property interest conferred by the contract has been         violated, and the question is a measure of damages. In            the fiduciary duty context, as in the property ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what is ­­ what is the          harm to the neighbor whose ­­ puts a toe into his            Alderson Reporting Company Official neighbor's land?              MR. PINCUS: It ­­ it is the intrusion on          the right to exclude the property interest created by         the common law. And this statute doesn't create a          property interest, so it can't be upheld on this basis.                                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company :, : : aspects : : Official Officialanxiety : anybody : : :, : : : : apologize : available : avoiding : : : : awarded : A a.m : : able : : : addition : address : : : admits : :, : : : : afield : : : afraid : above­entitled : age : : absence : Absolutely : : accept : : accepted : : access : accuracy : : :, :, :, :, : accurate : :, : : accurately : act : : : : : : action : : agencies : : : : : Appeals : appear : agency : : : : : APPEARANCES : : : agree : : : : : applicable : applicants : ahead : application : algorithm :, applied : : Alito : : :,,, applies : : allegation : : : allegations : : : : : :, allege : : : : : : apply : : :, appropriate : arbiter : areas : : : alleged : : argue : : : : : assembling : assert : asserted : : assume : : : assumes : assuming : assumption : assure : attainable : authorization : aware : B b : : : back : : : : :, : balance : Page  bidder : bidders : big­picture : billions : bit : : : Black's : blue : border : : : branch : breach : : : : breadth : Breyer :, :, : : :, : : :, : brief : : : : : :, bring : : : : : : : : : broader : : broadly : : brought : : burden : business :, : C c : : : call :,, called : : background : bad : :,, broad : : allowable : : : :, allow : :, : : : : allowed : : :, : : : : : : : allowing : allure : amicus : : : : : argument : : based : : basically :, : :,, :, : : : : : : basing : : : : : :, arguments : arisen : : basis : : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : : Article : : analogues : analogy : : Arlington : action's : actionable : : : : : : analysis : analyze : analyzed : actions : Ashby : acts : actual : :, ANDREW : : aside : :, : : :,, : :, : :, added : : : : announce : another's : answer : : :, : :, : : : : behest : believe : : calling : : Bennett : best :, better : : asked : : asking : : beyond : : : : : asks : aspect : : :, :, :, : Camp : : case : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : :, : : comes : : : coming : comment :, commentary : comments : common :,, :,,, :, : :, : : : : :, :,,,, : :, : : : : communication :, Page  concrete :, Congress's : congruent : : connection : consequence : concreteness : concurrence : concurring : :, :, : :, : : conjectural :, : :,, : :, : : : : :, : consequences : Consovoy : : : :,, :,, :, : :,, : :,, : :,,, : : :, : : :, :, : :, :,, :, :, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,, : :,, : :,,, :, :, : conduct : confer : : conferred : confers : confront : Congress :, : : :, : children : : :,, Circuit : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, Circuit's : : : : : :, : cases : :, : : circuits : : : : : : : circular : :,, : casts : categories : cause : : circulating : citation : cite : : : :, cited : :, : citizen : : : : : citizens : : claim : :, : : : : : : : : : :,,,, :, : centuries : : certain : : certainly : : : : certifiable : certification : : : certified : : claims : : : : : :, : :, class : : clause : clear : :, : : : : : : : : challenge : change : cheated : check : checks : Chief :, : : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :,, : : :,, :,, : close : : :, :, : : :, coextensive :, : : : College : : :, : clearly :, : :, : : : : : : Chief's : come :, :, :, complain : :,,,,, : :, :,, :, : complaint : complaining : : : : : : : :, :, constitutes : community : constitutionality constitutional : : : : : companies : companion : company :, : :,, : :, :,, : : :, : : : :, :, : :,, :,,,,, :,, : :,,,, :, :, :, :, :,, : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : :,, : :, : :,, : :, :, :,, : : : : contract :, : :,, :,,,, contradistinction conclusion : :, : conclusively : Congress' : Complete : completely : complex : comply : concept : concepts : concerned :, constructed : construe : consumer :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : concerning : concerns : consumers : context :, contexts : : contrary : :, :, : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  :, :,, defamation : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : :,, :,,,, : : : differentiates : :, : : E : :, : : differentiated : : earlier : : economic : : :, : : controversy : : convey : copyright : : core : correct : : : counsel : : : : : crediting : creditworthiness : criminal : crystal : curiae : : : Count :,, country : : cyber : couple : : course : :, D : D : court :, :, D.C :,, : :,, : : : :,,,, : :, : : :,, :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, danger : : : : :, : : : : date : : : :, :, : :, :, day : de :, : data : databases : damaging : : : Court's :, :, :, : : : : courts : : : : dealt :, : decades : create : :, decide : : : : : decided : : : : : created : : deciding : decision : : : creates : creating : credit :, : : :, decisions : :, : : : deemed : defeated : defendant : : : defendants' : Defenders : :, defending : : Defense : define : defined : : : : : : : deprivation : depth : Deputy : described : describing : description : : details :, detect : determination : : : determine : developed : Dictionary : difference : : : different : : : : : : : : : : :,, disclaimer :, education : effect : effort : either : : differently : difficult : : directly : disappointed : Electric : element : elevate : : else's : eminent : employed : employee : employer : employment : : : : discuss : discussed : disputed :, disregard :, enacted : : disseminate : discrepancies : discrete : discrimination empty : : : :, disseminated : dissemination : : : : distinctly : distinguish : distinguished : enacting :, : enacts : Endangered : : endless : enforce : enforcement : district : : : : doctrine : documents : doing : : : : : : : ensure :, entire : entirely : : entities :, entitled : entitlement : dollars : : :, : : dozen : drafted : draw : duties : : duty : : E errors : : espouse : ESQ :,, : :,, establish : establishes : evaluate : everybody : damage : : damages : : :, :, defining : : : : definition : :, : : :, :, degree : delegate : Department : deal : : dealing : : : : : : detail : designed : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  :, :, H : : : hand : : focused : follow : :, give :, : happened :, happen : : : : : given :,, :, happens : Official focus : : : : : followed : : following : : : : follows : : forum : forward : found : : four :, frame : framed : framework : friend's : friends : : front : FTC : furnisher : G G : gain : games : gather : : gee : :, : : : : : gives : : : giving : : : go : : : : :, : goes : going : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : good :, : : gosh : government : :, government's : : graduate : gravamen : : great : grievance : : happy : harbor :, hard : : : harm : :, :,, :, :,,,, : : : : : : :, :,, :, :, : : : :, : :,,, :, : : : : : :,, : :,,, harmed :, : : : : : : harmful : : harming : harms :,, : : : head :, hear : held : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, evidence : exact : exactly : : :, :, :, : : : : : example :, : :, examples : : exclude :, : Excuse : : : failing : fails : : failsafe : failure : : : fair : : falls : false : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : :,,, : :, : : : : forth : : : : :, : : : : footnote : formally : falsehood : falsehoods :, falsity : : executive's : executives : existing : exorbitant : expand : expanded : expect : expenditures : Federal : : explain :,, :, : : :,,, :, : : : : : explained : : explains : extent : : F fact : : feel :,, fiction : fiduciary : field : file : filed : : : files : : finding : fine :, : generalized : : : : find :, : general : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, :,,,, : :,, : : : : : : first :,, : :, : : : : : facto :, : : : : : : : : generally :, generally­applic... : : : : finish : : : : : : getting : GINSBURG : :, : fail :, failed : : flunked : : : : health : : ground : grounds : group : guarantees : guess : : guidance : guides : hires : historic : : : : history : :, : : hold : Honor : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : : : :, : :, :, :,, :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : infringement : injunction : injured :, : :, : :, : injuries :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, interests : interfere : Internet : interpretation : interpreting : intrusion : : : invaded : invalidate : invasion :, : involve : : irrational : irreducible : issue : : : : : :, J : :, : issues : : injury :,, :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : J : :, : : : : job :, : :, :, :, : :, :,, :, :,,,, jobs : :,, : judicata : : : : : : : judicial : :,, :, :, : : :, jurisdiction : : : : : jurisprudence : :,, : : : : : : : : human : hundred : hurt : : : hypothetical : :, : : : : : : : : : hypotheticals : :,, I idea : identical : identified :, : :,, :, :, identify : : :, : : : : : :, identifying : : II : III : :, : : : : : : illegal :, :, :, immediate : immigrant : :,, immigrants : immigration : : : : imminent : : : impair :, implications : important : : : : : importantly : impose : imposed : : : impossible : : improve : impute : inaccuracies : : : inaccuracy : : : : : inaccurate :, : : : : : : :, : : : : inaccurately : : inadequate : including : : income : incompetence : independent : indicate : indicates : indifferent : individual : : : : :,, : : : individualized : individuals : industry : : industry­friendly : inflict : : : inflicted : information : :, : : : : : Page  :,,, :,,,, : :,, :,, :, :,,, : :,, : :, :, :,, : : :,, :, :, :,,,, :,, :,, :,, : :, :, :, : :,,,, :,, : :,,,, :,,,, :,, : :,, : :,,,, : :,, :, :, :,,,, : :, :, :, : :,, :,,,, :,, : :, : :,, : : :,, :,, : :,,, :,, : :,, : injury­in­fact : : : innocuous : inquiry : : instance : insufficient : intended : : intends : interest : : Justice's : : : : justice : :, :, : : :,, :, :,, :, Kagan :, : :,,,, :, : :,, : :,, : :,,, : : : : :, : :, :,, K Alderson Reporting Company :, :, :, : : : :,, : :, : :, : : Kagan's : : : : : keep : Kennedy : : : : :, : : : : : Kennedy's : kind : : : : : : kinds : : : : know : : :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : lawfully­required : laws : lawsuit : layered : lead : : leading : leads : leaving : : led : legal : : : :, : : :, :,, : : legally : legally­cognizable : legally­created : legally­protected :, : legally­recognized knows : : L L : : : land : large : larger : latitude : Laughter : : : : : : : legion : legislation : legislative : legislature : let's : : :, : level : liabilities : liability :, : law : :,, :,,, :, : : : : : : : :,,, :, : : : : Light : : :,,, liable : liar :,, lie : life : likelihood : looked : : looking : : : looks : loss : : lot : : : :, lots : lower : : legally­vested : : Official limit : limitation : limited : limiting : limits : Linda : line : :, linked : liquidated : listed : : litigation :, little : : : : Page  matter : : narrow : : : : narrower : matters : maximum :, narrowly : : : natural : necessarily : necessary : mean : : : :, :, : : : : : : necessity :, : : : : :, : :, : : : need : : needs : : : : : : meaning : logical : long : : look : : negated : negligently : neighbor : : : : neighbor's : : : : meant : : neighbors : never : : : : : measure :, means : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : mechanism : Ninth : : meet : : mentioned : mentions : mere : millions : mind : minimis : minimum : nobody's : normally : notice : : notices :, notion : November : nullity : number : : minutes : misinformation luck : Lujan : : minor : : : : : :,, M main : misleading : major : mistake : making : mode : MALCOLM : Monday : : : man : marital : married :, moral : monetary : monetizing : money :,, : Multiple : massive : N material : materiality :, N :, : :, : : :, : : : : O O : : objection : obtained : obviously : : : occurs : offer : offered : Alderson Reporting Company oh : : : passed : okay : : : passes : pathway : pay :, : pays : people :, : :,, : : : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : :,, : place : places : : plaintiff :, :, : : : : :, : plaintiffs :, :, : : : : play : : :,, : : :,, pleadings : : : : please : : : : : : : : plenty : : : point : : : percent : ought : out­of­pocket : perfect : : outcome : perfectly : : overarching : period : overture : owe : owed : owner : person : : Official : potential : power : : practical : practice : :, :, :, : : :, :, :, : :,, :,, : practices :, :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : preempted : :, :, : : : : :, : precedents : precisely : :, :, Page  produce : profession : professional : prohibited : promotes : proof : : : property :, : :,,, : :, : : :, preface : proposed : prerogatives : prospects : presented : president : : : protect : : protected : prove : : : : : : presumably : : proven : presumed : pretty : : provide :, preventing : previously : : : primarily : privacy : : private : : : provided : provides : : provision : : :, : : : provisions : proximally :, proximate : psychic :, public : : : : : : : : :, : old : :, operates : operating : opinion :, :, : oppose : opposed : oral : :,, : : : order : : : : P P : p.m : page : : : part :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : : particularize : : particularized :,, : : : :, :,, : : : parties : party : personal :, : : personally : : : : : probably : problem :, :, : :, : :, : : particular : : Petitioner :, :, : : pointed : pointing : population : phone :, : :, portions : photograph : portrayed : phrase : : position : : piece : Pincus : :, : :, : : : positive : :,,, : :,,, :, possibility : : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : posture : possibly : : : possible : : problems : : publication : : : : publish : : procedural :, published : : : : :, procedure : publishes :, :,,, procedures :, : :, : : : :,, : : :, :,, proceed : process : : publishing : pulled : punish : purpose : purposes : : : : put : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official puts : : : : : restitution : Q qualify : : : reason :,,, : : reasonable : :, :, : :, : REBUTTAL : reasoning : reasons : : quantifying : question : : :, : : : :, : :, :,, : :,, : receive : : :, received : : : : receiving : : : : recognized : : :, : : :, : : : questions : :, : : record : recover : recovery : : qui : quick : quintessential : refers : redress : refer : : :, resume : return : review : : right : : :,,, :,,,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, :, : :, :, : rights :,,, : : : : : : : : ROBERTS : reports : : : : : : : : represented : : require : : required : : requirement : :, :, : : : : : requirements :,, : : requires : : : : res : reserve : resolution : resolved : resources : respect : : : : : : :, :, : : : respectfully : : : quite : : : : quote :, R R : R.S : raise : : rational­basis : rationale : : reach : : read : : : real : : : : real­world : : : : : really : : : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, : : : :,, : : :,, :,, : : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : Robins : : : : : : : : : regulate : regulated : regulations : regulatory : : : : : : related : relates : relation :, relied : : Respondent : respond : : : : : Respondent's relief : : rely : : remaining : remedy : : Respondents : remember : replicated :, report : : response : : :, responses : : : : responsibilities responding : : reported : reporting : : restatement : : : : : :, role : rule : : : : ruled : rules : ruling : :, run : S S : :, : : Page  safe :, satisfied :, : satisfy : : : save : Savings : saying : : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : says :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : Scalia :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :,, : : : :,,,, :,,, : :,, :,, : : :, Schlesinger : : scholars : se : : search : :, :, searched : seat :, Alderson Reporting Company second : : : : section : : see : : : : : Sotomayor : :, :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : seen : seldom : self : selling : : sells : sense : : : :, sentence :, : series : serious : service : set : share : show :, : : : : : : : showing : shows : side : : significant : similar : : simpler : simply : : : : : single : :, : sit : situation : slightly : Solicitor : somebody : : : :, : : : : someplace : sorry : : : : : : : : sort : : Sotomayor's : sound : sounds : speak : : Spear : Species :, specific : : : :, speculative : : : : Spokeo : : : :, : : : : stage : : stake :,, standard :, : : standing : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : start : starting : state : :, : :, statement : : :, : :, :, : statements : : :, states :,, : : : Official Page  : : : stature : status : : statute :,, : stupid :, suable : subclass : subjecter : survey : sweeps : system : systemic : T : : : : taken :, : T :, take : : :, : :, submitted :, : :,, substantive : : :, : : : sue : :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : :,,,, : : : takes : : :,,, :, : :,,,, talk : :,, : : : : talking : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : :, :, :,, : sues : suffer : suffered : : tam : tangible :, : :,, : :, :, :, : : : :, : : : suffers : suffice : sufficient : : statutes :, statutory : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : sufficiently­conc... : :, sufficiently : :, : : : : Steel : stepped :, Stevens :, Stewart : : suggests : suing : suit : : : suits : :,, : superimpose : :, :, :, :, :, : :, :, : : : supportive : suppose :, support : supporting : : : stop : : strange : : street : stretch : strict : : strikes : strong : structure : :, : : : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : :, :, surely : surprise : targeted : taxpayer : technical : telephone : : tell : : : : telling : tells : : tendency : Tennessee : term : : terms : : test : : : : : Thank : : : : : :, : theory : thing :, : : : : : things : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  tradition :, : : : unlisted : Warth : Washington :, worry : : worried : transposition : upheld : treat : urge : use : : treated : user : treatment : treats : uses : : trick : trigger : true : : V :, think : : : :,,, : :, :, :, :, : : : :,, : :,, : :, :, : : : :, :,, :,,, : :, : : :,, :,,, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : :, thinks : : : third : : : THOMAS : thought : : :, : :, : :, three :, : : threshold : : : time : times : : today : toe : toilet :, told : toll­free : top : : torts : : totally : : : : :, : truth : trying : : : turning : two : : : :, :, : : : : types : :, typically : Tyson : U Uh­huh : unaccompanied : underlying : understand : : : : : : : : : understanding : understood : undifferentiated : unemployed : : : : unimportant : : United :,, : : : : unlawful : : worth : wasn't : : wouldn't : : way :, : : : : : : : : : wrong : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ways : : : We'll : we're :, : : : : : :, :, : :, :, : : : : we've : :, : : : : : wealth : website : went : :, White : wide : Wildlife : : : willful : : : willfully : : willfulness :, : : : :, WILLIAM : : : word :, : : wording : words : : :, : work :, : : world :, :, : x :, X Y year :,, : years : :, Z zone : :, :, : , : : : : : : : : : : ­ : : (e) : (e)(B) : : : : : : : (b)() : : : : v : : : : Va : vacuo : : valid : variety : verify : versus : victims : : view : : : violated : : : : violates : violation : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : violations : : : :, virtue : vitamin : W waiving : want : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : wanted : : : wants : warranties : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : , : : s : : : E : :, : : : A : Alderson Reporting Company 