Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  DOLLAR GENERAL                      CORPORATION, ET AL.,                 : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          MISSISSIPPI BAND OF                  CHOCTAW INDIANS, ET AL.               : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, December ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Bethesda, Md.; on behalf           of Petitioners.  NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,             Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting Respondents                              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Dollar General        Corporation v. The Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians.                    Mr. Goldstein.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, may it        please the Court:               Our narrowest argument assumes that, in      circumstances like this case, Indian tribes do have the         legislative jurisdiction to subject nonmembers to tribal       tort law duties.               Respondents argue that the same facts also       give Indian tribes the mandatory adjudicatory      jurisdiction to decide private tort lawsuits against       non­Indians. Respondents' theory is that, when the        Tribes entered the United States and were incorporated        into this country, their power to adjudicate cases in         this fashion was understood to be an element of their          sovereignty. That is not correct.                  In ­­ I want to identify the three separate          respects in which the overriding sovereignty of the        United States and our Constitution ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you ­­ could you        please explain your opening statement? You ­­ you say          there is legislative authority but not judicial       authority. I don't know of any other instance in which            a jurisdiction has authority to legislate, to regulate        the conduct in question, but does not have authority to          back up that legislative authority by adjudicatory       authority.             Can you give me an example of ­­                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: I can give you several,         Justice Ginsburg.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: The first is removal.       Remember, our point is not that the Tribes lack any          adjudicatory jurisdiction. It is that they lack        mandatory adjudicatory jurisdiction so that we do not        have access to a neutral judicial forum. A State has             the power to pass State tort law, for example, but it           does not have the sovereign authority to insist that the          case be litigated in its own courts.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: It has the authority,       but ­­ but an out­of­State defendant can be moved to          Federal court, but it has the adjudicatory authority.                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, everyone      agrees that the Tribes have a form of adjudicatory          Alderson Reporting Company Official authority upon consent. They don't have it inherently.         The question is going to be: What qualifies as consent?                       Our point is that, in three separate       respects, the national tradition of the United States        and our Constitution does not contemplate that a        sovereign would adjudicate cases in this fashion. And I          want to briefly identify the three, if I could.                      First, the Constitution contemplates the     availability of a neutral forum for suits against         noncitizens, and by analogy, noncitizens as you say,        Justice Ginsburg, have always been able to remove a case           from State to Federal court.                 The United States at the time of       incorporation could not have accepted that non­Indians       would not be able to remove to a neutral forum.                       Second, the Constitution contemplates that     this Court will be the one Supreme Court, and State          court rulings on questions of Federal law have, of         course, always been reviewable in this Court.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I ­­ I don't ­­ this            is an important part of the dialogue, but let me just go            back to the first part of ­­ of ­­ of your response.                        Is ­­ is it black­letter law given the        Tribes have complete legislative authority over      non­Tribe members on ­­ for ­­ for regulatory purposes?         Alderson Reporting Company Official I ­­ I ­­ I take it that as a black­letter law given?                            MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, if we say        it ­­ in those terms, regulatory authority without        getting into the question of all forms of legislation,         for example, tort law, then the first exception to         Montana says that, although there is a presumption         against jurisdiction, the Tribes do have their       regulatory authority.              We have the argument that tort law, because        it is so broad and would swallow the rule, that the           Tribes lack legislative authority over nonmembers. We        have the argument that that is not within the         legislative jurisdiction.                          What I had said at the beginning ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: But doesn't that clash       with what the Court said in Strate? I mean, Strate ­­            I'll read you the sentence. It says, "It's an          unremarkable proposition that where tribes possess      authority to regulate the activity of nonmembers, civil        jurisdiction over disputes arising out of such       activities presumptively lies in tribal courts."                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Justice Ginsburg, I        need to just separate two questions:                  Justice Kennedy I understood to be asking me         was: Do the Tribes have the antecedent legislative         Alderson Reporting Company Official authority? And I was explaining that we have the           argument that in the tort context they do not.                                 It was a ­­                You then point out that if ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: If this is a tort case.          JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then I don't understand         why you opened your ­­ your ­­ are ­­ I ­­ I thought you                said ­­                         assumed ­­                         well, I ­­                           MR. GOLDSTEIN: We assumed.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ I ­­ I ­­ you           MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. We ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ that this could be ­­        MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ I don't know why you          make that assumption.                                                   one.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I ­­ I just ­­            MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ can't get off square        MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.                  I do not intend, Justice Kennedy, to give up        a good argument in our favor. I was just attempting to             Alderson Reporting Company Official identify the narrowest ground for reversal.                  I'm very pleased to discuss the threshold       point, and that is that, with respect to nonmembers, the          Tribes do not have the authority to subject us to such           sweeping tort law duties. It's not that there aren't          tort law duties. The plaintiff here is a citizen of the             State of Mississippi. Mississippi's tort ­­ State tort         law does apply to the case. And the plaintiff has a            remedy in State court.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But will you then go back         to my question ­­                           MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ about Strate? Because        if what you're arguing now is correct, Strate would have          been a one­line decision: No tort jurisdiction over a           non­Indian.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, it's       true that this Court's decisions can often be resolved         in different ways. What Nevada v. Hicks in the footnote           addressing this question explains is that what the Court         has done is narrowly identify the legislative       jurisdiction of the Tribe in the cases before it. And           so in Strate and in other cases, it has held that the            Tribe lacked that antecedent legislative authority. And        on that basis, concluded that, well, then because the         Alderson Reporting Company Official adjudicatory authority can't be broader than the       legislative authority, there's no adjudicatory authority      either.             So the second point that I was going to make           is that it's true that ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: But are ­­ are you saying         then this sentence that I just read to you from the            opinion of the Court was just wrong?                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, what the       Court has said in Nevada v. Hicks, addressing the         various times that there is dictum in the Court's         opinions that has assumed the parallel between       legislative and adjudicatory jurisdiction is that that       question had not been fully considered by the Court and          it remained open. And we assume that that's one of the            reasons the Court granted review in this case. To          decide, assuming that there is legislative jurisdiction,       whether there also is adjudicatory jurisdiction.                  And I'm pleased to explain why it is. And          what I ­­ my introduction was trying to do was, assuming            the antecedent legislative jurisdiction, here's why you       don't have jurisdiction to decide a court case in this           fashion.             So the first one that I gave you was the           availability of a neutral forum as anticipated by the          Alderson Reporting Company Official Constitution.             moment?             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I address that for a          States appoint judges. Sometimes they're      elected, but often they're appointed. We don't think it          lacks being a neutral forum because the State can sue a            citizen there. We think of it as neutral because the           judges are neutral.               You're just assuming that these judges are       not neutral.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, Justice Sotomayor, I       think actually that your hypothetical is a good one for           us.             In Article III of the Constitution, we       contemplate the availability of a neutral forum when a          noncitizen is a defendant in the case, including when          we, you know, ordinarily respect the neutrality of State         court judges. Right? If a noncitizen is sued in State             court, like we are a noncitizen of the Tribe, is sued in             the Tribe ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's out of comity        or our sense of comity between the States. But it           doesn't have anything to do with the fairness of a          judicial forum.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, I ­­ I just simply           Alderson Reporting Company Official disagree, Your Honor. My understanding of the premise         of removal jurisdiction is that there was a concern or           at least a belief that respect for rule of law is            enhanced by the availability of a neutral forum.                                 But I did want ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: What's wrong with the       tribal courts?              MR. GOLDSTEIN: What's wrong with the tribal        courts? It depends.                First of all, let me say that there are         modern tribal judiciaries like this one that deserve        genuine respect. That are ­­ have developed real         principles in attempt to identify law that can be known          ex ante and the availability of a neutral forum.                      There are, however, many tribes, everyone      agrees, that don't have anything like that. They         instead deserve respect in a different ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Fine. So ­­ so           we've seen lots of tribal courts, which I can't          distinguish them in the fairness and procedure and so         forth from every other court in the country, and maybe          there's some where that isn't true.                              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: So what ­­ what you do is          you go and complain, we didn't get due process of law.           Alderson Reporting Company Official                         MR. GOLDSTEIN: Two things ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: If you're in one of the         ones that has some unusual thing about it.                    But if you're in a normal thing, you say,          it's normal.                                      So what's wrong with saying just that?       MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: Like a State court which         has terrible procedures, terribly unfair, or a foreign         court. You complain you didn't get proper process.                                                         But that has nothing to do with this case.         MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. I ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Or little.     JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you can remove from         State court, can't you?                            MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. That's right.       JUSTICE SCALIA: And when ­­ and ­­ and when          removal is asked for, we don't ask the question, what's          the matter with State courts? Do we?                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. Our       Constitution ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: We ­­ we just say that the          Constitution says you have a ­­ a choice of having your             case adjudicated in a Federal court.                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, I'm ­­ I'm        Alderson Reporting Company Official not going to lose sight of your question, but just on           this point, our Constitution says we anticipate a        neutral forum that this Court will ­­ the Supreme         Court ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, the Constitution      says the removal of statute is a statute. It's not            constitutional.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, I      understand that. My ­­ what ­­ and, Justice Breyer, I'm           not losing sight of your question ­­ what the ­­ what           Oliphant and other precedents of this Court say is that          the Tribes have the sovereign authority that is        consistent with the overriding sovereignty of the United        States. And the point I was trying to make is that our              legal tradition understands that there will be certain        basic protections.              And remember, two of the things I'm       identifying in the Constitution are not specific to the         States: The supremacy of the Constitution ­­ but the          Constitution does not apply in tribal courts ­­ and also          the supremacy of this Court as the one Supreme Court,          which is not available.                Now, Justice Scalia, those are features of       our national legal tradition, and those features existed        at the time of incorporation of the Tribes into the          Alderson Reporting Company Official United States. And my point is that Congress could not           have believed that, if State courts couldn't do these         things, that the tribal courts would be superior.                    Now, Justice Breyer, you said, well, what's       wrong? Two things. I want to say that there are some              things wrong even in the context of a tribe like this            one.             For example, we have a Federal claim against         the due process ­­ a due process claim against the           putative damage award in ­­ that's asked for in this          case, and that would be entirely unreviewable in this         case.             Now, you contemplate the prospect that we       would collaterally attack the judgment. A few things          about that.              The first is, if that's going to be serious,         if we are really going to have a serious regime of            collateral attacks where you would just assess whether        or not the tribal court ruling is consistent with due          process. That is hardly treating the tribal courts as          sovereigns. Imagine a Federal district court ruling         could be overturned by a circuit court in Mississippi.          We wouldn't say that that was an actual sovereign         ruling.             And the second is that that review system is         Alderson Reporting Company Official extremely rare. The Respondents identify a single case,          one Ninth Circuit case in which a tribal ruling was           overturned.             What the Federal courts have done is afford        enormous respect and only overturned rulings of tribal        courts or foreign courts that are way out of bounds. My            point is that the rule that's contemplated by the         Constitution is not one of being way out of bounds, it           is simply that we have a right to due process; that this             Court will be the Supreme Court, that the Constitution         is the supreme law of the land. And when that is not             true in the courts that we are talking about, even the           best­managed, most modern courts, when those rules       simply don't apply, that is not consistent ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But doesn't the Indian       Civil Rights Act ­­ I mean, it's not the Bill of Rights,             but Indian Civil Rights Act is pretty close.                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, the       rule of the Constitution is not "close is good enough,"          but I will say that I think the Indian Civil Rights Act              is a point in our favor. Because when you talk about             the regulatory matters discussed in the first Montana        exception like taxation and licensing, those are things        that Congress has left to the Tribes. But the Indian           Civil Rights Act, like Public Law , like the Courts          Alderson Reporting Company Official of Indian Offenses, like the Indian deprivation system        shows that the United States has actually been deeply         involved in the tribal judiciary. It has not treated          tribal adjudication of civil claims as something that        belongs to the Tribes. It's quite different.                    The United States obviously did not regard       the Tribes' judiciary as something that is purely a part           of their government, because time and again, it has         micromanaged them.              And, Justice Breyer, I do want to point out          another example of that, and that is the Violence         Against Women Act. There, we see the right way of doing            this, and that Congress has developed systems that say         if this tribal judiciary is a good one which affords due            process, then it has jurisdiction over cases.                   And we think that's the right approach here.        Congress has the institutional capacity to develop rules        like the one you were talking about. It's a much            more ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: You can do it both ways.         And there are books, some of which I have at least            looked through, and certainly articles that suggest that        the tribal courts function perfectly well, certainly in        many places.              Now, I take it your argument is that there          Alderson Reporting Company Official are some places they don't function well, and in respect          to matters that are not matters of Federal law, there          won't be review from those courts unless you        collaterally attack them. Is that your point?                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, as I       mentioned, we have real concerns, even with respect to a          system like this one. For just an example ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: I just want to know, have I           got your point right?                MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, I ­­ our point is          broader. You had suggested, Justice Breyer, that I was           concerned about another set of tribal judiciaries. I         just don't want to lose sight of the fact that there are            concerns, even when you have the most modern tribal         judiciary.             An example is that the ­­ we are a         noncitizen, a nonmember of the Tribe, and the tribal          jury may be composed only of members of the Tribe, and           there's no inherent rule that stops the jury members         from being people who know the plaintiff.                   Now with respect to other judiciaries, it is        the case that we do recognize, and the United States has           recognized, a wide swath of tribes that use more          traditional dispute­resolution mechanisms that also     deserve respect because that's the tribal tradition.       Alderson Reporting Company Official But it is not the tradition of due process.                                   JUSTICE BREYER: The nontribal member goes       And the question you've got to figure ­­     to the tribal land and signs an agreement that says          tribal law would apply, and then commits a tort on the            tribal lands, and even under those circumstances, and        even if the court is functioning well, the tribal court          cannot take jurisdiction over his claim. That's your         position. And then to that I say, if I haven't got it               already, why not?               MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Justice Breyer, I do          think your hypothetical of a contract is a really good            one for us, because we do believe that the Respondents          are most concerned, and their best facts are a business           like this one, to be honest, that's operating on tribal          land, in the Reservation on an ongoing basis, and they          say, look, you have to have anticipated the        applicability of tribal tort law. We disagree, but we          understand the argument.               My point is that in these circumstances,       what the Tribes do is, as a condition of operating on            the Reservation, they call for not just what you         describe, which is the application of tribal law, but a          consent to the forum. And remember, in this case, there           is a consent to the forum, but the ­­ which the Tribe             Alderson Reporting Company Official wrote, but they limited it to disputes arising from the          lease.             So we say, going forward, we have two        solutions. One I've described: That's the prospect of          congressional action. You say it could work the other          way, and I'll come back to that.                     But the second is just the contract.     Obviously, in the cases that they are concerned about,         what the tribe can do and will do is require as a            condition of coming onto the Reservation that you        accede, knowingly and actually, to the jurisdiction of        the tribal courts, and ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Goldstein, you       could have done that, too. The contract can go either           way. The question is what's the default rule when the           contract doesn't say anything.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: Actually, it wouldn't work       the other way, Justice Kagan, with all due respect.         Remember, this is a private tort suit by a member of the              Tribe.             JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but remember, this is ­­        there's ­­ this is an exception for consent. The ­­ the            company would have ­­ the store would have an extremely          good argument that it didn't consent if it had signed a           contract with anybody, with the Tribe, not just with the          Alderson Reporting Company Official individual person. If it had signed a contract with the            Tribe, saying we insist on a State forum, they clearly           haven't consented.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Kagan, I just         don't understand how it is the case ­­ I disagree, let            me just explain why. I understand that you take the ­­            you have the opposite view.                 If a private person sues us, the fact that          we have a contract with that ­­ that individual State           government does not strip a State court of jurisdiction          over their private suit. So that's our view of it.           But ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it does when the        Montana exception relies upon a consensual relationship.                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: But Justice Kagan, for the        other side to win, what they have ­­ their premise is           that the consensual relationship exists in simply the        activity with the individual tribal member, not the        contract. Remember, their point is that a contract is           irrelevant. So the consent would exist simply by         operating the business.               But in all events, it is the case that we          could insist on a contract; they can insist on a           contract. My point to Justice Breyer was simply that          the upshot of our position still leaves enormous room         Alderson Reporting Company Official for the exercise of tribal sovereignty. They do have          this power. Remember that the data before you from the           United States indicates that this is a very small          proportion of cases that the tribal courts adjudicate.        The data from this Tribe indicates that it's percent           of cases.              JUSTICE KAGAN: All of these arguments, your        arguments ­­ let me figure out whether this is right.          Your arguments about it's ­­ it's a nonneutral forum,          it's an unfair forum, we don't know whether they have          the same procedures that ­­ that are commonly ­­ that          commonly exist in Federal and State courts. Those         arguments have nothing to do with tort claims versus         other claims; is that right?                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: They do have a lot to do           with the fact that it's a private claim. Let me            distinguish, importantly, actions by the Tribe itself.                   And the analogy here is that when a State          sues a noncitizen, that is an act of the sovereign and            it is not removable, because what Montana is concerned         with, what this Court's precedents are concerned with,        is the exercise of sovereign authority in the pursuit of          self­governance.             This is not a sovereign action. This is a           private suit between two individuals, and so it is         Alderson Reporting Company Official important that if the Tribe is exercising its sovereign         authority, bringing a civil enforcement action against        us, for example, that would have presented ­­ present a          very different question, because it would be       sovereignty. It has never been understood that ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if the Tribe brought        this suit, instead of the parents of the boy who was           molested, if ­­ if it ­­ then it would be okay?                       MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, we think that's an        impossibility. Remember that the other side's       explanation ­­ although there aren't any citations; it's        hard to know what the tort law is ­­ the other side's            explanation is that tort law of the Tribe tracks         Mississippi tort law, and there isn't a situation in          which the Tribe could bring such an action. And I think             if it was a parens patriae action, we would still regard            it as in the interest of the individual.                    I'm thinking instead, Justice Ginsburg, of      take the follow­on to what Montana describes, that is, a          licensing regulation or a taxation regulation. We         believe that if the Tribe went into tribal court to          enforce those measures, that would be a sovereign action          and it would be susceptible of the Montana exception.                     The difference is when the Tribe is not a         party here. We don't deny that there is some sovereign           Alderson Reporting Company Official interest. Okay. There is some sovereign interest in          this adjudication.              JUSTICE KAGAN: It's a bit of an odd          argument, isn't it, Mr. Goldstein, that there's less of         a sovereign interest in protecting your own citizens        than in enforcing your licensing laws?                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: If that were our argument,        it would be an odd one. What we say is that you have a               very different regime. If you have a legal regime that            said here is a duty towards our noncitizen, our ­­ our            tribal members or just individuals on the Reservation,        and if you violate that, here are a set of fines, you             will be excluded from the Reservation, then that would         be an act of the sovereign.                  So our point isn't just it's the nature of         this ­­ you know, this is a very serious allegation that            we take very seriously about a minor child, a member of             the Tribe. I am not demeaning that in any way and             saying, well, that's less important than taxation or a         hunting license. Not at all.                  My point is that you are being asked that at          the time the Tribes came into the United States, was a           private suit against a nonmember regarded as an         incidence of sovereignty, could the Congress of the        United States, when the States didn't have this        Alderson Reporting Company Official authority, when the Constitution didn't contemplate they       would, have really believed that the Tribes could?                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your ­­ your ­­ your brief         consistently, let me say, suggests ­­                             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ that Congress could       authorize this jurisdiction.                           MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could Congress pass a law         saying that all ­plus Indian Tribes in the        United States have unlimited criminal authority, could       impose life sentences on nontribal members, American       citizens?             MR. GOLDSTEIN: We think not, and let me         explain the reason. That would be State action. You           know, the Federal government would be passing a law          essentially shunting the jurisdiction over an      individual's matter into another adjudicative system.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, why can they do ­­        if ­­ if there's a limit on that, why isn't is there a              limit on what Congress could do with reference to tort          law? Because you get unlimited power ­­ tribes have           unlimited power to impose punitive damages for civil        torts if it happens within the boundaries of the         Reservation. Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, if I have         suggested that Congress could do that, I apologize. It           wasn't my intention.               the limits?              JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question is: What are         MR. GOLDSTEIN: The limits are due process,        and that is that if you ­­ and the reason that due            process applies here is that the tribe of judgment ­­         we've switched to the civil context now in your newest          hypothetical.             If the Tribe's judgment would presumably be       enforceable in the courts of the United States or of a           State, there would be State action then, and it would          violate the principle of due process.                              It also ­­  JUSTICE KENNEDY: My ­­ my hypothetical is        that the Congress gives Indian powers ­­ Indian tribes         complete powers, both civil and criminal, over all        persons on tribal Reservations. No Federal review,        nothing.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's unconstitutional     because Congress is subject to the Constitution. It         would violate the Supremacy Clause; it would violate        Article III, which contemplate ­­ sorry.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then why ­­ why doesn't ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official why don't you make that argument here? How ­­ how can            they ­­ how can they allow a tort suit?                      MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, we agree       with you that there's ­­                                        JUSTICE KENNEDY: We could say ­­      MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ the Montana First       exception. We could say the Montana First exception         doesn't apply to this case.                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: We do ­­ okay. Justice         Kennedy, we do make the argument you're describing. I          apologize. I misunderstood your point. It's my fault.                       We say that there is a significant        constitutional avoidance argument ­­ that's how we       describe it ­­ in concluding to ­­ for concluding that          Montana does not apply here because of the very serious          prospects that there would be a loss of property without           due process of laws because the tribes would have just          what you've described.               This plaintiff has sued us for multiple       millions of dollars in punitive damages. We do not have           the guarantees provided by the Constitution, and we do         not have review in this Court.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if the ­­ Congress        of the United States give the UN authority ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ over our ­­ our        MR. GOLDSTEIN: Or the Triple A.       JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ just so long as it says                                  citizens ­­                         there has to be due process, they're not a         constitutional entity?              MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's the second point I        made, Justice Kennedy. We have the procedural due         process question, but also the Article III question, and         that is this is the Supreme Court of the land.                      The Supremacy Clause says that the      Constitution will be the supreme law throughout the        land, and Congress could not take cases in the         United States and assign them to the UN or the Triple A            or anybody else. We absolutely agree with that.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what civil ­­ what        civil cases can be brought? What ­­ let's assume that           the incident occurs on the Reservation, and the        wrongdoer is not a member of the Tribe. What civil            claims can be brought against nonmembers in tribal        court?             MR. GOLDSTEIN: The following. The first is         ­­ and this case is an illustration of it ­­ those           claims that are subject to the contract that allow the          Alderson Reporting Company Official individual or the business to come on to the         Reservation. We acceded, quite expressly, to       jurisdiction over disputes arising from the lease.                   The second is when the Tribe itself, in the         exercise of its sovereign authority, brings the action,        so long as it's consistent with principles of due         process, we think that would be much more consistent         with Montana ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: For example? What would        fit into that category?                MR. GOLDSTEIN: The examples that I gave         before are that enforcing a taxation rule, enforcing a          licensing rule. Also importantly, the Tribe has the         self­help remedy of exclusion from the Reservation.                               If I could reserve the balance of my time.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Katyal.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The facts of this tragic case place it        squarely in the heartland of the sovereign tribal        jurisdiction that this Court has recognized for decades.                    Dollar General set up shop on tribally­owned       Alderson Reporting Company Official land with a lease and license from a tribe and agreed to              participate in a tribal internship program. Then the ­­          then the Tribe placed a Choctaw child at the store and            paid his wages.                In the course of that consented­to     employment of that child, in that store, on that tribal          land, Dollar General's manager allegedly assaulted him.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You say this is in         the heartland? We have never before recognized Indian         court ­­ court jurisdiction over a nonmember, have we?                      MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that you haven't          applied the rule. But as Justice Ginsburg was saying,          this Court unanimously, in Strate, said that when tribes         possess authority to regulate activities of nonmembers,       civil jurisdiction over disputes ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Right. But         I guess I want to make sure I understand what's at issue              here.             There has never been a case in which a          nonmember has been haled into Indian tribal court for ­­         on the basis of tort, has there?                   MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that there have          been many cases, Your Honor. Four of them have come           before this Court in which they have been haled before.          So Strate is an example. Iowa Mutual is an example.           Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And held ­­ held        liable in tort?               MR. KATYAL: So this Court decided those        questions on antecedent grounds ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I don't know           that we need to ­­ there has never been a case where a              nonmember has been held liable in tort in an Indian ­­          Indian court.              MR. KATYAL: Mr. Chief Justice, that's       exactly right in terms of describing ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's a         little odd to say this is in the heartland of Indian           jurisdiction.             MR. KATYAL: I don't think it's odd at all.           That's the rule that this Court laid down. That's the           language in Strate. And my friend, Mr. Goldstein's,         best argument on the other side is your language in ­­          this Court's language in ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: That's dictum. Dictum is        dictum. Dictum doesn't make something a heartland.                                 MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: Cases make it. Judgments        make it heartland.               MR. KATYAL: Well, Justice ­­ Justice       Scalia, I think everything about this Court's precedents         Alderson Reporting Company Official in this area, which are all tort cases, lead to that           conclusion.             Mr. Goldstein's best argument is Hicks. But        remember in Hicks, the Court went out of its way to say            that the claims in El Paso, which were very similar to           the claims here ­­ it was a nonmember business doing           business on tribal land. It was a tort lawsuit ­­ what             did this Court say, citing to footnote of El Paso?            There is little doubt there was jurisdiction in that         case.             So yes, I understand that they are dicta,         but it is dicta of the most persuasive sort. It is the             unbroken rule of this Court, frankly, that in all of          these cases, this Court has said there is presumptively         jurisdiction.             And indeed, the exhaustion cases would make       no sense otherwise because twice this Court said, in         tort cases, in Iowa Mutual and National Farmers Union,         this Court said you've got to go to tribal court and           exhaust your remedies.               And Justice Scalia, if the rule in those        cases was, hey, tribal courts don't have jurisdiction,        they would have done what you did in your opinion in           Hicks, because at page you said, quote, "Since it's          clear tribal courts lack jurisdiction over State       Alderson Reporting Company Official officials, adherence to the tribal exhaustion      requirement would serve no purpose."                 JUSTICE ALITO: Does your argument apply       whenever a nonmember enters into a commercial         transaction with a member?                                         MR. KATYAL: No, it doesn't apply ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: On tribal land?      MR. KATYAL: Well, on tribal land we do         think ­­ we don't think you have to go as far as the             Solicitor General to say it's absolutely percent        dispositive, but we do think this Court has recognized         in Merrion and El Paso that when you're on tribal lands,           the tribe's powers are at their zenith.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm trying to       understand the limits of your ­­ of your argument.                     So what would happen in this situation? A         tribe ­­ a member of the Tribe purchases a product            online from a nonmember company, and the product is          delivered to the Tribal member on tribal land. The          delivery person gets involved in a traffic accident or          some other dispute in the course of delivering the         product, and the product itself injures the person who         purchased it.              So could the ­­ the person who got into ­­         who was in the accident with the delivery person sue in           Alderson Reporting Company Official tribal courts?              Could the person who ­­ the tribal member        who purchased the product bring a products liability         action against the manufacturer in tribal court?                   MR. KATYAL: It depends a little bit more on           the facts. In general, what this Court has said is that            you need a consensual relationship with someone on the          Tribe ­­ on tribal land. And so, you know, to the            extent that that delivery service was operated by, you         know, by the nonmember and that they're actually doing         the delivery, absolutely. There's a nexus between the          delivery and the injury.                Now, if it was some exotic tort, so for         example it's the delivery truck comes onto tribal land,         and unbeknownst to them there's some unusual tradition        that says delivery trucks have to be painted, you know,          some other color or something like that that they don't          know about, I think this Court's decision in Plains          Commerce Bank says that's not what you're reasonably        anticipating.             So this is a very limited rule, really         tailored ­­ it's circumstances like this in which        every ­­ the law of every jurisdiction ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: All right. What about the         ­­ what about the products liability action?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KATYAL: So again, if ­­ if a business           is sending ­­ intentionally, knowingly sending goods       onto tribal land, and those turn out to be defective,          then they're liable for that, for that tort. That is           something that's a reasonably ­­ reasonably to be         anticipated ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that could be for        punitive damages, millions of dollars?                 MR. KATYAL: If ­­ if that's what they have          consented to. So for ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. No. There's no         consent. It's just what Justice Alito said, that they          send their products to different States ­­                                           MR. KATYAL: If ­­ if there's ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ and all of the tribes.         MR. KATYAL: If ­­ if they do so knowingly,          and there is that kind of long­term relationship, then         yes, unless they themselves disclaim that ­­ and of         course it's very easy ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, number one, that's       not explicit consent. We can get into that later.                                                          MR. KATYAL: Well ­­ well, I ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the ­­     MR. KATYAL: ­­ I certainly ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: There's no ­­ so punitive        Alderson Reporting Company Official damages, millions of dollars?                MR. KATYAL: Right, as long as they haven't         affirmatively disclaimed it. And I think that is,          Justice Kennedy, the proper rule.                 authority ­­             ­­            Kennedy.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know what         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Again, what about limiting       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, Justice       JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know what        authority Congress has to subject citizens of the        United States to that nonconstitutional forum.                  MR. KATYAL: It's exactly what this Court ­­        and Justice Kennedy joined this in Plains Commerce        Bank ­­ because what this Court said is that, yes, there           are these constitutional concerns that ­­ or that tribes         are ­­ you know, tribes are outside the constitutional         system and so on.                But when someone consents through their      words or their actions, not express consent, then that         takes it out of that circumstance.                  And so Dollar General had a remedy available         to it right away. It ­­ it didn't have ­­ nobody forced             Dollar General to show up on the tribal lands. Nobody           Alderson Reporting Company Official forced Dollar General to sell to these customers.        Nobody forced Dollar General to have this Youth        Opportunity Program. And yes, like every employer in         this country, Justice Kennedy, when you do those things,         you open yourselves up to the reasonable liability that         follows. This ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you        another ­­ another hypothetical: Somebody goes to an         Indian casino and loses a lot of money, and then when            the person goes home, the person goes online and says          that, they ­­ they cheated me. The game was rigged.           The ­­ the Blackjack dealer was doing something. And          they ­­ and so then the ­­ the ­­ the Tribe ­­ could the              Tribe sue that person for defamation in tribal court?                     MR. KATYAL: Well, I think ­­ I ­­ I think              that that that's not something that would be permissible         under this Court's Atkinson Trading nexus test. I think           it's got to be something that's got to be reasonably          anticipated, and I'm not really sure that that kind of          thing is.              All we're saying here is that this is a         circumstance in which, as the Solicitor General's brief        at Page says, the law of every jurisdiction treats          this kind of thing as something that is a reasonably           anticipatory thing when someone's running a shop ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official someone's running a store and having a Youth Opportunity           Program.                         Yes, there ­­  JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so how do you deal         with ­­ I think it is a stronger point on the other              side, is the absence of removal, and ­­                   MR. KATYAL: Yes. That ­­ that ­­ that I do             think is something that ­­ you know, that my friend on           the other side has said. But of course, as you were            saying, Justice Ginsburg, removal is not      constitutionally compelled. So it would require a        statute.             Here the removal statute requires diversity,      full diversity between the parties, and $, is the         limit. And I don't think that we would say anything            that doesn't fall within that is somehow not an incident          of sovereignty.              And I also would point to this Court's         language in Iowa Mutual about the diversity statute,        because what this Court said with respect to the         diversity statute is, you know, it does require a         statute.             That statute doesn't really tell us      anything, one way or the other, about tribal        jurisdiction. And what this Court went on to say is           Alderson Reporting Company Official that civil tribal tort jurisdiction is an incident to         sovereignty. It's Williams v. Lee. It's about the          right of the people to govern themselves.                   And, you know, to treat this,      Justice Kennedy, like express consent is to treat a         tribe the way you're treating the American Arbitration        Association or JAMS, and that has never been what this          Court has said. When you're dealing with the Montana I           exception, which is a limited exception, it requires         really ­­ you know, it requires a true relationship, an           open and honest consent of the kind that existed here,          in which they knew they were coming onto tribal lands          and subjecting themselves to tribal law.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Do ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why was the       contractual provision acquiescence in the application of       tribal law limited in the way that it was if they were,            in fact, subjecting themselves to tribal jurisdiction       across the board?               MR. KATYAL: I ­­ I ­­ I don't think it was               limited at all. This is the language at Joint Appendix           page : "This agreement and any related documents         shall be construed" ­­ excuse me ­­ "Dollar General         shall comply with all codes and requirements of all         Tribal and Federal Laws and regulations now enforced or         Alderson Reporting Company Official which may hereafter be enforced which are applicable and         pertain to Dollar General's specific use of the demised         premises."                         That is not limited language.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any reason        that the issue that we're arguing about couldn't be         dealt with through particular contractual provisions, as       they are in some cases where you either suggest         yourselves to the jurisdiction of the tribal court or         not?             MR. KATYAL: Sure. I think that they could,           on ­­ on either side. I think that's ­­ that's            possible. But I think what this Court has said, time            and again, is that that is not necessary.                    Your language, Mr. Chief Justice, in Plains       Commerce Bank, is that you can consent by your words or           your actions. This Court's earlier language in the         path­marking Montana case is not that it requires        express consent, but rather through commercial dealing,       contracts, leases or other arrangements.                 For you to go further than that and adopt my          friend's argument is to radically depart from that        path­marking decision, and change the rules and put        tribes on no greater a footing than the American          Arbitration Association.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: So what ­­ what would ­­ do          we have to reach in this case the question of products,           liability for products sent into the tribal area?                      I would have thought you could say this does        not involve that, if you're willing to read ­­ and I           don't know if you are ­­ nonmembers who enter into this           kind of explicit consensual relationship growing out       of ­­ in relation to a contract to which relationship           the tort is directly related.                             MR. KATYAL: Exactly.    JUSTICE BREYER: Now, is there any ­­ and ­­         and what is the word in Cherokee? I forget. It's             "something dependent nation." What kind of ­­ it was ­­          there are two words ­­                                                                MR. KATYAL: Domestic dependent ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: What?    MR. KATYAL: Domestic dependent nation?      JUSTICE BREYER: Domestic? All right.       So if, in fact, Tasmania had this kind of         situation, and an American went to Tasmania and got a          reasonable judgment, I take it our courts would enforce          that.             MR. KATYAL: Correct.                JUSTICE BREYER: And, of course you're going        to agree with this, but if I ­­ but if I ­­ if I want ­­                  Alderson Reporting Company Official if I wanted ­­ I wanted the limitation, and I wanted to               know if you wanted me to read one thing that you have            cited in respect to what is only impressionistic, that         the vast number of tribal courts are indistinguishable        in terms of fairness, et cetera, from the courts of ­­          other courts in the United States, what would I read?                       MR. KATYAL: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think, you              know, we've cited to, you know, some large ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Which of those do you want         me to read?               MR. KATYAL: Well, I ­­ I think that maybe            Justice O'Connor's article is a good place to start.                      And so I ­­ I think what I would say there,              Justice Breyer, is that fairness concerns have never        been relevant to the jurisdictional inquiry. I think          that's what this Court's decision in Iowa ­­ Iowa Mutual          said.             With respect to your product­liability     hypothetical, we think there are four limits on the rule          we have, which is why ­­ you know, look, this has been            going on for a long time, tribal court jurisdiction.          Congress hasn't seen fit to modify it, you know, if they           were concerned about the concerns Justice Kennedy had.                    And the reason is because this is a limited          thing. It requires a very tight nexus ­­ that's, you            Alderson Reporting Company Official know, this Court's decisions in Plains Commerce Bank and         Atkinson's Trading. It requires knowledge. It's got to          be ­­ you got to know what you're doing. You can't just             wander on to the Reservation the way the Oklahoma ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If we're ­­ if we're         going to evaluate the due process concerns on a         case­by­case basis, as a general matter, it ­­ does it           violate due process for a nonmember to be subjected to a            jury verdict where the jury consists solely of tribal         members?             MR. KATYAL: Well ­­ well, first of all, you          know, that's not necessarily what's going on here.        There's no jury trial in this case. But ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand that.        But it's kind of a yes­or­no question. Does it ­­ does             it violate due process as a general matter for a           nonmember to be subjected to a jury trial with the jury            composed solely of members of the Tribe?                   MR. KATYAL: I ­­ I could see it violating            ICRA. It wouldn't violate, formally, the Constitution.        It would violate, you know, the due ­­ it arguably could           violate the Due Process Clauses incorporated into ICRA.        That would be something ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's because tribes are       not governed by the Due Process Clause.       Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. KATYAL: Yes. But they are governed ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: They're nonconstitutional     MR. KATYAL: Correct. But Congress has                                entities.             brought the Due Process Clause to tribes in the form of           ICRA. And of course, Justice Kennedy, if they were more           concerned and said, look, we don't even like the way,          tribes, you're interpreting ICRA or something like that,        tribal courts, they could go further. They could do          all ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I guess they could ­­        MR. KATYAL: They could ban those juries.        They have plenary jurisdiction in this area. That's why          the ball game is in Congress's court, Congress's shoes.         It's not in this Court's.                 JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ is it right? I'm           thinking that there are $, at stake in many cases.          And many citizens of New York who want to feel ­­ sue            citizens of Massachusetts, do have to go before juries         to obtain the $, in a Massachusetts court. And           suppose the plaintiff is a Yankee fan?                    (Laughter.)             MR. KATYAL: That's ­­ that's absolutely       right. And ­­ and ­­ that's absolutely right, and I ­­            and so in ­­ in that sort of ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think that ­­        you think the concerns are on the same level: Forcing           somebody in a State court to be subjected ­­ a           New Yorker to be subject to jurisdiction where        everyone's from Massachusetts because it's Massachusetts      court. You think that's the same as subjecting a          nonmember accused of a terrible assault on an Indian to           jurisdiction before a jury consisting solely of members         of the Tribe.               MR. KATYAL: I don't think it's the same,          Mr. Chief Justice, but I think there are two things           which make them similar. One is that they themselves,          that nonmember, is consenting to that by going to ­­         like the store here, setting up shop and running the          Tribal Opportunities Program and serving its members.                   And number two, the big difference is that        Congress has full control over there. If they are          concerned about all tribal member juries or something        like that, they can regulate those.                  Civil jurisdiction and tribal courts have      been going on for decades, and we haven't seen Congress          doing that. And indeed much ­­ and very interesting          here, you've got the sovereigns of every relevant        entities, you've got the United States, as well as the          State of Mississippi itself, saying we're not concerned        Alderson Reporting Company Official about those things. Actually, this is an incident of ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Constitution runs to       the people. The people have a right to insist on the             Constitution even if Mississippi or the Federal       government doesn't care.               MR. KATYAL: I completely agree with that,         Justice Kennedy. My only point is to say that, here,           Dollar General has themselves, by opening ­­ they ­­        they have the keys to avoiding this by not showing up at            the Reservation ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: This ­­ this gets into        implied consent, express consent, you know, all the        hypotheticals. You consent to have your luggage        searched, you go through this, I don't consent, I don't            consent ­­ it's implied. Everybody knows that.                    But this is ­­ this is quite ­­ it seems to           me that the first exception in Montana is quite         different. It talks about contracts, and the Tribe         could certainly have put this in a contract if they           wanted just like an arbitration clause.                  MR. KATYAL: Well, Justice Kennedy, we do        think ­­ the argument doesn't depend on it, but we do           think that they did put it in the contract. That's the            language that I was just reading to the Chief Justice.                       But just to be clear, the language of        Alderson Reporting Company Official Montana I is broader than what you're saying it is,           again, through commercial dealing, contracts, leases or       other arrangements. And my friend, Mr. Goldstein,        clever as he may be, doesn't have an argument that this           isn't commercial dealing. This is ­­ this is, you know,           as good as ­­ this is the heart ­­ as I was saying, this               is the heartland of what Montana I is about. This is a              circumstance in which a tribe is entering into a long ­­            store is entering into a long­term relationship. And          any business in America doing this, whether they ­­ they          set up shop in France or in the city of San Francisco,            knows they're opening themselves up to a ­­ to the local            regulation that may follow.                JUSTICE ALITO: If there were a forum         selection clause in this contract selecting State court,        would that bind Tribe member ­­ members?                                           MR. KATYAL: I do think it would.         JUSTICE ALITO: If so, on what theory?        MR. KATYAL: I think that the Tribe itself          has the ability to, just as they can decide to use the            American Arbitration Association or whatever, they can       buy into some other area of law. I don't think that my              friend, Mr. Goldstein, is disagreeing. He said        sometimes it's hard to do, in response to Justice Kagan.          I don't think it's hard to do at all because the whole            Alderson Reporting Company Official question is are you reasonably anticipating a certain         amount of jurisdiction, and you are.                  And of course there's other solutions.      Indemnity provisions; if you're worried about the due        process ­­ lack of due process, you can have indemnity          arrangements, as many leases do, including Dollar       General's current lease. There's lots of different ways         to deal with this concern about, you know, lack of          constitutional concerns.                          But this Court ­­   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Katyal, so why would        these plaintiffs want to bring the case in tribal court          where they can get, in your argument, they can get          Dollar General but they can't get Townsend? If they          sued in State court, they could sue both defendants.                     MR. KATYAL: Mm­hmm. So because going after         Dollar General effectively does provide them all the        remedy they need, that's why they never appealed that         piece ­­ piece of it.                 And, you know, and the other thing is this         is really important as a matter of tribal sovereignty          that is ­­ Williams v. Lee says it's about the right of            the people to govern themselves. The Domestic Violence         brief gives other reasons why in general people want to          bring suits in tribal courts because it's a more          Alderson Reporting Company Official familiar process and one closer, geographically, to       them. Many times State courthouses are hours and hours          away. So that's ­­ that's another reason.                    But the bottom line here is this Court said         in Williams v. Lee this is about the right of the people            to govern themselves. I appreciate the constitutional         concerns, but Plains Commerce Bank baked those into its         consent rule. It said yes, there are those         constitutional concerns. They would apply to some        wandering entity or something like that, but not to         someone who consents either through their words or their         actions.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just so you know, it        seemed to me a reading of the first Montana exception,           which is what we're talking about here, talking about         taxation, licensing, then it talks about consensual       relationships and we have this whole question: Is it          explicit or is it implied?                 And then it talks about commercial dealing       contracts, leases, or other arrangements. That doesn't        sound like torts to me. And it seems to me that since             there's a Reservation in mind, you might you want to           address it.              MR. KATYAL: Sure. So I think this Court in            Regal already said that torts are a form of regulation.           Alderson Reporting Company Official I think there's no reason to think of torts any          differently because they ­­ they impact bodies' behavior        and precedent, stare decisis. You've said this many         times in the cases I've mentioned.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Kneedler.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like at the outset to respond to the         argument that tribal court jurisdiction over tort claims        is somehow inconsistent with the superior sovereignty of        the United States.               That argument was flatly rejected, I think,        in both National Farmers Union and Iowa Mutual where         this Court was asked to apply the rule of Oliphant to           civil jurisdiction. And this Court, in an unanimous         decision joined by Justice Rehnquist, who was the author         of Oliphant, said that those principles do not apply to          civil jurisdiction. Iowa Mutual and National Farmers        Union enforced the rule of exhaustion on that premise.                     Then, importantly, not too long after that,       Congress undertook a thorough review of tribal courts in          Alderson Reporting Company Official connection with the passage in , as we explain in          our brief, of the Tribal Justice Improvements Act ­­        Tribal Justice Act. It held hearings, and in that ­­ in            that statute, Congress made two specific findings:       Tribal justice systems are an essential part of tribal         government and serve important forums for ensuring       public health and safety and political integrity of the         Tribe, and Congress in Federal courts ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Nobody denies that here.                   MR. KNEEDLER: Well, no, but if I could ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: It is essential for ­­ for         disputes between tribal members.                MR. KNEEDLER: If I could finish, what         Congress's ­­ Congress's judgment, the next finding,       Congress and Federal courts have repeatedly recognized       tribal justice systems as the appropriate forums for the         adjudication of disputes affecting personal and property       rights.             The committee reports on that statute made       clear that they ­­ that those provisions were enacted in          light of Iowa Mutual and National Farmers Union, and in          fact, one of the ­­ one of the committee reports says           that that second provision was added in recognition of         the jurisdiction that tribal courts have over       non­Indian ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: If it said personal and        property rights of non­Tribal members.                             MR. KNEEDLER: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Or against non­Tribal      members. It makes no reference to that at all.                      MR. KNEEDLER: No. The ­­ what I'm saying,          it was enacted in the wake of National Farmers Union and           Iowa Mutual, which both concerned tort claims against        non­Indians. And the legislative history makes clear        that Congress was implementing that, and it provided        funding for tribal courts.                            Another point ­­  JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think everybody who        voted for that statute was aware of that, right?                                 MR. KNEEDLER: There were ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: They were aware of those        cases, I'm sure. Everybody who voted for that         language ­­                         MR. KNEEDLER: I ­­ I ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ were aware that it ­­ it          stemmed from those cases because that's what the        committee report says.               MR. KNEEDLER: This ­­ this was a statute          against the backdrop of two decisions of this Court         saying that the rule of Oliphant does not apply to civil           Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction over non­Indians in tort cases      specifically.              And importantly also, in Iowa Mutual the      argument was made about, specifically in connection with        the diversity point, which Mr. Katyal has responded to,         but the argument that the policies of the deferred city          statute, such as concerns about perhaps competence of        tribal courts or bias, that they should at least inform          the analysis. And the Court said that would be          inconsistent ­­ and this is before the statute ­­         that would be inconsistent with Congress's judgment       about encouraging tribal courts as an important       expression of tribal sovereignty.                And then Congress comes along and provides       funding and training, statutes that ­­ that provide for         training of tribal judges, money to support the payment         of tribal judges and to support tribes in publication of          their tribal codes. Congress thoroughly examined this        and then again in the year enacted a statute with a             similar finding.              So what we have here is not congressional        silence but congressional approval of that, here in        particular.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Kneedler, I don't        know that you've answered ­­ I'm going to assume         Alderson Reporting Company Official everything you said and accept it. I think it was very             clear from the committee report here, every word you've         said, and some of us do believe that since a bill is             sent with the committee report and Congress is voting on          both, if a member hasn't read it, they've abused their           official responsibility.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Does Congress vote on the        committee report, Mr. Kneedler?                                                                MR. KNEEDLER: Sometimes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sometimes.    MR. KNEEDLER: It does not.      JUSTICE SCALIA: It does not, not normally.        JUSTICE BREYER: If they vote on the        committee report in any instance where there is a         reconciliation between the two houses because it comes        back in the form a vote, do you accept the report of the              joint committee.                          JUSTICE SCALIA: Which was not here.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, did they vote        on the bill ­­ on the committee reports here?                     was a ­­               point.             MR. KNEEDLER: My ­­ my point is that this          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry about your        Did they vote on the committee reports ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official                         MR. KNEEDLER: No, they did not vote.        JUSTICE BREYER: If we're getting into this,        I'm sort of interested because I bet it could be true            that the president of IBM, for example, does not himself          read everything that the entire million­man staff or        million­person staff at the ­­ at IBM in fact prepares          for the public. So if you want to answer questions like            that, go ahead, but if you don't want to answer them,           forget it.                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: He's an executive, isn't       he? Isn't the chairman of IBM an executive? And           executives can delegate authority. They ­­ they can         tell a committee to ­­ to do it in his name ­­                                    MR. KNEEDLER: I didn't ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ what this Court alleges,        but it cannot do that, can it?                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I ­­ I think Justice           Sotomayor had a question on the floor.                    side trip.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We've gotten off on a        Mr. Kneedler, some of my colleagues have       been expressing a question that I am sure you haven't            answered, which is how can, or how does the         Constitution, particularly Article III, which gives      Alderson Reporting Company Official every citizen the right to have their claims adjudicated         before an Article III Court, how does Congress have the          power to let ­­ to place adjudicatory powers over a          nonmember, non­Tribe member in a tribal court?                    MR. KNEEDLER: Congress ­­ the answer is        Congress has not placed it as part of the inherent          sovereignty of a ­­ of a tribe that ­­ that predates the              Constitution as ­­ and was not displaced, as this Court          made quite clear in the National Farmers Union decision,         unlike in criminal cases where, from the start, from          ­­ and this was an important part of the Court's           analysis ­­ in ­­ in Oliphant.                  From the very beginning, Congress placed      criminal jurisdiction over crimes by non­Indians against       Indians in Federal courts in order to assure that they          would have the full protection of the Due Process Clause          in courts. Congress has never done that with respect to           civil jurisdiction.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it's not right that        everybody has the ­­ the right to an Article III          tribunal.             MR. KNEEDLER: No. That was going to be ­­          that was going to be my second point. State courts over            issues of State law does not have the authority ­­ or do            not have the ability to go to Federal court. And ­­ and             Alderson Reporting Company Official the same thing with respect to tribal law.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but out­of­Staters do,       at least where there's an adequate amount in        controversy, right?              MR. KNEEDLER: Right. The Constitution does        not require that. It provides for it, but does not           provide ­­ does not require it. There's an         amount­in­controversy requirement, and also a     complete­diversity requirement.              And if Dollar General was a Mississippi        corporation, there would be no ­­ no ability to remove          it.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is it consistent       with your concept of due process, as a general matter,           to have a nonmember tried by a jury consisting solely of             tribal members?              MR. KNEEDLER: I ­­ I think there's a very             strong argument that it is because the ­­ the tribal          members are the citizens of the jurisdiction whose        courts are being held. Just like when someone goes from           Alabama to Mississippi, they may be tried before a jury           of Mississippians who are not ­­ of which that plaintiff          is not a member. But if there is a problem with that,               that is why the Indian Civil Rights Act is there. If            that is a due process problem, that is something that           Alderson Reporting Company Official can be raised.               And Justice Kennedy, in response to your       concern, Congress has fulfilled its obligation with       respect to the jurisdiction of tribal courts over        nonmembers by the Indian Civil Rights Act to assure that          the protections that are equivalent to the Due Process         Clause are ­­ are afforded people.                              There may be ­­ may be some ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do the same thing with the         American Arbitration Association?               MR. KNEEDLER: No, it could not. The Tribes          have inherent sovereignty; the American Arbitration      Association does not.                           The last thing I wanted to point out is ­­          JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but I do think, on           your earlier point, there ­­ there was not a general           practice before, say, at least, of trying nontribal         members before Indian civil tribal courts.                              incorrect?             MR. KNEEDLER: The courts ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or ­­ or is that        MR. KNEEDLER: But ­­ but ­­ no. There was           some with the five tribes in Oklahoma. The Tribes did           not have developed judicial systems, but that does not         mean that they weren't resolving disputes in some        Alderson Reporting Company Official manner, however it may be. They have now given          expression to dispute resolution through tribal court       systems, for which they should be commended, I think,          not ­­ not undermined.                And again, the Court made that point in Iowa         Mutual, recognizing that tribes did not have courts at         the time, but that did not deprive them of jurisdiction          today.             And with respect to the consensual      relationship, I point out on page of this Court's           decision in ­­ in Nevada v. Hicks discussing the Montana          case, it was referring to private individuals who        voluntarily submitted themselves to tribal regulatory      jurisdiction by ­­ by arrangements that they or their         employers entered into. That precisely describes the        situation where you have consent hewn. You have a          business operating on the Reservation pursuant to tribal        license, a tribal lease agreement, and this particular         child was working there because of a consensual         agreement.             JUSTICE SCALIA: And so I could say that          person was subject to tribal regulatory jurisdiction,       which can be interpreted, narrowly, to mean the Tribe         can regulate that person's conduct. If he violates that          conduct, the Tribe, as a tribe, can fine him. It            Alderson Reporting Company Official doesn't necessarily mean that the regulatory      jurisdiction includes the ­­ the power to impose tort         law and adjudicate tort law.                             MR. KNEEDLER: May I answer?       This Court has often said that tort law is a          form of regulation, and again, that Iowa Mutual and         those cases are premised on the idea that tribal tort          law governs. And this Court's observation in Nevada v.          Hicks about El Paso, that the Navajo tribal law tort          claims, the tribal court ­­ there was little doubt that          the tribal court had jurisdiction over those claims.                                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Goldstein, five minutes remaining.             REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you. I have three          points, and they all happen to relate to questions by          Justice Scalia.              The first deals with the question of whether        tribal tort law, the last point by my friend, is a form             of regulation. And we have cases like Regal, we have           the preemption context in which the Court has said         something like that. But the big difference is that          that is about the substance of the tort law, not the           forum where it occurs.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Imagine a case like Regal. We would say          that the application of State tort law was a form of            regulation. But if that was heard in a Federal district            court, on removal, on ­­ in diversity jurisdiction, or         on a Federal question, it would still be State          regulation.             So my point here is: The most that can          establish is that the substantive tort law's regulation,        not the forum. We do not agree that that's so, but it             would be the only thing that they could get from that           argument. What would remain is the difference of         adjudication from the substance of the tort law.                    The second point, as Justice Scalia, I will         line up my friend's committee reports against the text         of the Constitution. We do not have an answer to the            fact that our constitutional tradition has three points        in it that are inconsistent with this form of         adjudication. And two of them are not specific to the           States.             The Constitution is the supreme law of the        land in the United States. This Court is the Supreme           Court of the United States. That's not true just with           respect to the States, that is a bedrock ­­ those are            bedrock principles. Neither of them are true here.                     We also think that our tradition is that you         Alderson Reporting Company Official have access to a neutral court. I understand; I accept              that Congress implemented that in a removal statute that          does not apply here. But my point is that Congress           could not have understood that it was a necessary          incident of sovereignty when the States were subject to         removal jurisdiction at the time the tribes came into         the United States.               It is historically implausible to believe      that in all three of these respects, when the tribes          came into the United States, they were in a superior           position to the States. And we know that from one other            example, and that is also at the time ­­ so these are            the judiciary acts of and ', Congress made the          judgments of State courts enforceable by full faith and         credit, but not tribal courts. And it cannot be, then,           that it thought the tribal courts were better than the          State courts.              And it does relate, Mr. Chief Justice, to        your point that the Court has never held, despite         dictum, that a nonmember is subject to adjudication in a           tribal court. Because if you haven't done it till now,           it is, I think, respectfully implausible to believe that          Congress thought it was true in , at a time when the             tribes had much less developed legal systems.                   My final point is ­­ relates to       Alderson Reporting Company Official administrability. And you have been offered two        alternatives. The other side says we have a test about            nexus and foreseeability. I have a standard that says,            write it down in a contract.                    My rule is infinitely more administrable     because the other side imagines that people will        constantly be running to State and Federal court saying         this nexus wasn't strong enough; I didn't know when I           mailed this to the Tribe, or this form of tribal tort           law is not quite foreseeable enough for me to know what           the rule is.               That is a bad system. You have said, time           and again, that jurisdictional rules need to be known         ahead of time, and they need to be clear. And I don't              understand the answer to our point that it is         disrespectful of the sovereignty that is asserted here.        If the Tribal Supreme Court can constantly be overruled         by a circuit court in Mississippi, are we seriously          treating it as an independent sovereign? That ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, let me ask you        something. What then remains of the sovereignty of the          Indians? They can ­­ they can bring a tort suit against             you? The Tribes can bring a tort suit against you for             dumping on their ­­ on their land? For defacing their           archeological digs? I mean, why is that okay?          Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Justice Sotomayor, I        do not want to give up on our broader argument that           Montana's first exception doesn't apply here. But our         position is consistent with the fact that this is a          question, as my friends have emphasized, of State        sovereignty. And when the sovereign brings an action,         it is much easier to understand that that is an exercise           of self government and sovereignty than a private tort          suit between two people.                            In addition, we have ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It makes ­­ you're ­­       you just want to cherry pick what "sovereignty" means.                                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Sotomayor ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because if they're      sovereign, the United States can have treaties with        people that basically say in your land, you do what you           want; I'm not going to enforce your judgment if I don't            think it's consistent with due process here. But we          don't dictate to other sovereigns what kind of systems         they should have.               You're right we have the power to do that,         but it's still something that we don't have to exercise.                      MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Sotomayor, because      my time has expired, I will be brief. The difference is             the dependent sovereignty of the Indian tribes and the         Alderson Reporting Company Official fact that individuals have the protections        of the  Constitution.             Thank you.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank      you, counsel.  The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialante : antecedent : : : : anticipate : anticipated : : : : anticipating : : A : : : : : : a.m : : : ability : : adjudicative : adjudicatory : :,,,, :,,, : administrability able :, above­entitled : : absence : absolutely : : administrable : anticipatory : : : : adopt : : affirmatively : afford : afforded : affords : : appealed : abused : accede : acceded : accept :, : agree : :, APPEARANCES accepted : access : : accident :, accused : acquiescence : act :,,, agreed : agreement : : :, agrees : : ahead : : Appendix : applicability : applicable : application : : : : : : : Page  author : :, :, : : : authority :,,, :,,,, : :, :,, : : : : :,,, : :, :,, :, : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : arrangements : : : : : : : : : available : : avoidance : article : : avoiding : : : : award : :, aware :,, anybody : : arguments :,, authorize : availability : : apologize : : arising : : : : : Band : : : articles : asked : : : : applied : applies : apply : : asking : assault : : : : assaulted : : :, : asserted : :, : : : assess : assign : Association : appoint : appointed : appreciate : approach : appropriate : approval : arbitration : archeological : : : : assumes : :, assuming :, assume : : : assumed :, : : assumption : assure : : Atkinson : Atkinson's : attack : : attacks : attempt : attempting : B back : : : : : backdrop : bad : baked : balance : ball : ban : Bank : : : : : basic : basically : basis : : : : bedrock :, beginning : : behalf :, : :, : : : behavior : belief : believe : : : :, : : : AL :, :, : : Alabama : Alito :,, action : : :,,, : : : :, : : : : :, allegation : actions : : allegedly : alleges : allow : : alternatives : : : activities : : activity : : America : American : acts : actual : added : addition : address : : addressing : : : : : :, amicus : : : amount : : amount­in­contr... : adequate : adherence : adjudicate : : analysis : : arguably : analogy : : area : : : : : : : adjudicated : : adjudication : answer :, : argue : : : : answered : : arguing : : argument : : :,, :,, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company believed : : belongs : best : : : best­managed : bet : Bethesda : better : bias : big : : bill : :, bind : bit : : black­letter : : Blackjack : board : bodies' : books : bottom : boundaries : bounds :, boy : Breyer :,, :,,, : : :, :,, :, : : : :,,, :, : : : brief : : : : : briefly : bring : : : : : buy : C C : :,, : : : call : capacity : care : case :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, case­by­case : cases : : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : :, : : :, casino : category : certain : : certainly :, : : cetera : chairman : Official :, : : : : close :, : clever : child : :, : Choctaw : : : closer : codes : : collateral : collaterally : : choice : circuit : : : colleagues : color : come : : circumstance : : : : comes : : circumstances : : :, : citations : cited :, citing : citizen : : : citizens : : : : : : : city : : civil : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : claim :, : : coming : : comity :, commended : Commerce : : : : : commercial : : :, : commits : committee :, : :,,, :,, : : commonly : : company : : compelled : competence : complain : claims : : : :, :, : : complete : : :, : : Page  concerned : : : : : : : :, : concerns :, : :, : : : :, : concluded : concluding : : conclusion : condition : : conduct : : : Congress : : :, : :,, :,, : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, :,,, : : :, :, Congress's : : :, : congressional : :, connection : : consensual : : : : : :, :, :, change : cheated : Cherokee : cherry : bringing : brings : : broad : broader : : Chief :, : clash : clause : : : : : : : : : : brought : : : : business : : : :, Clauses : : :, :,,, :, clear : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : :, clearly : complete­diversity consent :, : : completely : comply : composed : : concept : concern : : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, :,, : : consented : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : : decision : : : : : : : : : dialogue : : : dicta :, decisions : : dictate : Page  : : : dictum : : :,, : difference : : : : : different : : : : : : : : differently : digs : directly : disagree : : : disagreeing : disclaim : disclaimed : discuss : discussed : discussing : displaced : dispositive : dispute : : dispute­resolution : disputes : : : : : : : disrespectful : distinguish : : district : : diversity :, :, : : documents : doing : : : : : : : Dollar : : : : : : :, consented­to : consenting : consents : : considered : consistent : : : : : : : : consistently : consisting : : consists : constantly :, Constitution : :,, :, :, :, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : constitutional : : : : : : :, : constitutionally : construed : contemplate : : : : : contemplated : contemplates : : context : : : : contract : : :,, : :,,,, : : : : : : contracts : : : : contractual : : : course : : : : country : : correct : : : : counsel : : : :, curiae : : : decisis : deeply : credit : crimes : criminal : default : defective : defendant : control : controversy : corporation : : courthouses : courts : : :,, : : :,, :,,,,, defacing : : : : defamation : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : :,, defendants : : :, deferred : :,, : delegate : delivered : :,, : :,,, delivering : delivery :, :,,,, demeaning : demised : denies : deny : depart : Department : depend : dependent : :, : : : : : : : court :, : : :,, :, : : : :,,, : :, : :,, : :,, :, :, : :, :, : : : : current : : :, :,,,, :,, :, :,,,, D : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, deal : : dealer : :, :, dealing : : :, : : : :, :, :, :,,, :,, : :, :, : depends : : deprivation : deprive : Deputy : describe : : described : : describes : : describing : : D.C :,, damage : damages : Court's : : : :, : : : decided : December : decide : :, despite : develop : developed : : : :, : deals : dealt : decades : : : : data :, customers : : deserve :, : D Alderson Reporting Company : : : :,, : dollars : : : Domestic :, : : enforcement : enforcing : :, enhanced : enormous : : doubt : : due : :,, enter : ensuring : entered : : entering :, : : : : :,, : :, : enters : :,,,, entire : : : :, entirely : : :, : : entities : : entity : : equivalent : ESQ :,, : dumping : duties : :, duty : essential :, essentially : establish : E E : :, earlier : : et :, : easier : evaluate : easy : events : EDWIN : : everybody : :, : everyone's : ex : exactly : : effectively : either : : :, : El :, : : Official exercise :, : :, exercising : exhaust : exhaustion : : : exist : : existed : : exists : exotic : expired : explain : : : : : explaining : explains : explanation : : : express : : : : expressing : expression : : expressly : extent : extremely : : F fact : : Page  formally : forms : forth : forum : :, : :,, :, : :, : :, : : : : fashion : : : fault : favor : : features :, Federal : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : forums :, forward : four : : France : Francisco : frankly : feel : figure : : final : finding : : friend : : findings : fine : : fines : finish : friends : first : : :, fulfilled : friend's : :, : : full : : : : : : : : : : : : : : function : : : : : fully : fit : : five : : flatly : floor : follow : functioning : funding : : further : : G :,, explicit : : : elected : element : emphasized : employer : employers : employment : enacted : : : encouraging : enforce : : : enforceable : : enforced : : : : examined : example :, : : : : : : : :, : : : examples : exception : : facts : : fairness : : :, : : : : : follow­on : : : : following : : : follows : footing : footnote : : forced : :, Forcing : foreign : : foreseeability : General's : foreseeable : forget : : form : : G : game : : general :, : : : : :, :, : :, : :,, :, : genuine : geographically : : : : : : : :, : : getting : : Ginsburg :,, : : : faith : fall : :, :, familiar : : : : fan : far : Farmers : excluded : exclusion : excuse : executive :, executives : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company gotten : govern : : :, : : goods : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : : : :, : : : : governed : government : : : : : : give : :, : : : : : governs : given : : : granted : greater : gives : : ground : grounds : growing : guarantees : guess : : go : : : : : : : :, : : : goes : :, : : going : : : : H haled :, :, : : : : happen : : :, : : : happens : : : : hard : : Goldstein : : : heard : heart : heartland : : :,, : health : :, :, : hear : :,,,, :, : : hearings : : :, :,,,, : : : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : :,, :,,, : Hicks : : :,, : :, :, : : :,, Goldstein's : hewn : hey : held : :,, : : : : :,, : historically : history : home : : good : : : : : honest : : : : : Honor : : Official hours :, houses : hunting : hypothetical : : :, : : hypotheticals : I IBM :,, ICRA :, :, idea : identify : : :, : : identifying : III : : : : : : illustration : Imagine : : imagines : impact : implausible : : implemented : implementing : implied :, : important : : : : : : : importantly : : : : impose :, : impossibility : impressionistic : Improvements : incidence : incident : : : : : includes : including : : inconsistent : :, : incorporated : : incorporation : : incorrect : indemnity :, independent : Indian :, :,,, :, : :, :, :,, : : : : : : Indians : : : : indicates :, indistinguishable : individual :, : : : individual's : individuals : : : : Page  interest : : :, interested : interesting : internship : interpreted : interpreting : introduction : involve : involved : : Iowa : : : :, :, : : : : : irrelevant : issue : : issues : J JAMS : joined : : joint : : judges :,,, :, judgment : :, : : : : judgments : : infinitely : inform : inherent : : judiciaries : judicial :, : : : inherently : injures : injury : inquiry : insist : :, : : instance : : institutional : integrity : intend : intention : intentionally : :, judiciary :,, : : juries :, : jurisdiction : : :,, : :, :, :,,,, : : : : : : : :, :, : Alderson Reporting Company :,,, : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : :, :, : : jurisdictional : : jury :, : :,,, : :, :, :, :,,,, :,, : keys : : :,, :,,,,, :,,,, : :,, :,,, :,,,, :, : :, :,, : : : : : : : :,, :, : :,, : : :,, :, :, : :,,, :, :, : : : : :,, knowingly : : :, :, :, :, : :, :, :, : : knowledge : known : : knows : : :, L K Katyal : : :,, : : : justice : :, :,,,, :, :,, K : : : : :,,, Kagan :,, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : :, :, :,,,, :,,, : :, :, :,, :, :,, : :,, : :, : : :,, :, :, :,, :, :,, : :,, :,, :, :,,,, Kennedy : : : :,,, : : : :,, :, :, : :, :,, :,,,, : :,,, :, :,, : :,, :,,, : :,,,, : :, : : :,, :, :, :, : :,,,, : : : :,,, :,, :, :,, :, Official :, : :,,, kind : : : : : :, : : Kneedler : : :,, : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, :, :, :, : : knew : know : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : :, :, :, : : :,,, : :,, : : :, : : : :, Page  licensing : : : : : lies : life : light : limit :, : limitation : limited : : :,, : : limiting : limits :, : : line : : litigated : little : : : : : local : long : : : : : : long­term : : look : : : looked : lose : : loses : losing : loss : lot : : lots : : luggage : : : language :, : : : :,, : : : large : Laughter : law : : : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : :,,,,,, :,, : law's : laws : : : lawsuit : lawsuits : lead : lease : : : : : leases : : : : leaves : Lee : : : left : legal :, : : legislate : legislation : legislative : : lack :, : : :, lacked : lacks : laid : land : :, :, :, : :,, :, : : : : lands : : M : : :, mailed : : :, : manager : :,, : mandatory : let's : level : liability :, : : : manner : manufacturer : Massachusetts :, :, liable :, : license : : matter : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official neutrality : Nevada : : : : Page  : : : modify : matters : : molested : moment : Monday : money : : Md : mean : : : : : : Montana : : : : observation : obtain : obviously : : overturned : occurs : : odd :, :, overruled : :, never : :, : : : : : : Offenses : means : measures : mechanisms : member : : : : : New : : : :,, : : : : :, : : newest : nexus : : : :, Ninth : non­Indian : offered : official : officials : Oh :, okay : : : : : Montana's : :,, : morning : : : : moved : : : multiple : Mutual : : : : : : non­Indians : Oklahoma : P P : page : : : : : paid : painted : parallel : : : : : : : parens : parents : part :, : : Oliphant : :, : : one­line : : :, participate : particular : : : : : : non­Tribal :, :, : : : : : non­Tribe : : noncitizen :, ones : : : : ongoing : : particularly : parties : online : : party : members : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : mentioned : : Merrion : micromanaged : million­man : million­person : millions : : : mind : minor : minutes : Mississippi : : : : : : : : : : Mississippi's : Mississippians : misunderstood : Mm­hmm : modern : : : N N :, : name : narrowest : : narrowly : : nation :, national : : : :, : : : nature : Navajo : NEAL : : : necessarily : : necessary : : noncitizens :, open : : nonconstitutional : : : nonmember : opened : opening : : operating :, : : :, : : :, operated : : :, :, : : : : : nonmembers : opinion : : opinions : :, : : Opportunities : : : nonneutral : nontribal : : : normal :, normally : opposite : oral : :,, : : : Opportunity : : : Paso :, : : pass : : passage : passing : path­marking :, patriae : payment : people : : :, :, : : : :, percent : : perfectly : permissible : person :, :,,, : :,, : need : : : number : : order : : :, Neither : neutral : :, : O : :,,, O : : : :, : : O'Connor's : obligation : ordinarily : out­of­State : out­of­Staters : person's : personal : outset : outside : overriding : persons : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  precedents : : : proper : : property : : :, : : : Regal : : : questions : : regard : : : : precisely : predates : preemption : premise : : prospect : proportion : proposition : : : : quite : : :, : : quote : R regarded : regime : : : regulate : : : : : regulation :, : : : : :,, R : radically : raised : rare : reach : read : : : Rehnquist : : : : : : regulations : regulatory : : :,, : : reading : : real : : really : : : : : : : : reason : : : : : : reasonable : : reasonably : :, :, : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recognition : recognize : recognized : : : : : recognizing : reconciliation : reference : : referring : rejected : relate : : related : : relates : relation : relationship : : : : : :, : : relationships : relevant : : relies : remain : remained : remaining : remains : remedies : remedy : : : : remember : : : : : : : : : removable : removal : : : : : :, : :, remove :, persuasive : pertain : Petitioners :, :, : : pick : piece :, place : : : : premised : placed : :, premises : places : : prepares : Plains : : present : : : : plaintiff :, presented : president : : : : presumably : : presumption : presumptively : : plaintiffs : please : : : : pretty : principle : principles : pleased : : plenary : point : : : : : :, private : : : :, :, :, : :,, : : : : :, problem :, :, : procedural : : :, : procedure : : : : procedures : : : : : :, : :, :,, : points : : policies : political : position : : process : : : prospects : protecting : protection : protections : : : provide : : : provided : : provides : : provision : : : : public : : : publication : punitive : : :, purchased : : : : : provisions : purchases : purely : purpose : purposes : : :,, : : : :,, : :, : : pursuant : :,,, : :, : : :, : : pursuit : put : :, putative : product :, :, : product­liability : products :, : :, program : : : : Q qualifies : question : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : possess : : possible : power : : : :, : : : powers :, : : practice : precedent : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : repeatedly : report : :, reviewable : : : : San : : saying : : rigged : right : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : Scalia :,, :,, :, : says :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : set : : : :, : : : serve : : service : serving : : : setting : shoes : shop : : : : show : showing : shows : shunting : : :,, side : : : :, :,,,, :,, : : : : : : rights :,, :, : : : : ROBERTS : : :, :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : room : rule : : : searched : second : : : : : : : : : see : : seen : : : :, : : :, side's :, sight :, : signed : : significant : signs : silence : similar : : : simply : : Page  :,,,, sound : sovereign : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, : :, sovereigns : : : sovereignty :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, specific : : : : specifically :, square : squarely : staff :, stake : standard : :,, reports :, :, : require : : : :, requirement : :, requirements : requires : : : : : : Reservation : : : : : : : :, : : : : Reservations : reserve : resolution : resolved : resolving : respect : : :,, : :,,, : : : : : : : : : respectfully : respects : : : respond : responded : Respondents : : :, : : : : : Respondents' : response : : : : : : selecting : :, : selection : self : : :, : : : self­governance : :, : :, : rulings : : running : : sentence : : rules : : : : ruling :,, : : : runs : S self­help : sell : send : sending :, sense : : sent : : sentences : separate : : : serious :, : : seriously : : : :,, stare : single : situation : : : : small : solely :, : : Solicitor : : : solutions : : somebody : : someone's : : sorry : : : : sort : : : Sotomayor :, : : : :,, : start : : State :, : : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, :, :, : : statement : States :,, : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :,, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company responsibility : S : :, : reversal : review : : safety : : Official : terms : : suits : : superior : : terrible : : : : support :, supporting : : : suppose : supremacy : terribly : test : : text : Thank :, : :, :, : : : theory : : thing :, : :, :, : : : : : supreme :, : :, :, :, :, : sure : : things : : :,,, : : : : think :,, till : time : : : : : : : : :,, : : : times : : : today : tort :, : :, :, :,, :, :, : : : :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : :,,,,,, :,, :, : : : : : : :, :,,, :,,, : statute :, :,,,, : :, :, :, : : statutes : stemmed : stops : store : :, : : : Strate :, : :, :, : strip : strong : : stronger : subject : : : : : : : susceptible : swallow : swath : sweeping : switched : : : : system : : : : : : : : : : subjected :, : subjecting :, systems : : : : : : : : submitted : :, substance : : substantive : sue : : T T :, tailored : take : : : : : : : : : : : takes : talk : talking : : sued :, : : sues : : suggest : : suggested : : suggests : suit : : : : : : :, :, talks : : : Tasmania :, taxation : : : : : tell : : : : tracks : torts : : : : : :, : : :, :,,, :,, : : :,, Townsend : :,, : :,, : Trading : : tradition : : :,,, : : : :,,,, :, :, : :, traditional : :, : traffic : :,, : tragic : : : : : : : training :, transaction : : : treat :, thinking : treated : treaties : treating : : THOMAS : : : : : : thorough : thoroughly : thought : : :, three : :, : : : threshold : tight : : treats : trial :, tribal : : :,,, : :,, :, :,, : :,, Page  : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : :, :, :, :,, :,, : :,,, : : : : :,,,, : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, :,,,,, : : : :,,,, : :,, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : tribally­owned : tribe :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :,, :,, : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : :,, : : :,, : tribe's : : tribes :,, :, : : :,, : : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official voting : : : write : wrong : :, : :, : : : wander : : : : : understood : :, : : : : W undertook : : : : wages : :, : unfair : : Union : : wake : : :, : :,, : :,, : : Tribes' : tribunal : tried :, trip : Triple :, truck : trucks : true : : : wandering : want : : : United :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : Yankee : :, : : :,, : : : : : : wanted :,,, :, :, :, : wrongdoer : wrote : Washington : : : x :, X Y Page  : : : : , :, : ­plus : : : , : : :, wasn't : : way :, : :,, : : : : : : : ways : : : We'll : we're : : :, : : : we've : : : : went : : : : weren't : wide : Williams : Yeah : year : yes­or­no : York : Yorker : Youth : : Z zenith : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : unlimited :, :, : trying : : : unremarkable : unreviewable : : : turn : twice : two : : : upshot : use : : unusual : : : : : : :, : : : : : : U : V v : : : : : : : : : various : verdict : versus : view :, violate : : UN : : unanimous : unanimously : vast : unbeknownst : unbroken : unconstitutional : undermined : understand : : : :, :, willing : :,, violates : : : :, violating : : : : Violence : : : : : win : Women : word : : words : : : : work :, voluntarily : vote :,,, working : : understanding : understands : voted :, : : worried : wouldn't : Alderson Reporting Company 