       CAPTION:   CASE NO:  PLACE:  DATE:  PAGES:         OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT  PROCEEDINGS BEFORE    THE SUPREME COURT    OF THE   UNITED STATES         OBB PERSONENVERKEHR AG, Petitioner v. CAROL P.  SACHS  No. ­  Washington, D.C.  Monday, October ,  ­      ALDERSON REPORTING COMPANY     CONNECTICUT AVE., NW     WASHINGTON, D.C.    () ­    Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  OBB PERSONENVERKEHR AG,              :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          CAROL P. SACHS.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: JUAN C. BASOMBRIO, ESQ., Costa Mesa, Cal.; on behalf            of Petitioner.  EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General,             Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of        United States, as amicus curiae, supporting reversal.       JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ., Stanford, Cal.; on behalf of            Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE JUAN C. BASOMBRIO, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                             ORAL ARGUMENT OF   EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.          On behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,        supporting reversal                                 ORAL ARGUMENT OF   JEFFREY L. FISHER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   JUAN C. BASOMBRIO, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning, first this term, in Case ­,         OBB Personenverkehr v. Sachs.                Mr. Basombrio.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF JUAN C. BASOMBRIO                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. BASOMBRIO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                This personal injury action is based upon an        accident that occurred in Austria. If this Court         agrees, there's no need to reach the other question         related to agency, so I will start first with the           based­upon issue.              In Nelson, this Court set forth a framework         to analyze the based­upon question. And this Court held          that courts must begin their analysis by identifying the         particular conduct on which the action is based. The          decision uses words such as basis, foundation, and        gravamen. So here ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in ­­ in that case,         there was a distinction between State activity ­­ that          is, police activity ­­ and the commercial activity in         hiring the plaintiff. Here, I think it's conceded that           Alderson Reporting Company Official the activity ­­ running a railroad ­­ that's commercial.          So we don't have the commercial/State action division.                    MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, Your Honor, that's       correct. Here, there are two alleged commercial        activities. One of them is the sale of the ticket in            the United States, and the other one are the acts and           omissions that resulted in the accident in Austria.                    So what I would suggest is that we look at           the complaint and see what it is that the plaintiff has           alleged.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just as a matter of         background, suppose a hypothetical case ­­ no foreign         sovereign. It was a private corporation in Austria.          Would there then be jurisdiction under the Due Process         Clause in your view? You don't have to prevail on ­­ on             that issue, but as a background issue, what ­­ do you            have a position?                MR. BASOMBRIO: Our position is that if OBB         was a private entity, there would not be jurisdiction          over OBB. There would not be general jurisdiction after          this Court holding in Daimler and there would also ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: And Daimler is your best        case for that proposition?                            MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE KAGAN: Do ­­ do you think that it's          Alderson Reporting Company Official the same test? In other words, is the test a specific             jurisdiction test here, based­on, arising­from, that we       are basically asking the same question as we would be          asking if this were a ­­ a foreign corporation?                       MR. BASOMBRIO: I don't believe so, Your         Honor. Let me explain, if I may, why not. Congress             could have chosen that wording in the personal        jurisdiction analysis in the case law, but they decided         on another phrase, based­upon, instead. So I believe          that what this Court needs to do is give some          guidance ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but why ­­ I mean, it           doesn't seem to me that that wording is very different          from the wording that we've used in specific        jurisdiction cases. The wording here is "based on" ­­         we've used "arising out of." Sometimes we've used         "related to." In some respects ­­ I mean, it's pretty            clear that the FSIA is meant to ensure that when a           foreign government is acting as a commercial actor, it          gets treated like a foreign corporation. And the          language here is very similar, right? There's the         insistence on a sufficient contact, a minimum contact,          and then there is the insistence on a particular kind of            relationship between that contact ­­ contact and the        claim. Alderson Reporting Company Official               So it seems ­­ I guess the question is: Why          should we think of these two questions as at all          different? And I don't know, by the way, I mean, that              it would hurt you if they were the same, because it           might just be there would be no specific jurisdiction         here, you know? But I guess I'm having trouble of            thinking why it is that there ­­ that there would be a            different test.              MR. BASOMBRIO: The reason why is because        the FSIA takes place of the ­­ both the subject matter           jurisdiction analysis and the personal jurisdiction      analysis. Both are combined into one test. So although           I would agree certainly that some aspects of the         personal jurisdictional analysis are part of that test,        it goes beyond that. It also goes into subject matter           jurisdiction which is a different set of policy         determinations that Congress made that are in some way         overlapping of the personal jurisdiction questions, but       I don't think they're completely aligned.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm ­­ I'm sorry.       I'm ­­ I don't even understand why we're talking about           based­upon.             As Justice Ginsburg said, there's no dispute       here that whether the based­upon is the ticket sale or          the operation of the train, both of them are commercial          Alderson Reporting Company Official activities.             Isn't the work in substantial contact with       the United States? Isn't that what we should be looking           at instead? Was this commercial activity substantial        enough? The operation of the train and the ticket sale           here, did it have a substantial contact with the          United States?              MR. BASOMBRIO: There's a three­step       analysis, Your Honor, in Nelson. First, you have to          identify the particular conduct, the actions, not the        causes of action, which is what the en banc court did.           They focused on the legal claims.                  This Court said you have to focus on the         acts. Here, the acts ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we did that in the         context of deciding when something was a sovereign act          as opposed to a commercial act. We know this is a             commercial act.              So ­­ and we ­­ I'm just confused. Why          isn't the work ­­ why shouldn't the work be done by           substantial contact with the U.S.?                 MR. BASOMBRIO: It's a three­step analysis.        First, you identify the activity. Secondly, you decide         whether it is commercial or not.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Whether it's ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. BASOMBRIO: And third, whether there's       substantial contact.              sovereign.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ commercial or      MR. BASOMBRIO: So there are three steps.        What I'm saying is that the Ninth Circuit        erred. They didn't look at the conduct first. They           looked at the legal claims. If you look at the ­­                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if they had looked        at the conduct, it's commercial.                 MR. BASOMBRIO: It's commercial. But if you         look at the conduct and you identify it as the accident           in Austria ­­ which is what the plaintiff claimed. In           JA , paragraphs to , they alleged that there was an             unsafe boarding platform, a gap at the platform,         et cetera, et cetera.                            All of these things happened in Austria ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: But how do you propose ­­        how do you propose that we determine whether it's based          on commercial activity?               Take their failure­to­warn claim. Why isn't       that based on something that occurred in the        United States? You're just ­­ are you just asking us           to ­­ to step back and say, well, in that case we ­­ we              really think they're just trying ­­ they have a ­­ they            Alderson Reporting Company Official have a tort that occurred in Austria, a negligence tort            that occurred in Austria, and they're just trying to         plead around it with these other claims?                   MR. BASOMBRIO: Well, there's no allegation       in the Complaint that the failure to warn was something          that happened in the United States. It's found in the           same set of paragraphs, through , that relate to the            acts and omissions in Austria.                 It also would make no sense to argue that         there was a failure to warn in the United States because            that would mean that the Eurail Pass itself would have          to warn about all conditions at hundreds of potential         railroad stations in Europe.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it might be ­­ it         might be a claim that couldn't prevail, but why does           that answer the question?                MR. BASOMBRIO: Well, the failure to warn        that's alleged relates to the facts that arise in         Austria, and, therefore, the cause of action arises in         Austria because that's where the acts or omissions        occurred if ­­ if one looks at what's alleged in the           Complaint itself.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Would ­­ would you agree        and ­­ and, as you've been doing, take out the agency           question ­­ but would you agree if ­­ if what had           Alderson Reporting Company Official happened here was that the ticket was not honored. You           know, the plaintiff bought a ticket, and the ticket was           not honored, and ­­ and the suit was where the ticket           was purchased, would you agree that that's based­on?                    MR. BASOMBRIO: If this was a breach of          contract case ­­              case.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Just a breach of contract         MR. BASOMBRIO: ­­ and the breach ­­ the         allegation of the breach was that when the Respondent         showed up they did not honor the ticket, that would be           based upon an activity in Austria because it's in         Austria that that ticket got honored.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: In Austria, even though she        bought the ticket in the United States? You think even           the breach of contract case could not be brought in the           United States?              MR. BASOMBRIO: Correct, because the ­­ the        wrongful act, the breach, arises in Austria.                               with that ­­                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we disagree      MR. BASOMBRIO: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we disagree with       that answer? Do you lose the case?        Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. BASOMBRIO: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose we disagree with                               the answer that you gave to Justice Kagan. Suppose we           disagree that that suit has to be in Austria. Can you            still prevail on the facts of this case?                    The hypothetical was the ticket is not       honored. Suppose we disagree with your answer. Can you           still prevail on the facts that it ­­ that it did, in            fact, occur in this case?                 MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, but I would still         prevail based on the agency argument that we have         presented.                                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: On what ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: But you ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Could you go back and        explain to me what ­­ I'm sorry.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you'd lose on ­­ on          the other point.                           MR. BASOMBRIO: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you acknowledge that        you would lose on the other point if ­­ if that           hypothetical came out the other way?                                          MR. BASOMBRIO: No, I do not.        JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.    MR. BASOMBRIO: I believe ­­ let me clarify,          Alderson Reporting Company Official Your Honor, if I may.                  My answer to Justice ­­ Justice Kagan was        that I believe that a breach of contract claim for            dishonor of the ticket in Austria has to be brought in           Austria.                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Because ­­    MR. BASOMBRIO: Justice ­­ because that's       where the breach occurred that gives rise to the cause          of action.              Justice Kennedy said to me, suppose that we        disagree with you, can you still win the case? And my            answer was, I could still win, I believe, under the            agency alternative argument.                                       JUSTICE SCALIA: But not ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about apart ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ not under ­­ under the         argument you're ­­ you're first making?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: Not if the Court ruled        against me, no. But I believe ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: On that ­­ why? Why? I           mean, couldn't ­­ couldn't you make the argument that         the question ought to be decided not ­­ not by where           the ­­ where the contract was breached but where the          contract was made? I mean, we could hold ­­ we could             hold that, and that would not affect your case.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. BASOMBRIO: That's true. I ­­ I do not             believe that a breach of contract claim under the fact           scenario that you provided, Your Honor, would give rise         to a claim in the United States because the breach           happened ­­ would have happened in Austria.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, I want to come         back to Justice Kagan's speculation of ­­ of whether         based­on is ­­ is nothing more than due process.                     It seems to me that the definition of        commercial activity carried on in the United States by a          foreign state is the due process test. The definition          is, "A commercial activity carried on in the        United States by a foreign state means commercial         activity carried on by such state and having substantial         contact with the United States." That sounds to me          like ­­ like the due process test.                   But what is required here is not just a         commercial activity carried on in the United States, it         has to be based on a commercial activity carried on in            the United States. And it seems to me that is           something ­­ something added to the ­­ to the         constitutional test.              MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, Your Honor. And that's         why I started my discussion by referring to this          holding ­­ the holding of this Court in Nelson which has           Alderson Reporting Company Official to look at the particular conduct.                  The particular conduct at issue is not the        sale of the ticket, it's the acts and omissions that          resulted in the accident in Austria.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what if        there are acts or omissions in two ­­ let's say you have            a flight from New York to Vienna. And in New York,            someone negligently sets or whatever they do with the         landing gear, okay?               So then the plane takes off, and then in         Vienna, because of the negligence in New York, it's a          rough landing, somebody gets a concussion.                               MR. BASOMBRIO: Uh­huh.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is the       gravamen of the action in that case? Can you bring that            in ­­ in the United States?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: Potentially, you could bring       it in the United States. And the difference between          your scenario and this case is that in that scenario,          the service was provided, started in ­­ starting in the          United States. There's contact with the United States         because the foreign airline came here and conducted a         commercial activity in the United States.                              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because it's ­­     MR. BASOMBRIO: That's what different­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ a typical tort. If          the negligence occurs in one place, and the impact is          the other, you could bring the suit in either place, as           far as our notions of personal jurisdictions, either        injury in the state or conduct in the state causing          injury outside it. Those are typical long­arm bases of          jurisdictions.             So the Chief's hypothetical where the      negligence occurred in the United States, that you agree         would be a case that could be brought in the           United States because the relevant conduct occurred       there.                         MR. BASOMBRIO: Correct, in that case ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, correct. I        don't understand, then, what gravamen means in the        Nelson decision. Gravamen means one place, right?                                MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or do you think you         could have a lot of different ­­ I mean, if it's the              gravamen of your complaint, I think you have to choose,           don't you, one or the other?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: Well, I would ­­ I was ­­ I             would understand your example, Chief Justice, to mean        that the act that caused the injury was whatever they          didn't do upon takeoff to the plane, or ­­ or ­­ as I             Alderson Reporting Company Official understood your example, that cause of that injury was         in the United States.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So can you have more         than one place under the based­upon analysis in Nelson,         or has you ­­ have you got to decide there's only one            place where you could bring the action?                   MR. BASOMBRIO: Well, the airline example ­­       and this is something I thought about. It's somewhat a            complicated example because we have conventions,      international treaties that deal with ­­ with airline        cases.               I would imagine that, theoretically, there     could be one more ­­ more than one location, but not on            the facts of this case.                 JUSTICE ALITO: In the Chief Justice's       example, he ­­ he stated that there was negligence in          the United States. But what if there's no evidence of           that?             There's a ­­ there's a problem with the          landing gear when the plane lands in Austria, and the          claim is that there was a failure to inspect in the            United States, or a failure to do proper maintenance in           the United States. Would that be different?                    MR. BASOMBRIO: That may be different.       Again, because the transportation was provided from the        Alderson Reporting Company Official United States geographically, there ­­ there is no doubt         in that question that commercial act was carried on in          the United States by the airline. And that's different          here.             JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose it's ­­ it's ­­         it's proper to say that where you have negligence that          causes an injury, the ­­ the complaint is based on both.           You ­­ you don't have liability without the negligence.         You don't have liability without the injury. So why          can't you say based­on, in ­­ in that situation, would          enable either one to ­­ to sustain the cause of action?                       MR. BASOMBRIO: In the airplane example,       perhaps either jurisdiction. In this example, if you         look at the Complaint ­­ and we're guided by the          allegations of the Complaint, it is ­­ the acts are only           alleged to have happened and the omissions to have         happened ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Getting back to our       earlier discussion, questions from me and from Justice        Kagan, it seemed to me you have to say the due process            analysis is insufficient under this statute because ­­       then fill in the blank. And Justice Scalia was asking           you the same question.                MR. BASOMBRIO: Yeah.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: One ­­ one answer might be         Alderson Reporting Company Official because otherwise there would be no necessity for a         statute. Due process applies anyway. But the         counterargument is, well, there has to be because the         statute makes the distinction between sovereign and       commercial and so it has a real purpose.                     MR. BASOMBRIO: Right. The due process        analysis is incorporated into the statute, but it's not         the only thing to think about. For example ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: You did answer, I       think ­­ you did answer, rendering Justice Kennedy's        question somewhat academic, that there would be no        specific jurisdiction in the United States if all that         happened here was a ticket purchase from an agent where           the injurious conduct occurred abroad and the railroad        operates solely abroad.               You answered that whether it were the due        process specific jurisdiction inquiry or the Foreign       Sovereign Immunities Act, the answer would be the same,         that the ticket sale in the United States was not          enough.                         MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But, of course, my       question was suppose that the due process analysis is         sufficient to sustain jurisdiction. Then what? Then         does based­on still have a separate meaning as a          Alderson Reporting Company Official separate requirement that has to be met and has not been           met here? And if so, why?                   MR. BASOMBRIO: It has not been met here         because from a general jurisdictional perspective ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But not general      jurisdiction.                         MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: I was really talking about         specific jurisdiction.                          MR. BASOMBRIO: Okay.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And, of course, Justice       Scalia is absolutely right with respect to general        jurisdiction, that all you look at is the contacts. But           with respect to specific jurisdiction ­­ this is a         company that doesn't have pervasive contacts ­­                              MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ it's critical to the due         process analysis that there be a relationship, and a          real relationship between the particular contact with       the United States and the lawsuit in the exact same way           that this statute focuses on.                 And so, again, I don't know if it hurts you.           It might be, as Justice Ginsburg says, that there         wouldn't be specific jurisdiction here for a       corporation. But ­­ but ­­ but why shouldn't we treat           Alderson Reporting Company Official those two things exactly the same way?                   MR. BASOMBRIO: There is ­­ there is ­­ if I           may answer that two parts of your question. First,          there is no specific jurisdiction if OBB were a private           entity because the Respondent is not suing for breach of          the ticket; it's not alleging that it was not honored.          She's suing for something that happened in Austria. The          specific acts happened outside the United States.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Well, that's an answer         for why there is no specific jurisdiction here.                                MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And you can make the exact         same answer in the completely private context. And         you ­­                         MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ could well be right. I'm         want to ask Mr. Fisher about that.                               MR. BASOMBRIO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: But it's not an answer for         why the tests should be different.                  MR. BASOMBRIO: The test ­­ the test ­­ my          belief is that the test should incorporate due process         analysis. But because we are also dealing with subject          matter jurisdiction, which is a different analysis than         personal jurisdiction, there are other policy      Alderson Reporting Company Official considerations.             The policy considerations decisions that     Congress made were based on territory. If one want ­­          if one looks at the first, the second, and the third           clause, they're all territory­based distinctions. In ­­       in the case Amerada Hess, this Court held that tort          actions are meant to be encompassed by the second         section of the ­­ of the exception, the non ­­         noncommercial torts exception. That requires that the        tort happened in the United States in order to be ­­ to            have subject matter on personal jurisdiction. It        wouldn't fit here.               Justice Ginsburg referred to direct effects.      That would come under the third clause, which deals with          commercial activity outside of the U.S.; again, a        territorial line, having an effect here.                  The first clause draws the territorial line       here and says that commercial activity has to happen in          this side of the line within the United States. And           that's what we don't have here.                    I would like to ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: What provision are you ­­       what provision are you referring to?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: I'm pro ­­ referring to the         first clause of the commercial activity exception, that        Alderson Reporting Company Official it requires that the commercial activity be conducted,        carried out in the United States. That means that          within the territory of the United States. And I          reached that conclusion by comparing it to the third         clause, which refers to commercial activity outside of        the United States having a direct effect in the          United States, Your Honor.                            JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.      MR. BASOMBRIO: Now if I may just say one           point about agency. There is no dispute here that if           the definition in the Act applies, RP doesn't fit within          it.             Now, this Court has recently held that we        are guided by the language of the statute. I understand            that arguments have been made by my colleagues and also          by the Ninth Circuit that there is a difference between           invocation of immunity and attribution. This is the         point I want to make. Section is the invocation            section. That's the section that states that certain         people, those defined as the foreign state, can invoke         immunity.             Section is an attribution section. It        says whose acts deprive you of immunity. And because          foreign state is a defined term, we are limited to the            limitations in the FSIA.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             In the alternative, if this Court were to        move away from the definition, I believe we would all           agree that there has to be some element of control. The            test that this Court develops for agent has to have          either the degree of control in Bancec or something         lesser. But all agency law requires control, and that's          where the en banc court missed the mark. They didn't           require any control. And if one requires control, it          has to be reversed because there was no control here.                      If there are no pending questions, I would         appreciate reserving the balance of my time for        rebuttal.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Kneedler.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER         ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                           SUPPORTING REVERSAL              MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to start with the point about        whether the FSIA simply incorporates due process       standards, and we think it does not. It contains its           own statutory terms which require interpretation.      Congress did not simply incorporate the D.C. Long­Arm        Statute or due process principles or phrase the ­­ the          Alderson Reporting Company Official statute in that way. It enacted specific statutory         terms. And it's ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is it the based­upon        language or the substantial­context language?                 MR. KNEEDLER: It's both. It's both and in          the ­­ in the United States, which is an important point           I want to make. The ­­ one of the reasons it's very             different from just due process is because this ­­ the          FSIA governs subject matter jurisdiction and personal       jurisdiction to be sure, but based ­­ based upon a          determination of immunity of a foreign state. And it           does that by drawing, as was mentioned before, a strict           territorial line that runs throughout all the       exceptions. For example, the intentional ­­ the tort         exception applies only to torts in the United States.         And the property exception concerns property in the        United States. And the focus of the commercial activity          exception is also, at least under clause one ­­ well,          all of them ­­ but clause one is commercial activity in           the United States that also has a substantial         connection, but the action has to be based upon, as          Justice Scalia pointed out.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but how is based­upon        different from the language we routinely use in specific         jurisdiction cases? In other words, it just seems as          Alderson Reporting Company Official though Congress, in line with its objective of treating         foreign government engaging in commercial activity in       the same way as they would be treated in the foreign           corporations case, in line with that objective, used        language that's virtually synonymous with the language       that we use in specific jurisdiction cases.                   MR. KNEEDLER: But ­­ but it ­­ it did it in            the context of a statutory structure that is designed to           protect foreign sovereign immunity and not to draw U.S.         courts into what could be very sensitive international        questions of having U.S. courts pass judgment on what         happens in a foreign country. For example ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, except it did so in         the context of distinguishing between commercial      activity and sovereign activity.                MR. KNEEDLER: In ­­ in Nelson ­­ actually,         the pertinent paragraph in Nelson that discusses       based­upon, as counsel pointed out, the Court said you         start with what is the conduct that ­­ that the suit is            based upon. And the Court said the conduct there was           the conduct that took place in Saudi Arabia. And then           it had a discussion that said, to be sure, there was            recruitment that ­­ that preceded that, and that        recruitment put the employee in the position to be in          the hospital in Saudi Arabia where the conduct occurred.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             But the focus was on, as the Court said,         those torts in Saudi Arabia, not the ­­ not the          antecedent commercial activity in the United States.       That discussion in the Court's opinion preceded its        discussion of the distinction between commercial      activity and ­­ and sovereign activity. It had to do           what ­­ with what is the focus of the claim. And there             the Court was focusing on tort claims that happened         outside the United States. And we think it's very          important in this case to distinguish between tort        claims and contract claims.                JUSTICE ALITO: What if you have a tort          claim that has one element in the United States? How           do ­­ how does a court determine whether the gravamen of            the claim is in the United States or elsewhere?                     MR. KNEEDLER: I think ­­ I think focusing           on what ­­ on what the defendant's conduct is that          actually caused the injury. And here, the ­­ the only           difference between this case and Nelson is the argument         that the purchase of the ticket, which is the ­­ by the            way, the only commercial activity that was relied upon         below. The Ninth Circuit says this at Phaneuf and           Footnote . Respondent is now trying to broaden that          into the entire operations of the railroad which would         actually be an assertion of general jurisdiction.       Alderson Reporting Company Official Anything that would arise in the operation of a railroad           in ­­ in Austria could be the subject of a suit if it              was deemed to have substantial connection with the        United States.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: If we want to give        based­upon a separate substantive effect in this statute         and so that it means something more substantial than         mere due ­­ than what would suffice for due process,          what ­­ what body of law, case law do we look to?                                    MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I think in Nelson ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I want to find out          about based­on, what kind of cases am I supposed to           read?             MR. KNEEDLER: Well ­­ well ­­ and Nelson         itself, I think, is very instructive on this because,          first of all, the Court in Nelson did not ­­ did not            describe what it was doing as simply applying due         process standards. It was applying the statutory terms.         And it ­­ again, it ­­ it focused on the particular           conduct ­­ and this goes to Justice Alito's question as          well ­­ it focused on the conduct that really caused the           injury, which in that case was the ­­ were the          intentional torts ­­                          JUSTICE KAGAN: So Mr. ­­     MR. KNEEDLER: ­­ that happened in Saudi        Alderson Reporting Company Official Arabia.             JUSTICE KAGAN: In ­­ in my contract hypo,         if the ­­ if the suit was a breach of contract action,             do you think it would be based­upon? Just a straight,            like, you don't ­­ you didn't honor my ticket?                     MR. KNEEDLER: On ­­ on a contract claim, I           think that there well ­­ may well be a contract claim            here. But I think it's important to recognize that a            breach of contract claim, just because there is some         connection with the United States, does not       automatically ­­ even for due process purposes, some        connection of a contract to the forum is not enough.           The Court made that point in Burger King about contracts          which was discussed in the ­­ in the Court's Walden v.           Fiore case.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, before      you ­­ before you finish, you bring up an interest in           relations with other nations.                Do you know ­­ I mean, there are other          nations that have similar legislation to the Foreign        Sovereign Immunities Act. Do we know how this case          would come out, say, in Canada, Germany, or France under          similar legislation?              MR. KNEEDLER: The European Convention      provides for jurisdiction over tort claims, which       Alderson Reporting Company Official this ­­ which this basically is, only with respect to          torts that arise in the territory, which is ­­ which is           the case here in our own tort exception, which is an           important ­­ going back to Justice Kagan's question ­­        an important reason why this is different from due         process.             Tort claims under the FSIA, under ­­ under        Exemption (), Paragraph (a)(), arise only when the        tort occurs in the United States. And even business          torts ­­ the House Report refers to business torts in          the United States because there was a ­­ Congress was           drawing a territorial line. And we ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: The Netherlands ­­ the       Netherlands and Switzerland have filed a brief, haven't         they, in which they said that this injury, the claim          that's pursued against here, the facts that underlie it,         are based upon activity that took place in Switzerland.                                                                                             MR. KNEEDLER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: In Austria.     MR. KNEEDLER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And so they wouldn't ­­       MR. KNEEDLER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ under their law.       Is there any indication ­­ I saw none in any           of these briefs ­­ that there's any country in the world           Alderson Reporting Company Official that would reach a different result?                               MR. KNEEDLER: I ­­ as far as ­­ ­­          JUSTICE BREYER: They've put lawyers on both        sides, and I'm sure one of the lawyers would have told           us if they'd found a country that would have reached ­­                                               MR. KNEEDLER: And this ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ result.     MR. KNEEDLER: The same general point is        true in the UN convention on ­­ on immunity with respect           to tort claims ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Kneedler, how about ­­       there is a contract claim in this lawsuit, so there is            a ­­ is a kind of warranty of fitness kind of claim.             How ­­ how about that? Why ­­ if you think that the ­­             let's assume that the contract claim, which is like you          didn't honor my ticket, that there would be personal         jurisdiction over, how do we separate out the warranty         of habitability or fitness claim?                 MR. KNEEDLER: Because I think ­­ I think           that's very parallel to what this Court confronted in         the Nelson case where the ­­ the Court said the failure           to warn ­­ there was a claim there too, a failure to              warn about the hazard ­­ about the potential tort. And           the ­­ and the court said, it ­­ it would not recognize            jurisdiction by that sort of feint of language. You          Alderson Reporting Company Official can't recharacterize something that is basically a tort         abroad by claiming that there was a failure to warn ­­                       thing ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Is ­­ is that a typical          MR. KNEEDLER: ­­ about the tort. We think         that's true here.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that a typical thing or          an unusual thing to do in jurisdiction cases? In other           words, to say, we're just not going to look at this           claim by claim, we're going to ask about the whole gist           of the lawsuit.               MR. KNEEDLER: We think that, at least for         tort claims, that, again, under our ­­ our position you          look at the foundation of the claim, the gravamen of the           claim. And applying that principle to tort claims,         anyway, it's proper to look about where ­­ where the          conduct occurred, the tortious ­­ the injury­causing       conduct occurred rather than the injury itself?                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Can the gravamen be in more         than one place?                           MR. KNEEDLER: Pardon me?     JUSTICE SCALIA: Is ­­ the based­upon       language, does it identify a single place, or could it           be based­upon activity in ­­ in two jurisdictions?                    MR. KNEEDLER: Well, it ­­ it could be         Alderson Reporting Company Official based­upon activity in two jurisdiction ­­ two       jurisdictions. The House Report describing this talks        about commercial activities occurring in whole or in        part in the United States.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: But not in the airline        case. You would not say that the airline case, the           gravamen was the negligence in the United States and the          injury when the plane landed?                 MR. KNEEDLER: I think, depending on where         the tort occurred, it may ­­ it may just be in the place             where the ­­ where the negligence occurred.                                           But I do want to say that for airlines ­­          JUSTICE SCALIA: It can't be both?       MR. KNEEDLER: Oh, it could be ­­ it could          be because the question under the FSIA is whether you          can sue in the United States. Whether you can sue           abroad is not determined by based­upon language in        the ­­ in the FSIA.                 But the ­­ with respect to airlines,       those ­­ those are covered by the Montreal Protocol         which provides a variety of jurisdictions for suits to          be brought ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're not       suggesting the result be different if it were a boat,           are you?  Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. KNEEDLER: No, I ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well ­­     MR. KNEEDLER: No, but I ­­ but the                                              hypotheticals, a lot of them, the transporter have to do           with ­­             company ­­                                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this was a private         MR. KNEEDLER: ­­ an airline.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your hypothetical.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ would there be       jurisdiction here?                          MR. KNEEDLER: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If this were a private         company, not the state, would there be jurisdiction        here?             MR. KNEEDLER: I think probably not, but         I ­­ but I think it's ­­ I think it would be a good idea                  for the Court not to address the due process and just           focus on the ­­ on the statutory terms here, because the           question ­­ question of virtual presence by purchasing a         ticket on the Internet can arise in all sorts of ways           for due process purposes in private cases. And ­­ and           here, we have a statute to focus on.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,      Mr. Kneedler.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             Mr. Fisher.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF JEFFREY L. FISHER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. FISHER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to start with Justice Sotomayor's       question which I think has been asked a couple of other             times today, which is, what would the answer be if this           were a private defendant? And in footnote of our            brief on page , we explain why the answer would be           that there would be specific jurisdiction.                  And in the Gibson­Dunn amicus brief at pages         to they give a fuller explanation. No response ­­                        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why ­­ why, Mr. Fisher?        There is one contact with the United States. A pass is             bought from a travel agent in Massachusetts, a pass           covering ­odd railroads. That's all that happened in         the United States. All of the relevant conduct, the          tortious conduct occurred abroad.                  I don't know of a single case where we have          said specific jurisdiction can be based on a connection          that had nothing to do with the injurious conduct.                     MR. FISHER: But, Justice Ginsburg, I think         there are plenty of cases that support the proposition         that when a company markets and sells a product in a             Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction, that creates specific jurisdiction.     That's what OBB did through its agent, RPE, is market          and sell its product.                JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but not for everything.        I mean, let's assume this. Let's assume that I get a             brochure from the Vienna Opera Company, and I send back           the order form, I'd like to buy tickets, okay? Now, for            sure, if the Vienna Opera Company refused to honor my          tickets, I have a claim, and it arises out of the fact              that they have marketed my tickets in the United States.                      But now they honor my tickets, and I go up           the stairs, and I slip in a puddle, and I injure myself.               What does that have to do with the only contact that           they've in the United States? I mean, at that point,            you're just saying it's a but­for test, and everything          would be included. But I don't know of a sensible             specific jurisdiction analysis that would ­­ that would        run like that.               MR. FISHER: I agree with everything you         said. But this case is different because our lawsuit is           based on the duty of safe passage that gave rise in that            sale ­­ in that ticket sale. So we're suing based on            the promise and the offer ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: In the ­­ in the Austrian         case of the Opera, there is an implied warranty that the           Alderson Reporting Company Official Opera is fit for the purposes ­­ the opera house is fit            for the purposes which it serves. Okay? Same thing.           Not too hard to draft that.                  MR. FISHER: I'm not sure. And if somebody          did draft that, it would certainly be subject to a          (b)() ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference      between saying that they have to warrant their product,         which is an opera house, to be safe, to say that they            have to warrant their trains safe for ­­ for passage? I            can't see a difference. And it seems to me it's very             normal in a contract to say that the seller of the            product is implicitly warranting fitness. Isn't it?                    MR. FISHER: Well, all I can say is in this            case, we're suing on the exact warranty that gives rise          from this ticket sale, Justice Breyer. And I think ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: That's ­­ that's the       problem. I take it to go back to the questions you were              asked, from your answer, you have found no case in any           country where a waiver of sovereign immunity based on          commercial activity supports you. And if so, what is          that case? Switzerland and Britain ­­ or rather,         Netherlands, say no. The EU Treaty says no. The           UN Charter says no. And they have all these lists of            language which, while not absolutely against you, leans        Alderson Reporting Company Official against you.              So I want to know what is there, in the law            of sovereign immunity particularly, that argue ­­ leans        in your favor.               MR. FISHER: So, Justice Breyer, to ­­ let         me be clear about what is and is not in that brief.            There are no cases that I don't think any party has            cited. What the ­­ what that brief says is that based            on the language in various conventions, that this claim         wouldn't be able to be brought somewhere else. But the           language in those conventions are things like arise        under, based upon, and so you basically end up in the           same situation as you are here which is having to decide           whether this claim can be brought.                  Remember that brief also alleges and it       actually spends more time alleging that there is no         proper principle­agent relationship, which I think is ­­        the Court has probably realized is not a very credible           argument. So I think you should be careful about           putting too much weight on a brief that simply cites           some treaty language.               But I think the point I want to make, and            this ­­ for the hypotheticals and to bring it back to my            case, and I also tie in the contract ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: No. But I'm taking your         Alderson Reporting Company Official answer to my question being we have none.                    MR. FISHER: We have none, and they have         none. I have not found ­­                   right.                         JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Okay. All         MR. FISHER: You can ask him on rebuttal.         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me, your        adversary claims you've been trying to change what your         claim is. Is it based on the ticket sale? Or is it              based on the operation of the train?                   MR. FISHER: I think the better reading of          the word "activity" in the statute for the reasons we          describe in our brief is the overall integrated activity         of running the railway train enterprise, which includes        selling the product and delivering the product.                   JUSTICE BREYER: I see our interests, but         I'm thinking there are ­some­odd countries in the        world. Many of them do have governments that run          various kinds of enterprises. When they come to the          United States, perhaps not being totally conversant with        American law, they might think if my commercial activity         in the United States really gives rise to some problem          in the United States, I expect to be sued. But where             what really gives rise to it ­­ you see, I have to use              language like that ­­ takes place in my country, I          Alderson Reporting Company Official expect it will be my courts that will deal with it.                       MR. FISHER: Well, I don't know why any          country would have thought that about this country's        law, because before this ­­ you know, up until this          point, the law in the lower courts, the D.C. Circuit and           the Second Circuit, and most ­­ most specifically, have         held that in this exact situation, there is        jurisdiction.                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe ­­      MR. FISHER: And Justice Breyer ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ they would've       read ­­ if they had read our opinion in Nelson, that           would have given them a good inclination to read          sovereign immunity the way Justice Breyer suggests.                   MR. FISHER: No. I'm glad you asked about          Nelson, Mr. Chief Justice, because the paragraph in        Nelson that Mr. Kneedler is referring to is        distinguishing sovereign activity from commercial     activity. The Court in Nelson did not have before it           and was not concerned with the geographic nexus, and you          know that because in that paragraph where it lists the          things upon which the Nelsons' claim is not truly based,          it lists not only the recruitment in the United States          but the actual employment in Saudi Arabia.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Well, he has a paragraph in          Alderson Reporting Company Official Nelson, one sentence of which helps you, that he says          the Nelsons ­­ you know, they negotiated with the         Nelsons in the United States. They entered into a          contract in the United States. The Nelsons are heard          aborad. I take it that's the basis of it, and this             helps you.              But he says before even taking each of the         Nelsons' allegations about the recruitment and      employment is true, those facts entitle the Nelsons to         nothing under their theory of the case, which isn't         contract. But, he goes on to say, it's these torts,           which happened in the hospital abroad and not the         arguably commercial activities that preceded their      commission that formed the basis for the Nelsons' suit.                                 And so ­­                          MR. FISHER: So ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: The basis for. You see.         MR. FISHER: Justice Breyer ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ that's why I'm thinking        it does not help you.                 MR. FISHER: When the Court said the        arguable commercial activities that preceded it, they       were talking not only about the recruitment in the         United States but also the employment itself in Saudi         Arabia. And they were distinguishing that from the         Alderson Reporting Company Official police activity of seizing somebody and holding him in         jail, which was what the case was really about which          were sovereign activities.               So the Court in Nelson ­­ Mr. Chief Justice,         to be clear, I'm not saying Nelson supports me. I think             Nelson simply doesn't answer this question because you        were concerned in that case with sovereign versus        commercial, not geographic nexus.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So in line with the         discussion we had earlier about specific jurisdiction,       is your argument that general jurisdiction is enough to         support based­upon under the statute?                             MR. FISHER: No, Your Honor. I ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you         talked about just all of the different commercial        activities that the Austrian airline engaged in in the         United States. And if it's all of the different          commercial activities, that sounds like general      jurisdiction, not the specific jurisdiction.                 MR. FISHER: No. I think OBB is subject to            jurisdiction under the ­­ or ­­ I'm sorry, I should say            does not have sovereign immunity under the FSIA for its          train operation of selling tickets and getting people        rides on the trains. It wouldn't be subject to          jurisdiction if it had some ­­ if it had a mining            Alderson Reporting Company Official enterprise on the side or something else that didn't         even touch the United States.                                         JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose ­­     MR. FISHER: So the activity ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. But in point of fact,          that's all OBB does. So, effectively, your argument is          an argument that OBB is subject to jurisdiction in a          general jurisdiction kind of way with respect to        everything that they do. And, you know, I think what            the Chief Justice is suggesting is, like, that seems         wrong.             MR. FISHER: Well, let me say two things,         Justice Kagan.              (Laughter.)             MR. FISHER: Thank you. I think that is the            fairest reading of the statute, and Mr. Kneedler was         talking about the House Report. One of the examples in           the House Report of a commercial activity was running an           airline. It's hard to distinguish running an airline         from running a train system.                              cover that.              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose ­­     MR. FISHER: So the terms of the statue do          If ­­ Justice Alito, may I ­­ may I just say             one more thing to Justice Kagan?      Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE ALITO: Sure. Finish your answer.        MR. FISHER: Which is if you didn't agree                                 that the term "commercial activity" covered the entire        enterprise, then you would ask the question whether the         activity of selling tickets is enough to create a         based­upon argument in a specific jurisdiction since we         went back to the conversation we've been having.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose Ms. Sachs was       Australian, and she bought this ticket on the Internet         in Australia. Would you say that there would be no           sovereign immunity in the suit in the United States?                     MR. FISHER: Well, there wouldn't      necessarily be sovereign ­­ there may not be sovereign         immunity under the terms of the Act. But obviously,          there would be a number of reasons why that case           couldn't be brought ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: But there would be ­­ there         would be ­­ there would not be immunity because it was           based on the running of the railroad.                   MR. FISHER: Right. Which ­­ which ­­ on          the ­­ taking everything else the same, has substantial         contact to the United States. But all the ­­ all we're            talking about in this case is immunity. Section ,          where it has jurisdiction over foreign states,       has ­­ says that that jurisdiction has to be in          Alderson Reporting Company Official personam. And obviously, that would carry with it the          requirements for in personam jurisdiction which would       require a contact in this country.                   And this is one thing I want to make sure,           is the Court understands to bring us back to the          hypotheticals we were talking about earlier and to tie         in the contract hypothetical, it's important for the        Court to understand there are all manner of cases where          a duty is created in this country by way of a foreign             state's commercial activities, and then injuries or       breaches occur a broad. In fact, this is rather the            oddball case.              The more typical case is a high­finance deal         like the bonds case in the Weltover case, other kinds of           international finance and loans. There are many        employment cases where United States citizens sign an        employment contract or are lured abroad, study abroad        programs in the educational sphere, all kinds of        situations where a duty is created in this country, but           then all of the events that the lawsuit turns out to be            about happen abroad.                                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if ­­     MR. FISHER: If that's the case ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, you ­­ you        recognize ­­ I think you recognized in your brief that           Alderson Reporting Company Official this ­­ you can call it a question of first impression.            You ­­ you said, I believe, based on ­­ the meaning of             based­on in this context is an open question.                    And if it is an open question, why should we          allow a foreign carrier to be sued in the United States            for acts or omissions overseas ­­ the negligent conduct         occurred overseas ­­ when the only link, the single link          is a ticket, a pass, purchased from a ­­ a travel agent                in the United States?                MR. FISHER: For all the reasons I was just           saying, Justice Ginsburg, because it is utterly common        for duties to be created in this country ­­ here, the           duty of safe passage and of utmost care ­­ and then the            breach to occur a broad.                  My ­­ my friend on the other side was         correct to say this case is indistinguishable from        contract cases. There are ­­ there are all kinds of           cases where duties are created in this country and then          breached abroad.                          JUSTICE KAGAN: But if that's true ­­       MR. FISHER: The lower courts have always        held that the FSIA ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: If that's true, I don't         understand why you answered my hypothetical question the        way you did, because in my hypothetical question I         Alderson Reporting Company Official thought you said that there would not be jurisdiction to          sue in the United States when I slip and fall in Vienna.                         And ­­ but you could make the same argument.         Well, there was a duty created in the United States, and            that's what I'm suing on.                 MR. FISHER: I think when I answered your           question I was imagining there wasn't a duty created.           Maybe as Justice Breyer amended the hypothetical, there        might be ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, there's ­­ I mean, the          only thing that's happened in the United States is that          I've purchased a ticket there. That's ­­ that's what           I've done.                          MR. FISHER: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: So I take it that your          argument is that purchase of a ticket gives rise to a            duty which is then violated when I slip and fall in            another country.              MR. FISHER: I would say if the plaintiff          alleges that in the lawsuit, then there would not be          sovereign immunity. And then Justice Alito's ­­ I think           as he was saying earlier, you would have a ­­ perhaps a             very strong (b)() argument that there's no such State         law claim that actually gave rise in that context.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If ­­ if you get on          Alderson Reporting Company Official the train in Vienna, and you buy your ticket in Vienna           and you get on the train in Vienna, there is on the            train operator some duty of care, isn't there?                    Without regard to ­­ in other words, there's        nothing special about buying a ticket in the         United States that gives rise to a unique duty of care            that's any different from the duty of care that the          railroad owes its passengers in Austria.                  MR. FISHER: I think that's right, Mr. Chief          Justice, but ­­ as long as you're talking about buying a           ticket one place to the other. But of course that's           true of any seller of any product that they ­­ that they            stand ­­ you know, they offer the same thing depending          on where you buy it.                 But the critical thing is where did they        sell their ticket? They reached out to this country ­­          and it is worth answering your question with this         important point, which is the product that they sold to          Ms. Sachs is not available to Austrian citizens. This          is a specially­tailored product available only ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand. But         there's nothing unique about the standard of care based         upon whether it's a Eurail Pass or something else, is           there?             I'm just trying to suggest that you're       Alderson Reporting Company Official putting an awful lot of weight on the standard of care           created by the purchase of the ticket. And ­­ and           that's no different here or whether the ticket was         purchased in ­­ in Austria.                             MR. FISHER: It would ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It makes no       difference to what standard of care she would allege if          there were some other basis for jurisdiction in the         United States?              MR. FISHER: That might be correct, but it         is important not to lose sight of the fact that she           didn't buy her ticket there. OBB reached out into this           forum.             And just going back to this Court's ordinary        due process cases, when a business purposefully avails         itself of the protections and the opportunities of a         particular jurisdiction ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fisher, the      purposefully­availed­of test relates to specific     jurisdiction, and there has to be an instant connecting.         If there is that connection, then you must have, in          addition, purposefully­availed­of.              But purposefully­availed­of, standing alone,    doesn't give you general jurisdiction, and it doesn't        give you specific jurisdiction.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FISHER: No. Fair enough. But you have           to have a contact, and that's the substantial contact          test in this ­­ in this case ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But you also have to have a          relationship.             MR. FISHER: And you have to have a         relationship, which we do, because we purchased it here.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let's say that I don't          accept that argument, okay? Let's just for a moment           assume that on a straight negligence claim, the idea          that a negligence claim arising from an accident in          Austria arises ­­ let's say I think it arises from the            accident in Austria. It does not arise from the          purchase of a ticket in the United States, okay?                                  MR. FISHER: Yeah.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Now, I guess there's still a          question as to whether your warranty claims ought to be          treated differently. And I take it what Mr. Kneedler           has said about that is, no, they shouldn't be, that's          just fancy pleading, it's just a way of converting a           negligence claim into a contract claim. It's the same           kind of thing that happened in Nelson that we refused to           allow. Why isn't that right?                  MR. FISHER: It's not right because what you         were worried about in Nelson is artful pleading to get          Alderson Reporting Company Official around true sovereign immunity; in other words, to        challenge sovereign acts dressed up as something else.                    Here there's no allegation that we're      challenging sovereign acts. Everybody agrees we're       challenging commercial acts. There's only the       geographic nexus question. So we can plead a tort           however we like subject to Rule (b)(), which they can          make on remand.               And, Mr. Chief Justice, maybe I could turn         back to one of yours questions, because I think it           further highlights the difficulty with the other side's        test.             It has to be enough for a duty to create a            cause of action, we say, because otherwise you're left         with this gravamen test. And either ­­ gravamen test          has to mean one of two things: Either it has to mean             that only one particular place can be the gravamen,         which is the way I understood it from their briefing.           But as the Court, I think, is figuring out from this            argument, you get into all heaps of troubles with         contracts, employment, all kinds of other things where        the injuries occur abroad, and how on earth is the Court           to determine where the gravamen is.                  On the other hand, if gravamen is sort of a          grava­person's test so that you can have many multiple         Alderson Reporting Company Official places where a claim can be brought, then I'm at a loss              to understand how it's any improvement over the one         element ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: How does it work with a         domestic contract, an ordinary domestic contract entered       into in Nevada, and the breach of the contract, which          consisted of a failure, for example, to deliver goods to           San Francisco, took place in California, and the lawsuit         is brought in Nevada?                How does that work? They move ­­ well, how          does it happen?               MR. FISHER: Under due process, you'd have        jurisdiction in Nevada.               JUSTICE BREYER: I know that, but I mean           where does the ­­ where does the ­­                               MR. FISHER: The gravamen?     JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, yeah. Does that not         come up as to what law applies, as to a factor in forum              non conveniens.                          MR. FISHER: No, it ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: No, it doesn't? How do you          decide what law applies? The contract doesn't say.                     MR. FISHER: The most ­­ there's a most          significant relationship ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Ah. Most significant       Alderson Reporting Company Official relationship. I see.                             MR. FISHER: ­­ every State, it says.        JUSTICE BREYER: And does it matter whether        it's ­­ is it to the formation of the contract or is it             to the breach?               MR. FISHER: I think it's sometimes one and          sometimes the other, Justice Breyer.                 JUSTICE BREYER: And what's the difference       whether it's the one or the other?                                                       decide?                         MR. FISHER: Pardon me?     JUSTICE BREYER: What's the difference?      MR. FISHER: It depends ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I mean how does the Court          MR. FISHER: It depends ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I'm ­­ I'm simply pointing        out that these kinds of problems are not unique to the           international context.                          MR. FISHER: No, I think ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: They arise in many       different legal circumstances, and courts have to decide        what is the gravamen, and sometimes that's difficult and         sometimes it's not.                           MR. FISHER: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Am I right about that?         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FISHER: I've never seen this term used         in the case law. And I think the other side was correct              when they answered ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the weight of the ­­ I          don't know. You're the one ­­ I'm not very          knowledgeable, and I ­­ I tend to believe you're more            knowledgeable. Therefore, I'm asking you the question.                    MR. FISHER: Well, all I can do is honestly           answer that I've never seen this test used in any choice           of law analysis.                                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we're dealing ­­      MR. FISHER: I will add that ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we're dealing with       choice of law, is ­­ is there any serious question of           what law would govern the adequacy of OBB's boarding         protocol, or their platform design? Would that be any          law other than Austria?                MR. FISHER: Well, the Ninth Circuit held        that California law applies in this case, and OBB has          never ­­ has not challenged that holding. So as the           case comes to this Court, California law applies for         purposes of the one element ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I'm ­­ I'm asking        you. Never mind what the California court said.                     We have an accident in Austria, and it's        Alderson Reporting Company Official based on ­­ the allegation is the boarding protocol was          negligently designed, or the platform, the space between        the train and the platform, negligently designed.                   What law would govern whether that platform       was negligently designed, whether the boarding protocol,       operating protocol was negligent?                MR. FISHER: In all candor, Justice       Ginsburg, there'd be a pretty good argument that Austria          law should apply. And it is important for the Court to            understand that simply holding that a suit under the          FSIA can be brought in this country does not mean that           U.S. law applies. There's a separate choice of law           analysis that can be made. And so OBB had the           opportunity to make choice of law arguments and has         decided not to.               But remember, they can do choice of law        analysis not only in terms of ordinary common law         principles that might apply in a court, but there's a           number of ways that a defendant in OBB's position can           protect itself in a case like this.                    First of all, they can put a choice of law           provision in the ticket, or in the contract, or whatever          might be at issue.                Second of all, even as to forum, forum        selection clauses can be put into tickets like this, and          Alderson Reporting Company Official contracts, and in fact they are. As the United States           told the Court at the cert stage of this case, all of            these tickets now are governed by a forum selection          clause provision, so you'll never see a case like this           again, not only in the railroad context, but even in the           airline industry.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that ­­ and that        works, even though it's an adhesion contract, and it's         small print ­­              MR. FISHER: Under Carnival Cruise Lines,       this Court's decision, those kinds of forum selection        clauses are perfectly enforceable.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: That ­­ that was an        admiralty case, though.               MR. FISHER: Well, I don't know why it would           be different in this context, Justice Kennedy.       Certainly the government says that these are all        governed by forum selection clauses now. We think they          are, too.              So what you're really deciding in this case,        if I could end where perhaps I began, is you're not             deciding transportation in this case, because all       transportation cases are now covered by conventions and        forum selection causes. What you're really deciding is         what the law should be in the mainstream FSIA cases,          Alderson Reporting Company Official like finance, like contracts. That's why Gibson­Dunn        has filed a case on behalf of a ­­ of a large hedge fund                 that says, we do business all the time with foreign          sovereigns and we're very worried that if the Court         adopts this gravamen based­upon, we will not be able to          enforce contracts and duties in this country that have         given rise under negotiations in this country and then         are breached abroad.               Employment situations, like the hypothetical     we give in our brief, where a United States citizen is            hired as an engineer to go do oil and gas exploration           and then something happens abroad.                 Those cases have always been brought in this        country. And if this Court adopts the gravamen test,          what you'll be saying is the courts now have some          amorphous test that would seem, especially if there is         only a single gravamen, that would seem to bounce all of            these cases out of the United States courts, which would          be dramatically ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, suppose ­­ suppose       the Court simply said, buying a ticket from an agent in            the United States is not enough, period. We don't adopt           any gravamen. The question is, what does based­on mean.          And the Court could say based­on is not based­on if all           that happened in the United States is the purchase of          Alderson Reporting Company Official the ticket. We don't have to buy any gravamen or           anything else.              MR. FISHER: Well, I think there is two          reasons why you couldn't just limit it to that,         Justice Ginsburg. First, as a legal matter, our claim           depends on the duty that arose when that ticket's         purchase was made. And I don't see any legal way to             distinguish duties that arose in a ticket sale from          other kinds of duties that arise and all kinds of other           marketing and contract settings.                And second of all, just as a matter of          common sense, remember ­­ let's go back to where we          began ­­ this is a commercial activity exception. If           they weren't selling tickets, it wouldn't even be        commercial to begin with. So it would be a highly odd             holding to say that the one thing that makes this          commercial is what prevents it from being brought in the          United States.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: What makes it commercial       is it's a railroad doing the same thing a private            railroad would do. It's in ­­ its business is operating           a railroad.              MR. FISHER: That's right, Justice Ginsburg.       And if you want us to ask the question in terms of            whether a private company would be subject to         Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction under the same settings here, at least all         you have to hold is that OBB should be in the same shoes             as a private company.                 Now, we say in our brief and in the Gibson          brief in more detail, why due process wouldn't stand in          the way of jurisdiction there. But if you have any           doubt about that, you can note that OBB has made a           personal jurisdiction argument in the district court       that the district court never reached. And so that is           available on remand.               The only thing before this Court is       sovereign immunity and whether OBB is entitled to        sovereign immunity for commercial acts in this country        and the teeth of a congressional statute that says in           the declaration of purpose in Section that foreign         states doing commercial activities in this country       should not be entitled to sovereign immunity.                   to do is ­­               And then in Section says: What we want          JUSTICE BREYER: And we say, look, did ­­        they're ­­ your exact words.                             MR. FISHER: Pardon me?     JUSTICE BREYER: Are they liable for       activity that took place in this country? They are          liable for the breach of the contract. The breach of           Alderson Reporting Company Official the contract took place in Austria.                                                                  MR. FISHER: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: End of case.      MR. FISHER: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?     MR. FISHER: Because ­­ because what the        definition of in the United States, Justice Breyer, and         this is sub (D) of (c), says that ­­ I'm sorry, it's            sub ­­ sub (E) of (c) says that "in the          United States" is defined as substantial contact with        the United States. And so that can occur in whole or in             part in this country, and in part ­­ I'm sorry, in part            includes the ticket sale.                            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Basombrio, you have three minutes      remaining.            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MR. BASOMBRIO                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. BASOMBRIO: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   Much of our discussion today has been in        separating the torts from the contractual claims here in         this case, implied warranty claims. Let me tell you why           I believe it's a bad idea to split claims on causes of             action. This Court decided recently a case called          Alderson Reporting Company Official Pimentel in which the Republic of the Philippines had         sovereign immunity. But there were also a number of           other defendants that did not enjoy sovereign immunity.        And this Court, taking into consideration important       issues such as international comity, decided that under        Rule , the entire lawsuit had to be dismissed,         including as to nonsovereign entities, in order to give         full effect to the sovereign immunity of the Republic of          the Philippines.              In light of that holding, it would make        little sense that when the defendant has the right to          invoke immunity, that we would split the causes of         action so that some of them would proceed in Austria and           some of them would proceed in the United States.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Are you suggesting the       based­upon determination is not done on a claim­by­claim         basis, it's ­­ you look at the entire complaint?                                 MR. BASOMBRIO: That's why ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: You find the gravamen of the         entire complaint?              MR. BASOMBRIO: Yes, exactly, Your Honor.       And the circuit courts and the State courts have all          understood what gravamen means. They know what it         means. And if we just took anybody off the street here            and we asked them, why is the Respondent suing, each          Alderson Reporting Company Official person would say, because she was injured in a terrible           accident in Austria.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what if the only claim         were the breach of warranty claim?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: Then we would have to ask         where did the breach occur. As in Justice Kagan's          question, I would answer, if the breach occurred in          Austria, then the claim would arise in Austria.                    Now, the warranty, in terms of the duty of         care, there is no duty of care until she arrives at the            station and tries to board that train. And even if she            didn't have a ticket at all, the record establishes that           we would still owe her a duty of care.                      JUSTICE ALITO: What if she also had, in         addition to the claims she's asserted, a conventional         breach of contract claim? She said that when they ­­          when she tried to get on the train, they said no, your            Eurail Pass doesn't let you get on free, you have to pay            an additional amount?                           MR. BASOMBRIO: That would have said ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: We look to the gravamen of         the whole thing and we say, well, the tort claims are in            Austria and therefore she can't bring this breach of         contract claim in the United States?                  MR. BASOMBRIO: Well, if she had been ­­ if          Alderson Reporting Company Official she had been hurt and in addition to that, they would           have told her ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, exactly what happened       here, plus she said they made me pay extra.                     MR. BASOMBRIO: Then the gravamen would       still be Austria because that's where all those events         took place.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: : actor : acts : :, : : : : allegations : : : :, : allege : : : : :,, : alleged :, : : appreciate : Arabia :, : : : : Page  : :, : : : :,,, : Austrian : : : automatically : available :, : :, : arguable : alleges : : arguably : alleging : : argue : : allow : : alternative : argument : : : amended : Amerada : American : amicus : : : : amorphous : amount : analysis : : :,, :, avails : : :,, awful : : : : : : : : : :, back : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : arguments : : : B : arises : : arising : : : :, :,, :, : : : : : : arising­from : : : : arose :, arrives : :, artful : asked : : analyze : answer : : :, :, : :,, :,,, : : : : : : : : answered : : : asking :, : : :, aspects : asserted : assertion : assume : : : : : Attorney : attribution : : : : answering : antecedent : anybody : anyway : : Australia : apart : Australian : APPEARANCES Austria : :, :, :,,, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : applies : : applying :, : background : : bad : balance : banc : : Bancec : based :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : based­on : : : : : : : : :, based­upon : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : : bases : basically : : A a.m : : : able : : aborad : above­entitled : : abroad :, actual : add : : : : : :,, added : : : : : : : addition : : absolutely : additional : address : adequacy : adhesion : admiralty : adopt : adopts :, acknowledge : adversary : act :,, academic : accept : accident : : : : : : : : affect : : : : AG : : : : agency : : : acting : action :, : : : : : : : : : : : : actions : : activities : : : :, :,, : : activity :,, : : : : agent : : : : : : agree : :, : : : : : agrees : : Ah : airline : : : : :, : : : : : airplane : aligned : Alito : : : :, : : :,, airlines :, :, : :,, : : :, :,, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :, :,, : Alito's : : apply :, allegation : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company call : called : Canada : care : :,, Official : : basis : :, :, :,, California : :, :,, : : : breached : Basombrio : : : Breyer :,, candor : :, :,, : breaches : :, : : :, :,, :, :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, :, :, :, :,, : :,, :, : : :,, :, :, : : : :, : :, : :,, :, :, :,, :,, : careful : :, : :,,,, CAROL : :,,,,, :, : :, :,, :, : : Carnival : carried :,, Charter : Page  causes : : : : : causing : cert : certain : certainly : : : cetera :, challenge : challenged : challenging :, change : : :,,, : claim­by­claim : claimed : claiming : claims : : : :,, : : : : : : : :,, : : clarify : clause : :, clauses : : :, : :, : Chief :, : :, :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : : colleagues : :, : clear : : : : combined : come : : : : : comes : comity : commercial : :, : : :,,, : :,, : :,,, : : : :,, : : :, :, :,, : : : : :, :,, : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :,,,, commercial/State :,,, : :, : commission : : : : common : :,, : : : : belief : believe :, : broad : : carrier : carry : brief : : : :,, : : : case :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, briefing : :, :, briefs : bring :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : Britain : : :, : :, :,, : circuit : : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, : circumstances : :,, : :,, :, : :,, : : broaden : brochure : brought : : : : : : : : : : : : cited : cites : citizen : citizens : Burger : business :, Chief's : choice :, choose : chosen : : : : :,,, : cases : : : claim : : but­for : buy : :, : : buying :, : C C : :,, : : Cal :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, :, cause : : : : : caused : : : began : : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : : :,, : : : : : best : better : beyond : blank : board : boarding : : :, boat : body : bonds : bought :, : : bounce : breach :,,, :, :, :, : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official dealing : : determined : Page  detail : determination : : determinations : determine : : : develops : difference : : : : : : : : different : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : different­­ : differently : difficult : difficulty : direct : : disagree :, :,, : discussed : discusses : discussion : : : : : : : dishonor : dismissed : dispute : : distinction : : : distinctions : distinguish : : : distinguishing company : :, : :, : : contacts :, : : : : :, : comparing : complaint : : : : : :, :, completely : contains : context : : :, : : : : : : : : D : : :, D : : : :, : : : :,, : :, : : Daimler :, deal : : D.C :, : country's : couple : course : : : : : deals : decide : : : : : : : complicated : conceded : concerned : : contract :,, :,, : : :,,,, court :, : :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : : decided : : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : :, :, :,, : deciding : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : decision : : : : : : : : :, decisions : :, : :, :, : :,, : :,, :, : concerns : conclusion : concussion : conditions : conduct : : :,, :, :, : :,,, : :, :, :, control :,,,, : : declaration : deemed : defendant : : : :, contractual : contracts : : : :, : : defendant's : conveniens : convention : : Court's : : defendants : defined :, : : conventional : courts : : conventions : : :, : : : : :, : definition :, : : : :, : conversant : conversation : converting : corporation : :, : corporations : correct : : :, : : : Costa : counsel : : : : : degree : deliver : cover : covered : : delivering : Department : depending : : covering : create : : created :, :, :, : creates : credible : critical : : : depends :, : deprive : Deputy : describe : : conducted : : confronted : confused : Congress : : : : : : congressional : connecting : connection : : :, : : consideration : considerations :, consisted : constitutional : counterargument Cruise : contact :,, : :,, : : : : country : countries : : curiae : : : describing : design : designed : : division : district :, : : : doing : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official exceptions : Exemption : expect : : explain : : : explanation : exploration : extra : F fact : : : : : : : factor : facts : :, failure­to­warn : Fair : fairest : fall :, fancy : far : : favor : feint : figuring : filed : : fill : finance : : find : : finish : : Fiore : first :,, :, : : : :,, : : : : Fisher : : : : enable : enacted : encompassed : enforce : domestic :, doubt : : draft :, dramatically : enforceable : draw : drawing : engaged : engaging : engineer : enjoy : ensure : : draws : dressed : due : :,, entered : : enterprise : : :,, : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : duties :, : :, duty : :, : :,, :,, : : :,, : : enterprises : entire : : :,, entities : entitle : entitled :, entity : : erred : especially : ESQ :,, : :,, E establishes : E : :, : et :, earlier : : EU : Eurail : : : : earth : educational : Europe : EDWIN : : : : effect : : : : effectively : effects : either :, : : : : : element : : : : employee : employment : :, :, : : en : : European : events : : Everybody : evidence : exact : : : : : exactly : : : example : : :,, : : : : : : examples : exception :,, :,, : : framework : : :,,, : : : France : : : :, Francisco : : :,, :,, : friend : : :,, FSIA : : free : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : :,, : : : :, :, : :, :,, : : : : :,, :, : :, :, full : :, :, :,,,, fund : :,,, : :, :, : :,, further : fuller : G fit : : : G : : fitness :, : failure :,, : : : flight : focus : : :, :, :, :, focused : : : : : gap : gas : gear : : general : : :,, : : :, : : geographic : : : focuses : focusing :, footnote : : foreign : :, Germany : geographically : getting : : : :, : : : Gibson : : : : Gibson­Dunn :,, : : : : : : : : form : formation : formed : forth : forum : : : :, :,,, found : : : : foundation : : Ginsburg : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : :, gist : give : : : : :, : : given : : gives : : :, : : glad : go : : : : : goes :, : : going : :, : hedge : held : : : : : : : good : : goods : govern : : governed :, government : help : helps :, Hess : high­finance : highlights : highly : hired : governments : hiring : governs : grava­person's : : hold :, : holding : : : : : : : : : gravamen : : :,, honestly : : :, : :,, :, : : :,, : : : : : : honor :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : guess :, : guidance : guided : : hospital : : : honored :,, H : house : : :, :, habitability : hand : happen : : : hundreds : hurt : : hurts : happened : : hypo : : :, : hypothetical : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : hypotheticals : : : : happens : : hard : : hazard : heaps : hear : heard : I idea : : : identify :, : : identifying : Official imagine : imagining : Immunities : : immunity :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, :,,, impact : implicitly : implied : : important : : : :, : : : : : impression : improvement : inclination : included : includes : : including : incorporate : : inquiry : insistence :, inspect : instant : instructive : insufficient : integrated : intentional : : interest : interests : international : : : : : Internet : : interpretation : invocation : : invoke : : issue : :, : : issues : J JA : jail : JEFFREY : : : incorporated : incorporates : JUAN : :, indication : indistinguishable : : industry : injure : injured : injuries : : injurious : : injury : :, : : :, : : : : : injury­causing : judgment : jurisdiction : :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,,, :,,, : :,, : : : :, : : :, :, :, : : : :,,,, :, :,, Page  : : :, :,, : :,, jurisdictional : : jurisdictions :, : :, Justice : :, : :,, : :, : : :,, : : :,, :, :, :,,,, : :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :, :,,, :,,, :, : :, :, : : : :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :,, : :,, :,,,,, :,,, : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :,, :, :,,,, :,, : : :,, :,,,, :, :, :,, : :,,,, :,,,,, Alderson Reporting Company Official liability :, liable :, light : limit : limitations : limited : line :,, : :, : : Lines : link :, lists : :, little : loans : location : long : long­arm : : look : :,, : : : :, meant : : mentioned : mere : Mesa : met :,, mind : : : : minimum : : :,, mining : : : : minutes : looked :, looking : looks : : lose : :, Montreal : missed : moment : Monday : morning : move : : : loss : lot : : : multiple : lower : : lured : N N :, : nations :, necessarily : :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : : :,,, : :, :,,, : : Justice's : K Kagan : : : :, : : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, :, : Kagan's : : : : :, :,,,,, : : : know :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : knowledgeable :, L L : : : landed : landing :, : lands : language : : :,, :, : : : : :,, : Kennedy :, large : :, :, Laughter : : :, : : : : : : : law : : :, : : : :, : :, :, :,,,, :,,,, :,, : Kennedy's : kind : : :, : : kinds : : : : : : : : : King : Kneedler : : :,, : :, : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :,, Page  Nelson : : : : : :, : mean :, : : : : :, : :,, : :,,, : :,, :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : Nelsons :,,, Nelsons' : : meaning : : : means : : Netherlands : : : Nevada :,, never :,,, : : New :,, nexus : : : Ninth : : : : non : : noncommercial : nonsovereign : normal : note : notions : number : : : O O : : OBB : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, lawsuit : : mainstream : M : : : maintenance : necessity : : : : making : manner : mark : market : lawyers :, leans : : left : legal : : : marketed : marketing : need : needs : OBB's : : negligence : : :, objective :, : :, : obviously : : :,, :, : legislation :, markets : lesser : Massachusetts let's : : : negligent : : occur : : negligently : : : : : :,, :, :,, matter : : : :, : negotiated : negotiations : occurred : : :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company : : :, : : : plead : : : pleading :, please : : places : plaintiff : : : : : plane : : : : platform :, : :,, : : plenty : plus : point :, pro : probably : : problem : : : problems : proceed :, process : : :, : :,,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : product : : : : :, :, :,, pointed : : people : : pointing : police : : perfectly : policy : : programs : promise : proper : : : : : : : :, :, P : : : : : P page : : pages : paragraph : : :,, paragraphs : : parallel : Pardon : : : part : : :,, particular : occurring : occurs : : October : odd : oddball : offer : : Oh : : oil : okay : : : : : :, omissions : : : :, : : :,, open :, opera :,, operates : operating : particularly : parts : party : pass : : :, : : : operation : : passage : : : : : : : operations : passengers : operator : pay : : opinion : : pending : opportunities : opportunity : period : opposed : person : oral : :,, personal : : : : : :,, : order : : : : : : : : ordinary : : : ought : : outside : : : : : overall : overlapping : overseas :, owe : owes : personam :, Personenverkehr : : perspective : pertinent : pervasive : Petitioner :, :, : : Phaneuf : Philippines :, Official phrase : : Pimentel : place : :, Page  principle­agent purchase : : principles : : : :, : : : print : : : : private :, : : : : : : : : : : : : purchased : : : : : purchasing : :, :, : : : purpose : : purposefully : : : purposefully­ava... :,, purposes : : :, : pursued : put : : :, putting : : Q question :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : :,,,, : : : : :, : : : questions :, : : : : : R R : railroad : : : : : : : : :,, railroads : railway : reach : : reached : : : : : : position :, property :, propose :, : : : proposition : potential : : Potentially : preceded : : :, presence : presented : pretty : : prevail : : :,, prevents : principle : : protect : : protections : protocol : : :,, provided : : : provides : : provision :, : : puddle : Alderson Reporting Company Official ruled : run : : running : : seen :, :,, : seizing : :, : : : : runs : S S : :, : : Sachs : : : : safe : :, : sale : : : : : : : : : : : San : Saudi :, : : : : saw : saying : : : : : : : says : : selection : :,,, sell : : seller : : selling : : : : sells : send : sense : : : sensible : sensitive : sentence : separate : : separating : serious : serves : service : set : : : sets : settings : : Scalia :,, showed : side : : : : : shoes : : : :, : : : : :, :, : : side's : sides : : :,, sight : : :, sign : : : : significant : : :, :, : similar : : Page  : slip : :, small : sold : solely : somebody : : : somewhat : : sorry : : :, : : :, sort : : sorts : SOTOMAYOR : :, :, : :,, : sounds : : sovereign : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, :,, : :,, :, : :,, sovereigns : space : special : specially­tailored : specific :, : :, :, : :,, :, : :, :, :, : :, : : : Sotomayor's : read : : require :, :, reading : : real : : realized : really : : : :, : :, reason : : reasons : : : : : : required : requirement : requirements : requires : : :, reserving : respect :, : : : : respects : rebuttal : : Respondent : : : : : : : : : recharacterize : recognize : : : recognized : record : recruitment : : : : : referred : referring : :, : refers : : refused : : regard : relate : related : : relates : : relations : relationship : :, : :, : : relevant : : relied : remaining : remand : : remember : : : response : result :, : resulted : : reversal : : : reversed : rides : right : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : : : : : :, : : : rise : : : : :, :, : : ROBERTS : : :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : : rough : routinely : rendering : Report : : RP : RPE : Rule : : Republic :, :, scenario : : : second :, : : : Secondly : section : : :,,, : :, see : : : : simply :, single : : : : : : : : : : specifically : speculation : spends : sphere : split : : stage : : : situations : situation : Alderson Reporting Company Official statue : statute : : :, : : : : : : : : : : support : : supporting : : : supports : : statutory : suppose : : stairs : stand : : standard : :, standards : : standing : Stanford : start : : : : step : started : : steps : starting : state : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : straight : : street : strict : strong : structure : study : sub :,, subject :, : :,, : : : :, : :, supposed : Supreme :, sure : : : : : : : sustain : : Switzerland : : : synonymous : system : substantial­context takes : : take : : : : : : T : substantial :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : state's : stated : states :,, : : :, : : : :, :,,,, : :,, submitted :, T :, :, :, :,,, :, :, : : : : :,,, : : : :,, : :,, : : :, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : :,, : : station : stations : substantive : sue :, : sued : : suffice : sufficient : : : suggests : suing :, : : : : suit : : : : : : : : : terrible : suggest : : suggesting : suits : : : takeoff : : talked : talking : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, :,, :,, : : : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : thinking : : : : : : talks : teeth : tell : : tend : term : : : terms : : third : :, : territorial :, : thought : : : : territory : : : territory­based : test :,, :, : :,, :,, : : : : :,,, : :, tests : Thank : : : :, : theoretically : theory : they'd : thing : :,, : : : : :, : :, : : things : : Page  : : three : : three­step :, ticket : : : :,,,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : :, : : : : : : : ticket's : tickets :,,, : : : : : tie : : time : : : times : today : : think : : : : : : told : : : :, tort :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, :,,, : : : tortious : : torts : : : : : :, : : totally : touch : train : : :, : : :,, : :, trains : : transportation : :, Alderson Reporting Company : : : x :, : :, X Y Official transporter : travel : : treat : treated : : : treaties : treating : treaty : : tried : tries : trouble : troubles : true : : : : :, : : truly : trying : : : : : turn : turns : two : : : warn :,,, :, : :, : : : : :,, :, :, :,,, :, :, : : : :, : : :,,, warrant :, : :,, warranting : : :,, warranty :, : : : :, :,, :, :, :,, : :,, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :,, : :,, : ways : : : Washington :, wasn't : way :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : unsafe : :, : : unusual : : : : use : : : : typical :, : uses : : : U utmost : utterly : U.S : : : V We'll : we're : : :, : : : : : :, : we've :,, : weight : : : : : Uh­huh : UN : : underlie : understand : :, : : : : : : understands : understood : : : unique :, : Weltover : went : v : : : variety : various : : weren't : versus : win :, Vienna :, word : :, : :, wording :,, : : view : violated : virtual : virtually : W words : : : : : : : work :,, :, works : world : : worried : : worth : would've : United :,, waiver : : : :, : Walden : :, :, :,,,, want : : : : : Page  wouldn't : ­odd : : : : : : : : : : wrong : wrongful : : : :, : : : yeah : : :, York :,, Z : : : : : : : (b)() : : : : ­ : : : : : (c) :, : : : : ­some­odd : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company CERTIFICATION , Inc., hereby certifies that the attached pages represent an accurate transcription of electronic sound recording of the oral argument before the Supreme Court of The United States in the Matter of: OBB PERSONENVERKEHR AG, Petitioner v. CAROL P. SACHS and that these attached pages constitute the original transcript of the proceedings for the records of the Court. REPORTER 