 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  TYSON FOODS, INC.,                   :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          PEG BOUAPHAKEO, ET AL.,               INDIVIDUALLY AND ON                  BEHALF OF ALL OTHERS                  SIMILARLY SITUATED.                 : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor           General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for          United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting Respondents                              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Tyson Foods v.         Bouaphakeo.             Mr. Phillips.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER C. PHILLIPS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  This Court has made clear that class actions        are only appropriate when the plaintiff's proof is        tailored to their specific theory of liability in a way           that allows class­wide injury to be determined in one         stroke, and that the lower courts must engage in a          rigorous analysis in order to demonstrate that fact.                    In this Federal Fair Labor Standards Act,       the plaintiffs were allowed to pursue a class of more           than employees who occupied job ­­ more than          jobs which required widely differing amounts of time to         perform their donning, doffing, and washing tasks.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, is that so?       Because as far as I understand this, there was some           donning and doffing that was common, that is, there was          some sanitation and some protective gear that they all         Alderson Reporting Company Official had to wear. And then there was a difference between            the night ­­ knife wielders and the others, but they          weren't all that different. So in one case, one wore           mesh aprons, and in the other case, rubber aprons. It           didn't seem to be that wide disparity.                   MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there ­­ there are a         number of answers to that, Justice Ginsburg.                   First of all, if you ­­ if you just look at           the activities that Dr. Mericle specifically testified       about, for certain activities, he found some employees        who take seconds to get dressed and others who took           more than minutes to get dressed ­­                               in ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but you didn't ­­       MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ in certain circumstances       JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ the statistical      mechanism of your own, you didn't have a Daubert          objection to the testimony, and you suggest in your         brief that uninjured plaintiffs are included in       aggregate damages, but you were the one that objected to          a bifurcated trial. And so far as uninjured plaintiffs          recovering, that has to be determined on remand anyway.         I ­­ I just don't understand your arguments.                     MR. PHILLIPS: There are a number of         questions embedded in there, Justice Kennedy.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             The ­­ the first one is ­­ and we objected          all along to having this class certified on the basis          that there were a wide range of ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yeah, but once you lose        that, you have also other defenses: Your own expert, a           Daubert objection, et cetera.                MR. PHILLIPS: But Justice Kennedy, we don't        have to bring forward an expert. What we did in this            case is we ­­ we cross­examined both their ­­ the named           plaintiffs, the four named plaintiffs who testified, and        demonstrated two things about that.                 One, that in general, they way overestimated       their own time; and two, none of their times were          remotely the same as Dr. Mericle's time. So we proved           that.             Second, we cross­examined Dr. Mericle about      his testimony and demonstrated again that his methods        were completely haphazard and scattered, and therefore       couldn't demonstrate.              And this notion that you patch over the        entirety of these problems simply by averaging all of         the times of all of these employees is simply the kind           of shortcut this Court has ­­ has rejected in the past           in both Comcast and Wal­Mart.                 I'm sorry, Justice.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Phillips, I'm      completely at a loss as to what you're complaining          about. That's exactly what you did.                   And what this expert did ­­ I mean, as far           as I could tell, between your expert that you used to            calculate "gang time" and "K­time" did exactly the same         thing this expert did. You came out with a lower            number, but you used fewer people. At least their          expert used hundreds of people instead of the few that          you did. I'm ­­ I'm just completely at a loss.                        Would you suggest that if one plaintiff came        into court, that he could not use the ­­ this expert to            prove his case circumstantially to show that in fact,         the average is this, and he doesn't really know how much           time he took? When he does it now, it may be minutes              instead of ?               MR. PHILLIPS: Justice Sotomayor, I would ­­        I would ­­ yes. I would categorically reject that,           because that's no more different than Employee A coming          into court and saying I don't know what I worked, but             Employee B, who does vastly different activities ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, no, no. But they         know what they worked. They know that people were          working over hours because there were time records         with respect to that.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             What you're basically saying is that Mt.       Clemens is completely wrong. You can't estimate your         time when the employer doesn't keep records.                   MR. PHILLIPS: We ­­ we don't have any         quarrel with Mt. Clemens the way it was written. The           Mt. Clemens made ­­ makes a very clear divide between           what needs to be proven, what the plaintiff's burden is          to demonstrate that he or she has worked beyond the          ­hour work week, and then what happens if        that's proof ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There were time records       to that effect here.                MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But there were a lot           of people who didn't work beyond the hours.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. There were       ­and­something­odd people that their expert showed      didn't work above hours. The jury knew about those.                       MR. PHILLIPS: And ­­ and the jury rejected         Dr. Mericle's averaging of ­­ of ­­ and ­­             and a half and minutes, and we don't know what the             impact of that is.                What we do know is that Fox calculated that         a mere three minutes' departure from Mericle's numbers        dropped the damages award by $. million, and dropped         the number of plaintiffs out by close to .         Alderson Reporting Company Official             So Justice Kennedy, the small differences      make a big difference in ­­ in this particular case.                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go back to        Justice Sotomayor's basic question, that is, when the        government sued Tyson or Tyson's predecessor and got an         injunction ­­                         MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ what Tyson's did, it        had its own industrial engineer observe the workers as         they were donning and doffing their gear, and that         expert averaged the times that they spent. And it seems           to me that the plaintiff's expert here is doing exactly          the same thing that Tyson's expert did when the         government was bringing ­­               MR. PHILLIPS: And in some ways,       Justice Ginsburg, that explains why we didn't bring the         Daubert motion that Justice Kennedy asked about because        the methodology isn't inherently flawed. The problem        with the methodology is it's applied to the theory of          liability in this case.                It's one thing for an employer to say, look,         we're entitled under the Department of Labor regulations        to average, as a mechanism for trying to avoid the kind            of picayune details and discrepancies that the Court        identified in Mt. Clemens and said those can be         Alderson Reporting Company Official disregarded as mere trifles, we're allowed to do that.         And the effect of what we, in fact, did hear was to            round up in order to provide more time to people than           they might otherwise have gotten.                 And indeed, if you go to the pre­ period         when you're talking about the people who just put on the           normal sanitary clothing, they were ­­ they were all         given four minutes of K­time when they ­­ it took them           all of about seconds to do that.                    So the idea that we could overcompensate       somebody using those kinds of data is one thing, but          that's a vast difference from saying that in order to ­­           to maintain as ­­ under a rigorous analysis the idea           that this can proceed as a class when all you've got is             averaging across the widest imaginable range of ­­ of         employees performing different tasks with different      requirements, and indeed, although I don't think ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Phillips, you say the        question is whether it can proceed as a class. But it             seems as though that's really not the question in this          case because of Mt. Clemens; and what Mt. Clemens does          is to suggest that certain kinds of statistical evidence         are completely appropriate in FLSA cases generally, even        if they're brought by the government, or even if they're          brought by a single person.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             And so the question that you really are        putting before us is not a Rule question, it's a            question of whether this sort of evidence complies with         the Mt. Clemens standard; isn't that right?                   MR. PHILLIPS: No. I would go ­­ I would             actually go at it the other way. I would say that the              first question is: Can you use this kind of averaging           in a ­­ in a run mine­case period under Rule ? And it                seems to me the answer to that has to be no, that            this ­­ this simply papers over the problems of the          class.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But the Rule inquiry,        Mr. Phillips, is always dependent on what the        substantive law is.               is ­­             MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And then the question         JUSTICE KAGAN: That was true in Halliburton        where we said, look, if we didn't have the basic          presumption, we would think of this as very        individualized.                         MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: But we have the basic        presumption, so the proof is not individualized.                   And the same thing, it seems to me, is true          here because of the Mt. Clemens inquiry.       Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Where it says if the                                employer hasn't kept the appropriate records, even a        single plaintiff can prove the amount of work done         through the use of statistical ­­                 MR. PHILLIPS: That's not what Mt. Clemens        says, Justice Kagan. Mt. Clemens says that it's the          burden on the employee to demonstrate that he or she          worked the requisite hours in order to get past .          Once you got past in determining exactly what the          damages would be, at that point it was reasonable         because we hadn't ­­ because ­­ because Mt. Clemens         hadn't maintained records to go ahead and give the         plaintiff a pass. It's the same ­­ it's the Story            parchments test all over again.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: I can't see how that account          of Mt. Clemens would make most ­­ much sense. You're           suggesting that a person past can produce the          statistical evidence, but if I worked / hours and           all of this overtime is going to push me over , the            Mt. Clemens presumption wouldn't be available to me?                    MR. PHILLIPS: I think that's exactly the         line the Court drew in Mt. Clemens. It's the line that            the Court has consistently drawn in antitrust cases,        from parchment.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you've changed your       theory. Question , as you presented in the petition          for certiorari, whether the class may be certified if it          had members who were not injured. Then you changed          that. Page of your brief, you say that the plaintiff            must demonstrate a mechanism to show that. So now           you're talking about ­­ about the mechanism.                   So the ­­ so the case has been argued on          different theories at ­­ at many points, and it seems to           me Justice Kagan is precisely right. You said, well, I           want to start first with class action.                   She said, no, no. The point is we start          with Mt. Clemens. That's the substantive law for FSLA.                      MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure. I mean, you can            go at it either way. But at the end of the day,             obviously, what ­­ as I started ­­ as I started my             remarks, is ­­ is that the Court ­­ is that the           plaintiffs are obliged to demonstrate that a class works          on the basis of the substantive liability that they have          to ­­ burden that they have to assume ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Right. So Mt. Clemens says         exactly this. I'll read it. I think it's correct.            "Where" ­­ "Where an employee's records of time worked         are," quote, "'inaccurate or inadequate'" ­­ that's your        case, right? ­­ "then the employee attempting to bring a          Alderson Reporting Company Official claim can show time worked by producing sufficient        evidence to show the amount and extent of that work as a            matter of just and reasonable inference."                                          That's what it says to do.      MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And then it says the        employer can't complain that the damages lack the        exactness and precision of measurement that would be        possible had he kept records. But he didn't. So they            used some statistics to show it. What's wrong with          that?             MR. PHILLIPS: There are two answers to        there. The premise ­­ the first part of that sentence           is, if he proves that he has, in fact, performed work           for which he was improperly compensated.                              JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MR. PHILLIPS: None of these employee ­­ a         huge number of these employees have not made that         showing.             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they did through       statistics. I mean ­­                             MR. PHILLIPS: No. They ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, you say an         antitrust case. Okay. Let's imagine an antitrust case.          There's an agreement among sneaker manufacturers to use        Alderson Reporting Company Official shoddy material. And large customers, distributors buy        these shoddy materials. They're hurt. How much are          they hurt? It depends on how many sneakers their          employees used and when and so forth.                   There is no way people don't keep sneaker        records, so what we do is we hire a statistician to use             sampling. And if he's a good statistician and uses           sampling correctly, we have probably a better measure         than if we asked the employees to go back and remember           how many sneakers they wore and what days and what hours            years ago.               MR. PHILLIPS: But Justice Breyer, your ­­       your entire hypothetical is premised on the fact that         they had already shown that they were injured in the          first ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, some of them, it        might turn out, actually did not wear sneakers during         the period of time that the conspiracy has been shown to           exist. But we didn't know that at the beginning because           we thought we could prove a conspiracy from January to           December, but we only ended up proving it from January          until June. Now, there we have it. We put them in the              class to begin with because we thought we could prove          injury. As it turns out, we can't.                    Now, I ­­ I've never heard that you had to           Alderson Reporting Company Official be able to know exactly how you're going to win your           case when you form the class action because you don't          know quite what the proof will be. I mean, isn't that             how class actions work?                                        MR. PHILLIPS: No, because ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?     MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ because there's a ­­ I          mean, the class certification decision is still open        until the final ­­ until a final judgment is rendered by            the district court. So the district court has a          continuing responsibility in the face of challenges to        the class certification to consider decertifying the       class. And we raised ­­ and we raised that issue right            after Wal­Mart.              JUSTICE BREYER: But why decertify the       class? If we've shown or we do show the conspiracy           lasted from January until June, not through December?        Some people will recover; other people will not recover.         Can't we wait until the evidence is presented before we          tell the people who didn't ­­                             MR. PHILLIPS: But see, the problem ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ buy the sneakers, then        you don't recover?               MR. PHILLIPS: The ­­ the problem with        this ­­ and this would raise exactly the same Comcast          Alderson Reporting Company Official problem ­­ is my guess is your expert testified about          the conspiracy that lasted through the entire period.        And for whatever reason the jury rejected it, just as it           rejected Mericle in this case. And now you're stuck in           a situation where you've got this huge judgment where we          knew there were and some people who ­­ but now we            know there are more than a thousand plaintiffs.                     And ­­ and Justice Kennedy, we didn't shift        the ­­ the answer. Our answer was this is invalid           because there are so many defendant ­­ plaintiffs ­­ who          are ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.       I'm having  difficulty understanding your point. There       are records,  aren't there, of how many hours they worked         without donning and doffing the equipment at issue,        correct?                         MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, there are.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.       So I thought    that Dr. Mericle's using those actual records figured        out how many people worked over hours.                    MR. PHILLIPS: But ­­ but only because ­­        she didn't do that to say who's over . I mean, she              obviously identified some who weren't. But she took         Mericle's average numbers, / and and ­­ and          slotted them in when nobody worked / and          minutes. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you didn't have an        expert to say that?                MR. PHILLIPS: We didn't need an expert to         say that. We had our industrial engineer who said ­­          and the ­­ and the Federal government's industrial        engineer said the same thing for four minutes.                                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Jury rejected ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Is there any way at this         point to determine which employees were actually injured        and which ones were not? Because I ­­ I gathered             because the jury rejected the full verdict that was         requested by the plaintiffs, they did not accept        Dr. Mericle's testimony regarding the amount of time        needed to don and doff for employees in various         categories. And without knowing that, I don't see how           you can at this point ­­ I'll ­­ I'll ask Mr. Frederick            the same question ­­ how you can separate the employees          who were injured from the employees who were not         injured.             MR. PHILLIPS: It ­­ it's impossible to do         that. And ­­ and Fox, who was their expert who           testified on the damages, was very clear about that         because it's not linear. So that if ­­ if it turns out             that some period of time drops, the number of employees          who fall below the ­hour threshold plus the ­­ plus          Alderson Reporting Company Official the K­code time will drop.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the briefs are like        two ships passing in the night on this point. The           Respondent is going to say this is for remand, or am I            wrong about that?               MR. PHILLIPS: I would be shocked if he's          prepared to accept a remand. I mean, I'm delighted if             he wants that.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Aren't there further      proceedings?                         MR. PHILLIPS: I don't ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Aren't there further      proceedings in this case?                            Your Honor.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: It ­­ it was a lump sum.           MR. PHILLIPS: It was a lump sum judgment,          JUSTICE KAGAN: And now that has to be         distributed. So there are going to be further         proceedings to distribute that lump sum judgment.                   MR. PHILLIPS: It is far from clear how it's          going to be ­­ how it's going to be dealt with at this             point other than on a pro rata basis. That's what            Judge ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that has to be        determined in the trial court.     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that has to be                                determined in the trial court.                  MR. PHILLIPS: It's far from clear what the        trial court ­­                          JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Phillips ­­     MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ if the trial court has any          intention to do anything with this other than to accept          the check.              JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand. You ­­         you can get a class certified, some of whom have not            been injured at all, and wait until the conclusion of          the trial for the trial court to determine who has not           been injured?              MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you can't do that. And          the truth ­­ I mean, no. The answer to that is no; and               second, you couldn't do it anyway.                              JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ class to begin with.        MR. PHILLIPS: But you can't ­­ you can't         unscramble this egg at this point. It's impossible.         You've got to ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: You have conceded that       the initial certification was okay because at that time,         we didn't know which ones ­­                 MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I wouldn't say we         Alderson Reporting Company Official conceded that. Obviously, we ­­ we filed an opposition          to their motion to certify, and we brought forth dozens          of supervisors who testified about the ­­ the myriad         jobs and the ­­ and the wide range of donning and           doffing requirements for them, and said that under the         circumstances, this is not an appropriate case to        proceed as a class.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't you say that        in general, a class could be certified going in, even           though at that point, we don't know?                   MR. PHILLIPS: No. No. We ­­ I mean, we ­­             in general, we say classes can be certified. I mean, I             think you could have certified a walking time class in           this case.              JUSTICE BREYER: I'm still having the same        problem. When I heard Justice Scalia's question, I          thought the answer is of course you can put in your           class people whom, it will turn out, are not hurt. I            have a class of people who were hurt by a price­fixing             conspiracy that lasted from January to December. That's         what I said. I have good reason to think it. But I                prove it only lasted until June. That's a failure of            proof. Half of them were not hurt, okay? So we don't             pay them.              MR. PHILLIPS: But the ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: I thought that's the most         common thing in the world. Am I wrong? Is it not?                          MR. PHILLIPS: But the problem is ­­ yes,         you are, Justice Breyer, because the problem there is         the expert who testified to the conspiracy would have         assumed that the conspiracy covered the entire time        of ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: That's right.     MR. PHILLIPS: ­­ proof. And, therefore,        the damages number that that expert will put forward         will be a vastly larger number than what the jury comes            back in based on the ­­ on the finding that there was a             shorter conspiracy.                          JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MR. PHILLIPS: And there's no way to know         who was injured in that context and who was not injured           in that context.                           to pay.              a way.                          JUSTICE KAGAN: But there ­­     MR. PHILLIPS: You can't identify the people        JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Phillips, there is        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Sotomayor.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do you have       standing? I mean ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. PHILLIPS: Because ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the jury, obviously,                               rejected something. It obviously was told to exclude         people who were not entitled, and it did it. You didn't            object to a ­­ the failure to have ­­ you objected to             proposing interrogatories. So this has invited errors;        it sounds like invited error.                 But, finally, how do you have standing ­­                   MR. PHILLIPS: Respondent didn't raise that.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ to argue that the        issue of who gets part of that money?                    MR. PHILLIPS: Phillips Petroleum says we       clearly have standing to do that because ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?                MR. PHILLIPS: Because our concern is that        we ­­ that ­­ that the class be bound by whatever           judgment comes out of this. And if it turns out that            this class has been improperly treated so that there are          a substantial number of ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You tell me, except for        those people ­­              MR. PHILLIPS: Plaintiffs.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ who opted out, there        are people who opted in?                 MR. PHILLIPS: The Fair Labor Standards Act        Alderson Reporting Company Official people opted in, yes, Your Honor.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Opted in.     So you know all of the people who are bound,          all the people who've opt ­­ who were ­­ who opted in.                                    MR. PHILLIPS: No, no.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why do you have to         know whether ­­ there can't be more.                   MR. PHILLIPS: No, no, no, no, no. It's ­­          it's quite possible that there are people who have         been ­­ who have been undercompensated because of this         particular scheme, and who could claim that because they         weren't allowed to participate, their due process rights        were violated ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They were allowed to       participate; they just didn't opt in.                  MR. PHILLIPS: Well others ­­ but others        didn't ­­ that's ­­ that's true, but the ­­ but the           bottom line here remains the same, which is, they are          absent class members whose interests were ­­ may ­­ may          have not been fully protected, and the only question         there is do we have standing to raise this issue,          which ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've never heard of a        case where absent class members are somehow bound by a          judgment in this case, when they didn't opt in. I hope             Alderson Reporting Company Official that ­­ I thought that was the whole purpose of not            opting in, so you're not bound by this judgment.                     MR. PHILLIPS: If it's a class judgment and          you ­­ and you didn't opt out ­­ I mean, there are two              different classes here, right? There is a (b)()          class, and there's the FSLA collective action, which        have now been merged in on the judgment. So there's no            reason to look at this as anything other than a (b)()            class of individuals. And, you know ­­ and their ­­ so            that means there are literally thousands of absent class         members whose ­­ who are ­­ who are either entitled to           or not entitled to damages without any ability to know          whether they were or were not injured. And therefore,          under those circumstances, what this Court said in        Phillips Petroleum is that the defendant has a right to           be sure that the mechanism by which the judgment         ultimately is entered across the entire class is such         that it ­­ that it protects us as a collateral           estoppel ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Phillips, do       you have ­­ do you have a theory as to why the jury              awarded less than half of the damages that were         requested? Did they ­­ I take it they didn't identify            particular workers.              MR. PHILLIPS: They did not identify       Alderson Reporting Company Official particular workers.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Did they ­­ did they         disagree with the minutes, minutes?                   MR. PHILLIPS: They had to have disagreed        with it, and there was good reason to do that because if            you ­­ if you take the testimony of the four named           plaintiffs, they ­­ they were significantly different       than the ­­ than the and minute times. And so             the ­­ the best evidence was, is that Mericle, by this           method of sort of ­­ of nonrandom observations of         self­selected employees, came up with widely ­­ wildly        extravagant numbers, and the jury rejected them. And it          was the plaintiffs' decision to go for the ­­ for the           entirety of the claim rather than take a more narrow           approach of maybe seeking walking time where the conduct         of the individual plaintiffs is much more homogenous.                    The problem with this is that it's very ­­        it's a vast ­­ I'm sorry.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: If I could go back to          Justice Kennedy's question at the start, because it        really was your decision not to have a bifurcated          proceeding, where it would have been clear ­­ it would          have been proved separately in a highly ministerial way          which employees worked over hours.                  And having made that decision, you're in a        Alderson Reporting Company Official position now where you're saying, oh, there's one sum ­­         there's one lump judgment; we don't know what to do with           it. But, in ­­ in essence, what's going to happen is            that it's going to go back in remand, and the judge is            going to do something that looks an awful like ­­ lot           like the bifurcation that you rejected, which is, the         Court will say, now we figure out in this highly          ministerial way who worked more than hours, and so          who is entitled to share in the judgment.                    MR. PHILLIPS: The ­­ the bifurcation that        the plaintiffs proposed, two things to say about that.                     First of all, they took it off the table         themselves, not us. We did object, but that wasn't ­­          it wasn't rejected because we ­­ we objected to it.          They ­­ they pulled bifurcation off the table. So I           don't think you can put the burden on us.                     But, second of all, the ­­ the bifurcation        they proposed was that first you were going to decide          whether Mericle is right or not, and that means whether           and a half and can be averaged across your class.             And then the second part was going to be Fox testifying           about how to slot that in.                  Well, that's not ­­ that's not going to ­­        it may help with respect to the ­­ to the uninjured ­­           to the injured class members, but it would not have          Alderson Reporting Company Official remotely helped with the more fundamental question of        the inadequacy of this as a class action device where           you patch over the problems of this ­­ of this class by            simply averaging everything together.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But it ­­ it absolutely        helps with the question, your second question presented,        which is this point that you are making that there might           be some people who didn't work hours, who would          nonetheless get money. And it absolutely helps for         that. It takes care of the entire problem.                     That leaves you with only your first       question presented ­­                          MR. PHILLIPS: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ which is this question        about was the class too varied. And on that, I have to              go back to this ­­ to this issue of, it's not a class              issue. It's an FLSA issue under Mt. Clemens as to           whether this kind of statistical evidence could have        been presented.              MR. PHILLIPS: And ­­ and my answer to the          Mt. Clemens one, which, obviously, I'm not persuading        you on, is that if ­­ the way I read Mt. Clemens, it              says, you don't go to fair and reasonable inference         on ­­ on the liability phase. You only do that on the             damages phase. And I would still argue here that even            Alderson Reporting Company Official if you use Mt. ­­ the fair and reasonable inference          standard, it won't be satisfied by what Mericle did         here, because it's one thing to ­­ to do some kind of            sampling. It's another thing to say, I'm going to take           wildly different, seconds versus minutes and        average everybody across the plant without any effort to         be more tailored in our approach than that, Your Honors.                        I would like to reserve the balance of my        time.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Frederick.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   Let me start with your question, Justice       Kennedy, because there absolutely will be remand       proceedings on the presumption that you affirm the        judgment of the Eighth Circuit so that the money can be           allocated, and we know the names of every single person          who would be entitled to an award based on a very long             spreadsheet that Dr. Fox compiled in conjunction with        Dr. Mericle's analysis.               And so you're right, Justice Kagan, that       there is a pot of money based on the jury verdict that             Alderson Reporting Company Official will be allocated, assuming that the Court affirms the         class certification judgment.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there is no question        the money can be divided up. The question is whether it            can be divided up between those who were actually         injured and those who were not actually injured.                    So suppose you have ­­ if you have three         employees, one worked ­­ one was ­­ one was given credit           for working hours a week, one was given credit for            working hours a week, one was given credit for           working hours a week. Without knowing how much           additional time the ­­ each employee is entitled to, you          can't tell which one of those, which, if any, of them           was injured, and you can't tell how much additional time          the employees were entitled to without knowing what the         jury did with Dr. Mericle's statistics.                  So that's why I ­­ I don't see how this can             be done in other than a very slap­dash fashion.                      MR. FREDERICK: Well, there are two ways,        and I would submit that they ­­ neither is slap­dash.           Ordinarily, we would defer to jury verdicts, and we         would say that if the jury evaluated the evidence within          the realm of what was presented at trial, that is going           to get special deference in our legal system.                    So when those monies get allocated,      Alderson Reporting Company Official ordinarily a district judge is going to do so on a basis              either of pro rata for all of those ­­ all of those            plaintiffs who were found to be injured, and the who           were identified by name, by Dr. Fox, Tyson knew about          them before trial, did not move for summary judgment as          to those , could have easily severed them right out          before this case went to the jury.                   The second way is that Dr. Fox did an         analysis using Mericle's averages and then added them to         the number of minutes worked by the particular employee,         and so based on that, a vast number got above the            ­hour threshold.              Now, the evidence at trial that it came in         by Tyson's own witnesses was that the average worker         worked hours per week before you even got to any of            the counting of the donning and doffing, and that the          plant ran on Saturdays percent of the time, which          would be a ­day work week.                   And so the evidence as the jury was        considering it found the vast majority of the class         members were already going to be in overtime status, and          that's why the fulcrum of the case came down to whether           putting on this gear, which was standard sanitary gear         for every single worker in the class, was compensable or          not. We're ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, we don't       know why the jury reduced the requested damages by ­­         gave less than half. I mean, it could have been because             they thought the evidence on the ones who just put on           smocks or whatever as opposed to the ones who had the           mesh Armour ­­ you see, I don't believe what you said            about the ones who don't put on the mesh Armour, so           we're going to give zero dollars on that.                    But I believe the ­­ the validity of your ­­          the experts' testimony on the ones who put on the mesh           Armour, so we're going to award that. Or maybe they           thought, you know, they would just discount the whole         thing, or ­­ you know, we don't know why.                     So because they used average statistics over       varying jobs with ­­ even your expert admitted varying         times, depending upon the classes, there's no way to         tell whether everybody who's going to get money was         injured or not.               MR. FREDERICK: Well, and Tyson had an        opportunity to ask for more specific instructions. In         fact, their instructions were the ones that ended up         governing the trial. So to the extent that they had a            complaint ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if you have ­­        you have ­­ I understand that, but do you have a            Alderson Reporting Company Official substantive answer? Because it's one thing for us to          write an opinion saying this is a horrible problem, but           they didn't ask for instructions, so don't worry about         it.                         MR. FREDERICK: Well, I don't ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's another thing.       We need to know whether we should address the ­­ the           mechanism by which this was presented to the jury, and          then we can deal separately with a waiver issue.                      MR. FREDERICK: Yeah. Well, on the        substantive part, Mr. Chief Justice, let me say this.         That in all these instances where there is a challenge           between an aggregation or something where you could ask         the jury for a more particularized decision, there's         always a tactical and a strategic decision that the           counsel on both sides are making and the parties on both           sides.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That sounds like the        same answer you gave before.                             MR. FREDERICK: No, but ­­ but ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a       substantive? Yes. We could say, okay, the problem is           they didn't ask for a special verdict. They didn't           divide it between the people who were engaged in         different functions than the killers, stunners.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FREDERICK: Substantively, the way this       is handled typically is that you would do a pro rata            distribution of the jury proceeds to the members who are          found to have been injured. That's the substantive         answer. We have it the way ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: But I'm actually puzzled by        the same thing. So put yourself in my puzzlement.          The ­­ there is a green room, a yellow room, and a blue                room, all right? Now, we discover with our statistical          experts that in the green room, doffing and donning,         those people on average ­­ some more, some less ­­ but           the sampling shows it's half an hour. In the blue room,            it's minutes. In the yellow room, it's minutes.           So, we add those three numbers on to green room, yellow           room, and blue room people. And we get a number.                        Now, that number in individual cases will be        wrong, but that's what averaging is about. And if there           is no other proof in the case, well, is that good           enough?             MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me ­­ let me         address that question in this way because I do want           to ­­             issue?             JUSTICE BREYER: Is that the substantive       MR. FREDERICK: I ­­ I think it is not.            Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.    MR. FREDERICK: Because we ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Then skip it.                                                      (Laughter.)             MR. FREDERICK: Because we had additional       information testimony.              And Mr. Chief Justice, on the variations, I        think it's important to take into account what actually         is going on with these Dr. Mericle observations about         the seconds versus the minutes. What Dr. Mericle           observed using the videotape in the men's locker room         was that some of the men put their gear on in the locker             room, and then they went down to the line. That might            take them minutes to do.                  Some of the men put on part of the         equipment, and then they carried the rest. And they put           it on while they were walking to the production line or           while they were on the production line itself. And they           were not counted.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And I suppose some         of them like to chat while they're putting on the          equipment, and others are more down to, you know, let's          get this on as quickly as possible. And ­­ and some of             them have different sorts of jobs that require different         sorts of equipment.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FREDERICK: And that's what the district        court rejected. The district court said there was not          evidence to support that, that the ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there was not        evidence to support that they'd have different equipment        that they put on?                MR. FREDERICK: It was minimal. What the         district court and what the court of appeals found was          that the differences in equipment were ­­ were minimal,         and that they would not drive the difference. And what           Dr. Mericle testified ­­ and this is at ­ ­­ to             of the Joint Appendix ­­ he explained that the          donning and doffing was occurring in different places        and that what they argued about this       ­second­to­­minute difference was, in fact, not an       accurate depiction of the actual time that it took.         Because the time clustered around the average; that was         his testimony. And that if you took into account the           fact that they might be doing it in different places,          you then see why averaging works.                  And the reason averaging works is because       the workers were rotating among different assignments.       Some of them might start the day in a non­knife           capacity, and so putting on all the protective gear         before they started their shift didn't make sense. They          Alderson Reporting Company Official would carry it to the production line. They would be           pulled off the production line, told you're going to be          in a knife capacity, get your gear on. They would put             their gear on at that time.                  So when Dr. Mericle is observing in the        locker room how long it takes for people to put their           gear on and take it off, he's not counting, he's not ­­           he's not counting ­­ he's not taking into account the          variations in the work style mandated by the company.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so your ­­        your submission is that, in fact ­­ well, what ­­ what           about and ? You must have thought there was some            difference.             MR. FREDERICK: Well, they were walking to a         different part, and they were divided into ­­ they did          have additional equipment in that one. But we divided          them by departments, and we can identify the employees         in the two different departments.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so the        variation that is ­­ at least troubled some of us,           seconds, minutes, you're saying it's not because the         ­second person is actually going to spend /          minutes at the end of the walk, and the ­minute person           spent all the time at the beginning of the walk, and           there's no difference between the people who clean up         Alderson Reporting Company Official and the people who actually slaughter the hogs because         the clean­up people are going to slaughter the hogs at          four hours at the end of the shift. And the ­­                       MR. FREDERICK: There was rotation among ­­       and their own witness testified to that effect. That's          at JA . He said they rotated quite frequently. And            what he was explaining was that you might start on a           particular assignment ­­ and ­­ and Dr. Mericle is         taking a two­day snapshot, right? He's looking at          video. And the ­­ the workers themselves were         testifying that the actual donning and doffing basically        clustered around the average. That's what Dr. Mericle         observed.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so we        should ­­ again, there's a ­­ a basic issue that's            presented, but you're saying in addition to avoiding it         because of the objection is their lack of objections at          all, we should not be reaching the substantive issue         because, in fact, there was no variation in the time?                      MR. FREDERICK: That's what the ­­ both        courts below found. And ­­ and so when you are based            with a factual record here that comes up here with both            courts below, the ordinary presumption, particularly in       a jury context, is you're going to interpret the facts          in the light most supportive ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it an argument that if         the employer wants to be quite conscientious about        complying with FLSA, the employer has to take some         averages. It has to say, we're going to give X minutes             for donning and doffing on this line, X minutes ­­ and            the second part of that question is, how much of this           case turns on the fact that the employer did not keep           adequate records?              MR. FREDERICK: Well, had this ­­ had the         employer kept records, this would be a completely easy          case for class certification purposes because every       single issue would be done by common proof.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can the employer be       charged with not keeping adequate records by not        following every single person every part of that        person's day? You spend four hours on this line, four           hours on that line. You have to ­­ you have to put on a               certain kind of doffing.                Can the employer really keep records for       every single employee?               MR. FREDERICK: It's actually simpler than       that, Justice Kennedy. It's where you place the time          clock. Had they put the punch clock right outside the           locker room so that the workers, as soon as they went in            the locker room, punched in, this problem would have         Alderson Reporting Company Official been eliminated. Because at that point, when they were          putting on the protective gear, the sanitary gear, and         then they are walking ­­ and the walking is uniform for           all class members. The sanitary gear is all uniform for           all class workers.               So when they're putting on their equipment       in the locker room, if they punched in, the company has           satisfied the FLSA and this problem goes away. And then           the question is, is the walking and donning and doffing          work? And that's what the trial was all about.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Many workers put on gear        other than sanitary gear. What you say is true: The            sanitary gear is the same for all workers. But some of            them wear, what, chain mail to protect them from the          knives, right? And ­­ and some of them wear other           protective gear. And that's what is claimed to create          the discrepancy.              MR. FREDERICK: Right. But if you take the          sanitary ­­ I'm just saying, if you ­­ for the question           of commonality and predominance, which I'm trying to        address the first question ­­ the sanitary gear is all          the same for everybody. The walking is all the same for            everybody.             And then the question is, can you use        averaging because of the peculiarities of the fact that         Alderson Reporting Company Official the doffing of this ­­ basically, the same gear was          occurring in three different places: in the locker         room, walking down to the production line, and on the          production line itself.               JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't ­­ I don't think           your ­­ your friend will agree that it's basically the          same gear.              that.             MR. FREDERICK: Well, I wouldn't expect        JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's his ­­ his          point, that it's quite different gear.                  MR. FREDERICK: But the ­­ what the district         court found, and they didn't show ­­ look, we're talking          about a difference between a Kevlar belly guard and a            Plexiglas belly guard or a mesh, metal mesh belly guard.           We're talking about the same basic kinds of gear. We're           talking about different kinds of gloves.                  But those variations were presented to the       jury, found to be minor. And the district court          concluded that they were minor differences.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, the difference ­­ the        question is not whether they're ­­ whether one        protective gear is different from another, but it's        whether protective gear is different from sanitary gear.        That's the question.   Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. FREDERICK: Well, the question is ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there ­­ wasn't                               there ­­ for all of the workers, there was certain basic           equipment. There was basic sanitary gear, but there was          also basic protective gear. So the only difference         comes up with the protective gear for the knife weld.                                  MR. FREDERICK: That's ­­ that's ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: The basic protective gear       was the same for everybody.                 MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And the        knife issue was solved ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: What was that? What was         that basic protective gear that everybody ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Hard hats, ear plugs or        ear muffs, and boots.                            MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Justice Ginsburg.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What was it?                   (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's see if you        remember what she said. What was it?                    (Laughter.)             MR. FREDERICK: Hard hats, ear plugs, hair        nets, beard nets, and basic smocks.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And ­­ but the ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: And boots.     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. FREDERICK: And boots. Sorry. I forgot           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You left boots out.                    boots.                         (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But ­­ but the knife         wielders had a lot more than that.                    MR. FREDERICK: Right. But the point was,         Mr. Chief Justice, that if you were on knife duty at a            particular point in time, you were going to rotate         frequently during the course of a day or from one day to             the next, and so you were charged always to have your           gear ready to be put on if you were put in a            knife­wielding capacity.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems ­­ it seems to me          that you might concede that if this were simply a class            action under , that these problems might be a barrier           to certification, but that under Mt. Clemens you have a          special rule; is that ­­                                        MR. FREDERICK: We certainly ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that correct?      Do you ­­ do you concede that there is a          strong possibility you might not be ­­ have this class          certified under section ­­ under Rule , absent        Mt. Clemens?              MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Kennedy, I       Alderson Reporting Company Official think Mt. Clemens answers the question in this case. I           think that, given the way the evidence came in, the          averages here are reasonable ones. So even if there was           not a special Mt. Clemens rule where there's a          burden­shifting framework, the answer should be the       same.             JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So that's exactly,        perhaps, what I ­­ I read the question, the first            question. I'm taking it literally. It said, "Whether          differences among individual class members may be       ignored, liability and damages will be determined with        statistical techniques that assume everyone is like the        average."             Now, I thought the answer to that question         is yes, and it depends, of course; you have to be           reasonable. I mean, that's why you use the four rooms.            We don't know everybody in the room. What we do is we             take an average in the room. If it's a good statistical             average, why not?               Now, I want ­­ I don't want you to agree            with that if that isn't the law, but I don't see why it              isn't.             MR. FREDERICK: Well, Justice Breyer, we do        agree with that position, but we also agree with         Justice Kennedy that, because of the Mt. Clemens        Alderson Reporting Company Official framework overlay for Fair Labor Standards Act, this is         an easier case than a case in which there was not that             substantive law difference. Because if you were to take          one individual and you were to use the same evidence, it           would be representative proof; you'd have the same        burden­shifting framework. That's why all these       arguments about Dr. Mericle really are merits questions,        they're not class­certifying questions.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Frederick, I ­­ I'm         not sure that you've answered the ­­ the two substantive          questions that I see my colleagues asking, okay?                     With respect to whether you're a knife        wielder or not, if you are assigned to ­­ to bear a            knife during the day, you're going to be paid for that           time anyway because you're on the start­to­end day,        okay? So you're not going to get FSLA for that. So             it's only the people who start out the day being          required to don those outfits.                 MR. FREDERICK: Well, actually,     Justice Sotomayor, that's where I would disagree with         you, because ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 MR. FREDERICK: ­­ if ­­ if the worker,         through habit, convenience, is doffing while walking,       our study didn't double count. Our study only took into           Alderson Reporting Company Official account the walking time. So he's not going to get           credit for the fact that he's doing work by putting on           the gear while he happens to be walking.                    If he is pulled off the line during        gang­time while the hogs are going along, he does not          get extra minutes because his supervisor says, we need         you with knife so go put your gear on. He's counted as             part of gang­time at that point. And so ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Could I just ask you to          clarify something before your time runs out, because        it ­­ it's unclear to me from what you've said in your            argument.             Why did Dr. Mericle come up with one figure         for employees on the processing floor and another figure         for employees on the slaughter floor if, as I understand           you to have said this morning, all of the employees          basically do both of those tasks and spend an equal          amount of time on them, so they can all be considered           together?             MR. FREDERICK: I didn't say that, and if I           did, I was ­­ I misspoke.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that was the       impression I got from what you said.                    MR. FREDERICK: Within the department, they       would perform different tasks, some of which would        Alderson Reporting Company Official require knife and some which didn't. And it was within           the department that the averages that were being        observed we believe are fair averages, in light of the          fact that we're looking back in time, and we're trying          to recreate what happened in a ­­ in a three­year period             that, you know, was ­­ where there are no records.                      And so within the department, what the Court        found was that there was consistency, and that the         differences were minimal. The reason why there's a         three­minute difference is because one is longer. It's         a longer distance for walking to get to it, and there           is, you know, more to be done. But I want to make clear               that we ­­ we broke this down into the two different           departments because we could discern those. But I would           submit that the ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let me ask you this: If          the Court is writing an opinion of reaching the result          you want, what is the standard we put? Representative          evidence? Average evidence of injury is sufficient if?         What ­­ what do we write?                  MR. FREDERICK: I think what you write,         Justice Kennedy, is that in this context, where there         was an expert who said that the averages ­­ they          clustered around the averages, and that based on        observations where the work activity, the donning and        Alderson Reporting Company Official doffing that is contested here is occurring in three         different places, it's fair to treat the employees        because the FLSA is a remedial statute that is designed           to protect workers who can't keep these kinds of         records. That's why ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's ­­ that's a little         bit too specific for the broad standard that I'm looking          for. An average is possible if what, there's no other           way to do it? If it's an FSLA case and has a special               policy? Neither of those seem quite satisfactory to me.                      MR. FREDERICK: Well, I think every case is          going to be different, as we would all candidly         recognize, and an antitrust case is going to be         different from a labor case. And that will be different            from ­­ I think you do have to look at the substantive             context in which the averaging is going to occur so that           any deviations at least are explicable. Here ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't you also have to say         that the jury accepted the averaging? And that doesn't          seem to have happened here.                             MR. FREDERICK: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: When the jury comes in        with ­­ with less than half of ­­ of what the averaging            would have produced, how can we say that there has been           averaging? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FREDERICK: The averaging, I think you         should infer from the jury's award of damages to the          injured ­­ and it was instructed not to give damages to           the uninjured workers, and was faithfully charged with        that. The fact that it awards a lesser amount may be             based on its own doubts about the number of minutes or           the quantity.              But those kinds of calculations, I submit,        Justice Scalia, we have always deferred to juries in the          way these kinds of damages are calculated.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Prelogar.           ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELIZABETH B. PRELOGAR          ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                          SUPPORTING RESPONDENTS              MS. PRELOGAR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Justice Kennedy, I'd like to begin with your        question about the proper standard to apply here. The          government thinks it's the standard that the jury was         instructed on, and this appears at JA         to .              The jury was told in this case        could only rely on representative evidence       that they  if all of the    employees performed substantially similar     activities, and that substantial similarity is what we        think is the   Alderson Reporting Company Official proper standard to determine whether an inference here        would be just and reasonable.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think ­­ how         do you know they relied on the representative evidence?         The number was ­­ was more than percent of what was            asked. The expert was cross­examined. We don't know,          for example ­­ they rejected the minutes but accepted          the minutes. The fact that the jury did not give you             the damages sought seems to me to call into question the           significance of the statistics.                MS. PRELOGAR: Well, I think it calls into          question whether the jury agreed with the actual time         estimates, but I don't think it undermines the         conclusion that they found that there was proper        representative evidence here because they were      instructed that they couldn't award a recovery to the          class until all of the nontestifying employees, unless        they were convinced that they all performed       substantially similar activities.               So I think we have to infer that the jury           found that all of these activities were similar, that         there were not material differences of the kind that         Mr. Phillips has referred to today, because the jury was          instructed that that was the only way they could award          class­wide ­­ find a ­­ a finding here of class­wide            Alderson Reporting Company Official liability.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but they ­­       they saw the evidence on which the calculations were         based, right?                          MS. PRELOGAR: That's correct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They saw the donning        and doffing of the sanitary gear and the protective         gear. Couldn't they have made judgments based on those          actual differences to reject some of the representative        statistics?             MS. PRELOGAR: I don't think they would have          had any basis to do so. And at the end of the jury              instruction on representative evidence, which was an       instruction that Tyson requested, the jury was told,        quote, "The representative evidence, as a whole, must         demonstrate that the class is entitled to recover. And          I think that there was an ample evidentiary basis here          for the jury to conclude that there weren't        substantial ­­ substantial dissimilarity among the tasks       that were being performed in these donning and doffing         activities.             It's useful, I think, to review that record         evidence. For example, Dr. Mericle testified that the         times clustered around the averages. He had         videotaped observations. As well, there was the        Alderson Reporting Company Official testimony that employees frequently rotated between      positions, including between those jobs that used a        knife and those that didn't. The employees who         testified at trial had times that came in very close to           Dr. Mericle's averages.               And I'll just refer you to Mr. Logan, who         testified at JA and , to minutes. Mr.            Bulbaris said to minutes. Mr. Montes said around            minutes. As well, Tyson itself didn't think that          there were these material variations when it was        calculating the K­Code time using a study that was very           similar to the study that Dr. Mericle employed here and          used essentially the same methodology.                 In that circumstance, Tyson thought that it       would be appropriate to treat all employees in a uniform           way.             So I think it's critical here that we have a           jury determination upon a proper instruction about        representative evidence that there weren't these kinds       of dissimilarities that would warrant ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And maybe you don't        know because you're the ­­ in an amicus posture, but was           the person who normally is, like, hosing down the floor          paid as much as the person who performs the most          intricate knifing operation?   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. PRELOGAR: No. My understanding is that         there were differences in what you were paid depending         on your position.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And yet, your ­­       both you and your ­­ your friend are telling me that,           well, we shouldn't treat those jobs differently because        they often switched back and forth.                  MS. PRELOGAR: Well, the jury concluded here        that those jobs didn't require materially different       gear. So I think that the pay rate, which was evident             from Tyson's own records here and could be calculated         through these kind of mechanical damages calculations,       doesn't signal that there was different gear. It might          signal that the work being performed on the job was          somewhat different and required different levels of       skill.             But I think it's clear, based on the jury          verdict in this case, the plaintiffs were able to prove          their claim with class­wide evidence. And at this         juncture, it's something of the reverse of what this         Court has confronted in other cases, where the Court has          recognized that sometimes the certification decision      overlaps with the merits of the claim, and you have to           consider at the outset whether the plaintiffs will be         able to prove their claim with class­wide proof.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you concede that if        this were a Rule action and the FSLA were not            involved that it would be a much closer, much more           difficult case?              MS. PRELOGAR: Yes. I think it would be           much closer. And ­­ and here, I think that this really             gets to the point that the dispute here doesn't turn on           a freestanding Rule requirement. It stands on ­­         it ­­ it turns on the Mt. Clemens standard. And           Mt. Clemens does adopt a special rule tailored to the           fact that there is a recordkeeping violation in this          case that prevents the employees from being able to         prove their claims with more precise evidence. We         think ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you agree it         would be an extension of Mt. Clemens to apply it at the            liability stage as opposed to the damages stage, right?                     MS. PRELOGAR: I think there's a way to read            Mt. Clemens where the ­­ this ­­ where it would not be            an extension. But to the extent that you think it would            be, we think it's a perfectly logical one and one that's            consistent with the rationale in Mt. Clemens.                   Mt. Clemens said that when the recordkeeping       violation prevents a determination of the amount of time          spent on these activities, then you should be able to          Alderson Reporting Company Official come forward with a just and reasonable inference and          not put the burden on the employees to prove that time           with precision.              And when that exact same fact is relevant        liability insofar as it's necessary to prove that the         employee is pushed over the ­hour­per­week threshold,       then we think that all of the rationales that animated          Mt. Clemens would equally apply to the determination of         that particular fact in that context.                  But we think the Mt. Clemens itself signaled        that this might be an appropriate determination at the         liability phase because it recognized at the outset that         the burden of proving that you have performed work for          which you were not properly compensated shouldn't be an         impossible burden. That was the language that was used          in the opinion. And so I think that whether or not             Mt. Clemens decided it, certainly it ­­ it's true that          it should be applied in this context to the particular          fact that was relevant there.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm ­­ I'm going to try         to phrase what I understand the question my colleagues          have been posing that I don't think either counsel has           sort of gotten at, or maybe it's so obvious that we're           missing it, okay?               Clearly, the expert here, Dr. Joy, said ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official I'm using a hypothetical ­­ there's minutes of          overtime. And the figure that comes out with minutes           of overtime is a million dollars. Now the jury comes            back with half a million dollars.                   How do you know that what they said is ­­ I           half the time ­­ five minutes, or the jury said, I think             it's eight minutes or ­­ for slaughterhouse and three         for production line people. So it averages out to five           now, okay?              How do we know what ­­ how the jury         calculated that half million?                MS. PRELOGAR: The answer is that we don't         know for sure, Justice Sotomayor.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what my      colleagues are saying. So the question is, your         adversary is claiming that there might be some people on          the three­minute side who are going to come and collect          a pro rata share who really weren't injured because they          had worked hours and ­­ minutes, something like           that. So why is it that it's fair to distribute this ­­            this award pro rata?                MS. PRELOGAR: Well, I think that it's not          clear yet exactly how the award will be allocated, and          those will be left to the district court's discretion         when the case returns for allocation.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             At that point, Tyson can come in and it can          make these arguments if it thinks it's unfair. The          district court will be well­positioned to determine       whether Tyson waived the claims by actually asking for a          lump sum verdict here and whether Tyson even has a stake            in this issue given that its own liability won't         increase.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why would ­­ why would        Tyson's care? They have to pay the same amount of           dollars.             MS. PRELOGAR: Exactly, Justice Ginsburg,      and I think that that shows that Tyson might not have            the requisite stake here to be able to challenge the          allocation.             But I think the overarching point to keep in          mind is that the ­­ the issues with allocating this          award were not the inevitable result of the class action          mechanism. They don't reveal some defect in that         mechanism.             There were any number of ways to account for         this problem. The trial could have been bifurcated         between liability and damages, as Justice Kagan noted.        That would have solved this problem entirely, but Tyson         opposed it. Or Tyson could have sought judgment against          the class members who had no right to recover under           Alderson Reporting Company Official the plaintiffs' evidence. It didn't do that.                    Tyson could have asked for a special verdict         that would have allocated the damages by the jury; but          instead, it asked for a lump sum verdict. Or it could             have asked for the class definition to be altered in          this case to exclude those individuals who weren't        working the requisite number of times.                  Ultimately, there are any number of      mechanisms that could account for this issue, and none         of them demonstrate that this class action was improper.         They went unutilized only because of Tyson's own        litigation strategy here.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happened to the ­­       the government's action? I mean, the government started          this against Tyson's or its predecessor and got an         injunction. And then the government said that the         solution that the ­­ the K ­­ whatever it was ­­ that             Tyson's came up with wasn't good enough. And then          nothing. What happened to the government's ­­                   MS. PRELOGAR: Well, ultimately, the      government ended up settling the claims in that prior         enforcement action. But then the ­­ the government         issued an opinion letter to the industry, saying that it          was clear that you had to pay for actual time worked.           And, of course, the secretary has limited resources and         Alderson Reporting Company Official can't conduct enforcement actions for every violation of        the FLSA.              But it is the Department of Labor's position        here that Tyson was in violation of the FLSA, both by           not keeping the actual records and by not fully         compensating the employees for the time worked in this         case.             employer ­­                         JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think an        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Go ahead.        JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think an        employer should do about recordkeeping when the employer        believes that certain activities need not be counted        under the FLSA? So is the employer ­­ it may be that             the employer is stuck with the choice that it makes, the           legal judgment it makes.                But is it supposed to keep two sets of ­­ of           records so the amount of time that it thinks the          employee is entitled to compensation for, and then this         additional amount of time, that it might be argued that          the employee is entitled to compensation for?                   MS. PRELOGAR: Well, Mt. Clemens does make        clear that the employer is stuck with its mistake         because it said even when the failure to keep records          grows out of a bona fide mistake about whether the time            Alderson Reporting Company Official should be compensable whether it was work, that still         the burden­shifting framework applies.                But I would also note here that I think           there was no legitimate argument here that this wasn't         work. These activities, I think ­­ it was clear with            the wake of Alvarez ­­ were required to be compensated.                                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Phillips, you have five minutes.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        Let me answer Justice Alito's point and       the ­­ and the observation where ­­ I mean, the reality            is, is that in the Reich litigation, we were told that           the ­­ the ordinary sanitary equipment was not ­­ was          not within the donning and doffing requirements, and        never a problem. And so as a consequence of that,             frankly, we didn't monitor this.                 That's not a complete defense, but it at         least explains the sort of the equities of the ­­ of the            situation.             Second, my good friend tells you that the        district court here found that all of these things are          very similar. The reality is, is that at Pet. App. A,            the first time this issue came up with the class          Alderson Reporting Company Official certification, the district court said there are some        very big factual differences among all these employees.        And the basic ­­ and the only reason the district court           didn't agree to certify it at that time was because he           thought that the gang­time was somehow the ­­ the tie          that binds this all together.                 Well, the gang­time was nothing in this ­­       in this litigation, and the reality is he made a mistake            then, and every time we came back to decertify this          class, based on more and more information about the         inadequacies of Mericle's evidence as applied by Fox,        who was ­­ who was essentially just wiped away, saying,          well, this is distinguishable from the Supreme Court's        cases here, and it's distinguishable from the Supreme        Court's cases there.               Justice Kennedy, the answer to your      question ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but you're ­­ you're        saying the district court made a finding that there were           great dissimilarities.              MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, Your Honor, it did.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is that?                  MR. PHILLIPS: That's on page A of the         appendix to the petition. Justice, that's in the first          certification decision.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             Justice Kennedy, to answer your question      about how do you write an opinion, and when is it close            enough? Averaging is a permissible way of going about           it when the evidence is clear that the ­­ that the basic            activity is homogenous, and that would have been true         for walking time. There was ­­ there was literally no           difference ­­                                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Basic activity is ­­      MR. PHILLIPS: Homogenous.    And here when you're talking about       seconds and minutes, and we're talking about wildly         different activities, what you can't do is just simply         say, okay, we're just going to patch over all that and           average it.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Didn't they standardize      walking time? That's what I thought they used.                                  MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, and that's why ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's a standardized       walking time because some people are faster than others,         correct?             MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But my point here is,          is that in general, everybody agrees that's a reasonable          way to proceed. That's my point. Here we're not           talking about homogenized because there are vast       differences, and the evidence is absolutely unsalable on        Alderson Reporting Company Official that.             And with respect to Mt. Clemens, in the        first place, I ­­ I don't think Mt. Clemens should be             extended to ­­ to make the fair and reasonable inference          standard of the presumption apply at the liability        phase, and I think the court was extremely clear in not            wanting to go down that path.                  But second, even if you thought the       presumption should be applied here, I would argue that          the Mericle's evidence, as ­­ as, you know, through         cross­examination and examination of others,     demonstrates that this is not a fair and reasonable          inference. And on that score, it seems to me that there            are two quotations I would offer up.                    One comes from this Court's decision in       Wal­Mart, "when an expert's testimony does nothing to        advance a party's case, the Court can safely disregard          what he says."               And then what Judge Posner said in a very          similar FLSA case, "What cannot support an inference        about the work time of thousands of employees is         evidence of a small, unrepresentative sample of them,"         and that is precisely what we have in this particular          case.             With respect to remand, we would be happy        Alderson Reporting Company Official for a remand to ­­ for allocation if that's permissible,           but as I read, the final judgment of the district court            is judgment of about $ million to these named         plaintiffs, and that was affirmed. There is nothing in          there about how this is going to be allocated under          these circumstances. So if the Court believes there's         got to be a separate proceeding of allocation, the Court           hopefully would order that, although I think there is a           more fundamental decision the Court would have to reach.                     And then finally, with respect to who has        the burden of dealing with this problem, it is the          plaintiffs' burden to sustain the justification for a        class all throughout the proceedings until a final         judgment is entered. And we came to the court four           times asking them not to certify this. So to come back            in at the end and say, well, since we were able to try             this without any ability to put forward any of our          individual defenses with respect to any of these        individual employees, except for the four who actually        testified, is exactly what this Court said in Wal­Mart         and Comcast is an impermissible way to define the class.                      The Court should reverse in this case,       declare the class decertified.                If there are no further questions, Your       Honor, thank you.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialanswers : : : antitrust : :, : anyway : : : : appears : appendix : : applied : : : : applies : apply : : : : approach : : appropriate : : : : : : aprons :, argue : : : argued : : : argument : : :,, :, : : : : :, arguments : : : Armour :,, asked : : : :,, asking : : : assigned : Page  :, : basis : : attempting : available : average : : : : : : : : bear : : :,, beard : : : : beginning : : : : : averaged : : : averages : : : :,,, : : : behalf :,, :,, : : : : believe :, : believes : : belly :,, averaging : : : : : : : best : : : : better : :,, : : beyond :, bifurcated : : : bifurcation :, avoid : avoiding : award : : :, : : : big : : binds : : :, bit : : blue :,, bona : boots :, : awarded : awards : awful : back : : : bound : : B B : : : : : : : : : : : : balance : barrier : based : : :, bottom : Bouaphakeo : : : : Breyer : : :,, : : :,, : :,,, :, :, :, : : : : : :, brief : : : : : : : agreed : agreement : agrees : ahead : : AL : ALITO : : :, :, Alito's : allocated : :, : : : allocating : allocation : : :, allowed : : :, allows : altered : Alvarez : amount : : : : : : : : : amounts : ample : analysis : : : : : : : : amicus : : : : : activity : : : : : actual : : : : : : : add : added : addition : additional :, animated : : : A advance : adversary : a.m : : : ability : : affirm : affirmed : able : :, affirms : aggregate : :, : : above­entitled : aggregation : App : ago : agree : :, APPEARANCES appeals : : absent :, : : absolutely :, : : accept : : : accepted : : account : : : : : : : accurate : Act : : : action : : : : : : : : :, actions : : : activities :, : : : address : : : adequate :, admitted : adopt : answer : :, assignment : : : : assignments : basic : :, : : : :, : : Assistant : :,,,, : : : assume : : : :, : : answered : assumed : assuming : bringing : broad : basically : : broke : briefs : bring : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  claimed : claiming : claims : : : close : : : closer :, clothing : clustered : : conclusion : : conduct : : collateral : colleagues : : : : confronted : conjunction : conscientious : consequence : consider : clarify : class :, : :, : : : :,, : collect : :,,,,, :, :, collective : :,, : Comcast : : :, : : :,,,, :, :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : coming : :, :, : : : :, : : : : comes : : : : : :, : common : : come : : class­certifying : commonality : company : : compensable : continuing : : : : :, : : class­wide : : convenience : :, :, compensated : convinced : : considered : considering : consistency : consistent : consistently : conspiracy : : : : : :,, contested : context :, correct : : : : : : correctly : counsel : : : : : : : count : counted : : : counting : :, course : : : : court :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :,,, : : : : :,,, brought :, : Bulbaris : burden : : : : : :, :, burden­shifting : : : buy : : C C : :, :, : calculate : calculated : categories : certain :, : : : : certainly : : certification : : : : : : : :, certified : : : :,, : certify : : : : : : certiorari : calculating : calculations : : : cetera : chain : challenge : call : calls : challenges : candidly : changed :, capacity : : charged : : : care : : carried : carry : CARTER : : : : : case : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : :,, : : : choice : :, : Circuit : : : : circumstance : :, : circumstances : :, cases : : : : : : categorically : : : : circumstantially : claim : : : : : classes : : compensating : compensation clean : clean­up : clear : : chat : check : Chief :, : : : : : :, :,,, :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : :, : clearly : : completely : : : : : Clemens :,, :, : : : : : : : complaining : : : : complaint : complete : : : : compiled : complain : : : : : :, complies : : :, : : :,, :,, : complying : : :,, concede :, :, :, : :,, :,, : :, : :, conceded : concern : conclude : concluded : : : : :,, clock :, Alderson Reporting Company Official : determine : : : : determined : : : : : dissimilarity : distance : distinguishable :, distribute : : determining : distributed : distribution : distributors : district :, Page  : drawn : dressed :, drew : drive : drop : dropped :, drops : due : duty : : : decertified : :, :, : :, : : :, decertify : : :, :,,,,, : decertifying : decide : : court's : : decided : : : courts : : : covered : create : credit :,, : decision : : deviations : :, :, device : : : : difference : : : declare : defect : defendant : : :, :, :, : : : : differences : divide : : : : : divided :, : : : : : : different : : :, doff : doffing :, critical : cross­examination defense : : : defenses : : cross­examined : defer : : : curiae : : : customers : D D : D.C :,,, damages : : deference : deferred : define : definition : delighted : demonstrate : : : : :, : : : : : : demonstrated : : :, : : : demonstrates :,, : : : : department : : : : :, : : : : : :, :,,, :, :, :,, : : :,, : :,, : : differently : differing : difficult : difficulty : data : Daubert : : : DAVID : : : day : : : :, :,, days : deal : dealing : dealt : December : : : : : :, disagree : : : departure : dependent : depending : disagreed : departments : discern : discount : discover : double : discrepancies : doubts : dozens : discrepancy : discretion : Dr : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, depends : : disparity : dispute : depiction : disregard : designed : details : disregarded : dissimilarities determination : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : :,, E :, : : : :, E : :, : : ear :,, easier : easily : easy : effect : : : effort : egg : : : : : : : eight : : :, : : : : :, : Eighth : either : : : : eliminated : ELIZABETH : doing : : : dollars : :, : don : : donning :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : embedded : employed : employee :, : : : : : : : :, employee's : employees : : : : : :, : :,,, :, :, : :,, : : : :,, : : : : : : employer : : : : :,, :,, : :,,,, ended : : : enforcement : : :, : : :, : :, :, :, : : : : : :, :, engage : engaged : engineer : :, evidentiary : entered : evident : : entire : : : : : entirely : entirety : : exactness : entitled : : Official : : : : : : : : :, : forth : : : forward : : : : Page  G G : :, : : gang : facts : factual : : failure : : : fair : : exact : exactly :, : :, : :, : : : : fall : : : : : : : :, faithfully : far : : : examination : : : example : : fashion : exclude : : exist : expect : expert :, :,, faster : Federal : : fewer : fide : figure : : :, : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : figured : filed : final :, :, finally : : find : finding : : : first : : : found : :, gang­time :, : : : :, : :, : four : : : : : : : : : : Fox : : : : : : : framework : :, gathered : gear : : :, : : :,, :,,,,, :, :, :,,,, :,,,, : :, : : :, :, : frankly : :, : Frederick : : generally : general : : :,, : : : :, :,, : : : : : :,, Ginsburg : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, :,,,, :,,, : :,, :, : :, : : : gloves : go : : :, give : : : : : given : :,, explained : explaining : explains : : explicable : extended : extension :, extent : : : extra : extravagant : extremely : F face : fact : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : freestanding : frequently : : : friend : : five :, : flawed : floor :, : FLSA : : : : : :,, : following : Foods : : : FSLA : : : : : fulcrum : full : fully : : functions : fundamental : : further :,, : : : : :, : :, : : : goes : going : : :,,, : :,,, :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : : : :, :,, : : :, : : : forgot : :, : form : Alderson Reporting Company equities : expert's : error : errors : experts : ESQ :,, : experts' : :, : : :, : :, equal : equally : equipment : :,, : : : : : : :,, essence : essentially : : estimate : estimates : estoppel : et : : evaluated : everybody : : :, :, : : evidence : : : : : : : : :, : : Honor : : good : : : : : : : Honors : : : hope : hopefully : gotten : : governing : horrible : government :, hosing : : : : hour : :,, hours : :, government's : :, great : green :,, grows : guard :,, guess : H habit : hair : half : : : : : : : : :, Halliburton : handled : haphazard : happen : happened : : :, happens : : happy : Hard :, hats :, hear : : heard : : : help : helped : helps :, highly : : hire : hogs :, : homogenized : homogenous : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : huge : : hundreds : hurt :, : :, hypothetical : : I idea :, identified : : : identify : :, : ignored : imaginable : imagine : impact : impermissible : important : impossible : : : impression : improper : improperly : : inaccurate : inadequacies : inadequacy : inadequate' : included : including : Official increase : individual : : : : :, individualized :, INDIVIDUALLY : individuals : : industrial : : : industry : inevitable : infer : : inference : : : : : :,, information : : inherently : initial : injunction : : injured : : :,, : : :, : : : :, : : : : : injury : : : inquiry :, insofar : instances : instructed :, :, instruction : : : instructions : : : intention : interests : interpret : interrogatories : intricate : invalid : invited :, involved : issue : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : issued : issues : J JA : : : January :, : : job : : jobs : : : : : :, Joint : Joy : judge : : : : judgment : : :, : : :,,, :, : : : : : :,, judgments : juncture : June : : : juries : jury :, : :, : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, :, :, Page  : : : : :,, : jury's : Justice : :, : :,,, :,, :,, :, :,,, :, : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, : :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, : :,, :, :, :, : :, :, :, :, :,,, : :, : :,, : :,, :, :,,,, :, :,, :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : :,, :,, : :,, : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  justification : know :,,, :, : : : : minutes : : K K : K­code : : K­time : : Kagan : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : keep : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : :, :, : : :, : knowing : :, L labor : : : : : Labor's : lack : : language : large : larger : lasted : : keeping : : Kennedy :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : :,, :,, : :, : : : : Laughter : :, :, : law : : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, :, :, : : :, :,, :,,,, : : linear : literally : : measure : means : : : litigation : : : measurement : mechanical : mechanism : : :, : : :, mechanisms : members : little : locker :, : :, : : Logan : logical : long : : longer :, look : : : men's : men :, : : : mere : : looking : : merged : minutes' : missing : :, : : : : misspoke : : : : mistake :, : money : : :, : : : Mericle : : looks : lose : loss :, lot : : : lower : : lump :,, Mericle's : : Mt :,, : monies : : : : monitor : : :, : : : morning : : : : : motion : : : : Montes : move : Kennedy's : kept : : : Kevlar : killers : kind : : : : : : : : kinds :, : : : : : : knew : : : knife : : : : :, :, : : : knife­wielding : knifing : knives : : : leaves : left : : legal : : legitimate : lesser : let's : : : letter : levels : liability : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : M mail : maintain : merits : : maintained : mesh : :,, majority : :, making : : metal : mandated : manufacturers : : : material : : methods : : method : methodology : muffs : myriad : :, :, :,,,, : :, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :, : :, : : : materially : : : : materials : : :, : matter : : : million : :, : : mind : mine­case : minimal :, light : : limited : line :, : :,, : : :,, mean : : : :, :, ministerial : : : : :, : : : : minute : minor :, : N N :, : name : named :, : : names : narrow : necessary : need : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : P : page : : : performing : performs : paid : : period : : : papers : parchment : : : : parchments : : :, : : : part : : : : : : permissible : : : : : person : : : :, : : :, : :, participate : : person's : persuading : Pet : Page  : : plaintiff : : : : plaintiff's : : : plaintiffs : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : plaintiffs' : : : needed : needs : neither : : nets :, never : : : occur : occurring : : : offer : oh : : okay : : ones : : :,,,, : night : : non­knife : nonrandom : nontestifying : once : : normal : normally : note : noted : notion : November : number :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : :, numbers : : : : :,, O O : : object : : objected : : : : objection : : : opting : oral : :,, : : : order : :, : : ordinarily : : ordinary : objections : obliged : observation : observations : outside : outfits : outset : : : : : : observe : observed : : : observing : obvious : obviously : : : :, : occupied : overarching : overcompensate : overestimated : overlaps : overlay : overtime : : :, P particular : open : operation : opinion : : : : : plant : : : : : petition : : please : : : : : :, : opportunity : particularized opposed : : Petitioner :, :, : : Petroleum : : : : Plexiglas : plugs :, plus :, point : : : particularly : opposition : parties : opt :,, : party's : opted :, phase :, : : : path : pay : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, : :, pass : passing : patch : : points : policy : posing : position : : : : : peculiarities : PEG : people :,, Phillips : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,, : :,,, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :,, positions : :,,, Posner : possibility : :, :, :,, : possible : : :,,,, : :,, :,,, : : : pre­ : : : : precise : :, :, :,, percent : : perfectly : phrase : perform : : picayune : performed : :, :, : :,, : : :, : :,, :,,, : : :, :, :, : :, : precision : : predecessor : posture : pot : precisely : : : : : place : : : : : places :, predominance : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : proof : : : : reality :, : really : : : : : : : : realm : reason : : : : : : : Prelogar : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : puzzled : : : : puzzlement : : : proper : : : : Q quantity : quarrel : premise : premised : prepared : presented : properly : proposed :, question : : proposing : protect : : protected : : :,, : : : protective : : :, : :, :,, : : presumption : : : : : :, reasonable : : : : :, : : : :, : :,,,, : : : : : : :,,, : :, : : : :,, : : : :, recognize : :, : recognized : :, : : : : REBUTTAL : : : Page  remains : remand : :, : : : : remarks : remedial : remember : : remotely : : rendered : representative : : : : : :,, : requested : : : : require : : : prevents :, price­fixing : prior : pro : : : :, protects : prove : : :, : :, : :, proved : : proven : probably : problem : : proves : : : : provide : :, : : :, : : : pulled : : : : : proving : : : problems : punch : : : : punched : proceed :, : : proceeding : : proceedings : :, : : proceeds : process : processing : produce : produced : producing : production : : purpose : purposes : pursue : push : pushed : put : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : putting : : : : : : : record : : required : questions : : recordkeeping :, : :, : : : : requirement : records : :, requirements : quickly : quite : : : : : : quotations : quote : : R :, : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, recover :, : : : : R : raise : : recovering : recovery : recreate : raised :, reduced : ran : refer : range : : : referred : rata : : regarding : : :, regulations : Reich : reject : : rejected : : rate : rationale : rationales : reach : reaching : : read : : : : : ready : :, :, : : : : : : relevant :, relied : rely : : : requisite : : : reserve : resources : respect : : : :, :, Respondent : : : Respondents : : : : : responsibility : rest : result : : returns : reveal : reverse : : review : right : : : :, : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : shift : : Page  smocks : : Standards : snapshot : sneaker : : sneakers :, standing : :, : : : : : Solicitor : solution : solved : : somebody : somewhat : soon : sorry : : : : : sort : : : : sorts :, Sotomayor :, stands : start :, : : : : : start­to­end : started :, : : States :,, : : statistical : : :, : : :, statistician :, statistics :, : : : : status : statute : Story : : :, :, :, :, :, :,, : :,, : :, : :, :, strategic : strategy : stroke : strong : stuck : :, study :, Sotomayor's : sought : : sounds : : special : : : : : : : : ships : shocked : shoddy :, shortcut : shorter : show : : :,, : : showed : showing : shown :, : shows : : side : sides :, signal :, signaled : significance : significantly : similar : : : : : : similarity : SIMILARLY : simpler : simply :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : rights : rigorous : : ROBERTS : sanitation : satisfactory : satisfied : : Saturdays : saw :, saying : : : : : : : : : : : : says :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, Scalia :, :, : : :, : : : : : : Scalia's : scattered : :,,,, scheme : :, : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : score : second : : room :,,, :, : : : : : seconds : : : : : : secretary : section : see : : rooms : rotate : rotated : : rotating : rotation : round : rubber : rule :,, :, : :,, run : runs : S S : : safely : sample : sampling :, : : sanitary : : :,,,, : : : single : : specific : : : : : :, : : : : : : SITUATED : : situation : : seeking : self­selected : sense : : sentence : separate : : slaughter :, separately : skill : skip : slap­dash :, : : sets : settling : severed : share : : slaughterhouse : slot : slotted : small : : : specifically : spend : : : spent : : : spreadsheet : stage :, stake :, standard : : : : : :, : : : :, stunners : style : submission : submit : : : submitted :, substantial : : :, substantially : : substantive : :, :, : :, : :, : standardize : standardized : Substantively : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : thousand : thousands : : three : : : : : : : three­year : threshold : : : three­minute : : Page  : : : unsalable : truth : try : : trying : : : Tuesday : turn : : unscramble : unutilized : use : : : : : : : : : useful : uses : turns : : : : : two :, : : : : : : : variation : : : : v : : validity : : V two­day : typically : Tyson : : : : : : :, :,, :,, : : tie : time : :, :,, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : Tyson's :,, : :,, : : : : : : : :,, : : : ultimately : : :,, : : : : :,, U variations : : : : varied : various : varying :, vast : : :, : vastly : : verdict : : : : : :, tells : test : testified : : : : : : : : : :, : testifying : : testimony : : : : : : : : : thank : :, : : : : : : theories : theory : : : : they'd : thing : :, : : : : :, : :, : things : : : think : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :,,, :,, : : :, :,,,, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :, : thinks : : : sued : sufficient : : suggest : : : suggesting : sum :,, : : : summary : supervisor : supervisors : support :, : supporting : : : supportive : suppose : : supposed : Supreme :, :, sure : : : : sustain : switched : system : T T :, table :, tactical : tailored : : : take : : :, : : : : : : : : takes : : talking : : :,, : :, tasks : : :, : techniques : tell : : : :, : telling : times :, : : : : : : : today : told : : : : : treat : : : treated : trial : : :,,,, : :, : : : : verdicts : versus : : video : videotape : unclear : undercompensated videotaped : :, : undermines : understand : : : : : : understanding : : unfair : uniform :, : uninjured :, : : United :,, : : unrepresentative : violated : violation :, :, W wait : : waived : waiver : wake : Wal­Mart : : : : walk :, walking : : : : :,,, : : :, thought :, : : : : :, : : : true :, : trifles : troubled : Alderson Reporting Company Page  A : : : : :,, wielders : : wildly : : want : : :, :, wanting : wants : : warrant : washing : Washington : :,, wasn't :, :, : : way : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : ways : : : We'll : we're : : : :, : :,, :, : :,, we've : wear : : :, week : :, : :, weld : well­positioned : went : : : : weren't : : : : : : : who've : wide : : : widely : : widest : wielder : : win : wiped : witness : witnesses : wore : : work :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : worked :, : :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : worker :, : workers : : : : : : :,, : : : working : : :, : works : : : world : worry : wouldn't : : : write : :, : writing : written : wrong : : : : : X x :, :, Y Yeah : : Official : : years : yellow :,, : : Z zero : . : / : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : ­minute : : : : : : : : ­ : : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : ­second : ­second­to­­... : : ­ : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, :, : : : ­hour : : : ­hour­per­week : : : : : : : : : : : : ­and­somethi... : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : : :, (b)() :, : : : : : : ­day : : : Alderson Reporting Company 