Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  NEBRASKA, ET AL.,                    :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          MITCH PARKER, ET AL.                  : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: JAMES D. SMITH, ESQ., Solicitor General of Nebraska,           Lincoln, Neb.; on behalf of Petitioners.      PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Private Respondents.  ALLON KEDEM, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,           Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Federal Respondent.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE JAMES D. SMITH, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Private Respondents                    ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ALLON KEDEM, ESQ.      On behalf of the Federal Respondent                     REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   JAMES D. SMITH, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Nebraska v. Parker.                     Mr. Smith.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES D. SMITH                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               For over a century, the following three        things have been true in the disputed area.                    First, the non­Indian population has always      been greater than percent.                 Second, the Tribe never exercised     jurisdiction.             And third, by contrast, the State of       Nebraska has governed the disputed area.                  The story of the disputed area is that of a          land that long ago lost its Indian character, if it ever           had any. The three things I mentioned at the outset            happened for a reason. They happened because it was           the ­­ or the intent of Congress in the context of the            times of the Act that the disputed area would be           diminished from the reservation.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: If I understand your        Alderson Reporting Company Official position correctly, you're not asking us to overrule        Solem?             MR. SMITH: No. No, Your Honor. We are not            asking you to overrule Solem. In fact, what we are           asking the Court to do is to imply ­­ apply the entire            Solem rule and, in particular, the compelling third        factor of the subsequent circumstances of the land's        jurisdictional history. As ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: From what ­­ from what        you just said and from your brief, I gathered ­­ perhaps            I was wrong ­­ that you are arguing for a de facto             diminishment test; that is, you pointed out the area has          been overwhelmingly populated by non­Indians and they ­­       they ­­ they haven't attempted before to exercise        governing authority.              MR. SMITH: Your Honor, we think the        de facto diminishment does fit within the third element         of the Solem test, which is the subsequent circumstances         of ­­ of after the enactment. And so obviously we would            not be opposed to the Court concluding and reaching this          decision on the grounds of de facto diminishment.                    But we also think this case fits within this         Court's precedent under Solem, which would involve ­­       in ­­ in our view, the third element of the test is            particularly strong and compelling in this case, while        Alderson Reporting Company Official in Solem, in that particular case, it was ­­ it was ­­ I             guess I would call fairly easy to distinguish because,          as Solem talks about as far as the events, what took           place after the Act, the focus should be ­­ if you're           looking at intent of Congress, you should be looking at          what Congress is doing after the Act that is reflective          of not understanding essentially that they've diminished       the reservation.              JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a different Congress.        I mean, to say, you know, a later Congress did thus and             so, and therefore the earlier Congress, when it enacted         a particular statute, must have diminished. That        doesn't make any sense.                MR. SMITH: It ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: And ­­ and ­­ and moreover,         if ­­ if the third factor is dispositive, as ­­ as you            assert, you would not ­­ we would not need the ­­ the ­­            the de facto diminishment doctrine whereby, by a sort          of, you know, adverse possession, a jurisdiction,        whether it's Indians or ­­ or even a State that used to             have a jurisdiction over a particular area has forfeited           it by long­, long­accepted usage to the contrary.                    If ­­ if that is true and ­­ and if ­­ if            the third factor is as important as you say, we would           not need that doctrine. We ­­ we would just find           Alderson Reporting Company Official diminishment.             MR. SMITH: Well, and that would be        consistent with the concept that, if a party just ­­ if            they belatedly assert a claim to having sovereign         authority over this, as in this case it's over a hundred            and some years after the land was open for settlement,          that ­­ there ­­ at least the Sherrill case, some of the            principles in that case would be supportive of de facto          diminishment.             JUSTICE SCALIA: As far as ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: That case didn't involve       the ­­ the diminishment. Diminishment was not an issue.                      MR. SMITH: That ­­ that is true. I ­­ I ­­              what I was referring to was the ­­ the principle at            least decided in the case as far as a long­standing           assumption of jurisdiction by the State over an area         that is primarily non­Indian in ­­ in population land         creates justifiable expectations, and if they did have        any sovereignty over it, they had long since forfeited.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's not what you're        arguing here. I ­­ I ­­ I understand you're arguing              diminishment, not ­­ not adverse possession, so to        speak.             MR. SMITH: We are arguing that it's no         longer part of the reservation. We are not saying it ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official Court could not find it under the de facto, but we do            think the facts of this case does fit within Solem. And            if ­­ and if the Court applies the Solem test, the State            should prevail in this case, which ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't ­­ the        other side says you did not raise a City of Sherrill            argument. Do you agree with that?                               MR. SMITH: We have ­­ we have ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A lot of the ­­ a           lot of the arguments you make seem to sound more in a            City of Sherrill­type proposition, but you haven't       raised that argument, have you?                 MR. SMITH: We, I ­­ I believe in           paragraphs ­­ or pages , I think it's of our brief,             we are at least citing Sherrill as ­­ as precedent for           the principle of loss of sovereignty, loss of sovereign         control by the fact that the State has long exercised          the jurisdiction.              But our focus ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's based on what        Solem said. Solem did bring up a de facto diminishment.            This is on page of the opinion.                    It says "On a more pragmatic level, we have          recognized that who actually moved onto the open        reservation lands is also relevant to deciding whether a         Alderson Reporting Company Official surplus land Act diminished a reservation. Where         non­Indian settlers flooded into the opening portion of        the reservation and the area has long since lost its          Indian character, we have acknowledged that de facto if         not de jure diminishment may have occurred."                   This was the theme that was picked up in         Sherrill, but it's stated in Solem.                  MR. SMITH: Yes. Yes.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: And may I ­­ may I ask a             preliminary question? We're talking about a liquor         license or alcoholic beverage license and a sales tax on           alcoholic beverages. Does the State itself impose such         requirements, that is, a licensing requirement and a         sales tax?              MR. SMITH: The State itself does impose        liquor license requirements. They ­­ they can in ­­         State of Nebraska has sales taxes, yes, Your Honor.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This tax was not imposed        by the Tribe ­­ Tribe. This was a statute of Congress             that permitted the Indians to do this, correct?                    MR. SMITH: My recollection was the Interior        Department approved the Tribe's request to have such an         ordinance, and then ­­ the Tribe's ordinance then was in          ­­ in effect.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Without jurisdictions,     Alderson Reporting Company Official Tribes can't tax at will. They have to get approval for            taxation, correct, from the Federal government?                  MR. SMITH: Your ­­ your point would be         correct, Your Honor. The Tribe has to request it. They            have to have an ordinance. It has to be approved by            agency of the Federal government. Yes, that ­­ that is           true, but it still involves granting authority to a ­­          another sovereign.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What ­­ what else ­­       what else do you lose if this ruling is against you?           We've already circumscribed the powers of the Tribes on         their own reservations greatly, so what powers do you         lose?             You've already ceded to the Federal      government criminal prosecution powers. So you're not        losing out on that. What are you losing out on?                       MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, I ­­ I ­­ I             take this ­­ it would be in the context of what are the             justifiable expectations of those who live in the        disputed area? What would be significantly disrupted as         far as their justifiable expectations?                   I would start off with the first thing ­­       principle is just who governs you. Your ­­ we'd be           introducing an additional sovereign, the Tribe, into an        area which, for over years, the Tribe has not          Alderson Reporting Company Official exercised any sovereign authority at all.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, can ­­ can I take           you back to Justice Scalia's question? You know,         because usually, at least now, we don't think much of          subsequent history of any kind. Now, maybe they thought          a little bit more highly of it in the days when Solem            was written, but now it would ­­ it's ­­ it's pretty           much of a stretch to use subsequent legislative history          or subsequent history generally when we're dealing with        interpreting a statute.                And I'm just wondering: Is there a reason          why it should be more credited here than in any other           context?             MR. SMITH: The Court's precedent, I       believe, recognizes in the area of land surplus acts         that Indian land surplus acts are a unique animal from           your normal legislative analysis. And that would be         because in the context of the times back before the turn           of, I guess, two centuries ago in the s, Congress           would be doing land surplus acts in which the concept of           are we diminishing or not diminishing a reservation was          really nothing that Congress thought of.                  You put that on the basic principle that        only Congress can diminish a reservation, it then         becomes the problem of how do we determine what Congress          Alderson Reporting Company Official intended when, frankly, the reality of the Court's        precedent is, it's something that Court ­­ or Congress         generally did not think of. They were inconsistent.         And so the Solem test really evolves out of an attempt           to determine what was the intent of Congress at the          time, which then is why legislative history, subsequent        or ­­ subsequent circumstances takes on greater       significance.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: When did ­­ when did this         diminishment idea as a legal concept ­­ you said when           Congress acted, they weren't thinking in terms of        diminishment.             When did diminishment become the big      question?             MR. SMITH: Well, it becomes ­­ it becomes a          big question when the issue is is it part of the           reservation ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But at what point in        time? Because you ­­ I thought you just made this            statement that in Congress wasn't thinking in terms         of diminishment.              MR. SMITH: It becomes a big issue when the           issue is who ­­ frankly, who has authority to govern?          Is this still part of the reservation or not? Does the            Tribe have any authority over this area at all? And if            Alderson Reporting Company Official it's part of the reservation, it has authority;        acknowledged, it is limited authority, but it would have         authority over it, because if it's part of the         reservation. Now ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: On that question, as a        practical matter, if the Tribe were to exercise ­­ go to           the outer limits of its authority, what could it do in           the city of Pender besides opposing this liquor tax?                     MR. SMITH: Well, what it can do, it can          displace State jurisdiction over environmental     regulations that this is a rural farming area. The           environment is very important. State regulation is very         important. It's what the people have expected. And I           could give an example: If you're a farmer, and the guy             across the road drops a load of manure in your pond            that's being used to feed cattle, you call the State of           Nebraska; you want them to come out and you want them to            do something. Those regulations would be replaced. You          call the State of Nebraska and the response is I'm sorry           you've called the wrong number.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: What about municipalities?      What about self­governing ­­ or more or less        self­governing municipalities? Are there any of those        within this area?               MR. SMITH: Yes. There are self­governing        Alderson Reporting Company Official municipalities. There are villages. County,       obviously ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ would happen to        them? Would they continue to ­­ to exist?                     MR. SMITH: They would continue to exist,        but you're going to have, what I would say, the           ambiguity of the extent of their authority versus the         extent of the Tribe's authority. You would have this          ambiguity in which is going to be ­­ I mean, people for              years, if you've expected the State of Nebraska,         your city council to be exercising local control, and         you bring in this outside authority ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would they continue to        exist? I mean, aren't they creatures of the State? Can             the State create municipalities on Indian Reservations?                   MR. SMITH: I believe ­­ I believe the State            can create the municipalities. The issue is what         authority they have when you also have it on Tribal          land, because the Tribe ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. The Tribe        has acceded to State sovereignty and the environment and         in all sorts of things.                 Have they threatened to take away the       State's activities in this village?                 MR. SMITH: Not yet. The issue is going to           Alderson Reporting Company Official be ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This Tribe is awfully       small. You think they are going to have the power to            implement all of these things that you are fearful of?          To do substitute services to ­­ they can't tax for it           without the government's permission. So how are they         going to do all these, and why would they do all these            horrible things?              MR. SMITH: Well, I don't think it's ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, it's nice to         have the power of taxation, but they still need the          government's approval.              MR. SMITH: I don't think it's simply the          test of being what ­­ what will they do. I think the              issue is once they have the authority, what ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the question of       the City of Sherrill says if they try to exercise their           powers in a way that's harmful to settled expectations,          they might have a remedy in law. That's what City of             Sherrill says, but that didn't take away ­­ the City of           Sherrill didn't say the Indians weren't sovereign. It         just said they can't exercise the sovereignty. It         didn't say it was a diminishment. What they said is            they couldn't exercise it because of latches.                   MR. SMITH: Well, if you say we've        Alderson Reporting Company Official introduced a tribe that in theory has authority, but          because they've never exercised it, they really have no         authority that ­­ that by itself, I would say, is the            inherent ambiguity of what is actually the limits of         their authority. You get litigations that start        disputing whether ­­ like under the Montana factors, as         far as they could regulate conduct that threatens, has         some direct effect on their tribe's integrity, economic        security, health and welfare. That's very, very broad.         And I ­­ to me, the ­­ the answer would be simply to say               this is not part of the reservation, rather than every          case that comes up when we have litigation and then          decide well, you're stopped from doing that.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if ­­ does the         Tribe exercise authority in the part of the reservation         that's not at issue here?                 MR. SMITH: Yes. The Tribe absolutely        exercises authority in the part that's not part of the          reservation. They've stipulated to that, that on the         part that's not part of the reservation that they ­­         that they have ordinances, they provide services, that        they enforce their ordinances on the east ­­ in the          eastern part of the railroad, which is the ­­ clearly          within the Tribe and not on the west. So they have had             no presence, and they've acknowledged that. They have         Alderson Reporting Company Official no Tribal offices, schools, industries, businesses.      They've admitted that all of these governmental services        are provided by state and local agencies, not the Tribe.          That's the public expectation. That's what they expect         is ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the ­­ in the         western part?                          MR. SMITH: In the western part.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what about in        the eastern part?                           MR. SMITH: I'm sorry if I wasn't clear.          In our ­­ in the eastern part, the Tribe         does have its ordinances. It does provide services. It           does enforce its ordinances and laws in the eastern         part, but not in the western part, and never has. All            of those services are provided by the State of Nebraska.          The State of Nebraska, you name it in the form of           government services have been provided by the State of         Nebraska, its municipalities, not by the Tribe. This         comes in ­­ we come in; we're going to tax you; we're            going to take the money; and maybe you get services,          maybe you don't. And, in fact, the idea of local           control is if the people in the disputed area are          unhappy about what the Tribe is doing, unlike if it's          their local city council, they don't get to vote. They           Alderson Reporting Company Official don't get to remove them from office ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, I ­­ I can           understand why people might be concerned, for all the         reasons that you're talking about. We do have pretty          clear and settled law in this area with respect to          diminishment, that we've said only Congress can       diminish, that the idea is that we're supposed to look          to congressional intent. And you say Congress didn't         really think in these terms. And there's something         that's fair about that.                But Congress did use very different language       in different ones of these acts, and we've looked to          that language as a pretty good guide to suggesting which           ones diminish and which ones do not. And it seems as            though the language here in ­­ in the act in which we're            concerned ­­ it's ­­ it's none of the language that          would suggest that Congress diminished this act.                   So I was wondering if you could talk to          that. Is there anything in the language of this statute           that suggests a diminishment? Any of the usual kind of            we cede everything, we relinquish everything? Like,        what's the best you can do on that?                    MR. SMITH: Appreciate that, Your Honor.                   And ­­ and yes, the standard diminishment       test starts with looking at the Act. Is there language           Alderson Reporting Company Official in the Act? Hagen and Solem both specifically say no           particular form of words are required.                     What we do have in this Act is we've got two        areas of the reservation. The area west of the          reservation, it's a very well­defined area. It doesn't          create a checkerboard effect.                 What is significant is the different ­­ the        Act treats the area west of the railroad different than          the area east of the railroad. Specifically ­­ and this           is a major distinction in Solem ­­ there is nothing           reserved for the Tribe in the land on the west of the            railroad, the disputed area. There's nothing reserved        for ­­ in the bullpen, so to speak. There is no            reservation of land­use rights. There's no reservation        of land­use rights for schools, agency, Tribal religious        purposes, no reservation in mineral rights.                  In Solem those were considered significant      factors because what you end up with is that the Tribal           headquarters, its governmental headquarters ended up in       Solem being in the disputed area.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Counsel, do you agree that        City of Sherrill did nothing more than deny particular         equitable relief and did not repudiate the proposition        of Indian sovereignty over the land in question?        Because if you agree with that, then I guess I'm more            Alderson Reporting Company Official inclined to give greater weight to the third factor.         But if you disagree with it, as I think you ought to,             then ­­ then I don't see why we need the third factor.                         MR. SMITH: Well, City of Sherrill, it does         have the element of the Tribe trying to unilaterally         just ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but it says the Tribe         doesn't have sovereignty, is what it says.                   MR. SMITH: It ­­ well, it says the Tribe          doesn't have sovereignty just to buy land back and get          back sovereignty that it had long ago lost ­­                                JUSTICE SCALIA: That's right.     MR. SMITH: ­­ and it applies equitable        principles to say you're ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: To say ­­ to say that the          Tribe does not have sovereignty.                 MR. SMITH: Yes. Yes. And I ­­ and I think               it's perfectly reasonable for the Court to reach that         conclusion with a land which long ago it lost its Indian            character, long ago they've ­­ they've never exercised        any sovereignty, and then show up after the public, the          descendants, everyone who's lived there, and after        years you suddenly find out we ­­ we've got an Indian           Tribe that somehow has some governmental authority over        us. Alderson Reporting Company Official             We've never elected them; we don't have any        right to vote them out of office. If we don't like what             we're going to do, I guess we can complain to somebody,            but we can't recall members of the Tribal Council.         It's ­­ it is a recognition that those things happened           because that's what Congress intended to have happen,        and as Solem looks in the context of the times.                      As far as that legislative history or       what ­­ what happened afterwards, Solem emphasizes the        decades immediately after the Act. And in the decades          immediately after this Act, we don't have what Solem         talks about, the rife with inconsistencies. What we         have is a total, one hundred percent consistent record          that everyone understood.               This land was diminished. It's not part of         the reservation. Congress in ­­ eighty, ninety­six        years later, and I understand the point about subsequent          congressional intent, but at least they did not take an          action that would reflect Congress didn't understand       what they did.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, on the City of         Sherrill point, the Chief Justice asked you before do         you agree whether this was ­­ whether this is waived.          And you said, well, we cite City of Sherrill on page            or something like that.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Below, what was the status of the City of         Sherrill argument in the lower courts?                  MR. SMITH: The ­­ in the lower courts, the          argument ­­ the argument was made as far as that de           facto diminishment can be found. The Eighth Circuit's         opinion is what I would call a ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm not sure quite what that         means. Does that mean de facto diminishment under         Solem, or does that mean ­­ Solem ­­ or does that mean            that you talked about City of Sherrill as an independent          ground?             MR. SMITH: We talked about de facto        diminishment as an independent ground. I didn't argue          it, but my ­­ my recollection is Sherrill is not cited           for ­­ as authority for that, but we did make the           argument that it was de facto because Solem does say we           have recognized de facto diminishment.                 Mr. Chief Justice, if ­­ if I may reserve          the remainder of my time if there's no further         questions.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.                  Mr. Clement.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                ON BEHALF OF THE PRIVATE RESPONDENTS                  MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         Alderson Reporting Company Official please the Court:               The question in this case is whether an         Act of Congress diminished the Omaha Reservation and        redrew its boundaries. We think multiple considerations        make clear that the Act of Congress did not diminish the           reservation, but simply opened up a portion of the          reservation for settlement within the existing      boundaries.             Now the first, and probably most      significant, factor is that the text of the statute uses          the classic language this Court has identified for        opening up a reservation for settlement without creating         a diminishment.              But secondly, and I think very telling and         specific to this statute, at the same time there is no           language in the statute that supports a finding of          diminishment. I think there is language in the statute.           Specifically, the final proviso of Section that is          very inconsistent with the idea that what Congress did         is draw a new western boundary to the reservation,          because the ­­ that proviso gave Tribal members the         right to take their allotments east or west of the          right­of­way.             And the record reflects that many ­­ that ­­        that a number of members of the Tribe took their           Alderson Reporting Company Official allotments west of the right­of­way. And importantly, a         number of them took their allotments that actually        straddled the right­of­way.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What number?      What ­­ what is the number?                  MR. CLEMENT: There are ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nine?                 MR. CLEMENT: No, , I think ­­ well, the           parties dispute ­­ between and , about to           acres. But I don't think ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Out ­­ out of how         many that took allotments?                MR. CLEMENT: Out of how many Tribal        members? I think there were roughly ­plus         allotments. So it was, you know, three percent.                     But I think the fact that they were allowed,          even though they're small numbers ­­ I'm not trying to          make a ­­ a volume argument here. I'm making an             argument that if what Congress just did was draw a new            western boundary to the reservation, it would have been         very odd to allow Tribal members to take their         allotments off the reservation, and maybe odder still to         allow them to take an allotment that essentially was         bisected by the new boundary.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why would that be        Alderson Reporting Company Official odd? They ­­ they could have taken allotments anywhere,          couldn't they ­­                          MR. CLEMENT: Anywhere ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ within the area        that was opened up? Couldn't they have chosen to          purchase their ­­                          MR. CLEMENT: I don't think ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ or take       allotments outside the reservation?                MR. CLEMENT: I don't think that would have          been a logical assumption, given the conception of the          time, where I think Congress was thinking in the main           that Tribal ownership or Indian ownership went with the         reservation status.              And I think, again, if you think of this as           being a Surplus Land Act that simply opens the          reservation up, a portion of it to settlement, then it           makes perfect sense to say the Tribal members can take          their allotments anywhere on the reservation.                  But if you think you've really drawn a new          boundary to the reservation, then I think it's more than           passing strange that you can take allotments to the west          of it, or you can take an allotment and the new border            is smack dab through the middle of it. That ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't understand the ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official your answer to the Chief Justice's question. An Indian          who wanted to have an allotment off the reservation, and          allotments were generally available, could take that       allotment off the reservation if the Indian chose to do          so, correct?              MR. CLEMENT: No. My position is no, they          couldn't. And they could take it west of the          right­of­way, but I am saying that's how ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Allotments were only open       to non­Indians?              MR. CLEMENT: No, no. Before any settlers,         non­Indians, came in, the existing Tribal members were        allowed to take their allotments.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.                 MR. CLEMENT: And they were allowed to take         their allotments anywhere on the preexisting      reservation.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. So we're not         talking about allotments open to the general population?                    MR. CLEMENT: No. No.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Thank you.                 MR. CLEMENT: And ­­ and this is clear from          the proviso in Section . It's the allotment only for           members of the Tribe. And they can take, consistent          with the historical understanding, an allotment anywhere       Alderson Reporting Company Official on the reservation, including west of the right­of­way.        And that seems to me to be very consistent with the idea            that the right­of­way is an interesting thing that the         Tribe granted through their reservation, but it's not        some new boundary. And I think the subsequent history           really supports that as well.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you mean ­­                     MR. CLEMENT: I mean, my friend on the other         side ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what do you mean,        Mr. Clement, of the language that I read from Solem           itself which seems to fit this case?                   MR. CLEMENT: Well, I take that language,         Justice Ginsburg, as Justice Marshal writing for the        Court saying that when you're in the third factor, when          you witness de facto immunity ­­ I'm sorry ­­ de facto           sort of diminishment, that that may ultimately support a         conclusion that there was in fact diminishment as a         matter of law.                 I don't take him to be opening up an        entirely different route to finding immunity ­­      diminishment, rather, that doesn't go through an act of         Congress. And I think that's the only way to read the             opinion as a whole because when the Court starts the           opinion, it says the very first principle in this area          Alderson Reporting Company Official is that only Congress can diminish a reservation.                     And it's perfectly compatible with that to       say that when we get to the third factor and we're           looking at all sorts of things, we'll look at settlement          patterns as part of that. But I don't think it's            consistent with that world view to then say that,         actually, the third factor is a standalone alternative         route to find diminishment, not by congressional action,        but by market reaction to a surplus land Act.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Did ­­ did ­­ did we cite          Solem in Sherrill? I ­­ I don't really recall.                        MR. CLEMENT: I ­­ I ­­ I don't recall.             I ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: If it held that, it would         have been ­­ it would have been cited and Sherrill would           not have been any big deal.                  MR. CLEMENT: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think             that ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought Sherrill was a         big deal.              MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think ­­ I think ­­                       JUSTICE SCALIA: Justice Ginsburg wrote it.       I think she thought it was a big deal.                      (Laughter.)             MR. CLEMENT: I'm not here to tell you it's          Alderson Reporting Company Official not a big deal. I am telling ­­ I'm here to tell you                two things, though.               One is that Solem went out of its way to not           decide the diminishment issue. So it is clearly an          alternative way of thinking about the cases, and I don't           think they're coextensive. Which is to say, I think           there could be a particular assertion of Tribal         authority that you might say violates City of Sherrill         principles, even within an undiminished reservation.                  And I do think it's then critically        important that ­­ my friend on the other side has not           raised this argument below. I certainly did not          understand it to be an independent argument in this         Court. It's all well and good to cite the case, but            that doesn't make it an independent argument.                   Even his amici, who thought that they wanted        to bring before this Court the City of Sherrill         argument, admitted that the Petitioners hadn't made a        City of Sherrill argument.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But ­­ but Solem did         talk about de facto diminishment. And it seems to me           that you've got to recognize when they do that, they're          talking about something other than de jure, in other         words, pursuant to the law. It's pursuant to the facts           on the ground.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. CLEMENT: I understand,      Mr. Chief Justice, but I think there's two ways to talk            about de facto v. de jure. One way to talk about it is              that they're two totally alternative routes. Another        way is to say de facto diminishment means the settlement          patterns, and that's something that can inform the        ultimate conclusion of whether there's diminishment.                  And I really think the Court in Solem was          using it in that passage in the latter respect. And I            think that's the only way to make sense of the case as a             whole, because ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Except that it's ­­ it's        presented before the Court turns to apply the        principles.             MR. CLEMENT: Exactly. That's right. It's         part of the general principles of the Court ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's ­­ it's not ­­ it's         not tied to the third factor.                  MR. CLEMENT: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I take,             though, that it actually is, in my view, tied to the           third factor. I think Justice Marshall was laying out           all of the factors, starting with the first and         governing principle, being that only Congress can       diminish. And he winds up the sort of general principle           section with this last thing about de facto/de jure ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official de facto diminishment, and then that ties up exactly to          his discussion of settlement patterns in the third        factor of Solem. And I really think that's the right            way to read that opinion.                   I would like to make one other very       important point here, though, is I think the Court          should understand that if you were to rule in favor of           Petitioners in this case, the parties would essentially        have to go back and reconstruct the right­of­way because         the railroad is no longer there. There's no         Rails­For­Trails program in Thurston County. So if you         take a Google map and look at this area, you can't even             tell where the right­of­way was.                 Now, I think that's significant, because if        there really was a contemporaneous understanding in the         s and s, when the railroad literally pulled up         its tracks and left, that the right­of­way was the         boundary of the reservation, then I think there would          have been some effort to sort of preserve that         jurisdictional boundary.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well ­­ well ­­ well,        please correct me if I'm wrong from the record. My ­­           my understanding was in the west portion, the Tribe had          done ­­ had exercised no jurisdiction until the Beverage         Control Ordinance recently, but on the east portion,        Alderson Reporting Company Official that they had. But then you say, well, we can't tell            the difference in east and west.                              MR. CLEMENT: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I ­­            JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I mean, is ­­ is that           reading of the record mistaken?                 MR. CLEMENT: Well, I ­­ I think what there            is is a practical understanding ­­ as Justice Sotomayor          indicated, this is not a wealthy Tribe that's looking to           assert jurisdictions in places that are impractical. So         it's made a judgment that most of its efforts are           directed at the eastern portion of the reservation.                    But what I'm saying is ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what ­­ but does         the fact that nothing, if ­­ if the record is correct ­­           let's assume the record shows that the Tribe exercised         no jurisdiction over the western portion until this        alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinance. Is that relevant        to the case at all?                 MR. CLEMENT: I don't think it's        dispositive. I think, yes, it's ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it relevant?                  MR. CLEMENT: Yes, relevant.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is it ­­ why is it          relevant? To what point?                 MR. CLEMENT: It ­­ it ­­ I think it could            Alderson Reporting Company Official be relevant to the third factor of Solem in a case where             the situation was very cloudy.                 But one of the things also to keep in mind          is that even before Montana, the authority that a Tribe           would have over a principal non­Indian settlement on a          reservation is fairly limited. And if you're ­­                                            JUSTICE GINSBURG: Limited to what?      MR. CLEMENT: What's that?     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What ­­ what ­­ what does         it state beside the alcohol tax ­­ sales tax? What           else, on your theory, could the Tribe do in the way of            governance in this area?                MR. CLEMENT: I think as a practical matter,           Justice Ginsburg, there's two other things that are at         stake here, and they both go to the equities of the           Indians on the reservation, not the non­Indians, because        the non­Indians on the reservation, the Tribal authority        is very, very limited.                So one thing that is at issue here is the          potential to continue the revenue­sharing agreement with       the State. And this is something that the State          actually came to the Tribe about. And the theory of the            revenue­sharing agreement for the fuel taxes is that        there are going to be transactions in the western         portion of the reservation where it's actually Tribal        Alderson Reporting Company Official members that are buying gasoline over there, which does         happen, because there are a lot of gas stations over           there. And of course, the Tribe would have authority to           tax the Tribal members on the reservations for those ­­         those transactions. So what ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: You ­­ you ­­      Justice Ginsburg asked you a question, you said, as a           practical matter. I thought ­­ maybe I misinterpreted           her question here ­­ as a legal matter. As a legal              matter, if you prevail, can the Tribe cast any doubt on           the authority and the jurisdiction of the existing        municipality?             MR. CLEMENT: No, not at all. What they can           do is they can make cooperative agreements with the         State of Nebraska to tax Indians when they make         purchases in Pender.               And the other thing they can do is that,         when two Tribal members get in a scuffle in the village            of Pender, the Tribal authorities can be contacted, and         that matter can be handled in the Tribal courts ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: If the City of ­­                   MR. CLEMENT: ­­ rather than the State        court.             JUSTICE ALITO: If the City of Pender is on          a reservation, under what authority could the Town of         Alderson Reporting Company Official Pender regulate things that go on in Pender?                    MR. CLEMENT: Under ­­ under its       authority ­­ first of all ­­ I ­­ I mean, you know, let               me say two things:                One is: I'm not even sure, because of the          retrocession under ­­ after Public Law , it's not         even clear to me that Nebraska ceded its civil         jurisdiction that it enjoyed under . The ­­ the          retrocession, as I understand it, was criminal        retrocession with the exception of the motor vehicle        laws.             The second thing: As a practical matter, I          think this is very important to understand. The next          town east from Pender is the Town of Walthill. It is            unambiguously in the reservation boundaries. It is an         incorporated municipality of the ­­ of sort of civil         government of Nebraska.                           In the Winnebago reservation ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just educate me       because I ­­ I don't know the law on this point. Can ­­               excuse me.              Can a State incorporate municipalities      within the boundary of a Indian Reservation?                    MR. CLEMENT: Yes. It can, and it does, and           it's quite common. And what this Court ­­ in fact, this            Alderson Reporting Company Official Court in ­­ in ­­ in the Seymour case, one of its            earliest diminishment cases, confronted a Federal       township, Omak, Washington, that had always been a        township. There's civil authority there, but it's still         on the reservation. And that is actually quite common.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does that displace       Tribal authority in that area?                 MR. CLEMENT: No. Because again, remember,        the Tribal authority over the non­Indians is so small.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the ­­ the ­­        we're talking about the area.                 Can Tribal ­­ Tribal police patrol within       the municipality?              MR. CLEMENT: I think they probably could.         The only, really ­­ with an eye towards seeing if there           were Indians there who were, you know, needing        patrolling. And there's some evidence in the record ­­         this is at Joint Appendix and ­­ that there were            occasional patrols of the Tribe into Pender. There's         also a footnote in that same section that says that as a             practical matter, when a Tribal member was apprehended         in the Village of Pender, the police officer would call          over to the Tribal authorities and have them take over          the person.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So there's      Alderson Reporting Company Official overlapping jurisdiction? The municipality and the       Tribe ­­                                     MR. CLEMENT: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ within the city?        MR. CLEMENT: Within the city. And one         other aspect ­­              conflict?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Doesn't that create       MR. CLEMENT: No. It really hasn't created         significant conflict. And what eliminates the conflict        is your Montana decision which substantially limits the        Tribe's authority over the non­ ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the ­­ the liquor tax         that we're talking about is not imposed only on Indians,          right? It's imposed on everybody who buys liquor in          Pender.             MR. CLEMENT: It ­­ it is, but that is the           exception that proves the rule, because alcohol on        reservations has been a unique Federal authority for as          long as there's been Indian Reservations. In fact, this          Court had a case in arising out of the Omaha            reservation where it reaffirmed the Federal authority.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: So on Indian Reservation       lands, I take it Tribal police have jurisdiction over          non­Indians as to minor offenses?     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. CLEMENT: I ­­ I don't think that's           actually true on the ground in Nebraska, at least as to           the highways. Because when they retroceded authority in          ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you ­­ you have the         example of a scuffle. Suppose an Indian and a           non­Indian are in a scuffle. If ­­ if there's a ­­ a               minor criminal statute making this a minor offense, does          the Tribe have jurisdiction over the non­Indian?                   MR. CLEMENT: I ­­ I don't think that it            would within the Village of Pender. And I think that is             a reflection of the very limited authority that the         Tribe has over non­Indians ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's true with       reference to all Indian tribes? Can you cite me any           proposition for that?               MR. CLEMENT: Well, ultimately, it might       be ­­ it might turn on the scope of the Montana           decision. And obviously, this Court has the Dollar         General decision in front of it. I want to make one             more point, if I could, about the overlapping         authorities here, cause the other authority here is        Thurston County, if I just finish this one point.                      Pender is the County seat of Thurston       County. Thurston County has ­­ by State statute since          Alderson Reporting Company Official , its western boundary has been defined as        coextensive with the reservation, and there are Tribal        members who's ­­ one of the council members on the          county is a Tribal member.                              Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Kedem.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF ALLON KEDEM                ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT                  MR. KEDEM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               In Solem v. Bartlett, this Court explained       that once a block of land is set aside as an Indian             Reservation and no matter what happens to the title of          individual plots within the area, the entire block        retains its reservation status until Congress explicitly       indicates otherwise. It has not done so here.                     I'd like to start, if I may, with the          question: What would change if this Court were to rule           that the reservation is still intact? First of all,          with respect to services, States can provide services to         members of tribes and nonmembers alike anywhere within        the reservation. And the State of Nebraska provides         services not only in the disputed area but on the east           side as well.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             Let me give you a very specific example.         There's a town called Bancroft, which is split in half           by the right­of­way. There's another town called        Rosalie, which is clearly within the eastern undisputed        part of the reservation. There's a school district          called the Bancroft­Rosalie School District, which is       administered under the auspices of the State of        Nebraska. And that is true notwithstanding the fact         that much of the land is on the east side, and true            notwithstanding the fact that many members ­­ many        students who go to that school are members of the Tribe.                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's what ­­ what the        State can do, but the State wouldn't be obliged to do           that, wouldn't be obliged to provide schools?                   MR. KEDEM: I see no basis for the State to            refuse to provide services to its own citizens,        especially if they are not members of the Tribe.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it would be a         question of sovereignty.                           MR. KEDEM: The State ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is ­­ this is         the reservation. That's your argument. It's the         reservation, and that's not the ­­ the State land, so          we're going to spend our money for schools or whatever          on the ­­ in the State, not on the reservation.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KEDEM: The State retains regulatory       sovereignty to make laws with respect to its own         citizens and nonmembers on a reservation. That's true          on the east side. It's true on the west side.                         I think you also may be left with the        impression, after my friend's argument, that the State        would stop issuing environmental permits and all of a         sudden the Tribe would start issuing them. That is not           correct. First of all, the Environmental Protection        Agency has been administering on the west side of the          reservation, including providing permits for animal feed       lots. There's also a permit for wastewater ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The Environmental      Protection Agency, which ­­ the State or Federal?                    MR. KEDEM: Federal. Federal.                  ­­ including a permit for a wastewater         treatment facility, although I believe it discharges        into Logon Creek on the east side; so it may not tell us             all that much about the jurisdiction.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But our ­­ our questions        have been, suppose that you prevail, what can the State          do? And we say, oh, it's a practical matter. Don't             worry. They won't do ­­ the Tribe won't do anything.           The Tribe won't do anything. What could the Tribe do?                       MR. KEDEM: What could the Tribe do?        Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes, to regulate nonTribal       MR. KEDEM: So the things that the Tribe                     members.             could do would be any express delegation of authority         from Congress. The only one that we've heard about is           the alcohol ordinance. Beyond that, the State and Tribe          could go back ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: We heard about the       fuel ­­ the revenue sharing of the fuel.                    MR. KEDEM: That's right. There was an         agreement to share revenue fuel, although that was        something that the State entered into voluntarily with        the Tribe. Beyond that, the Tribe would have to fall           under one of the two Montana exceptions, which are, as          this Court is aware of because of the Dollar General          case, very limited.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose one reason         the Tribe might ­­ might not provide services is because          the area is ­point­whatever percent nonTribal, right?                   correct.             MR. KEDEM: I think that's absolutely        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So they would be ­­        any services would be for the ­­ how many? Nine ­­ nine             Indians in the area or ?                  MR. KEDEM: Pardon?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How many non­Indians       own land in the western part?                  MR. KEDEM: It's almost entirely non­Indian       in the western part. And for the ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Couldn't the Tribe enact       ordinances that govern the Indians in the ­­ in the          western part?               MR. KEDEM: They could, but if we're talking        about the effect on nonmembers, they would have to fall          under the one ­­ one of the two Montana exceptions.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. But at least as to          Tribal members in the west ­­                 MR. KEDEM: That's right. Tribal members on         the reservation ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ they would be subject to         the Tribe's jurisdiction which they otherwise would not?                    MR. KEDEM: I think that that's accurate.         If I could go to the City of Sherrill argument, which            got brought up a lot today. I think this case is              extremely different from the City of Sherrill for a         number of reasons, but let me give you two big ones.                       In the City of Sherrill, this Court held        that principles of equity restrained the Tribe from        trying to resurrect a claim of inherent sovereign         immunity. Alderson Reporting Company Official               In this case by contrast, first of all,      we're not just talking about the Tribe's jurisdiction.        We're talking about the jurisdiction of the United        States as well.               And second of all, we're not talking about a         claim of inherent authority. This is authority        exercised pursuant to a Federal statute, U.S.C. .          And it ­­ for that reason, principles of equity simply          don't apply here.                           Moreover, in City of Sherrill ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand that.        Try ­­ try it again.                             apply here?              MR. KEDEM: Sure.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Principles of equity do not        MR. KEDEM: They don't apply in the same         way. So in City of Sherrill the Court applied a           latches­type reasoning. But latches would not apply to         prevent the exercise of authority under a Federal         statute, an express delegation of authority under       Federal law.                          JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not?     MR. KEDEM: Because that's what the Court        said, for instance, in the copyright decision that        Justice Ginsburg recently wrote, which is that when you         Alderson Reporting Company Official have background principles of equity, they are presumed        not to be ­­ apply and be displaced when there is a            substantive law that Congress passes to deal with the         same issue.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The law that       authorized the imposition of these taxes in the western         part of the reservation.                MR. KEDEM: The law authorizes the exercise        of this authority if there is a reservation and if the            Tribe applies to the Department of the Interior, which         has to approve the ordinance.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, doesn't that       beg the question? The question was whether or not this           reservation has been diminished. So it's not the         reservation.             MR. KEDEM: Well, that's the question with        respect to the application of the statute. But when          we're talking about City of Sherrill, we're talking        about background equitable principles. And I'm simply        making the point that those principles don't apply when         you have an express congressional statute dealing with        the same issue.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the City of Sherrill        did apply ­­              MR. KEDEM: Pardon?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the City of Sherrill        did apply, hypothetically ­­ I'm not nay­saying all the         differences you're pointing out ­­ would you lose?                                            MR. KEDEM: No. Because again ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Explain why not.      MR. KEDEM: ­­ we're not talking about just         what the Tribe can do. We're also talking about the           jurisdiction of the United States as well. And there's          certainly nothing in the City of Sherrill which suggests         that the jurisdiction of the United States pursuant to a          congressional creation of a reservation can be curtailed         by the Tribe's failure to exercise authority in the         disputed area.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Frankly, I'm more ­­ I'm        more inclined to vote your way if the City of Sherrill           does apply than if the City of Sherrill doesn't apply.          What you're telling me is, unless you get there through          Solem, it doesn't matter whether the State and        non­Indians have for generations viewed this land as        their own. That's what you're telling me, right?                     MR. KEDEM: Well, I'm telling you that to         the extent City of Sherrill applies, it applies to a          very different question, not the question as to where         the borders of the reservation are. It applies to the           question what can the Tribe as a basis of its inherent            Alderson Reporting Company Official sovereignty do? Now, it might under different        circumstances if the Tribe tried to repurchase a bunch          of land ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: That's not what city ­­       that's not what Sherrill said. Sherrill said the Tribe          had no jurisdiction. It said it had no sovereignty over           the area anymore.               MR. KEDEM: Again, the diminishment question       goes not just to the Tribe's sovereignty but the         jurisdiction as well of the United States.                   And if we're talking about expectations,      another point that I would make is that the single best            evidence of what these parties could have expected is         the retrocession, because that was a unique moment in          which the State of Nebraska and the United States talked          directly and officially to one another about the burdens         and responsibilities for exercising jurisdiction in the       reservation. And the United States in the Federal         register, as official as can be, said the entire         reservation remains intact.               And the State of Nebraska, as we point out         in our brief, had exactly the same understanding. The          assistant attorney general for Nebraska came and       testified before Congress that all of Thurston County is         within the Winnebago and within the Omaha Reservation.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: That determines the meaning       of the statute.                                        MR. KEDEM: Not in the least. It goes to ­­           JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I think.        MR. KEDEM: I was simply responding to the          point that the expectations here might be all in the          same direction.                I would also point to years of Nebraska        revenue rulings, all of which say, point blank, Pender         is still part of the reservation. I would also point to             the definition of Thurston County.                 As my friend pointed out, Pender is the        county seat. I think it's implausible to know that           the ­­ to assert that the State of Nebraska wouldn't          know that its own law specifies that all of Thurston          County is within the reservations of the Omaha and the          Winnebagos.               I would also like to address, if I could,         the tipping point theory that I think emerges from          Petitioner's reply brief, and that's the idea that in         , Congress tried but failed to diminish the        reservation because there were only about acres        sold. But in , it succeeded because a lot more land             was sold. I think there are a lot of problems with this               theory. Alderson Reporting Company Official             First of all, if that was what Congress had         in mind, presumably it would have specified some way to          know when the tipping point had been reached: Some          percentage of land sales, some other measure of success.         There's nothing about that in the text. There's nothing          about that in the legislative history.                  Second of all, the concept that Congress       could attempt but fail to diminish a reservation, as my           friend said that it did in , is a concept that is             wholly foreign to this Court's jurisprudence, which       makes clear that Congress has plenary power.                   And finally, I think this Court should be         very reluctant to assume that Congress implicitly       transferred any part of its authority to change the         borders of an Indian reservation to private parties and         made it contingent on what this Court in Dakota referred          to as uncertain future sales.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, is that saying        there's no such thing as de facto diminishment?                    MR. KEDEM: I think that de facto         diminishment, if you think of it as some sort of          freestanding alternative path to change the boundaries       of a reservation, I do agree that it doesn't exist.                        But if you're talking about it ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that       Alderson Reporting Company Official consistent with the language in Solem that       Justice Ginsburg read?               MR. KEDEM: I ­­ I think it's a little bit              hard to know exactly what the court meant.                    This Court has never found de facto       diminishment. All seven of its surplus land cases were          decided on the basis of congressional intent. And then          there were sometimes a few sentences thrown in about how           the status quo wouldn't change very much.                     I want to leave you with one more point.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: What about Sherrill?                  MR. KEDEM: Pardon?                JUSTICE SCALIA: What about Sherrill?                  MR. KEDEM: Sherrill is very explicit, but        it is not a diminishment ruling. There's a footnote in             City of Sherrill which makes very clear that it is not           deciding the diminishment issue or the jurisdiction of        the United States.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's ­­ what's       vague about the language where non­Indian settlers       flooded into the opened portion of a reservation and the           area has long since lost its Indian character, we have          acknowledged that de facto, if not de jure diminishment         may have occurred.               MR. KEDEM: I think you have to read that           Alderson Reporting Company Official sentence in light of Yankton Sioux, which says that when          you're talking about the subsequent treatment of the        area and the pattern of settlement, those are relevant         only insofar as they bear on the touchstone of the          inquiry, which is congressional intent.                             If I can make one final ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think if you          look at the passage, it goes on, then, to discuss in           addition to that, then we look to subsequent demographic         history as an additional clue as to what Congress meant.          I ­­ I read those as the two different paragraphs as            making two different points.                MR. KEDEM: I think you could definitely         read it that way if you just had Solem. I think if you               read Solem in light of Yankton Sioux, you reach a          different result.              If I could make one final point about         unsettling expectations. There are more than        Federally­recognized Indian reservations all throughout     the United States. The single most unsettling thing         that this Court could do would be to suggest that the           borders of those reservations depend not on what        Congress said about them, but on shifting demographic        patterns or who provides what services where.                   If there are no further questions.      Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Smith, you have four minutes remaining.                                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES D. SMITH                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                                         MR. SMITH: Thank you, Your Honor.       Where do I start?     Let's start first with ­­ pointed out to me         by co­counsel that a misstatement I made in response to            Justice Kagan. The Eighth Circuit briefs do cite         Sherrill in support of the proposition for de facto         diminishment. My apology. I hadn't argued at that           point, but it is there in the Eighth Circuit.                       I would cite to the Joint Appendixes so the        Court is aware exactly where it can find that         undisputed, as far as the demographics, the       jurisdictional history, JA to JA , JA to JA           , JA to JA .                  The ­­ the concept that, gee, nothing really        big's going to change, having the Tribal police show up          in their police vehicles patrolling the streets because        it's on Tribal land is going to be a huge disruption of             expectations.             My background is in criminal law. I know if           you have a crime you're investigating, you don't know ­­          not all crimes, you know, there's not a sign saying gee,            Alderson Reporting Company Official this was committed by an Indian; this was committed by a           non­Indian. You have a lot of who­done­its in which the            question is who's supposed to investigate, and you have         this overlapping jurisdiction where law enforcement      itself is confused as to who's supposed to be         investigating when they don't even know, maybe, who the         perpetrator is.              The idea that a Tribal member of a State           governmental authority is somehow shows ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Wouldn't ­­       wouldn't the latter be the case with respect to any          municipality that's within a reservation? We've been         told there are a lot of those. And ­­ and wouldn't             that ­­ wouldn't that be a problem in all of those,            being that you have overlapping jurisdiction of Tribal        police and municipal police? And until you know who the           perpetrator is, you don't know which one has        jurisdiction.             MR. SMITH: It's a problem if you know, and           chose to live on an Indian reservation. It ­­ it ­­ I             mean, that exists.               What's different in this case is the history        is years of people who believe and chose. And they            are not living on an Indian reservation; they are living          in the State of Nebraska. I call the State patrol. The              Alderson Reporting Company Official Tribal police are not patrolling up and down my street.          That's the difference. It's the justifiable       expectations of the people who live there.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Their point is, the       government says, fine, make that argument. Make it         under the rubric City of Sherrill. Maybe you make it           when you go down on remand or something, but it is           workable to divide the issue into two parts.                    The first issue is what's the reservation,       and the second issue is what can you do on the           reservation?             When you get to question two, if the Tribe         has made no assertion of jurisdiction, nobody even knows         about it for years. Maybe it's basically unfair to           let them do what they want to do. And that depends on a              lot of factors, such as what Congress says.                    So what do you think of that argument?        Let's leave it for later. Nobody's argued it.                     MR. SMITH: Glad I didn't answer what I          thought of that argument.                Your Honor, what ­­ it is still ­­ invites         the litigation over what is the extent of the power.          Who's got the power to govern? What is the extent of            their power? Uncertainty, when you have expectations,        you live in an area where the State governs you, and           Alderson Reporting Company Official then to say we can go back and litigate all these issues            is ­­ is just not what the public expects.                     The people in Pender, this is a big deal.          They care about this. They have expectations. It's a           big deal whether a Tribe ­­ Tribal Council has authority           over us. We don't get to vote for them. Their            Constitution doesn't even allow us to appear at their         public meetings.              The concept that somehow or other we can't        find the right­of­way because it's not on Google is         frankly silly. It's very easy to go back, do surveys,           find exactly where the right­of­way is.                                          submitted.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. SMITH: Thank you, Your Honor.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is       (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A alike : a.m : : : ALITO : : above­entitled : : : ALLON : : : allotment : : :,, : Official OfficialPage  : :, : : :, : : :, :,,, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : :,, : : :, bisected : :, : :,,,, : : : big's : :, :, : : :, bit : : : :,, :,, : :,,, : border : : : : borders : : : : blank : block :, allotments : :,,,, :,,, : argue : :,,, areas : allow :, : arguing : : allowed : :, authorized : argued : : authorizes : available : aware : : awfully : :, alternative : : : : ambiguity :, : amici : analysis : animal : : answer : : : anymore : apology : appear : APPEARANCES : argument : : :,, :, : : :,,, : :, :,,,, : : : : : : :, background : : : Bancroft : Bancroft­Rosalie arguments : arising : aside : asked : : asking :,, aspect : assert : : : basically : Bartlett : based : basic : : B BREYER : back :, : brief : : : : : : : :, : absolutely : : acceded : accurate : acknowledged : : : : acres : : act : :, : :,, : :, :, :, : : : acted : action : : activities : acts :,, : addition : additional : : address : administered : administering : admitted : : ago : : :,, agree : :, : : agreement : : : boundaries :, : : boundary : :, : : :, : : briefs : bring : : : broad : brought : bullpen : bunch : burdens : businesses : buy : buying : buys : C C : : call : :, : : : called : :, : care : case : :, : :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Appendix : : adverse : : Appendixes : application : agencies : applied : agency : : applies : : :, assertion : : assistant : : : :,, assume : : assumption : : apply : : :,,, :,, : :, attempt : : attempted : attorney : Appreciate : apprehended : auspices : approval : : authorities : : : agreements : AL :, alcohol : : approve : : alcoholic :, : approved : : area :,,, : : : authority : : beverages : : : :, Beyond :, big :,, :,,, :, basis : : : bear : beg : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : belatedly : believe : : :, : : best : : beverage : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company :,, : : :, : : :,, : conduct : : :, :,,,, : : : civil :, : claim : : Official Page  : : : : : conclusion : county : : counsel : : :,,, : : : :, course : council : : de :,, : : :, :, :,,,, :, :, :,,, : :, :, : : conflict :,, confronted : confused : Congress : : :,,, : :,,, : : :, :,,, : court :, : : dealing : : :,, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : decades :, : :, : : :, decide : : :, :, decided : : :,, : deciding : : : : : decision : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, : : defined : definitely : definition : delegation : deal :,, :, : : :, cases : : : cast : cattle : cause : cede : ceded : : centuries : century : certainly : : change : : : : : character : : : : checkerboard : Chief :, :, : :, : :,, :,,, : : : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : classic : clear : : : : : : : clearly : : : Clement : : :,, : :, :,, :,,,, :,, : :,, : :, :, :,, : : :, :, :, :,,, : :, cloudy : clue : chose : :, co­counsel : chosen : coextensive : Circuit :, Circuit's : come : : circumscribed : comes : : committed :, circumstances : common : : : : : cite : : : : : : cited : : citing : citizens : : city :, : : compatible : compelling :, complain : concept : : : :, : : : :,, conception : concerned :, : : : :, :, concluding : congressional : : : : : : : considerations : considered : consistent : : : : : : Constitution : contacted : contemporaneous : context : : :, : contingent : continue :,, : contrary : contrast : : control : : : : : Court's : : : : : demographic : courts :, : create :, : demographics : deny : Department : : : created : creates : creating : creation : creatures : credited : Creek : crime : crimes : determines : criminal : : difference : : : depend : depends : descendants : determine : : : : critically : curtailed : D : differences : different : : : :, : : : : :,, : diminish : :, : : : : : diminished : cooperative : D :, :,, :, : : copyright : correct : :, D.C :,, : : : dab : : : correctly : Dakota : days : Alderson Reporting Company Official equitable : : : equities : equity : : : : : expected : : : expects : Explain : explained : especially : ESQ :,, : explicit : :,, essentially : : : explicitly : express : : : Page  farmer : farming : favor : fearful : Federal : : :,, : :, : :,, : :, : Federally­recogn... ET :, eastern : : events : :, : : drawn : : : : drops : diminishing : : E diminishment : E : :, :, : :, earlier : earliest : :,, : east : : : :,, : : : :, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, easy : : economic : educate : effect : : : : effort : efforts : Eighth : : direct : directed : direction : directly : disagree : discharges : discuss : eighty : discussion : displace : : elected : displaced : dispositive : element :, : : eliminates : emerges : emphasizes : enact : enacted : enactment : ended : enforce : : enforcement : enjoyed : entered : entire : : : dispute : disputed :, :, : : :, : : disputing : disrupted : disruption : distinction : distinguish : district :, divide : doctrine :, doing : : : : Dollar : : doubt : draw : : everybody : evidence : : evolves : exactly : : : : : : example : : : exception : : exceptions : : excuse : : exercise : : :,, : : : : exercised : : : : : : : : exercises : exercising : : exist :,, : existing : : : extent :, : : :, extremely : eye : F facility : fact : : : feed : : final : :, finally : find : : : : : : : finding : : : : : fine : : : : : finish : first :, : facto :,, : : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : facto/de : factor : :, :, : : :, :, : : factors : : : : : : : : : : : : fit : : : fits : flooded : : focus : : following : footnote : : foreign : forfeited : : form : : found : : four : frankly :, : : facts : : fail : failed : failure : fair : fairly : : : : fall : : friend's : far : :, : front : : : freestanding : friend : : : : : : fuel : :,, further : : : exists : expect : entirely : : expectation : environment : expectations : : environmental : :,, :, : : : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official : hundred : : governmental : hypothetically : future : G G : gas : gasoline : gathered : gee :, general :, : :, : : : : : : governs : : granted : granting : greater : : : greatly : ground :, : : generally : : grounds : : guess : : : : guide : guy : generations : Ginsburg : : : : :, :,, : H :, :, : : : Hagen : : : : half : : give : : : : given : Glad : go : : : handled : happen : : : happened :, :, happens : : : : hard : : : : :, harmful : headquarters goes : : : going :,, :, health : hear : :, :, : : : heard :, :, held : : highly : good : : Google : : highways : govern : : historical : : :, history : :,, Indian : : : governance : governed : governing : : government :, : : : : : : : : : : : Honor :, : :, : : : : : horrible : :, : : : JA :,,, :, : :, : :, :, : : : January : : :,, Indians : : Joint : : judgment : JAMES : : : : : government's : huge : : : : jure : : : Alderson Reporting Company I idea : : : : : : : identified : immediately : : immunity :, : implausible : implement : implicitly : imply : important : :, : : : importantly : impose :, imposed : : : imposition : impractical : impression : inclined : : including : :, inconsistencies : inconsistent : : incorporate : incorporated : independent : : : : : indicated : indicates : individual : industries : inform : inherent : : : : inquiry : insofar : instance : intact : : integrity : intended : : intent : : : : : : : interesting : Interior : : interpreting : introduced : introducing : investigate : investigating : : invites : involve : : involves : issue : :, : :, : : : : :, : :,, issues : issuing :, J Page  : : jurisdiction : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :,, : jurisdictional : : : jurisdictions : : jurisprudence : Justice : :, : : :, :,, :, : :,, : :, :, :, :, : :,, : :, : : :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, : :,,, : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : :, :, :, :, :, :, : :, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :, :, : : :, :, :, :, : :, : : :, Justice's : justifiable : :, : K Kagan : : : : : Kedem : : :,, : : :,, :,,, :,,, :,, : :, :, : : :, : :,, : : keep : KENNEDY : : :,, : : : :,, : : :, : : kind : : know :, : land's : land­use :, lands : : language :, :,,, :,, : : :, latches : : latches­type : Laughter : law : : : : : : : : :, : : : laws : : : laying : leave : : left : : legal : :, legislative :, : : : let's : : : level : license :,, licensing : light :, limited : :, Official load : local : :, :,, : : : : meaning : means : : meant : : logical : Logon : long : : : measure : : :,, meetings : : : member : : Page  nay­saying : Neb : Nebraska :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : long­ : long­accepted : members : long­standing : :, :, need :, : longer : : : :, look : : :,, :, : :, : :,, never : : looked : : :, looking :, : mentioned : : : : : needing : : : : looks : lose :, : losing :, loss :, lost : : : misinterpreted middle : mind : : mineral : minor : :, nine : :, minutes : new : :, :, : nice : ninety­six : Nobody's : non­ : : : : lot :, : : :, :, : lots : lower :, : : : :, : : : misstatement : non­Indian : mistaken : MITCH : moment : money : : non­Indians : Montana : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, Lincoln : :, : limits : : M : : : main : major : morning : making : : motor : moved : multiple : municipal : municipalities : : liquor :, : manure : :, nonmembers : : : nonTribal :, normal : notwithstanding :, knows : L land : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : literally : litigate : litigation : : litigations : little : : live : : : : lived : living :, map : market : Marshal : Marshall : matter : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : municipality : number : : :,, : : : : numbers : : O N mean : :, N :, : name : : :,, O : : obliged :, obviously : : Alderson Reporting Company Official practical : : providing : : : : proviso :, : : : : : overwhelmingly : :, :, : : : : : P : : : : : :,, powers :,, : potential : power :, Pardon : : : Parker : : Omak : once : : ones :,, people : : : : : : : portion : : : :, :, : : percent : : position : : possession : : : permission : permit :, permits :, permitted : perpetrator : P : page : : : percentage : pages : paragraphs : perfect : perfectly : occasional : occurred : : ownership : odd : : odder : offense : offenses : office : : officer : offices : official : officially : oh : Okay : Omaha : : part : :, :, :, :,,,, :,,,, : : : Petitioner's : : : :, Petitioners :, : : : :, : : : : : picked : place : places : please : : : : plenary : plots : prevent : point : : :, : primarily : : : : principal : : : : principle : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, : : : principles : : : : preexisting : preliminary : presence : presented : preserve : presumably : presumed : pretty : :, prevail : : parts : party : passage : : passes : passing : path : patrol : : patrolling : opposed : opposing : oral : :,, : : : particular : : :, :, : particularly : parties : : opens : opinion : : :, : pragmatic : precedent : : : : : : person : open : : : opened : : opening : : : : : Page  program : proposition : : : : prosecution : Protection :, proves : provide : : : : : : provided :, : provides : : public : : : :, pulled : purchase : purchases : purposes : pursuant :, : : put : Q question : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,, :,, : : : questions : : : ordinance :, : : : : : ordinances : : :, : ought : outer : outset : outside : : overlapping : : :, overrule :, : : patrols : pattern : patterns : : : : PAUL : : : Pender : : :, :, : :, pointed : : : pointing : points : police :, : :, :, : pond : populated : population : : : : quite : : : : : : :,, quo : : private : : : : probably : : problem : :, problems : R R : railroad : : :, :, Rails­For­Trails : Alderson Reporting Company raise : raised : : reach : : reached : reaching : reaction : read :, : :, :, : reading : reaffirmed : reality : really : : : : : : : : :, : : : reason : : : : reasonable : reasoning : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recall : : : recognition : recognize : recognized : : recognizes : recollection : : reconstruct : record : : : :,, : redrew : reference : referred : referring : reflect : reflection : reflective : reflects : refuse : Official Page  : : schools : : regulation : regulations : register : regulate : : rights :,, road : :,, : : : : :,, : ROBERTS : : : :,, : : :, : :,, :, :, : :, : : : :, :, : :,, regulatory : :, : : relevant : : reservations : : : : section : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, scope : scuffle : :, seat : : second : : : : : :,, : : secondly : : : security : see : : seeing : self­governing :,, sense : : : sentence : sentences : services : : :,,,, :,, : :, : set : settled : : settlement : : : : : : : : : Rosalie : roughly : route : : routes : rubric : rule : : : : ruling : : rulings : rural : S S : : sales :,, : :, saying : : : : : settlers : : : : says :, : : :,, : : : :, SCALIA :, :, : :, : :,, : :,, : :, :, : : : :, :, : Scalia's : school :,, seven : Seymour : share : sharing : Sherrill : :, : :,, : : : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, :,, : : :,, : : : relief : religious : relinquish : reluctant : remainder : remaining : remains : remand : remedy : remember : remove : replaced : reply : repudiate : repurchase : request : : required : requirement : requirements : : reservation : reserve : reserved :, respect : : : : : : Respondent : : : Respondents : : : responding : response : : responsibilities : restrained : result : resurrect : retains : : retroceded : retrocession :, : : : revenue :, revenue­sharing : : : : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,,, :, : :,,, rife : : :, :,,,, :,, :, : : : : :,, : : : right­of­way : :, : :, : :, :,, : :, :, :,, : :, right : : : :, : : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official somebody : sorry : : : : sort : : : : : :, : State's : stated : : : : statement : : States :, : Page  supports : telling : : : :,, suppose : : terms :, : supposed : : : : :, :,, : sure : : : Supreme :, : surplus : : :, : : : surveys : T T :, take : : stations : status : : : : statute : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : stipulated : stop : stopped : story : straddled : strange : street : streets : stretch : strong : students : subject : submitted :, subsequent :, :,, :, : : :, substantially : substantive : : test :,, : : : : testified : text : : Thank : : :, :, :, theme : theory : : : :, thing : : : : : : : : :, talked :, taken : takes : talk : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : things :, : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, think :, : : : : : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :,, : :,, :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :,, : :,, : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : : : talks : : tax :,, : : : : :, :, : talking : : : taxation : : taxes : : : tell : : : : : thinking :, : : third : :, : :, : : : :, :, : Sherrill­type : shifting : show : : shows : : side : : : : : :, :, sign : significance : significant :, : : : significantly : silly : simply : : : : : : : single : : Sioux :, situation : smack : small : : : Smith : :, sorts : : Sotomayor :, : : :, : : : :, sound : sovereign : : :, : : : sovereignty : : : : : :,, :, : : :,, speak : : specific : : specifically :, : spend : split : stake : standalone : standard : start : : :,, :, : :,, : specified : : :,, : specifies : : :, :, :, :,, : :, : :, :, :,,, : :, :,, : : : sold :, Solem :,,,, :, :,,, : : : :,,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, Solicitor :, : : :, starting : starts : : state : : : substitute : suddenly : succeeded : :, :,, :,,, success : :,,,, sudden : :,,, :,, : suggest : : : : : suggesting : : :,, :,,, :,,, : : : : supportive : suggests : : support : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : Winnebago : : :, : : : : : Winnebagos : wanted : : witness : : : : Walthill : : : : want :, : : :, : :,, : : :, : :,, : :,, : : : understanding : Washington :, wondering : :,,, : : : : :, :,, : : : : undisputed : :, :, :,,,, :,,,, :, : :, :, : : :, :,, wouldn't :, : : : : : : :,, : : : writing : written : wrong : : unfair : unhappy : unilaterally : unique : : we'll : : understood : wastewater : workable : undiminished : : wasn't : : words : : world : worry : way : : ways : : : : : : tribe's :, : United :, : :, :, : : : tribes :, : unsettling :, : : : : : : : usage : use : : tried : : true : : : uses : : :, :, usual : :, usually : try : :, trying : : V : v : : : : vague : turn : : vehicle : turns : two : : : vehicles : :, : : : : :, :, :, versus : view : : : viewed : village : : : : villages : violates : volume : voluntarily : vote : : : : W waived : we're : : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : we've : : :, : : : : : wealthy : Wednesday : weight : welfare : well­defined : went : : weren't : : west : :, : : : : : : : : : : : western :,, : wrote : : x :, X Y Yankton :, years : : : : : : : : Z : : : : : : : : : : : ­ : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : who­done­its : wholly : winds : s : : : : : : :, : thought :, : :, : : : threatened : threatens : three :, : thrown : Thurston : :,, : :, tied :, ties : time :, : : : times : : : tipping : : title : today : told : total : totally : touchstone : town : : : :, township :, tracks : transactions : : transferred : treatment : : treats : Tribal : : U U.S.C : ultimate : ultimately : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,,, :,,,, : : : unambiguously : :, :, :, : : : : uncertain : Uncertainty : understand : tribe : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : s : s : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : ­plus : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ­point­whatever : Alderson Reporting Company 