Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  STEPHEN DUNCAN, WARDEN,              :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          LAWRENCE OWENS.                     : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: CAROLYN E. SHAPIRO, ESQ., Solicitor General of Illinois,           Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of Petitioner.      BARRY LEVENSTAM, ESQ., Chicago, Ill.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     CAROLYN E. SHAPIRO, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   BARRY LEVENSTAM, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CAROLYN E. SHAPIRO, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Duncan v. Owens.                   Ms. Shapiro.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF CAROLYN E. SHAPIRO                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                   MS. SHAPIRO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it       please the Court:               The Seventh Circuit in this case violated       AEDPA when it granted habeas relief to Respondent in the          absence of precedent from this Court, clearly       establishing that Respondent's allegations rise to the       level of a constitutional violation.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume the judge       said, instead of what he said ­­ so make the assumption           my way ­­ I don't know if the witnesses are telling the             truth or not, but I believe he's guilty. I'm not sure             about their credibility, but I believe he's guilty         because he wanted to get rid of this guy because of a ­­             a drug deal gone bad.                 Would that violate due process?                 MS. SHAPIRO: It would violate due process        if the judge did not find the element, the ­­ the ­­           that the evidence provided by the State proved the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review elements beyond a reasonable doubt. But it would ­­          does not violate due process, or at least it does not           clearly establish that it would violate due process, for         the finder of fact to speculate about a nonelement of           the crime where it is ­­ where the finder of fact does            not disavow or otherwise ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, this isn't      speculation. The judge said who ­­ Larry Owens knew he           was a drug dealer; Larry Owens wanted to knock him off;            I think the State's evidence has proved that fact;         finding of guilty of murder.                 off?             Proved that Larry Owens wanted to knock him        MS. SHAPIRO: The State's evidence did       establish that Larry Owens wanted to knock him off,         because the State's evidence established that Larry       Owens approached him and hit him over the head with a           baseball bat several times.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Sorry, Ms. Shapiro. Could        I ­­ could I take you back, because I just didn't             understand ­­ and I'm sure it was me ­­ the ­­ the            answer that you gave to Justice Sotomayor's first        question.             And I think it's important, because it        focuses on what the actual issue is here: How much is            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review at issue between the parties?                 If you had a judge that said, I don't think            the evidence is up to snuff here, and then said, the           thing that takes me over the line is what I think about             the defendant's motive, and that's what allows me to say          that the defendant is guilty, and that had not been          proved, that had ­­ the State had never offered that          into evidence. It really just came out of the judge's           head for whatever reason. Right?                  Do you think that that would be a due          process violation?              MS. SHAPIRO: Well, I think it would first          depend somewhat on if ­­ on habeas review on how the           State appellate court or supreme court interpreted the        record and interpreted what the judge had said. If the           State appellate court interpreted what the judge had        said so that the judge was saying he did not believe           that the evidence produced by the State proved the         elements beyond a reasonable doubt, that would be a          Winship error or a Jackson error, which is not          Respondent's claim here.               If the State appellate court read the       record, interpreted the ­­ what the trial court said         differently and thought that the trial court did think         that the ­­ that the evidence was sufficient but was          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review tying it together by trying to tell a story that made            sense to himself, then it would not violate ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Okay. But then ­­ so           the first alternative that you gave, and you said it's          not the claim here, but I would have thought it was the             claim here because you ­­ there is obviously a dispute           about how to read these words. And we can talk about            the ­­ how to read these words. Right?                     But once you say, as I think you said, and I            think you properly said, Look, if what the ­­ the          judge's various comments on motive was basically taking        him over the line, was ­­ that that was the basis for            the verdict of guilty, that he didn't think that all the           evidence, the other evidence was enough and that that         was crucial to his finding, then, if I understand you           right, you would say that's a due process violation          because at that point the verdict of guilty is based on           evidence that was never presented.                 MS. SHAPIRO: If the ­­ if the judge found          that the elements had not been proven beyond a         reasonable doubt.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the judge is just        saying it's not ­­ you know, this is not enough, and           it's necessary for me to think about motive as the          missing piece.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. SHAPIRO: That does not necessarily       violate due process because ­­ or it's ­­ it's certainly          not clearly established that that would necessarily       violate due process. Factfinders are free to develop a          theory of the case that is not presented by the State as            long as it is consistent with the evidence and as long           as the evidence itself is sufficient to establish guilt         beyond a reasonable doubt.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Oh, I see. So you think           that it doesn't matter if the judge thought that the          evidence was insufficient as long as the evidence was,         in fact, sufficient.               MS. SHAPIRO: If the judge said that he         found the evidence insufficient, that would ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. The judge says, you         know, all of this evidence, it's not enough. For me,           motive is critical to a finding of guilt here.                      MS. SHAPIRO: Again, it would depend on how         the ­­ the ­­ the State court, State appellate courts          interpreted the record. I think that is ambiguous, as           you've described it, whether the judge is saying that he          finds that the elements have not been proven beyond a          reasonable doubt or if the judge is saying that he needs           to find some way of telling a story about this case that             makes sense to him.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             The first would be a due process violation.         The second, it's not clearly established.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. I mean, so maybe I'm           putting words in your mouth, and so tell me if I am.             But what I just heard was, look, if he's just telling a             story to himself and he basically believes that the         evidence that was presented is enough, but he wants to          tell a story about some other things that make this all            make sense, that's one thing. But ­­ but if he's really            filling in the pieces and deciding ­­ and ­­ and          determining guilt based on something that was never in         the record, that's another thing entirely, and that that         would run into all our statements about one accused of a           crime is entitled to have his guilt determined solely on          the basis of evidence at ­­ introduced at trial and so           forth.             MS. SHAPIRO: It ­­ it ­­ yes, I ­­ but it             has to be quite clear that that's what's happening, both          because we have a presumption that judges know and          follow the law and especially on habeas review that         presumption applies with special force. Because on        habeas review, we ­­ we assume not only that the          original trial judge knows and follows the law but that          the State courts that are reviewing his decision know         and follow the law.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So now I'm going to          go back to Justice Sotomayor's second question. And ­­         but, I mean, just take a look at what he said here. All                right?             His first sentence is, all of the witnesses        skirted the real issue. All right? So all of the            witnesses ­­ there's something wrong with what we've        heard from all of the witnesses. They all skirted the           real issue.              Okay. So what was the real issue? What was           the real issue?               And then he says, the issue to me is that          you have a drug dealer on a bike who Larry Owens, the              defendant, knew was a drug dealer, and Owens wanted to           knock him off. That's the real issue.                    And then he says, the State's evidence has        proved that fact.               What's that fact? Well, that fact is the         same thing that he's just said is the real issue, that           there was a drug dealer on the bike who knew ­­ and the              defendant knew he was a drug dealer and wanted to knock            him off.              And then he says, okay. Finding of guilty.                       I mean, to me, I ­­ I guess with all the            deference in the world, it's just this judge saying,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there's something wrong with all the evidence that's        been given to me, and here's what's really moving me to           find him guilty.               MS. SHAPIRO: So, first, if that were what         the judge said, that interpretation, it's not clearly        established that ­­ that that would violate due process,         for the reasons I've already said, that a finder of fact            can develop a theory of the case to tie it together that             is consistent with the evidence.                             JUSTICE KAGAN: But that ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought it was         clearly established ­­ I thought you agreed ­­ page ,           I think, of your reply brief ­­ that it is clearly           established that it would be a violation of ­­ of Taylor            and ­­ and Turner if the factfinder bases its verdict on           evidence not in the record.                 MS. SHAPIRO: On ­­ when we ­­ and when we           discussed that in our reply brief, we talked about the          possibility that a judge would say, I ­­ I ­­ I don't ­­                the evidence isn't sufficient so ­­ but I know that this            defendant's brother committed a similar crime, and for         that reason only I'm finding him guilty.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but to begin with,        we have a ­­ a general statement: The evidence must be              based ­­ pardon me ­­ the verdict must be based on the            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review evidence in the record. Correct?                              with that.                          MS. SHAPIRO: Correct.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. And we agree         MS. SHAPIRO: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Then I don't see how ­­ I           don't understand your answer to Justice Kagan.                     MS. SHAPIRO: The ­­ the precedent can be       read ­­ that ­­ that language can be read at a very high              level of generality, which is not appropriate for AEDPA         review.             Under due process ­­ and it's especially       important when we're talking about due process­claims       that this Court respect AEDPA's requirement that the        clearly established law have a certain level of         specificity. Of course, it's clearly established that        every defendant is entitled to a fair trial, but that           alone does not mean that every allegation of a fair           trial ­­ by ­­ of an unfair trial ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But here, the issue is,        was the defendant convicted on the basis of information         that wasn't in the record. And I think you would have             to answer that if it's clearly established, that a         conviction must be based on evidence presented at the         trial ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MS. SHAPIRO: Certainly.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ cannot be based on                                evidence that the judge heard at the local bar ­­                                                         MS. SHAPIRO: Certainly.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ for example.      MS. SHAPIRO: Yes.    But in ­­ and in this case, it's important         to note that the Illinois Appellate Court reviewed the         record, and the Illinois Appellate Court concluded that        in fact, the judge's speculation about motive was not a          material factor in the verdict. And that conclusion is          also entitled to deference by this Court, as ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not sure ­­ you        know, the problem is that you're making an allegation         I'm not sure about. They had trouble with one of the            witnesses. They wrote it. Correct?                   MS. SHAPIRO: They ­­ they said that they         thought that Evans ­­ that there was ­­ Evans' testimony          had its problems, yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So that        leaves it to a one­witness ID of a witness who ­­ who,              at best, saw the defendant once, when he turned around          to leave the scene for a few seconds.                     MS. SHAPIRO: From a distance of about          feet. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right. I mean, once.         Fleeting look.              How can you draw a reasonable inference that         the judge wasn't troubled by the witnesses when he says          I think all of the witnesses skirted the real issue.                      MS. SHAPIRO: Several ­­ several answers to        that question.              First, Mr. Johnnie's testimony, which the      appellate court discussed at some length and which the         appellate court concluded was reliable, was essentially       unimpeached. And both eyewitnesses were unrebutted.       They both agreed and identified the defendant on several         occasions as the person who ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, except that      evidence failed to identify him in court.                   MS. SHAPIRO: No. Evans did identify him in          court. What Evans misidentified was the photograph he         had selected from the photo array. But when asked to           identify defendant in court, he did so, as the person          who ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's pretty easy to ­­       to identify a defendant in court. They sit next to the             defense attorney. I've always thought it's been a         wonderfully ­­ a ritual with no meaning.                    But putting that aside, I guess my question         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is: You say that Johnnie's testimony was sufficient. I           don't disagree with that. But what they didn't say was           that it was credible, or that the judge found it          credible. Those are two different findings.                   MS. SHAPIRO: Certainly. The judge must        have found it credible, because if he didn't believe         Johnnie, we ­­ what ­­ what you would have to presume is            that this judge said, well, I don't think that the State            witnesses have established the elements beyond a       reasonable doubt. I don't think Johnnie is credible.          So I'm going to disregard one of the most basic ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. All the judge had         to say was, I'm not sure he's credible.                    And what takes me over the line is this         motivation, this theory that I have.                   MS. SHAPIRO: It is not clearly established        that that theory, in this ­­ in this situation would ­­          would violate due process where it is consistent with         the evidence, is not contradicted by the evidence, and         where the elements are sufficient.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is quite      interesting. You can draw an inference about a         defendant based on no evidence. No one said he was a            drug dealer, I presume. Did he have any convictions for            drug dealing?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         MS. SHAPIRO: He did not.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He did not. So the         judge could just make this up out of whole cloth.                                  MS. SHAPIRO: The ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's not      extraneous evidence.              MS. SHAPIRO: It's not evidence at all.        Fact finders are allowed to rely on their experience and          common sense when they ­­ when they evaluate the         evidence. For example, in Parker v. Matthews, the         defendant had a ­­ a partial defense of extreme ­­ that             he was operating under extreme emotional disturbance.       He had an expert who said he was operating under extreme           emotional disturbance, but the jury rejected that       defense. And this Court said that the jury was free to            do so, in part based on their own personal experience          and personal understanding of what emotional disturbance       means.             So jury ­­ so factfinders are free to        consider what they know ­­ background information that        they know about the world, and they bring that into the           factfinding process.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a new theory. I          didn't read that in your brief, that somehow, the judge          was right. He can ­­ he can assume that Owens knew that             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the defendant was a drug dealer.                   MS. SHAPIRO: No. We ­­ we argued in our           brief, that ­­ that the ­­ that the judge is free, like            any factfinder, to make inferences based on his common         sense and experience. That's not the same thing as          saying that the judge is free to ignore ­­ to convict ­­           convict in a situation where he finds that the elements           have not been proven beyond a reasonable doubt.                     This Court could say that a situation        like ­­ as ­­ that we're talking about violates due          process, but not on a habeas ­­ not in a habeas case.                          JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I ­­ this goes            back to Justice Kennedy's question, I guess. We have           these statements repeated over and over again. One         accused of a crime is entitled to have his guilt or            innocence determined solely on the basis of evidence        introduced at trial. And what I hear you saying now ­­            and tell me if this is not what you're saying ­­ but            what I hear you saying now is well, that's true as to             real things that are extraneous to a proper factfinder's          role, all right? But it's not true, as to ­­ I mean,              I'm just going to say ­­ this made­up facts. It's not            true as to made­up facts; that's different. You can          make up facts, and ­­ and made­up facts don't come          within this rule.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Is that what you're saying?     MS. SHAPIRO: I'm saying several things.       First, it's not clearly established that a                                           factfinder can't ­­ can't tie together the case to his          satisfaction by review ­­ by coming up with a theory           that's consistent with the evidence.                             But in addition ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: It's not just ­­ it's ­­        it's not just like so I feel good about the case when I              go home at night. I mean, this is a factfinder who has               a ­­ a very clear role, which is to adjudicate guilt or             innocence. And motive, although not an element in         Illinois, motive is relevant to identification, which,       in this case, was all about identification. Everybody         said that this case was about identification.                   So when the judge starts making up things        about motive ­­ and I thought that the State really did            not contest that this was all made up, that none of it            was in the record that got ­­ you know, who knows how he             got this. But he starts making up these things about           motive, and then indicating that these things about        motive are relevant to his adjudication. To me, I mean,            clearly established or not, that just fits under this         Taylor principle.              MS. SHAPIRO: The ­­ that interpretation of        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review what the judge said and did was rejected by the Illinois           Appellate Court.              JUSTICE KAGAN: I agree with you that         there's a question of interpretation. So, I mean, it            seems to me like everything comes down to that. Like,           if you thought that this judge just made up facts and ­­           and then said, this is critical to my finding of guilt,           I mean, I just think you'd have to say that that's a due               process violation under Taylor. That ­­ that what you          do have is you have the ability to come back and say,            but that's not what the judge meant. That's not what           the judge said, right?                            the issue.              MS. SHAPIRO: Correct.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So ­­ so that narrows          But then it's just like what was he saying,         if that wasn't what he was saying?                               MS. SHAPIRO: Well, there ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Let me give you a hypothesis          of what he may have been saying, because I think this            may be a little bit too hard on the judge.                       This was an unusual prosecution. It was a         murder prosecution where there was no evidence of        motive. I think that's pretty rare. The judge may have             been saying something like this: I have ­­ I have             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review identification evidence here.               And by the way, I ­­ I read the ­­ the             whole ­­ everything ­­ the whole record and ­­ that's in           the appendix and the closing argument of defense        counsel. There was no ­­ the defense here was not that            these were witnesses who made an honest mistake. They          just didn't get a good opportunity to see the ­­ to see             the perpetrator. The ­­ the ­­ argument of the defense,           as I read it very clearly, was that something was going            on here and these two witnesses were identifying ­­        were ­­ were falsely ­­ knowingly identifying the wrong         person. Something was going on.                  There's evidence that the victim was selling       drugs, very strong evidence that the victim was selling         drugs, and that's what was going on here. And so the            judge said ­­ may have said to himself, why does the ­­           the ­­ why would the accused take a baseball bat and            beat this kid, this ­year­old kid who has a lot of            drugs in his pockets, riding around on a bike? Why            would he just beat this kid to death?                    And there ­­ he ­­ I would be concerned          about finding this ­­ the defendant guilty if I thought           there was no motive in this case. But I can see that              there could well be a motive in this case, because           people in the drug trade kill each other. And that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review seems to be exactly what was going on here. Is that ­­            is that not a fair interpretation of what the judge was            saying?             MS. SHAPIRO: I think that's an extremely         fair interpretation of what the judge was saying. And I           think it is consistent also with what the Illinois         Appellate Court said when the Illinois Appellate Court        said that the speculation about motive was not a         material factor in ­­ in the verdict.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Well, no. It actually said         ­­ so I've been looking at this because it puzzles me           what standard we're supposed to use. He does say          there's no evidence that the two eyewitnesses knew each         other, had any reason to conspire and fabricate their         testimony. Next sentence: "Therefore, in light of         these identifications, the trial court's speculation" ­­      this is page ­­ "the trial court's speculation as to           defendant's motive for assaulting Nelson will be       construed as harmless error."                Error. And the judge who's dissenting       doesn't deny that it's error. He says it's error. He            just doesn't think it's harmless. So now we have a case             where it looks like the only words I can find on this in              Illinois concede that it's error. Or they say it's          error. Indeed, they say it's harmless error.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Therefore, the issue is harmlessness. What am I         supposed to do? What standard do I apply out of if              in fact they think it's error? Or even if they didn't            decide it and we ­­ it's debatable, obviously ­­ we          think it's error; we don't have to give them any          deference, I guess. How does it work?                     MS. SHAPIRO: The ­­ this Court has to give          deference to the Illinois Appellate Court's conclusion       that defendant's due process rights were not violated.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But they didn't conclude       that. I mean, Justice Breyer has asked ­­ you have to             give deference, I would think, on the ­­ the Brecht           question, the question of harmlessness. But why would         you have to give question on the merits ­­ on the merits            issue? There was no merits determination.                     I mean, there are two ways to read this        opinion, and neither one indicates that deference ought        to be given on the merits. One way to read it is that              they said it was error, but that it was harmless error.           The other way to read it is that notwithstanding the          fact that they said it was harmless error, they didn't          really mean that. They didn't reach a decision as to            the question of whether it was error. But even if           that's the case, there's still nothing to give deference         to on the merit side.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. SHAPIRO: I disagree. When the Illinois          Appellate Court said the ­­ the ­­ it said ­­ the           language that Justice Breyer quoted, it was just after         they are analyzing the State's argument. On page a,          the ­­ the appellate court explains that the State         further argues that even if this Court determines that         the trial judge's comments were improper, they should be         deemed harmless since there's no indication that the        comments constituted a material factor in defendant's        conviction. They then go on to discuss the evidence and           conclude that this speculation would be construed as        harmless error.              So what they are saying is error ­­ the best          reading of this opinion ­­ they're saying is error was          the speculation. It wasn't necessarily appropriate for        the judge to be doing that. But they're not saying that            there was constitutional error here. Indeed, it would         not be coherent for them to say that it was not a            material factor in the verdict and ­­ and then not          discuss whether that was constitutional error.                  The second, in terms of whether or not ­­        even if you believe that the Illinois Appellate Court         didn't directly address the merits, (d) still       requires deference to its conclusions. It       unquestionably concluded that the defendant's due      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review process rights were not violated because if ­­ because         it affirmed the conviction.                grounds.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, on harmlessness      MS. SHAPIRO: It is not clear that this ­­         the ­­ perhaps on harmlessness grounds. But even if on           harmlessness grounds, under cases like Harrington and       Davis v. Ayala, that's a ­­ there's still a decision on             the merits, an adjudication on the merits, and (d)         still requires deference to that adjudication on the        merits.             merits?             Court's.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Whose adjudication on the       MS. SHAPIRO: The Illinois Appellate      JUSTICE KAGAN: We might be going in        circles, but I thought you just said if ­­ even if we ­­             we view this opinion as not reaching a determination on           the merits.              MS. SHAPIRO: You could view this opinion as         deciding the question of whether his due process rights         were violated, deciding that question based solely on        harmless error, although I said, that ­­ that is not ­­           we don't believe that's the best reading of the ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Isn't that a merits        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review determination?             MS. SHAPIRO: Yes. It is a merits          determination.             JUSTICE SCALIA: I always thought       harmless ­­ harmlessness ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Harmlessness, you get      deference on. There's no question. Harmless, you get          deference on. The question is whether you get deference          on the notion that this surmising about motive was not          error. Because ­­ because to me, I read this opinion            and I say they ­­ they never say it's not error. Quite              the opposite. They declare it harmless error.                    MS. SHAPIRO: The ­­ the ­­ ultimately, the         question that the Court has to answer under (d) is          whether the State's adjudication results in a decision         that is in violation of an unreasonable application of         clearly established law of this Court. It's ­­ it's          ultimately the adjudication that this Court is looking        at. And the harmless ­­ even if you believe it's just a             harmlessness determination on which they decided, that       is under Davis v. Ayala on merits determination, and so          the adjudication is entitled to deference.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So harmlessness, I        think you're right, is entitled to deference. But         assume if you think that this judge unconstitutionally        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review convicted somebody on the basis of evidence that had         never been introduced at trial. If you think that, how           could that not be harmful? That's ­­ I mean, it's            almost tautological. If the error is that he convicted          somebody on the basis of evidence that was not proper to           think about, well, of course, that's harmful. That's         why he convicted him.                MS. SHAPIRO: Yes, and for that reason, we         believe the best reading of the ­­ of the opinion is           that they did not find constitutional error. Because if          it was not a material factor in the verdict, it could            not have been a violation of his due process rights.                       rebuttal.             I'd like to reserve the rest of my time for          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Levenstam.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARRY LEVANSTAM                   ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. LEVENSTAM: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                The Illinois Appellate Court unanimously     found that there was no evidence that Mr. Owens knew          Mr. Nelson was dealing drugs, or that he was himself          involved with gangs or with the illegal drug trade. And           subsequently, the presentence report revealed that he       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review had no convictions whatsoever.                    The Court then said that this was ­­ by a      two­to­one margin ­­ this was harmless error. And I          recognize that harmlessness is entitled to deference,       and I intend to discuss that. But it seems to me that              really, we're past the ­­ the point of ­­ of whether           there was evidence concerning knowledge.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Doesn't ­­ doesn't the case        really ­­ much of the case hinge on what ­­ what you            mean by error? If you mean by error simply introducing           into your decision matters that were not in the record          that had no support in the evidence, if that's what you           mean by error, it's one thing. It's another thing if           you mean by error using evidence that was not in the           record as a basis for your decision. And which of the             two you ­­ you assign this to, it seems to me,           determines the outcome of the case.                  MR. LEVENSTAM: I agree. And it seems to           me, based on what he said, after saying ­­ expressing          dissatisfaction with the witnesses' testimony, he said       what the real issue was to him ­­ and I have yet to be               in front of a trial court making a, you know, bench            trial decision who calls the real issue something other         than what he has to decide to ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what about the       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review presumption that the judge knows and applies the law?         And I don't think there's a rational judge who would            think it proper to base a conviction on conjecture that           has no evidentiary basis. So if we add to this that we             presume the judge knows and applies the law, and that is           he knows the defendant must be convicted on the basis of           evidence presented in court.                MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, there are two       presumptions at ­­ at ­­ at work, in a sense. This is a               morning seems filled with presumptions.                 The presumption that he knows the law, I        think, is absolutely correct. And I think that          presumption is a reason why we know that he found motive            an integral part of his conclusion of guilt, and that is           because the Illinois Supreme Court decided the People v.         Smith case in , and it reversed a conviction that           was based on identification that rested on motive. And          it said it is essential, if you are going to convict           someone based on a motive theory, that you find the           knowledge that the accused have the actual knowledge        necessary to generate the motive.                 And when he makes that finding, who ­­       defendant knew he was a drug dealer, he is going through            the paces in Illinois law to establish the motive that          is then the basis for the following finding of guilty of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review murder.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think we've gotten         pretty far afield from the issue here.                   Which case of ours clearly established that       it's due process­error when a judge speculates about an          issue that is not pertinent to guilt and there's         sufficient evidence of guilt on all the elements? Which          case of ours says that?                 MR. LEVENSTAM: There is no case that says         that, Your Honor. But this is different from that          situation because this is precisely how guilt is        determined. The fact that it's not an ­­ an element           doesn't mean that it's not what he rested his guilty          verdict on.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just want to ­­ I           mean, under AEDPA, isn't it critical that there be a          case ­­                         MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes, that Turner ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ as opposed to        what you're saying is the case is: Well, you know, we            have cases that say you can't be guilty if there wasn't           evidence of guilt.                           MR. LEVENSTAM: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that ­­ that's        a ­­ our cases clearly make sure ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. LEVENSTAM: Turner ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ that that's too                                high a level of generality.                  MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, no. I think Turner          and Taylor are per ­­ all of those cases ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Taylor ­­ Taylor       says the problem is the judge said you can infer from           the fact that the person has been arrested and indicted,          right? Is that ­­ that's Taylor?                   MR. LEVENSTAM: There was some ­­ there was         a bad instruction there, yes.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, that's        very different from here. The judge is the factfinder.          He's not instructing anybody on anything.                  What about Williams? That ­­ they ­­ the         Seventh Circuit only cited three of our cases, right?                     more.             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes. We've cited a few          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I know. But          that doesn't count, right? It's the ones that the          Seventh Circuit counted ­­ cited under AEDPA.                   MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, I ­­ I think if it            exists in those cases, interweave and cite themselves,        cases like Shepherd v. Maxwell, and Irving ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. Well, what        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review about three cases: Taylor is about an erroneous         instruction to a jury. That's not what this is.                       Williams. Williams. That's the prison       attire case, right? The people are ­­                               MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Nothing like that is        here. That's an outside influence on the ­­ on the           factfinder.                                     And Holbrook is the sheriffs who were ­­       MR. LEVENSTAM: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ blanketed.      Nothing like that happens here.                 MR. LEVENSTAM: Each of those cases applied        a ­­ what I would call a prophylactic application of due             process to avoid a jury coming to a conclusion based on             outside­the­record facts or assumptions.                Here, what we have is a trial court judge          who has told us, on the record, that that's exactly what           he's done. And so ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's ­­ what is        exactly what he's done?                MR. LEVENSTAM: That he ­­ he's told us he          has based his finding on motive, based it on the          knowledge ­­ which is not ­­ which is not supported in           the record.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: But that's not what the        State says. The State says you read the relevant three           sentences: The issue was you have a ­year­old youth           on a bike who is a drug dealer; who Larry Owens knew he               was a drug dealer. Larry Owens wanted to knock him off.             I think the State's evidence has proved that fact. You           see?             So two members of the Illinois Supreme Court        say the words "that fact" refer to the sentence, Larry          Owens wanted to knock him off. And the sentence          preceding that is the judge's speculation as to why.                     One judge in the Supreme Court says what you         said, that when you read that together, it means "that          fact" referred to the motive.                 Now, there we are. And the question is what          are we supposed to do? Is there enough here to say that             they are clearly wrong, those two members?                               MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, there we are, the          Seventh Circuit thought, yeah. There is.                               MR. LEVENSTAM: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: They're clearly wrong. The        ­­ it doesn't refer to the preceding sentence. It          refers to the preceding two sentences.                  MR. LEVENSTAM: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Have ­­ have I got the          MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, perhaps that's one way                    issue?             of looking at it, yes. But ­­ but ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: That seems to be the way        that your ­­ your ­­                            and it.              MR. LEVENSTAM: If ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ opponents are looking       MR. LEVENSTAM: If the court reporter had        put a comma there, I think what he's ­­ what ­­            everything from "skirted the real issue." Because what         he then does is define the real issue: What he has            to ­­ what is going to bring him over the line to be             beyond a reasonable doubt.                 And the issue to me is ­­ and it goes all           the way on from there to the end, and "that fact," the            issue to him is the "that fact." I don't think ­­ I              don't think you can get to ­­ precisely because Illinois          law, which I think he was following his error was of            fact ­­ says you need to establish knowledge to create          motive.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if the ­­ what         if the record said ­­ the judge says, okay, I ­­ you             know, the ­­ the State has satisfied all of the elements           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review required for murder in ­­ in Illinois. You know, the           real issue here is about these gangs selling drugs. In           other words, is there ­­ and if, in fact ­­ I mean, does              that make a difference?                                                     MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, why don't we        accept the presumption that the judges are presumed to         know the law and are following it, and interpret that in           light of ­­ in light of that record?                                MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, but ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because you don't       challenge that there's sufficient evidence of guilt, do        you?             MR. LEVENSTAM: The ­­ no, that's not our         issue. I mean, that was challenged below, but that's no            longer at issue in the case.                  The ­­ the presumption that he's referring       to ­­ that the ­­ the Illinois Appellate Court is          referring to there, is a presumption concerning the         trial court's relying only on properly­admitted      evidence, and it's the presumption this Court explained        is necessary in Williams v. Illinois to enable trial         judges to try cases. But that ­­ so that they can set             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review aside, presumably, the ­­ the evidence they've heard        that's inadmissible and proceed on the admissible       evidence.             But that's not what's happened here. What's        happened here is there is no evidence whatsoever of         Mr. Owens knowing or being involved in any of this          business. And then you have the judge specifically         saying that he knew that fact, that Mr. Owens knew that           Mr. Nelson was dealing drugs. And that ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure ­­ I'm not         sure what he means when he says "the issue here." He            might have meant only the question here, the ­­ the          unresolved question. What perplexes me here is that we          don't have any evidence of motive. And that would be a            question. And so he ­­ you know, he supplies that, but            he ­­                                                 MR. LEVENSTAM: But it ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ doesn't say ­­      MR. LEVENSTAM: ­­ it ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: He doesn't say that it's        necessary to his decision.                MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, it ­­ it seems to me          they ­­ the real ­­ again, I've ­­ I've not seen a trial              court judge faced with the ­­ having to determine guilt          or innocence frames a real issue as being an irrelevant           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sort of back story kind of ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but you're assuming       what their argument is. But the question is what is the            real issue.                          further.                                     MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, we ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: We can get something       Were you the trial judge ­­ trial lawyer?        MR. LEVENSTAM: No, no, no, no, no, no.         JUSTICE BREYER: But you've read the record        pretty well?                          MR. LEVENSTAM: Oh, yes.     JUSTICE BREYER: So now, I think all of the           witnesses skirted the real issue. Okay? What did they           skirt?                         talk about.                          MR. LEVENSTAM: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: They skirt what they didn't        MR. LEVENSTAM: But ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: So what was the rest of the          trial about?                          trial?             MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, no ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: What was the issue in the         MR. LEVENSTAM: The ­­ the trial is an         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review extremely short one, and I recommend it to Your Honor.           It's ­­                                     outside ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: And what is it about?        MR. LEVENSTAM: ­­ about a hundred pages.         It's about this event that happened      JUSTICE BREYER: No. I understand that.         But I mean ­­ what ­­ what he says is the witnesses             skirted the real issue.                If you will tell me that all they talked         about was: We identify him ­­ no, your identification          is no good; yes, our identification is good; no, it          isn't; yes, it is ­­ if that's what it was about, then            that couldn't be the real issue, so they're ­­ that they           skirted, because they didn't skirt it.                              MR. LEVENSTAM: I ­­ I ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: So something else has to        be; therefore, motive. But is that what happened?                                             MR. LEVENSTAM: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: What happened?     MR. LEVENSTAM: I believe what happened is         the judge did not believe these people's story; that         he ­­ I'm speculating now, too. But the ­­ but the fact             is that the harmlessness is something that ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: No. You don't understand        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review my question, because it was favorable to you.                    My question was ­­ my question was what did         those witnesses talk about. He says they skirted the          real issue. I want to know what they talked about ­­                                                MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, they ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the rest of the trial.         MR. LEVENSTAM: They talked about what they        saw, and they talked about their identifications. It         was very brief. And what I'm saying is, by skirting the            real issue, he's saying that he does not credit what          they've said.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So wait. So they're         ­­ what they were talking about is the identification?                                 MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're saying       what the judge said is I don't think Larry Owens was the             guy? I don't ­­                                         MR. LEVENSTAM: No, no, no, no.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ think ­­      MR. LEVENSTAM: I don't think they're        telling the truth here about what really happened out         there that night.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So he's saying you        think he determined that they had not really identified         the perpetrator. And yet, because he thought it was a           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review drug ­­ this guy was a drug dealer, well, he ought to be              found guilty anyway?               the words ­­              important ­­                         MR. LEVENSTAM: I ­­ I can't speak beyond           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but it's very        MR. LEVENSTAM: I ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ as we try to read          this statement, and I'm ­­ I think it's ­­                                 MR. LEVENSTAM: But ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ if you think the         judge did not think this was the guy but the guy who            happened to be there was a drug dealer and so he            sentenced him on first degree murder, I ­­ that's a           pretty incredible submission.               saying.             you ­­             MR. LEVENSTAM: No, that's not what I'm        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what are       MR. LEVENSTAM: Because the guy that was        there was not ­­ had ­­ there was no basis for him ­­            for anyone thinking he was a drug dealer, and that's the            point.               I ­­ I think that ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought ­­ I          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review thought you said that the real issue was that the judge           did not think that the witnesses were credible.                    MR. LEVENSTAM: The ­­ I'm sorry. I think           what I meant to say was that, when he said the ­­ the              witnesses skirted the real issue, it was reflecting some         measure of dissatisfaction with the witnesses'      testimony.             Now, I don't know what that was. I ­­ I ­­              I don't know. But what I do know is he immediately says              what ­­ he then frames what the issue is to him. And in              framing what the issue is to him, he says that Mr. Owens            knew that this victim was a drug dealer and wanted to            knock him off, presumably because he's a drug dealer.          And from the very next thing that he says, his finding           of guilty of murder.                So those things follow one right after the        other. It is the only thing ­­ it is the only fact that              he discusses after expressing whatever dissatisfaction      he has with the witnesses' testimony.                  And so it is ­­ at a minimum, it is an            integral part of the process that he has gone through to           reach the finding of guilt.                             JUSTICE KAGAN: When ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: That's what you say, but        what I want to put ­­ there's ­­ I'm trying to get the              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review other side, so you have to answer that squarely. And ­­           and maybe I'll put it this way:                   There's ­­ well, the judge has been sitting        there through this fairly short trial. He is annoyed at           all these witnesses. They've been pussy­footing what's        going on. They saw the murder. No problem about that.            But they're not explaining it because they're frightened        of saying what it's involved in.                  And he's fed up, so he's going to say, I'm          going to say what's really happening here. What's         really happening here is this is a drug deal that           failed. Or something like that.                              So that's the explanation of what he said.        If you could bring him back and say, judge,         did you mean motive played a role here?                     He'd say, of course not. Of course not. It           didn't play a role in my decision. All that played a             role in my decision was what the witnesses said, which          was, he's the guy. I was just saying what's going on.                         Now, what's ­­ I think they're saying        something like that.               MR. LEVENSTAM: And my answer to that is         that is speculation upon speculation upon speculation,       and it's not a basis for putting somebody behind bars           for years.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And the harmless error ­­ they bear the risk         on harmless error. The State. They have to explain ­­           if they want to explain something other than what's on          the page, that's for them to do.                               And the ­­ the Illinois Appellate ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: No, you ­­ you ­­ you have          to establish that it's error ­­                             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ before they have to        establish that it's harmless.                            MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, the only ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ and what       Justice Breyer was saying is it wasn't error. He's just           speculating, trying to make sense of the whole thing,         but that wasn't the basis for his decision.                    You have to establish that it was the basis         for his decision, whereupon there is error, whereupon        the State has to show that it's harmless.                    MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, whereupon I point back         to the Illinois Appellate Court conclusion that this was         error, three­to­zip error, two­to­one ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, again, that ­­      that ­­ that depends on what you mean by error. If ­­            if all they mean by it was error that you should not            bring in, in your opinion, any ­­ any facts that are not            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review on the record, it's a mistake to do that ­­ I think              that's what they meant by it was error.                    MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, and that's what I        think they thought he did, and I think they decided that            was error, and then they turned and did a harmless­error           analysis. And their harmless­error analysis was       insufficient, I think, for three reasons. Okay?                       I believe that it was ­­ it fails the        Brecht­Kotteakos test because they simply took a look at          the remaining evidence and they did not make any effort,          as the Seventh Circuit did, to assess precisely what         impact this knowledge/motive finding had on the judge.        And as we've pointed out in our briefs, the simple          answer long ago would have been to remand it and ask the            judge, and then we wouldn't be here.                                           But the ­­ so that's number one.       Number two ­­  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's not what ­­       what happened. The Seventh Circuit required a new          trial, right?              did ­­             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes. The Seventh Circuit        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. And what is the         posture of this ­­ the case at ­­ at the moment?                       MR. LEVENSTAM: It's ­­ it's stayed pending        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this Court's determination.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's a new trial that         was necessitated by the judge's death, correct?                                                       findings?             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The judge who passed ­­       MR. LEVENSTAM: The ­­ yes. Who ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ who made the       MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes. The judge is gone.         The judge is ­­ is ­­ has ­­ is ­­ has passed away a              few ­­ just a few years ago.                                                        JUSTICE ALITO: Yes.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that ­­     MR. LEVENSTAM: In the ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that who made this        statement? The trial judge?                             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: The one statement that the        judge made that you claim is utterly unsupported by the          evidence, I gather, is the statement: "Larry Owens knew           he was a drug dealer."                              only one?              MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: That's the ­­ that's the        MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: Now, there ­­ could ­­       there's some evidence from which one might infer that.         It might be insufficient. It would depend on the          standard of review. But there's evidence that ­­ that          Nelson, the victim, was selling drugs. Could you not          infer ­­ could a reasonable finder of fact not infer           from the record here that this kid, this ­year­old kid          with packages of drugs, who's hanging around in front          of this ­­ in front of this bar, was there for the            purpose of selling drugs?                MR. LEVENSTAM: That ­­ that would be a         reasonable inference.              JUSTICE ALITO: And the ­­ and the ­­ the          defendant walked up to ­­ there's evidence that the         defendant walked up to this kid standing in front of          the ­­ of the bar selling drugs, and spoke to him for            some period of time, right?                 MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, that would be       Mr. Evans, not Mr. Johnnie. Mr. Johnnie comes ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: Yes, but there's evidence of        that, if ­­ if you believe that, that that took ­­ that            took place, right?               testimony.             MR. LEVENSTAM: There is Mr. Evans'       JUSTICE ALITO: There's evidence of that.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review So could someone infer from those two facts that ­­ that           if this kid was pretty openly selling drugs and the          defendant walked up and spoke to him to some ­­ for some            period of time, he knew what he was doing?                     MR. LEVENSTAM: On ­­ yes. But the Illinois          Appellate Court has already told us that Mr. Evans'         testimony was ­­ his ­­ his credibility was severely         undermined, and it was contradicted by Mr. Johnnie's        testimony specifically, which the Illinois Appellate      Court relied on, although erroneously, because they       misapplied Neil v. Biggers. And the ­­ and the fact is            that they can ­­ they held, and I think you defer to             this, that there is no evidence that Mr. Owens knew          Mr. Nelson was dealing drugs.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Now, the question on ­­ on         the merits of ­­ putting aside the issues of ­­ of AEDPA            and harmless error, when would it ­­ when does it          violate due process for a judge in a bench trial to make              a finding on a fact that is not needed for conviction?            And what case of ours ­­                 MR. LEVENSTAM: Well ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ sets out the standard for         that?             MR. LEVENSTAM: Again, as I said, there is          no case of yours that sets forth the standard for that.           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE ALITO: What is the ­­      MR. LEVENSTAM: But here ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: What is the standard?       MR. LEVENSTAM: The ­­ well, the standard is                                                         the due process standard in Turner and Taylor and the          other cases that the Seventh Circuit cited and that         we've cited.              But that the fact is that the motive was a          part of the identification analysis.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'm trying to figure        out what the standard is, if you could put it in words.                        Suppose that the ­­ the trial judge had made         a finding, like the ­­ the court of appeals appears to,           about the ­­ the ­­ the time of nautical twilight, and           suppose the trial judge was wrong on that. Then what?                       So the trial judge has made a finding of          fact on a fact that's not necessary for conviction.          Might conceivably have some relevance to the       determination. So what is the due process standard for          determining whether that requires a new trial?                    MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, I think at that point          you ­­ you would do a harmless­error analysis.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Levenstam, I ­­ I guess           I don't understand why you're ­­ I would have thought           that the answer to Justice Alito's question was that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you're not saying that what happened here ­­ what went          wrong here, you're not saying, is that there was a          superfluous finding of fact.                            MR. LEVENSTAM: Well ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: You're saying that there is        a superfluous finding of fact that actually went into         the judge's ­­                                                  MR. LEVENSTAM: Well, yes.     JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ final determination.      MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes. I ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: It was not just any old         superfluous finding of fact.                            MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: It was not superfluous. It         was a made­up finding of fact that created the judge's           final conclusion that the man was guilty. That played          some role in that final conclusion.                  MR. LEVENSTAM: And ­­ and I apologize if I           haven't said that already, but that is certainly our         point, is that ­­ that the judge framed the issue, laid           out the issue, found the fact that was directly in front           of the finding of conviction ­­                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And ­­    MR. LEVENSTAM: ­­ and it was the only fact          specified by the judge in reaching that conclusion.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ in Taylor ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: It depends ­­ when you're                                reading this ­­ in reading what the judge said, it          depends on ­­ the reasonableness of what the judge said          may depend on whether you think that the judge inferred          that Larry Owens killed the victim because he knew he          was a drug dealer, or whether the judge was ­­ in            attempting to fill in the blanks of this case, inferred          that he knew he was a drug dealer from the fact that             there was proof that he killed him.                               MR. LEVENSTAM: But there ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: So if you know that the         victim is a drug dealer and the defendant talked to the            victim, and then the defendant proceeded to beat his         brains out with a baseball bat, you could probably infer           from that the reason why he did it was that he knew he             was a drug dealer, could you not?                    MR. LEVENSTAM: The reason why whoever did        it did it because ­­ yes, I think that's right. The             problem comes with Mr. Owens and the evidence that links          him. And that's where we get to the harmless­error          analysis, and the Illinois Appellate Court's      harmless­error analysis was constitutionally inadequate.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I ­­ I'm sorry.          You said the problem is with the evidence that linked          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review him to the ­­                           MR. LEVENSTAM: Mr. Owens, right.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're not       challenging the sufficiency of that evidence.                  MR. LEVENSTAM: I'm challenging the      credibility of that evidence. The trial court never         found it credible. In fact, he expressed some concerns          about the witness.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but      credibility was the key issue in the trial, right?                     MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes. Yes. And ­­ and          unfortunately, the Illinois Appellate Court, in      reviewing this, said specifically here there is no        indication whether or not the trial judge assessed the         credibility of the eyewitnesses, resolved conflicts in       their testimony, or waived the evidence or drew        reasonable inferences therefrom.               And then it proceeded to do essentially just        that, which it can't do because it didn't see any of           these people. And the ­­ and it is clear from the            record that there was a fair amount of equivocation by           even Mr. Johnnie. His ­­ his behavior that evening was           extremely suspicious. The Illinois Appellate Court made        basically mistake after mistake in its harmless­error       analysis. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But that ­­ seems to       me like you're challenging the sufficiency of the        evidence, and I ­­ again, as I ­­ as the case comes              before us, we assume there is sufficient evidence to         convict under every element of the crime.                   MR. LEVENSTAM: I'm ­­ I'm challenging the        sufficiency of the Illinois Appellate Court's      harmless­error analysis, upholding the conviction in      light of the fact that it concluded that there were no           credibility determinations that it could rely upon made        below. Typically, there is an assumption that        credibility analysis is done, and that's what's ­­ the         appellate court works from.                But here the appellate court tells us that        it's is assuming there are none. And then it goes and            it applies the Neil v. Biggers analysis, which is         analysis determining the reliability of     identification ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't make any       sense. You're saying that the ­­ what ­­ the Illinois           Supreme Court thought the opinion below was, was that         the judge didn't think eyewitness testimony proved that        this was the guy who ­­ who hit him with a baseball bat.              But nonetheless, he thought this guy was a drug dealer           and that will be enough. I ­­ that doesn't make any             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sense. The trial court must have accepted the         credibility ­­                         MR. LEVENSTAM: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ of one or both of ­­ of           the witnesses.              MR. LEVENSTAM: I don't ­­ I'm telling         you ­­ I'm reading you the Illinois Appellate Court         opinion, and I'm telling you I agree with you when it            doesn't make any sense, comes out time and again,         because it doesn't make any sense, because this was a          terribly botched job.               And even under the deferential standards of       Brecht and Kotteakos, the trial court got it ­­ based it           on evidence that wasn't in the record, and the Illinois          Appellate Court affirmed based on legally inadequate,       harmless­error analysis, constitutionally inadequate and     objectively unreasonable.              They applied ­­ instead of applying      harmless­error law, they applied this Neil v. Biggers.        It's a reliability analysis for whether something gets         admitted into evidence. It's not the outcome. It's the           inflow into the trial, not the determination at the end          that this guy Johnnie, who's been hiding out from the          police all night and then hides out from the police for           a week, is ­­ is somehow credible. He's the guy that's            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review been telling the trial judge, oh, we talked to the          police. Well, it turns out on cross­examination he         didn't talk to the police. It was his driver who talked            to the police.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, counsel.       Maybe I'm just repeating myself. That sounds like         you're arguing the sufficiency of the evidence.                   MR. LEVENSTAM: But Your Honor, it is not a          direct sufficiency. I am challenging the Illinois         Appellate Court's harmless­error analysis. It went       through and said Mr. Johnnie should be believed because         X, Y, and Z. And I am telling you that in conducting              its harmless­error analysis, it overlooked A, B, C, D, E          all the way through W.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, you're saying       we're not challenging the sufficiency of the evidence.        We are challenging the Illinois court's determination       that it was harmless error that there was not sufficient          evidence.             MR. LEVENSTAM: The mode of analysis was        wrong. The ­­ as I said, the Neil v. Biggers analysis             is a reliability analysis that talks about        admissibility. It doesn't allow the Court to make a          credibility determination in the absence of ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought you ­­ you're         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review conceding that there was sufficient evidence. If all         there had been is these two eyewitnesses, there would be          nothing you could object to. But what you're saying is           that the error that this judge made in confining this          motive based on evidence is not in the record, that that           error had a substantial influence on the judgment that          it rendered.              injurious.             MR. LEVENSTAM: Yes, substantial and      JUSTICE GINSBURG: So indeed, there was       sufficient evidence, yes, but the finding of the        conviction rested on an error that had ­­                   MR. LEVENSTAM: Absolutely. And that was        not harmless under Brecht and Davis.                  If there are no further questions, I will         thank the Court and sit down.                              remaining. CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Ms. Shapiro, you have four minutes               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CAROLYN E. SHAPIRO                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MS. SHAPIRO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                    I ­­ I'd like to start by talking briefly        about the harmless­error analysis that the Illinois       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Appellate Court undertook.               Even assuming ­­ which we do not concede ­­        that they found constitutional error and then went ahead         and did a harmless­error analysis, at best, the         Respondent here can argue ­­ is trying to argue that          it ­­ that it engaged in an unreasonable application of          Chapman, that's only one thing that Respondent here        would have to establish to overcome ­­ to ­­ to          establish that the error was not harmless. He also has           to meet the Brecht standard of ­­ that the error, if           any, had a substantial and injurious effect on the          verdict.             The Illinois Appellate Court found that the       speculation about motive did not ­­ was not a material           factor in the verdict; therefore, it could not have been          a harmful error.               Second, I'd like to say something about the        role of motive in a case involving ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you explain how       they were able to make that finding that the motive that           the judge specified based on evidence that's not in the          record, that that didn't have an influence?                   MS. SHAPIRO: Certainly. The Illinois       Appellate Court talks about the evidence at trial. And          ­­ and talk ­­ talked about the fact that the judge has            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review just sat through a trial in which he's heard two           eyewitnesses, unrebutted eyewitnesses identify the     defendant as the ­­ as the killer. It would not ­­ the             Illinois Appellate Court's conclusion that it ­­ putting        that evidence together with the presumption of       regularity, the Illinois Appellate Court presumes that       the motive was ­­ concludes ­­ excuse me ­­ that the           motive was not ­­ the speculation about motive was not a           material factor in the verdict.                 And motive is not ­­ as ­­ as it's been          pointed out, motive is not an element of murder in          Illinois. And motive ­­ although motive can be used to           establish identity, it doesn't have to be used to         establish identity. People v. Smith is a case about           whether or not the ­­ the State can put in evidence of            motive without establishing that the defendant knew       about the ­­ this evidence that they're putting in.                     It has nothing whatsoever to do with whether        motive is a necessary part of establishing identity in a           case where you have two unrebutted eyewitnesses.                   To conclude, for Respondent to prevail, this       Court would have to find that the trial judge would have           disregarded some of the most basic principles of ­­ of          jurisprudence and found the defendant ­­ and you would         have to conclude that the Illinois Appellate Court's        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review factual conclusions were ­­ both factual and legal        conclusions were objectively unreasonable. On AEDPA,       those conclusions cannot be reached and the Seventh        Circuit should be reversed.                Thank you.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : ability : able : above­entitled : : absence : : absolutely : : accept : accepted : accused : : : : actual : : add : addition : address : adjudicate : adjudication : :, : :, : admissibility : admissible : admitted : AEDPA : : : : : : AEDPA's : affirmed : : afield : ago : : agree : : : : agreed : : ahead : ALITO : :,, :,,, :, : :, : : Alito's : allegation : : allegations : allow : allowed : allows : alternative : ambiguous : amount : analysis :, :, : : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : analyzing : annoyed : answer : :, : :, : : answers : anybody : anyway : apologize : appeals : APPEARAN... : appears : appellate : :, : :, :, : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :,, :,, appendix : application : : : applied : :, applies : :, : apply : applying : approached : appropriate : : argue :, argued : argues : arguing : argument : :,, :, :, : : : : array : arrested : aside : : : asked : : assaulting : assess : assessed : assign : assume : : : : : assuming : : : assumption : : assumptions : attempting : attire : attorney : avoid : Ayala : : B B : back : : : : : : : background : bad : : bar : :, BARRY : : : bars : base : baseball : : : : based : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : bases : basic : : basically : : : basis : : : : :, : :,, : : :, bat : : : : bear : beat :, : behalf :, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : behavior : believe :, : : : : : : :, : : believed : believes : bench : : best : : : : : beyond : : : :, : : : : Biggers : : : : bike :, : : bit : blanketed : blanks : botched : brains : Brecht : : : : Brecht­Kottea... : Breyer : : : :,, :,, :, :,,, : :, :,, : : : brief :, : : : briefly : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : concerning : conceding : conceivably : : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, :,,, concerned : convictions :,,, : : : : :, : :, : : : circles : Circuit : correct :, : : : : : :, counsel : : : : : count : counted : course : concerns : conclude : concludes : conclusion : : : concluded : : created : credibility : : :, : :, : : credible :,, :, : : : credit : crime : : : : : critical : : : cross­examina... :, : :,, : : cite : cited :, : :, claim : :, : clear : : : : : : : : : :, : : conclusions : :,, conducting clearly : : : : : :, confining : : :, conflicts : : : conjecture : consider : :, : : :, consistent : :, : : : : closing : cloth : coherent : come : : comes : : : : : coming : : comments : :, committed : common : : conspire : constituted : constitutional : :, : : constitutionally : : construed : : contest : contradicted : : convict :, : : convicted : :,, : : :, court :, : : crucial : D : D : : : :, :,,, : : :,, : D.C : :,,, Davis : : : : : : : deal : : : : : dealer : : :,, :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :,, :,, :,,, : :, debatable : :,, :, :,, : : : :, :,, :, : :,,, : dealing : : : : death : : decide : : : : : : : : :, : : courts : : : : deciding : :, decision : : : : :, : : briefs : bring : : : : brother : business : C C : : : call : calls : CAROLYN : :, : : case :, : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : :,,,, : : : :, : : : :, :, cases : : : :, :, : : : : certain : certainly : :, : : : challenge : challenged : : :, :,, Chapman : Chicago :, Chief :, :, : :,, challenging : comma : court's :, decided : concede : conviction : create : Alderson Reporting Company drugs :, : : : : : :,, :, due :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, Duncan : : E :, : : : : : declare : deemed : defendant : :, : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, determines : : determining : : : develop : : difference : different : : : : differently : direct : defendant's : directly : : : : :, defense : : disagree : : :, : :, disavow : discuss :, : defer : deference : : :, :,, : : :,,,, disregard : : discusses : dispute : disregarded discussed : E : :,, :,, : : : : easy : effect : effort : element : : : : : dissenting : elements : distance : disturbance :,, dissatisfaction : :, : : : :, : : : doing : : emotional : doubt : : :, : :, : : : enable : engaged : entirely : draw : : entitled : : : drew : : :, driver : : drug : : :,,, :, : : : : :, equivocation : erroneous : erroneously deferential : define : degree : deny : depend : : : : depends : :, described : determination : : :,,, : : : : :, determinations : determine : determined : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :,,, :, : error :, : :, :, : :,, : :,, : :, :, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : : :,, :,, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : : :,,, : : :, : :, :, :, : :, : :, : : :, : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, : : :,,,, :,,, :, : : :, : :, :, especially : : ESQ :, : :, essential : essentially : : establish :, : : : :, : :, :, established : evidentiary : : : :, exactly : : :, : :, :, : : :, example : : establishing : :, evaluate : Evans : excuse : exists : experience : : : expert : :, : explain :, Evans' : : : evening : event : Everybody : : explained : explaining : explains : explanation : evidence : expressed : Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : : factual :, failed : : fails : fair :, :, : fairly : falsely : far : favorable : fed : feel : feet : figure : fill : filled : filling : final :,, find : : : : : : : finder :, : : finders : finding : :, : : : : : :, : four : framed : frames : : framing : free : :, :, frightened : front : : :, : further : : : G G : gangs : : expressing : : extraneous : : extreme : :, extremely : : : eyewitness : eyewitnesses : : : : :,, F fabricate : faced : fact :,, : :, : : : : :, : : :,, :,, : : : : : :, :,, :,,, :, : : : : factfinder : : :, : : factfinder's : factfinders : : factfinding : factor : : :, : : : facts :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review follow :, : following : : : follows : force : forth : : good : : found : : going : : : :, : : : :, : :, :, :, gotten : granted : grounds :, : guess : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : guilty :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : harmless : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, : : : : harmless­error :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : Harrington : head : : hear : : : heard : : : : : held : hides : hiding : high : : guilt :, : harmlessness : : guy : : :,,, : :, hinge : :, : : : gather : general : : : : :, : :, generality : : : :, : :,,, GINSBURG : :, : : : :, hanging : findings : :, : happened :, hypothesis : : hit : : Holbrook : home : honest : Honor : : :, :, hundred : generate : habeas : : H : : : : finds : : first : : give : : :,,, :,,, : : : : : : : : : : given : : happening : : go : : :, fits : Fleeting : focuses : : happens : goes : : hard : : harmful :, Alderson Reporting Company I ID : identification :,, : : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : inference : : : inferences : : inferred :, inflow : influence : : : information : : injurious : : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, :,, :,, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : :,,, : : : : :, : judge's : : : : : : :, judges : : : judgment : jurisprudence issues : : J jury :,, :, Justice :,, innocence : : instructing : : Jackson : January : job : Johnnie :, :, : : : : : : Johnnie's : instruction : : insufficient : : :, :,,,, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : K : KENNEDY :, : : :,, : Kagan : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :,, :, : : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : :, : :,,, Kennedy's :,, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, knock :,, :,,, kill : killed :, killer : kind : knew : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : key : kid :,, :,, : :, : : : identifications : : identified : : identify : :,, : : identifying :, identity : :, ignore : Ill :, illegal : Illinois : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :,, immediately : impact : important : : : : improper : inadequate integral : : intend : interesting : interpret : interpretation : : : :, interpreted : :,, : interweave : introduced : : : judge :, : :,, : :, :,,, : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, :, : :,, : : :,, : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, inadmissible : : introducing : incredible : indicates : indicating : indication : : indicted : infer : :, : involved : : : involving : irrelevant : Irving : issue : : :,,,, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : level : : : :, misapplied : : Levenstam : looks : lot : : misidentified : need : needed : needs : Neil : : missing : made­up : mistake : : : neither : : :, Nelson : : : : : mode : :, : moment : morning : motivation : never : : : : : : M : matter : : :, : : :, : : :,, :,,, : :, making : :, : :, : man : :, :, margin : :, : material : : :, :, : : : :,,, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :,, : : :,, :,, :,,,, :, : :, : :, : :,, :,,, :, : : :, : : :, :, :, matters : Matthews : Maxwell : mean : :, motive : : new : : note : : : : : : : : :, night : :,, : :, nonelement : :, : :,,, notion : : : : : : : : : : :, O : :,, :,,, O : : :, mouth : number : notwithstandi... : : : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : : :, moving : meaning : murder : means : : : : : : : meant : : : : : : : measure : meet : members : : merit : merits :, N N :, : narrows : nautical : necessarily :, : :, : necessary : : : :,,, :, : : : : : : minimum : necessitated minutes : : object : objectively : : obviously : : occasions : offered : oh : : : okay : : : :, : : : : : : :, old : once : : : one­witness : ones : openly : know : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : knowing : knowingly : knowledge : :, : : knowledge/m... : knows : : :,, : Kotteakos : L laid : language : : Larry :,, :, : :,, : : : law :,, : : :,,, : : : LAWRENCE : lawyer : leave : leaves : legal : legally : length : Let's : LEVANSTAM : light : :, : line : : : : linked : links : little : local : long :,, : longer : look : : : : : looking : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review operating : : : : : opinion : partial : : :, parties : : : : : : passed :, pending : people : : : : : people's : period : :, : precisely : process­error : : presented : : : : : presentence : presumably : : : produced : proof : proper : : : properly : properly­adm... : presume :, prophylactic opponents : opportunity : opposed : opposite : oral : :, : : original : ought : : outcome : : outside : : : perpetrator : : : presumed : presumes : perplexes : presumption :, : person :, :, : :,, : personal : : : : pertinent : Petitioner :, presumptions :, pretty : : : : : : outside­the­re... : overcome : overlooked :, : : photo : photograph Owens : : : : : : : prevail : piece : principle : :,,,, pieces : principles : putting : place : :, : prison : : :, play : probably : : :, played :, problem : : : : : :, : : : :, please : : : : puzzles : : : : :, QP pockets : point : : problems : proceed : proceeded : : : : : : : pointed : P : p.m : paces : packages : page : : police :, : : : process :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : pages : : : pardon : : : Parker : : :, part : : preceding : process­claims possibility : posture : precedent : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company R R : rare : rational : reach : : reached : reaching : : read : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : reading : : : :, : real :,,, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, :, really : : : : : :, :, : : reason : : : : : :, reasonable : : : : : : : : : :, : reasonableness : reasons : : rebuttal : : : recognize : : prosecution :, proved : :, :, : : : proven : : : provided : purpose : pussy­footing : put : : question :: :, : ::,,, :, : :, : :,, : :,, : :questions :quite : : :quoted : Official ­ Subject to Final Review recommend : record :, resolved : respect : Respondent : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, Respondent's :, : : : : : : : : : refer :, referred : referring : rested : : : results : revealed : reversed : : rest : : : refers : reflecting : regularity : rejected : : : review : : : : : : reviewed : reviewing : relevance : relevant : : : : rid : riding : reliability : right : :, : : reliable : relied : relief : rely : : relying : remaining : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : : role : : :,, : : rule : run : S S : : sat : satisfaction : satisfied : saw : : : saying : : :, : :,,, :, : :,, :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, : : :,, : : : says : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : : seen : selected : selling :, : :, : : sense : : : : : : : : :, : sentence : : :, : sentenced : sentences : : set : sets :, Seventh : :, : :,, : : simple : simply : : sit : : sitting : situation : :, : skirt :, : skirted :, : : : :, : : skirting : Smith : : snuff : solely : : : Solicitor : somebody : : : somewhat : sorry : : severely : Shapiro : : sort : : : SOTOMAYOR : : : : :, : :, :,, : :, : : : :,,, :, : : :,, : :, :,, :, :,, :, : : :,, Sotomayor's : :, :, : : : : :, : : : :,, : sounds : speak : special : specifically : : : : : specificity : specified : Shepherd : sheriffs : short : : show : side : : : speculate : speculates : speculating : : SCALIA : : : rights : : rise : risk : ritual : remand : rendered : repeated : repeating : reply :, : : report : :,, reporter : ROBERTS : :,,, required : : :, : : :, : scene : :,,, second : : :,, : : : :, : :, seconds : :, : requires : : : reserve : requirement : : see : : : similar : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review speculation : : :, : :, : :, : : : spoke : : squarely : standard : : : :, : :,,, : : : sufficiency : :, :, : sufficient : :, : :, : : : : :, superfluous :,,, supplies : support : supported : suppose : standards : standing : start : starts :, State : :, supreme :, supposed : : : : statement : T :, :,, : :, : : : : :, : :, : State's :, : : : : : : :, : statements : : States :, stayed : STEPHEN : story : : :, : : strong : submission : submitted : : subsequently : : : :, : sure : : :, : : :, surmising : suspicious : T take : : : takes : : talk : : : : : talked : : :,, : :, : talking : : : : talks : : tautological : substantial : Taylor : : : :,,, : : : tell : :, : : telling : : : : : : :, tells : terms : terribly : test : testimony : : : : : :, : :, : : thank : :,, :, theory : : :, : : : therefrom : thing : :, : : :, : : : : things : : :,,, : think :, :,,,, :,,, :, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, :, :, :, : :, : :,,, : :, troubled : true :,, truth : : try : : trying : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : : :, : thinking : thought : : Tuesday : turned : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : three : : : : three­to­zip : tie : : time : : : : : times : told :, : trade : : trial :, : Turner : : :, : turns : twilight : two : : : : : : :,, : : : :, two­to­one : : tying : Typically : U ultimately : : unanimously : : : unconstitutio... :, : :,, : :, undermined : : :, : understand : : : : :, : : : :,,, : : : : :, : :,,, unfair : :,, :,, : : :, undertook : understanding unfortunately unimpeached : : : trouble : United :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, :,, : x :, : : X Y unquestionably wait : : unreasonable : : : : unrebutted waived : walked :, : want : : : : : :, wanted : : unresolved : unsupported : unusual : upholding : use : utterly : V v : : : : : : : : : : : : : various : verdict :, :, : : : : : :, : victim :, : : :,, view :, violate :, :, : :, : : : violated : : :, violates : violation : : : : : : : : W W : :, : : :, : wants : WARDEN : Washington : wasn't : : : : : :, : way : : ways : We'll : we're : : : : : we've : : : : : week : went :, : : whatsoever : : : Williams : :, : Winship : witness : : witnesses : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : :, : witnesses' : : : (d) : : : : : : : : : :, wonderfully : words :, : : : : : : work : : works : world : : wouldn't : wrong : : : :, : : : wrote : Y : yeah : : : years : : youth : Z Z : : : : a : : : : : : ­ : : ­year­old : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 