Official         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  JEFFREY J. HEFFERNAN,                :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          CITY OF PATERSON, NEW                 JERSEY, ET AL.                       : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MARK FROST, ESQ., Philadelphia, Pa.; on behalf of           Petitioner. GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Petitioner. THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Bethesda, Md.; on behalf of            Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     MARK FROST, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MARK FROST, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Heffernan v. City of          Paterson, New Jersey.               Mr. Frost.                 ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK FROST                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. FROST: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Public employees have a right not to be         demoted on patronage grounds. It does not matter if you           are affiliated with a specific party or that you are           nonaffiliated. It does not matter if you are mistakenly          perceived by your employer or supervisor that you're        engaged in political association to be protected by the         First Amendment.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: How would you define the        right at issue in this case?                  MR. FROST: The ­­ the issue here is ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: How would you define the        right that your client wishes this Court to vindicate?                     MR. FROST: I'm defining the right in that         pursuant to Elrod and its progeny, that there ­­ it is           not necessary to have any affirmative acts, that by         Alderson Reporting Company Official virtue of being a public employee, he has the right not            to engage in political association.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's just a       restatement of ­­ of Elrod. I ­­ I ­­ would ­­ would ­­               would it be fair to the proposition that you are putting           before the Court to say that you're asserting the right          to be free from government inquiry into an oversight of          your views? Would that be a fair statement?                      MR. FROST: That would be a fair statement,          Justice Kennedy.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because ­­ look, do we ­­        it sounds to me from the way you began your argument           that we take this case on the assumption that, if he had            picked up the sign, that if he had been supporting the           candidate for chief of police who was challenging the         incumbent, if he had been engaged in the activity, that          would be protected. He could not have been demoted.          If ­­ you want us to take the case on that ­­ do we have               to accept that proposition for you to prevail in this          case?             MR. FROST: No, you do not have to accept          that proposition. Proposition is just clearly that, as         a public employee, he has a right to either associate or            nonassociate, and he doesn't have to commit an        affirmative act in support, in this case, of the mayor's          Alderson Reporting Company Official opponent, which was Chief Spagnola.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but the ­­ the         First Amendment talks about abridging freedom of speech,        and I thought the case came to us on the proposition            that he wasn't engaging in speech at all. That he was            not engaging in association, he was not engaging in         trying to convey a message, he was just picking up a            sign for his mother. And if that's the basis on which            the case comes to us, I'm not sure how he can say his             freedom of speech has been abridged.                  MR. FROST: In this case, Mr. Chief Justice,         the case comes to us with respect to association. With           respect to speech, speech is governed by a different          doctrine than association. There is no need to do a           Pickering analysis in this case.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: He wasn't associating with       anybody any more ­­ any more than he was speaking. He            was doing neither one.                MR. FROST: Justice Scalia ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: He was associate ­­      associating with his mother, I suppose, in picking up          the sign for her. But he was not expressing any           political view. He was not associating with a political           party.             What case of ours vindicates the right       Alderson Reporting Company Official that ­­ that Justice Kennedy described to you and which          you readily agreed with? What ­­ what case of ours           vindicates that ­­              MR. FROST: Elrod would stand for that        proposition.                                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Elrod ­­    MR. FROST: Elrod ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Elrod says you have a First          Amendment right to favor a political party or not favor           a political party, and you cannot be fired for doing so.           That's not what happened here.                 MR. FROST: But he was not favoring a         political party.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. He was not        expressing any First Amendment view whatever. I mean,          he was fired for the wrong reason, but there's no          constitutional right not to be fired for the wrong         reason. If he was fired because his ­­ his ­­ his ­­            his government employer thought he had committed a        felony and he hadn't, he might ­­ he might have a cause             of action under some statute. But there ­­ there ­­          there's no constitutional right not to be fired for the          wrong reason, and that's what happened here.                   MR. FROST: There's a constitutional right,        Justice Scalia, to be able to be free from patronage          Alderson Reporting Company Official decisions and to be discharged or demoted on patronage         grounds. And in Elrod ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Where do we say that? We          never said that. Elrod and ­­ and Branti are ­­ are            cases decided under the First Amendment. The First         Amendment guarantees the right to freedom of speech and         freedom of association. Your client was neither        speaking nor associating. So how could he possibly have          a cause of action under the First Amendment?                    MR. FROST: He doesn't need to speak, and he          doesn't need to take a position. The Rutan plaintiffs,           they didn't take a position with respect to promotion or           transfers. They took ­­ the fact of the matter is,           is ­­ is that since they were not affiliated with the           Republican party or supporting the Republican party or        endorsed by the Republican party, none of those        individuals would have been promoted or transferred.       They didn't take any affirmative acts.                  JUSTICE ALITO: I don't understand ­­ I         don't understand your answer. What ­­ what expressive         activity did he engage in? He wasn't ­­ he was not            allegedly demoted for failing to support the mayor. He          was allegedly demoted for seemingly supporting the       mayor's opponent.              MR. FROST: In ­­ in Waters this Court         Alderson Reporting Company Official looked at the motive of the employer, the motive of          government. If government perceives that you are        engaging in a political activity and the motive is to           suppress one's beliefs and associations or      nonassociations, then you look at it through       government's analysis, and it's their basis of their        facts that you are evaluating.                 Here they evaluated the facts that he was        engaged in campaigning.               Officer Heffernan went to a political       gathering. He went and picked up a sign. What was             misperceived by his employer was the fact of his intent.          He said that, I'm not intending to support Spagnola, but          he is doing all those incidents that are core First          Amendment activities.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let me just ­­        to clarify what I ­­ how I thought the case was             presented. Let's say the employer comes in to Smith and           says, you know, Smith, I saw you getting a ­­ a ­­ a                political sign, and you're ­­ and you're ­­ you're         fired.             And Smith says, it wasn't me. I was off,           you know, in a different town then.                    In other words, it's a pure mistake of fact.                      Your answers, it seems to me, you try to get          Alderson Reporting Company Official advantage of the fact that there ­­ you could perhaps          have argued this was expressive activity. Say, oh, he          was at a meeting, a political event. He was getting a              sign. But your theory, I thought, didn't depend on that            at all.                          MR. FROST: It ­­ it ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It was simply a        mistake of fact.               And then ­­ now, can the person who wasn't         even there, can he bring a First Amendment challenge to           his dismissal?                                      making ­­             MR. FROST: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MR. FROST: And the point that I was          JUSTICE KENNEDY: And then again ­­ but it's         still not clear to me: What is the right that he's            asserting?             And ­­ and I'll back up while you're        thinking about that.               Is ­­ can a local government say that all          our employees must be neutral in campaigns and must not          take part in campaigns?                            MR. FROST: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: They can vote, but they        Alderson Reporting Company Official can't take part in campaigns? Like the Hatch Act?                      MR. FROST: Well, there are Hatch Acts.        There was no provision here.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can the government insist       on neutrality?              MR. FROST: I think the government can have          a policy after balancing the interests between that of         the employer and that of the position.                                           JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that an issue ­­       MR. FROST: I was not saying ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that an issue ­­ is         that an issue in this case? Is there any allegation           that there was such a policy of neutrality that no           employee could engage in political activity?                  MR. FROST: Okay. Justice Ginsburg, there        was no such policy in this case involving ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I thought         there was an unwritten policy.                 MR. FROST: There ­­ there was a policy that           Chief Wittig said that existed with respect to members         of his staff only. However, with respect to that          policy, there's no testimony regarding that policy. In         other words, the people that worked in the Chief's         office ­­ there were four individuals who were        officers ­­ none of them ever heard of that policy.          Alderson Reporting Company Official Also, that policy was never raised below in any of the           motions for summary judgment or the motion before the         Third Circuit twice. So we believe that that motion is           waived.             But to answer your question, Your Honor, is        the fact that no one knew of this policy. So ­­ so he              could say he had a policy and he could make reference to             it, but it's just not supported by any evidence in this           case.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a remedy         for your client, apart from this action under the First          Amendment? Does he have civil service protections of         any kind or ­­ or ­­ I don't know ­­ collective            bargaining?                         MR. FROST: Your Honor ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let's just say:       What would happen if the boss comes in and says, you           know, for the ­­ you didn't turn off the lights last           night. You're fired.                Can he ­­ is there a way for him to say, I             was on leave yesterday. It wasn't me.                    MR. FROST: Well, that's not a       constitutional violation for ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. My point is          that maybe this shouldn't be a constitutional violation         Alderson Reporting Company Official if there are adequate remedies to address what may or          may not be a First Amendment issue.                    MR. FROST: Mr. Chief Justice, there are ­­        there were no other remedies.                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MR. FROST: There is a ­­ State of          New Jersey has a State Civil Rights Act which mimics           . Just because there is a ­­ such a right, doesn't              mean that you can diminish the First Amendment and give          up your First Amendment rights. So clearly, we         proceeded with the fact that there was a violation of           the First Amendment just because it was created by the          State. There is no civil service ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ what is the New         Jersey Act? That's a strange act. It protects State            employment only against First Amendment violations?                              MR. FROST: No, it ­­ it mimics ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: I can't imagine that. It          must ­­ it must have other protections for State         employee ­­ employees.               MR. FROST: With respect to the New Jersey         statute, it's just identical to a cause of action,           so it doesn't give you any additional rights.        Officer Heffernan ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: How does it read? You have          Alderson Reporting Company Official to violate the Federal constitution to get relief under         New Jersey law?                           says.                         MR. FROST: Do you have to?       JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. That's what        What is ­­ what does New Jersey law say?         MR. FROST: He proceeded in Federal court.        He has every right to proceed in Federal court for a           First Amendment violation.               JUSTICE SCALIA: What does the New Jersey        law say? You brought it up. I didn't bring it up.              What does it say?                MR. FROST: New Jersey law, the statute just         mimics a cause of action.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: So it says ­­ it says if          you violate ­­ you can't fire a State employee in           violation of the Federal constitution. That's what the         New Jersey law says. What a strange law.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You don't have the text        of it, do you?                            MR. FROST: I'm sorry.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: The text of the       New Jersey law, so we can know what we're talking about.                       MR. FROST: Sure. I mean, this was ­­          New Jersey law can't create substantive rights. So with          Alderson Reporting Company Official respect to this matter, he's also not protected by civil          service, either.              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Goldstein's brief       says New Jersey law provides a statutory right of action           for an attempt to violate an individual's civil rights.                                                         Is he wrong?   MR. FROST: An attempt to violate?       JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah.    MR. FROST: It ­­ it is included in there,          but ­­ but that doesn't give you an exclusive right.          You can't diminish his First Amendment rights.                   JUSTICE ALITO: No. The question is not         whether the New Jersey law somehow abrogates First        Amendment rights. The question is whether he has a ­­           an independent remedy under State law. That's the         question, I think, that's being asked.                   MR. FROST: He could have a remedy under          State law. But it ­­ in this instance, he pursued it,            his First Amendment rights.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How could he? If we say          there's no First Amendment right, what civil right has         he ­­ was violated if ­­ if what Mr. Goldstein says is            the ­­             MR. FROST: The civil right ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ is the state of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official law attempting to violate civil rights? What right, if          we say there isn't the First Amendment?                               MR. FROST: The right not to associate.        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, if we say it        doesn't exist. You lose this case.                   MR. FROST: If what doesn't exist,       Justice Sotomayor?              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Just that, the right       you're claiming.              MR. FROST: He has every right to bring this          claim in Federal court as ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: He may have broader       substantive rights under New Jersey law. I would be           somewhat surprised if that were not the case. The civil           rights to which this ­­ the New Jersey statute refers          may refer to rights under the New Jersey constitution or          other New Jersey laws.                MR. FROST: There are New Jersey laws.        But ­­ but just because ­­ again, it doesn't abrogate          your First Amendment rights. So the fact ­­ it          shouldn't matter whether or not he ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just ­­                 MR. FROST: ­­ engaged ­­ there could have         been a violation of any type of New Jersey statute. It             wasn't alleged in this case. It was never brought up by            Alderson Reporting Company Official Respondents in this case during ­­ during any of the          arguments in any of the briefs.                  And ­­ and therefore, with respect to this        matter, it's our position that he has every right to          maintain this litigation with respect to violation of        his First Amendment right. And here, he is alleging          that he has the right not to associate. And that right            really stems from the fact that we have ­­ that this           Court has considered in Elrod and its progeny.                     Furthermore, the Third Circuit makes its     mistake in requiring Heffernan to actually engage in        some type of political activity, campaigning. That's        not necessary, as I've indicated, with respect to Elrod         and the Rutan plaintiffs.                Additionally, the Third Circuit's decision     in this case is actually ­­ lacks common sense. I mean,             if you take a hypothetical with two police officers          going to pick up a sign, and when they go to pick up the               sign they're at a campaign gathering, and one police          officer states to his employer, yeah, I was supporting          Spagnola, and Mr. Heffernan would say, no, I'm ­­ I'm          not supporting it. I'm doing this to pick up a sign for              my mother, should make no difference.                  The outcome is still the same in the sense         that they're both engaged in that activity. The only          Alderson Reporting Company Official difference is, is that the employer perceived       Mr. Heffernan as engaging in protected activity. They         went to stifle and squash his rights of association or          nonassociation. Their motive was to suppress that. And          clearly, that has a chilling effect on other employees.                        I mean, it's just very clear from the       testimony in this case. And if you go to the Appendix,            page , what is very telling about this case is the           fact that when he went to pick up the sign, there was a             councilman there who was a chairperson of the election.          And he says to Heffernan, says, boy, you better be          careful. Maybe you should come back later while         we're ­­ because we're hanging up these signs. And that           clearly shows the chilling effect that it would have not          only in this police department or in the City of          Paterson, but other employees in different jurisdictions       and different areas would have the same issues. You          would have to think twice before you did something.                     If you went to a political gathering or a          campaign, or you went to hear a speaker speak and you            picked up a pamphlet and put it on your desk, the ­­ if              your employer saw that and they didn't like that         candidate and they took action against you, you would         see that that is action based on a motive to suppress            one's rights.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: All of those things would        be true if the mayor gave a speech saying I am going to               fire anybody who's not a Republican. All of those           things would be true. Would it chill people ­­ blah           blah blah ­­ would there be a cause of action? Would             anybody have a cause of action because of that speech?                                   MR. FROST: Because of the speech itself?        JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, just the speech. He         hasn't fired anybody. He's just said I am going to fire             anybody who's not a Republican, or anybody who's not a           Republican will not get promoted.                             MR. FROST: Justice Scalia ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Does anybody have a cause         of action for that?                MR. FROST: There would be no claim, because         no action was taken. So ­­ so part ­­ you have the             perception that they engaged in an activity.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. So ­­ so what         counts is whether action was taken for a particular          reason, not whether you chilled ­­ whether you chilled         people, which you're arguing to us is this is         unconstitutional because it chills other people.      That ­­ that doesn't ­­ that just doesn't carry water.                      MR. FROST: Justice Scalia, what carries       water is the fact that in this instance, Heffernan was          Alderson Reporting Company Official denoted on the employer's mistaken perception that he        was engaged in activity, and you don't need to engage in           that activity.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would you ­­ would you        say that he was demoted because he gave the appearance          of exercising his First Amendment rights?                  MR. FROST: Yes. Because they perceived it         that he was exercising his rights, and the fact that he           actually was not engaged in any political activity        should make no difference with respect to the motivation         outcome of what took place with Mr. Heffernan. The          issue was clearly that it was ill will. It was because            it was against the administration, and they took that         action to suppress that belief, and it chills other.                     Mr. Chief Justice, may I reserve the        remaining time ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may.                  MR. FROST: ­­ if there are no other         questions? Thank you.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Anders.                  ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                      SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER               MS. ANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:   Alderson Reporting Company Official             I'd like to start with Justice Kennedy's       question about how we define the right here.                    We think that Petitioner has a First        Amendment right not to have adverse action taken against         him by his employer for the unconstitutional purpose of         suppressing disfavored political beliefs. He was       directly injured ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what's your best case        for that proposition?               MS. ANDERS: Well, we think that there are         ­­ there are two aspects of this ­­ this Court's case           law I think that support that, and then I'd like to get             back to your concern about probing of beliefs. But we           think that the way that the Court defined the right at           issue in Branti and Rutan, and again in O'Hare,         demonstrates that an employee doesn't have to       affirmatively exercise his First Amendment rights first.                       So in those courts ­­ in ­­ in those cases      the court said that the plaintiff can show a         constitutional violation of the First Amendment simply       by showing that the employer acted for the        unconstitutional purpose of suppressing disfavored     political ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And those cases,      Ms. Anders ­­ I missed what you said those cases were.            Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. ANDERS: That was Branti ­­ this is at           U.S. at ­­ again in Rutan, and then in ­­ in             O'Hare, which is the government contract ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: You say in all of those         cases, no First Amendment right was being exercised,        right?                                     MS. ANDERS: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that your point?       MS. ANDERS: Well, I think actually in the          Rutan case there were ­­ there were three plaintiffs,         and it wasn't clear, actually, whether they had engaged         in any affirmative exercise of their First Amendment ­­                    hadn't?             JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it clear that they        MS. ANDERS: So what the court said was that          they had ­­              hadn't?             JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it clear that they        MS. ANDERS: It was not clear whether they         had or hadn't, and the court didn't inquire into that.          So what had happened there was that the ­­ the          plaintiffs had been ­­ had adverse action taken against         them because they had lacked the support of the correct          Republican party officials. That's all the court says         about their allegations.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             There are any number of reasons they could        have lacked that support. They could have affirmatively         refused, obviously, to seek the support, which would be         an exercise of First Amendment rights. But on the other           hand, they may simply have not had the time to seek the            right support, or they may have been ignorant of the          requirement in the first place. Those wouldn't have         involved an affirmative exercise.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. I thought in all of           these cases up to now, whenever anybody's fired,        demoted, or even not promoted, it hurts and ­­ and you           want to bring a lawsuit sometimes. Up to now, those            lawsuits would have to show I was asserting a First            Amendment right, and it's for that reason that I was not            promoted.             But what you're saying is, you don't have to         show that at all. All you have to assert is that the             reason I was not promoted was that the ­­ the employer            believed that I was thus and so or not thus and so. You               don't have to show any assertion of a First Amendment           right. You just show that the ­­ the employer liked           Republicans, and that's enough.                MS. ANDERS: Well, I think in the employment          context, I think there's no question that the plaintiff          was directly injured by the unconstitutional condition.       Alderson Reporting Company Official But to respond directly to your point, I think ­­ I            don't think there's a serious concern here that there          will be a meritless ­­ a flood of meritless lawsuits or             anything like that, and that's primarily for two        reasons.                 I take your point that ­­ that, you know,      this will expand the universe of ­­ of litigation         somewhat, but we already know in the statutory context,         the courts have recognized suits based on a mistaken          perception, and ­­ and in that context we haven't seen          any flood of meritless lawsuits.                 And with respect to Elrod claims      specifically, I think it's always been fairly easy for          plaintiffs to allege that a particular affiliation of         belief, I was in the Republican party ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you know we         haven't seen a flood of meritless lawsuits in that          context?             MS. ANDERS: Well, we ­­ we haven't in the          statutory context.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah, the one that        you were just referring to.                 MS. ANDERS: Well, we looked at this, it ­­         it doesn't come up very much. And when it does, it ­­            it looks to us that ­­ that courts have been able to use             Alderson Reporting Company Official the standard technique to ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're looking at       the reported decisions rather than ­­ you haven't done         any survey to see how many complaints have been filed in           ­­ in this type of case?                  MS. ANDERS: No. But when you looked to          reported decisions, what you see is that courts are able          to use Twombly and Iqbal and summary judgment in order          to get rid of claims where the allegations aren't         plausible or there's no evidence.                 But I also think if the plaintiffs are going          to have to allege that ­­ that they actually held the           beliefs in question, this is going to raise exactly the          concern that Justice Kennedy mentioned earlier about       oversight of beliefs, probing into beliefs. So this         will affect all Elrod cases. So every time an Elrod           case is brought, the defendant will have the incentive         to say ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: So are you saying there's        a right to be secure from government oversight of your          beliefs?             MS. ANDERS: Well, I think the Court         recognized in O'Hare that that is a particular concern          in the affiliation context. We ­­ we don't want courts           to have to ­­ to examine the nature and extent of the            Alderson Reporting Company Official plaintiff's beliefs or associations.                JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, that's a good idea,           maybe. And maybe ­­ maybe it should be in some civil            service act, but where do you find it in the First           Amendment?             MS. ANDERS: Well, I think the right ­­ the           right in question is the right not to be subject to a            test of political affiliation ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is ­­ is that because        you're concerned with a chill, or is there some other           right that is ­­ is somehow affected that's a First           Amendment right of the individual?                 You turn around and you say the government        cannot act for an unconstitutional purpose, but we        usually ask how is the defendant hurt? What is his           right? That's still a little unclear to me.                      MS. ANDERS:     We think the defendant has     been hurt in the constitutional sense because the way         that the court has defined the right in question is the           right not to be subject to a test of political           affiliation when it's not a reasonable job requirement.                                 said in ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know why ­­         MS. ANDERS: And I do think what the Court           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. ANDERS: What the Court said in O'Hare,         essentially, was that ­­ we're not necessarily talking        about a separate right not to be subject to probing of            beliefs, but I think the Court was suggesting that we           shouldn't have First Amendment tests, if we can help it,          that lead the Court to have to probe into a plaintiff's            beliefs. And that is exactly what will happen.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know why the          right isn't the right to be free from arbitrary         employment action based on a mistake. That's his          objection here. You made a mistake; you thought I was,             you know, being politically active. I wasn't.                       I mean, isn't ­­ is there such a right under          New Jersey law, you can't be fired for an arbitrary          reason, or you can't be fired for a mistaken reason?                       MS. ANDERS: I think with, at least with          respect to some job actions, there ­­ there would be          such a right under New Jersey law, and that's ­­ I'm not             sure whether it would apply here, but I think the           gravamen of ­­ of plaintiff's complaint here is not that          he was fired for an inaccurate reason; it's that he was           ­­ he was demoted because ­­ for an improper purpose,          the perception that he was engaging in protected First         Amendment activity. And ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: You've brought up in your        Alderson Reporting Company Official brief, I think, that ­­ that the employer might have had            a contract­type policy. I think you said we should           remand to determine whether this employer said nobody        engages in political activity.                MS. ANDERS: Well, I think ­­ I think if you             rule for the Petitioner here, there would be a remand           anyway because the Court hasn't ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it based on the facts         up till now to think that there was such a policy?                        MS. ANDERS: Well, so there ­­ there is, I          think, a factual dispute about this. So if you look at             the ­­ the summary judgment filings, this is document         No. on Pacer, there ­­ there are, in ­­ in the            Respondents' statement of undisputed facts, some      assertions that this was in fact a neutrality policy.                      Now you definitely have a dispute about that         coming back from the other side. Petitioner says that          nobody knew about that policy. So we think that is one            thing that potentially the lower courts would have to         look at, decide whether it was preserved and ­­ and          resolve the dispute in that sense.                  But I do want to get back to another concern           that I think Respondents' position raises. You know, we           do think that ­­ that Petitioner has his own First          Amendment right here. That was violated.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             We do think that when an employer acts        against an employee based on a mistaken perception of          his beliefs, that creates exactly the same chilling        effect with which the Elrod cases are concerned.                    So the other employees will know that the        employer expects political orthodoxy and will be chilled        in their ­­ in their own association as a result.                       And I think there's another concern here        that deepens the chilling effect, and that is that the          logic of Respondents' position applies not only in cases         of honest mistake, it also applies in cases in which the           employer acts to exploit a loophole, essentially.                    You can imagine a situation in which the         employer knows that some people have engaged in        political affiliation. The employer wants to send a         message, and it does that by acting against the employee          it thinks didn't actually engage in that association.        And so I think that is one of the dangers of            Respondents' rule here, that it will create a loophole.                      And so what we are saying, essentially, is        that it's just a narrow corollary to the Elrod right           that the Court has already recognized. When the         employer acts with the exact same intent that ­­ that is           already impermissible under Elrod, and it injures the        employee in his employment as a result, then the          Alderson Reporting Company Official employer should be equally liable. It shouldn't get a          free pass simply because it ­­ it's ill­motivated and         wrong.                         If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Goldstein.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                The doctrinal fight in the briefing is over        whether the plaintiff in a case like this has to assert            a constitutional right. And I think the questions so           far have indicated an understanding that the plaintiff        would have to. And the real question, then, is, is           there actually a constitutional right here, one that we          might define in other terms, including the one that         Justice Kennedy identified as the right not to have your          political views inquired in.                And this is actually discussed in the       Court's opinion in O'Hare in describing Elrod and        Branti. And so I want to start there because we have to              recognize that this right has never been recognized in         any other political association case whatsoever. And        there's no logical reason why it would occur        Alderson Reporting Company Official specifically in the public employment context, which is        an unconstitutional ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you explain,      Mr. Goldstein, what sense it would make to say there are           two people, the example Mr. Frost gave. One of them is            a big supporter of Spagnola, and he gets demoted. And           the other is politically neutral, and he gets demoted         because the employer thinks he's a supporter of the          rival mayoral candidate.               What ­­ how could you make sense to a person           of ordinary reason that one of them, the one who was in            fact engaging in political activity, can't be demoted        but the other one, who just was innocent, didn't do          anything?             MR. GOLDSTEIN: I'm sorry.                   I have to focus on, really, the precise       wording of your hypothetical, but I think you may          actually have something slightly different in mind,       because you identify this, the second employee, one who         is politically neutral. And the Court has said, in          cases like Elrod and Branti, that the decision to remain          neutral ­­ that is, I see this candidate, I see that             candidate. I'm going to just not choose between them,          because I ­­ you know, for any individual reason, that           that's protected. That's a political choice. And in           Alderson Reporting Company Official your precise hypothetical, both of those employees would        have a claim.                This case is different, and critically      different. The other side has quite consciously,        throughout the case, made only two arguments. The first          is that he was a supporter of Spagnola. And he's given             up on that.               And the second is that he had no association         whatsoever. He didn't have any more association than I          did. He was politically oblivious.                  And so, Justice Ginsburg, if you were to ask         me that question, which is what difference ­­ what ­­         what sense does it make? The sense that it makes is one             is exercising a constitutional right, and one doesn't ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: So just to make sure I         understand what you're saying, suppose there's somebody       who comes into office, and it's a Democrat. And he says             I want as many Democrats as possible in my office, no           matter what jobs they're doing.                 Now, what you're saying is he can't demote        or fire Republicans. He can't remove, demote, or fire          people who have other political views, neither Democrat        or Republican. But what he can do is he can get rid of              anybody who is just politically apathetic.                  Is that your view?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: If that was actually the        policy, then technically, the answer to your question is         yes under the First Amendment. And I'd like to explain           why. I know it sounds anomalous.                    The reason is that those people ­­ there is         nothing in the First Amendment that says that the         government can't encourage people to be politically       active. And that is entirely the point of Elrod and           Branti.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you ­­ you encourage        the person to be politically active and then fire him or           her because they're politically active the wrong way?                    (Laughter.)                         MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, sir.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose the employee says,       you know, I don't like the evening news. I ­­ I ­­ I                 like fiction. I ­­ I don't ­­ I don't know if I'm                Republican or Democrat. I don't care.                                MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: He ­­ he ­­ he cannot be          fired? What is his right?                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: My point, Justice Kennedy,       is that he may have a State law right; he does have a              collective bargaining agreement right, but he doesn't       have a First Amendment right, because he's not engaging          Alderson Reporting Company Official in First Amendment­protected activity.                  I do ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: See, I ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: The ­­ the government has        ­­ excuse me.               MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: The ­­ the ­­ the        government has a right to compel him to declare one way            or the other?               MR. GOLDSTEIN: No ­­ Justice Kennedy, and        that ­­ that brings us back to your question. And that            is does he have a right not to have an inquiry into his              political views. And that is, of course, not a right            that's been recognized in any other political       association context.                When the Court discussed it in O'Hare, it      did it in a very specific and really important way, and            that is it looked at cases like Elrod and Branti, which           are general policies. And what the Court has said          there, is that when it's a sweeping policy, it's not           necessary into ­­ to inquire into individual political        beliefs.             And what those cases ought to be understood        as is applications of First Amendment overbreadth       doctrine. Alderson Reporting Company Official             It is commonplace in First Amendment law       that if you have a general rule, and the general rule            will be unconstitutional as applied to some people, and         the other people involved weren't asserting First       Amendment rights, the policy can be facially       unconstitutional, and we don't inquire into the       individual standing of the plaintiff.                 And that's what happens in Elrod and Branti.        It's not necessary to inquire into the ­­ each         individual employee. It is an entirely different ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: See, I had always thought         that the ­­ the idea behind those cases is a different            one. That the idea has to do with why the government            acted. And once we say that the government acted for an            impermissible purpose, which is to ­­ let's say in my          hypothetical, get as many Democrats as possible into the         government, once we say that's an impermissible purpose,        it matters not at all whether the person is a          Republican, an ­­ an independent, or somebody who has         never thought about politics in his life, because the         government is acting in a way that's wrongful,         irrespective of that.               MR. GOLDSTEIN: And we just disagree. It's         called an individual right, not a government wrong. The           individual has to be engaging in ­­ whether it's         Alderson Reporting Company Official expression or association, I actually thinks it's not         contested, Justice Kagan, any more on the free speech         side, that with cases like Waters, an employee cannot         bring a First Amendment free speech claim that says, you           know, I didn't actually engage in speech, but my          employer thought I did. There is no First Amendment           right not to have this individual inquiry.                   And Justice Kennedy, remember that our      position, in particular ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: So does that mean that the         government can compel speech of a person if the person           really just doesn't care one way or the other?                     MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. It's a very important          distinction. So let me give a hypothetical that ought           to be hard for us, and that is Heffernan is asked by the             chief of police, you know, do you support the mayor.          He's completely agnostic, and he refuses to support the         mayor, and he's transferred.                The decision not to support or to be        subjected to your hypothetical is a political choice.                     This case was framed by the plaintiff in a         very specific way on purpose, and that is he disclaimed          any such influence, any such pressure, any such choice         that he was having to make.                  Now, the important piece about ­­ on this        Alderson Reporting Company Official question of inquiry is that our position only applies to          a party that doesn't claim anything other than being         politically apathetic. So Justice Kennedy, there is no         inquiry.              Justice Kagan is quite right that if you       have somebody who is an Independent or a Democrat or           Republican, the First Amendment doesn't care. But if         the plaintiff is going to pursue a claim that says I'm            not engaged in association or speech, there is nothing         to inquire into ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Goldstein, let's take       a Title VII case, and the employer fires a woman because            he thinks she's pregnant. She brings a sex          discrimination case and alleges, well, I wasn't        pregnant. I just was gaining weight.                    So she has no sex discrimination claim,       then, because she wasn't pregnant?                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Ginsburg, the courts       are divided. The position of the EEOC is that she would            have a claim. I just think it's a good point for us                that Congress can write laws that recognize such,        regarded as claims.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Those ­­ those statutes       focus on the employer. The employer cannot discriminate         on the basis ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ of sex.      MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And that employer was doing        The First Amendment does not focus on the                                                        that.             government; it focuses on the citizen. The citizen has          a right to free speech and free association.                                MR. GOLDSTEIN: So ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the difference      between the two cases.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, it will not surprise        you that I agree, Justice Scalia.                   The ­­ Justice Kagan, if ­­ if we could just          take this outside the public employment context. And         the reason I want to do that is that we ought to be able               to agree that the First Amendment rights aren't        greater association of rights there. The Court has         pointed out that there is a greater Federalism interest          in managing the public employment workforce, and also        that this is an unconstitutional conditions case.                   But just imagine the following simple ­­ you        know, hypotheticals that relate just to this case.        Imagine that the chief of police, with the same         motivation, went up to Heffernan as he went to pick up           Alderson Reporting Company Official the sign, grabbed the sign, and tore it up. Or imagine            that Heffernan was trying ­­ was stopped from entering a          parade in favor of Spagnola, but what he was actually          trying to do was just cross the street. Or he went to             the building where it is that Spagnola had the ­­ his           headquarters, and the chief of police stopped him from         going in, but he was actually going to his lawyer's          office.                Those are all the exact same motivation.    And there ­­ I don't think there's any way the Court            would recognize such a claim.                  It's a very sympathetic claim. Okay? I get            the fact that we are very concerned that public         employees not be transferred or demoted, but we have         other laws and other regimes that are ­­ that fill that           gap.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is ­­ what is         the other law here? What ­­ what relief does he have?                        MR. GOLDSTEIN: He has two forms of relief.                     The first is the collective bargaining      agreement. I will tell you that it is not in the             record, but it is judicially noticeable. It is a public            document. It's available on the government Web sites of          the State of New Jersey, and it is exactly what you           would expect. In fact, it's a little bit broader. It             Alderson Reporting Company Official says that if you are ­­ you have an employment action           that is inequitable, it is ­­ you ­­ it is grievable.                       The second thing is the attempt provision,       which was discussed, and Justice Alito is right, that         there are broader civil rights under New Jersey law.                     cases ­­             And this just makes sense. The Court, in         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, do ­­ do you         agree that the Petitioner is entitled to relief under         that provision of the collective bargaining agreement?                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: If ­­ if he ­­ his         allegations of the facts are correct, yes.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: In your hypothetical about       stopping the person from crossing the street, or, they         think, entering the parade, the individual is ­­ has no          right to insist that the government doesn't make a First           Amendment judgment about his activities?                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's correct.                 Justice Kennedy ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: In ­­ in other words,        the ­­ the ­­ the individual in the ­­ in ­­ in ­­ in ­­              the citizen of the United States, have no right, have ­­          have ­­ have no ­­ have no injury, have no interest in            making sure the government doesn't evaluate everything       they do from a political standpoint?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think they have an         interest, Justice Kennedy. I'm not saying that. We are           concerned that people be able to have conscience, that         they be able to make their own personal, private         judgments. But what we're talking about here in the          context in which there is a real concern that I would             like to talk about, about whether it will interfere with          the management of local government, that it's an        affirmative constitutional right, it's a violation of        the First Amendment.               Now the reason you ought to be concerned,        Justice Kennedy, is there is another side of the coin.          Take it from the perspective of the supervisor. If this           right is recognized, which is to say the plaintiff need          not have engaged in any association, then the        supervisor's expression of political views may well be        chilled because he has to worry that any employee can          say, look, I was regarded as politically active.                     If I could just give you this case again,          and that is, take the sign out of it.                     The plaintiff says he was well known as a         Spagnola friend and supporter. Okay? Imagine that         that's discussed in the chief of police's office, but         the chief of police thinks that ­­ that Heffernan really          should be transferred. Okay? The chief ­­ if the           Alderson Reporting Company Official Petitioner is right, he really has to worry because if          it's discussed, then there's every reason that Heffernan        can just bring a lawsuit saying, look, I wasn't actually            involved in the campaign, but you did it because he was           my friend. And that is a very significant consequence           for the individual rights.                Now, if we didn't have other protections       that get to the concern about conscience, I could see           the case being even stronger.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: We know that you can't ­­        let's assume in this particular position you can't be         fired because you're a Republican or a Democrat and           that's what they ­­ that's what ­­ what they do. But            that ­­ the person did not engage in that activity.          He's still ­­ he still is in the position of the           government ascribing to him a political belief that he          does not have.               MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, that's      right. The government thinks a lot of things about me,            okay? Some of them are not very nice, I imagine, but ­­             and some are about my politics and that sort of thing.           But there is not a constitutional right to have the           government not think something about you. Just remember         as well ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Here, they thought and       Alderson Reporting Company Official they acted.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Or to act,        Justice Kennedy.                                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not just something.       MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's ­­ the government is        taking action against a person because the government         thinks that that person is exercising First Amendment        rights.                         MR. GOLDSTEIN: Just ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I thought ­­ and         unlike Justice Scalia ­­ that the thrust of the First          Amendment is operating on government. It says        government, thou shalt not ­­ thou shalt not act on the           basis of someone's expression, speech or belief.                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, essentially all of the        rights, individual rights in the Constitution, other       than the antislavery provision, requires State action.       They all talk about what the government can't do. But           the government ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, so here, the       government acted. No question they demoted the person.         This was a detective, and they put him back on the beat.             So the government acted. Why did they act? Because           they thought that this person was engaging in political         Alderson Reporting Company Official activity.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Ginsburg, let       me just say that I don't think it's ­­ it's contested            after the Petitioner's reply brief. You described this         in First Amendment terms, that if this was a speech           case, which it used to be, rather than an association          case, he would lose. It is well settled in this Court's            precedents that the threshold inquiry under Pickering is        did the individual engage in the constitutionally       protected activity?              This actually is at issue, I should say, in          the Court's other associational case, public employment       association case, this sitting, where there is a        significant issue of is there a different rule that          applies ­­ when we're talking about a policy, Justice          Kennedy ­­ that applies broadly to a lot of employees           versus an individual, one­off employment action which is        what is at issue here?                 We think that's a critically important       distinction, whether you look at this as kind of a          Pickering standard case, where the first thing that has         to happen is that the individual has to assert at least           that they engaged in the constitutionally protected       activity. If you have an Elrod and Branti­type case,          which is what's discussed in that part of O'Hare, it's          Alderson Reporting Company Official an entirely different kettle of fish because there, you         do have a general policy. You could see people being            chilled. You could see the government taking a broad           view of its employees.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I'm not sure how          that works. It just seems to break down very easily, if            you can't have a broad rule that says that you can fire             everybody but Democrats. But you're saying that you are          going to allow somebody to come in and fire people one           at a time.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kagan, that's, of       course, not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is that           under First Amendment Overbreadth Doctrine, when you       have a general policy ­­ and this is what we think            happened in Elrod and Branti ­­ the fact that you          don't ­­ you do not inquire into the individual person's          political views because the policy is facially       unconstitutional. But it has never been the case in any           context.             And the other side has had every opportunity        in the world. We cannot find any First Amendment case           that says, you know what? You don't have to engage in            constitutionally protected activity so long as the       government thinks you did. And it's really a problem if            that's the rule because it is the threshold thing that          Alderson Reporting Company Official stops plaintiffs with meritless cases from getting out        of the box. In all of these cases, if the plaintiff no             longer has to say, I engaged in ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're saying ­­ and ­­        and I think you said this straight out ­­ you're saying            I can come into an office ­­ I'm a Democrat. I can ­­ I                 can identify every person without a well­known political         view, every couch potato out there, just fire one after          another, after another, after another. Replace them all         with Democrats, change the entire character of the        office, do it for a reason that I prefer one political             view to any other, and that that will not be a violation             of the First Amendment.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: That will ­­ two things.        First, I think it is practically impossible because you          would have to somehow magically pluck out the people who          are politically apathetic from those that are       politically neutral. I just don't think you can do it.                        But the second is that's right. The        Constitution doesn't fix everything.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: You want this Court to        hold that the government of the United States has a          right to ascribe to a citizen views that he or she does             not hold.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kennedy, I think        Alderson Reporting Company Official that that is not a First Amendment violation. I don't             think the other side thinks it's a First Amendment          violation. Remember that there's the materiality       requirement.             JUSTICE KAGAN: See, I had always thought         that the First Amendment running through all our cases         is an extremely strong strand. That part of the reason           we have these protections is because we worry that         government is doing things for impermissible reasons.       That the government wants to create a world of speech in            which everybody agrees with it and nobody opposes it.                     And that's a fundamental tenet of what the         First Amendment and all our cases are about. And you're           saying, oh, no. The government's motive doesn't really         matter as long as you can't point to somebody who is           holding up a sign.                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Kagan, I think you         are right. It is an important thread of this Court's           decisions. And the Court has said that it is a           necessary but not sufficient condition. Waters makes        very clear, which is a First Amendment public employee          case, that the individual has to have engaged in the          constitutionally protected activity. Every one of ­­       Garcetti says the same thing. You have to have an           individual ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Can I just approach the         same thing from a different perspective? Suppose can          Congress pass a law or a legislature pass a law that              attempts to abridge the freedom of speech. Is that a           violation of the First Amendment? It's an attempt.                                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: What would the attempt ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Well, let's say there       doesn't have to be a thousand examples.                                MR. GOLDSTEIN: The Court ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: You say that's the law. No          one can espouse in a public place the political          philosophy of Ruritanianism, okay?                            MR. GOLDSTEIN: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I mean, I doubt that            they'll pass such a law ­­                  (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ but I just ­­ substitute          any one that you want for that. They pass it. And by              the way, the six people who hold that philosophy all          leave on a boat before the effective date, but ­­ or            what's more likely, they bring a declaratory judgment         action, and the law never takes effect. And therefore,          it had no impact. And that happens every day of the            week. I'm just wondering if such a law, which is an             attempt ­­ it's right on the books as blatant as you           Alderson Reporting Company Official want ­­ whether that violates the First Amendment.        That's a serious question. I'm not taking a point of             view. I want to know what you think.                      MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, the reason       that we allow ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I just want to know,          is it yes or no? Does it ­­ in your opinion, does it              attempt to ­­ a clear attempt to violate the First           Amendment in a statute? It has general application.          Does it violate the First Amendment? Does it abridge          the freedom of speech?                MR. GOLDSTEIN: If it's only going to be an          attempt and it's not going to succeed, no. The statute           you describe is unconstitutional.                            JUSTICE BREYER: It is unconstitutional.      MR. GOLDSTEIN: That's right. There are all         kinds of times ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: It will have a lot of bad           effects. It will have all kinds of chilling effects all           over the place.               MR. GOLDSTEIN: If it's defined, Justice       Breyer, as not going to succeed, if the statute doesn't          say ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, by chance it        happens not to succeed.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Oh, no, Justice Breyer. If         the person ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: It's my hypothetical.                  (Laughter.)             MR. GOLDSTEIN: I know. I'm just ­­ I'm           just trying to keep up with it. The ­­ in ­­ in the one               that you just described, Justice Breyer, if it is the          case that the law is going to go into effect, we do            allow, including under First Amendment overbreadth      grounds, an effort to bring a declaratory judgment         action.             JUSTICE BREYER: Of course. And I'm just         asking you if, in fact, they think it will succeed, they           want it to succeed, that's why they passed it, and          through a fluke it fails, does the fact that it fails            mean that it doesn't violate, it doesn't ­­ does it not           ­­ does it or does it not violate the First Amendment?                                               example.             ­­            MR. GOLDSTEIN: It doesn't.     JUSTICE BREYER: It does not.      MR. GOLDSTEIN: And here would be an        JUSTICE BREYER: And he fails ­­ if it fails          MR. GOLDSTEIN: If I could just finish,         Justice Breyer, just so ­­ I really do want to help. If              Alderson Reporting Company Official Congress at the same time passed a law that said no            Federal funds shall be used to implement the ban on          talking about the political views of Ruritania, that is         to say the law won't go into effect ­­ we tried, but the             money was taken away from us ­­ it's not         unconstitutional.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Or ­­ or you could say that          the law is passed by Congress but vetoed by the          President, is there a violation of the Constitution?                     MR. GOLDSTEIN: There would not be. But in          my hypothetical vote in which ­­ or Justice Breyer's         where it actually goes into effect ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're off on a tangent         because there's no injury in this situation when the law          doesn't go into effect. But coming back to what          Justice Breyer, I believe, is attempting to say ­­                     (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know,       Mr. Goldstein, that I understand either. And I think            Justice Kagan asked you this. Why does it matter ­­ and            we don't care whether someone is a Republican or not in            Elrod and Branti and those cases ­­ and you say it's           only because it's a policy. The intent of the           government is to say I'm not going to promote anybody          who is not a Democrat or not a Republican.           Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: More than a policy, it will          actually have adverse consequences for someone trying to        exercise their constitutional rights.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, someone, they have       come along and not promoted people.                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? So you have         to have someone come in and say I'm not a Democrat?                        MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not a ­­                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sorry.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ Republican? Or you        need someone to tell you what they are?                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. No. Common sense does          not leave the courthouse, and that is if I have a policy              that says, I will not hire Democrats, I think a court              would understand that there are going to be Democrats         who would apply for jobs. And there doesn't need to be            an inquiry. But the ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why isn't it simple        to say, I'm not hiring you, or, I'm demoting you because           you politically associated? And doesn't that chill the         person from even walking by a campaign? Doesn't it           chill others who do want to associate marginally?                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. It's a real ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm assuming there's no       policy in place, or that there's not ­­                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's nothing to      prevent this otherwise, like the Hatch Act.                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think it's a really          important point on the question of chilling because        Elrod and Branti and the rules that also ­­ and O'Hare,           which is a one­off case, do say that you can't do this             for political purposes if the person is actually        exercising a constitutional right.                 So that we all agree that if the plaintiff         here was a supporter of Spagnola, or even of the mayor,            or had decided to remain politically neutral, this is a          bizarre case that comes to you on the assumption that he           is completely politically apathetic.                JUSTICE SCALIA: It ­­ it is bizarre. And          do ­­ do you really believe, Mr. Goldstein, that the          Constitution does not solve all problems? You ­­ you ­­                      (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ made a statement to that          effect. You really believe that?                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, but I ­­ I ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: It doesn't solve every       problem. Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: No. But I do think that           there is a concern that comes into play. And so I do               not mean to demean the concern about the government         having a sense of what individuals' political views are.                      But I'm saying that that happens, Your       Honors, in all kinds of cases, whether it's        redistricting, whether it's campaign finance. There's       lots that we do to ascribe political views to people in           this country. And adopting that doctrine is going to          have pretty widespread consequences when it's not       necessary.               I do think that it should be common ground        that there are multiple layers of protections for these         employees. The basic rule ­­ and Justice Kennedy,         remember, under the basic rule, the plaintiff has always         come in and said, I'm a Democrat, right? The Elrod            Branti rule when it's involved, one­off cases. The         opinion in O'Hare describes the political views of the         tow truck company there. And it has never been regarded           as a First Amendment problem when you don't actually          exercise any First Amendment rights.                 JUSTICE BREYER: But that is a First         Amendment problem for the reason that lots of other         people will have their speech chilled. And normally in          the law there is a doctrine where the person who does            Alderson Reporting Company Official the bad thing makes a mistake, he's held anyway. That's            true of transferred intent. You shoot A, but you meant           to shoot B. It's true of ­­ of attempts generally.                       MR. GOLDSTEIN: It's not true of the        Constitution.                                     JUSTICE BREYER: Why not?     MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: That is to say I would          think that a statute that has a chilling effect on the             speech of millions of people but is directly aimed at A,           B, and C, if because of some fluke A, B, and C are not               themselves injured, nonetheless everybody else is, and       it would violent the First Amendment.                              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Under ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: That, I think, is what you          have here, which is why I raised my point.                      MR. GOLDSTEIN: Great. Justice Breyer ­­       and if you would just contrast in your own mind the           statute that affects millions of people versus the beat         cop who talks to one person in terms of its chilling           effect, because First Amendment overbreadth doctrine was       born because of your hypothetical.                 The concern that a broad policy or statute         will have widespread effects. That is not anything like          this. We have a guide ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any case in          which we have relied on chilling effects where what was          at issue was a one­off like this one as opposed to a ­­              a general policy which had a chilling effect? I don't             know of any case.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: To the contrary, I can tell          you that in ­­ in both Waters and Garcetti v. Ceballos,           the Court said, look, we recognize the rule that's being          proposed to us. So in Waters it was the idea that the             public ­­ the employer's views wouldn't matter; it would         just be whether the speech was protected.                    In Garcetti it was the question of whether       it was the public employer's speech. And the public          employee's argument in both those cases is that, look,         these rules are going to chill speech because they are          of uncertain boundaries. We need to have wide­ranging         expression. If I have to bring my case, there will be             inquiries into my speech views or whatever, and the         Court said we just have to balance things here.                     There is a real concern that is rooted in a           history of the United States involving political       patronage. We have ­­ the Court has never tried to           extinguish politics from local government. And if you         try to do that in New Jersey, we are going to be here a              lot. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: And the ­­                 (Laughter.)             JUSTICE ALITO: And the question in this        case seems to me to be highly artificial. It's sort of            ­­ it's like a law school hypothetical.                                MR. GOLDSTEIN: I agree.      JUSTICE ALITO: How often will it be the         case that an employee will be unable to allege any          expression or any association that is protected by        the ­­ the First Amendment? It seems to me quite rare.                        And it may be that this case comes to us the           way it does because the plaintiff was dealing with two          things, one was the First Amendment, and the other ­­ I           mean one was the issue that's ­­ the question of his           motivation, and the other was this alleged policy        prohibiting any kind of political activity.                  Even in the ­­ the person who is just         apathetic, is there not a ­­ a First Amendment right to             be ­­ say, I don't ­­ I don't like politics, I don't               want anything to do with politics, I'm not going to          register, I'm not going to vote?                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. So Justice        Alito, the Third Circuit has a rule discussed in the           brief ­­ brief in opposition adopted in a case called           Ghaly that says you do have the right to be politically           Alderson Reporting Company Official apathetic. The reason the case is so bizarre is that           the other side, for its own reasons, decided not to          assert that right.               Now, I will say that it does nonetheless         matter because there are going to be other kinds of          cases where you have a public employee that just is not            asserting any rights at all, and is not involved, say,          in environmentalism or gun rights or whatever. And the          public employer, if it's thought just to have perceived         the employee as having been involved in some        association, then is subject to a claim.                                And our real ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. You have        to ­­ you have to show some facts to draw that           inference.                         MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, you just can't         say, I'm involved in this and the employer fired me          because of that.               MR. GOLDSTEIN: Well, Justice Sotomayor ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To show some connection       between the firing and ­­                MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the political belief.                   MR. GOLDSTEIN: I would just take you back          Alderson Reporting Company Official to my hypothetical of getting rid of the sign. And his            political view ­­ his support of Spagnola is discussed         in ­­ in the chief's office, right? And then he has to             be reassigned. And the chief has to really worry that           he's going to be sued.                 The ­­ my point is this: The set of cases           that you have to be concerned with, there have been no           other cases we've been able to identify like this one.          It's very small.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well ­­                MR. GOLDSTEIN: But the downside risk is        significant.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Goldstein, I mean, if         somebody had come in to me before today's argument and          just said, does the First Amendment prevent the        government from punishing a person because that person         does not share the government's views, I would have          said, why, yes, of course the First Amendment protects         that. That's the whole point of the First Amendment.                      And now you're telling me, no, the First        Amendment does not prevent the government from punishing        a person because that person doesn't share the        government's views, unless that person is actively       opposed to the government's views.                 But if that person just really could not        Alderson Reporting Company Official care less, which a lot of people in this country could            not care less; they don't vote, they don't pay         attention, they wouldn't know who was running. But the          government can punish that person because that person        doesn't share the government's views. And I would have           said, that is one strange doctrine.                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: It ­­ it may be that I have            not persuaded you in this case.                  (Laughter.)             MR. GOLDSTEIN: The ­­ the ­­ I will say,           Justice Kagan, what you ask is, can the government do          it? The government cannot because there are lots of          other protections. And remember, if the person is         politically neutral, it is the case that ­­ the right of           political association is the right of political       association. If you aren't engaging it, you aren't         actively pursuing the right in any way, or even if you           aren't active about it.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Frost, you have a minute left.                     REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MARK FROST                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. FROST: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                      A couple points that I want to make with         respect to declaring one as a neutral.        Alderson Reporting Company Official              If Heffernan was engaged in political     activity and said, I'm supporting Spagnola, of course he         would be protected by the First Amendment. What I'm          hearing is that if he said, I'm neutral, he would be           covered; he would be protected. I see little difference           between being a neutral and being agnostic in the sense           that I'm not taking a position.                               So ­­ so ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm ­­ I'm so totally        confused. I know it's the way it was presented to us,             but I thought he testified that he had made a choice not              to get involved in the campaign but that Spagnola was          his friend and he supported him. So he wasn't neutral;           he just wasn't engaging in associational conduct by        choice. That's what I thought.                   MR. FROST: That's correct, Justice      Sotomayor. And the point that I was trying to make was             the fact that in this case he was not going to be            exercising his right to vote or campaign for him, but ­­          but clearly he engaged in what we would consider core          First Amendment activity by picking up that sign.                    The mistake that the employer made was       actually one that they perceived him as actually        campaigning on behalf of Spagnola. And that should make          no difference for the simple reason that with respect to          Alderson Reporting Company Official that activity, it's because the Court sees         that the  government is acting for an impermissible       purpose, and  that was the press ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank      you, counsel.  Thank you, counsel.               The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : able : : :,, additional : Additionally : : : :, address : adequate : : above­entitled : administration : : : abridge : : adopted : adopting : abridged : advantage : abridging : adverse : : abrogate : abrogates : accept :, act : : : :, :, :,, : acted : : : :,, acting : : affect : affiliated : : affiliation : : :, : affirmative : : : : : : : action : : affirmatively : : : : : : :, :,,,, : : : : : : : : : agreement : : agreed : : : actions : active : : :, : : actively : : activities : : activity : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : agrees : aimed : AL : Alito : :,, : : :, : allegation : allegations : : : allege : : : alleged : : allegedly :, alleges : alleging : allow : : : acts : : : Amendment : agnostic : : agree :, : amicus : : : Official Official: : : Appendix : appearance : APPEARANCES applications : applied : applies :, : :, : :, :,, : : : :,,,, : :,, : :, : : :, application : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, : :, : apply : : : : :, approach : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : arguing : :,, :, argument : : :,, : : :,, :,,, :, arbitrary :, areas : argued : :,, :, : : : : : : arguments : Amendment­pro... : : analysis : : Anders : : artificial : ascribe : : ascribing : asked : : : :,, : asking : : :,,, aspects : : : : assert : : : :, :,, : : :, anomalous : answer : : asserting : : : : : : : assertion : assertions : Assistant : associate : : Page  :, : :, : : :, associational : : associations : : assume : assuming : assumption : : attempt :, : :,, :, : attempting : : attempts : : attention : available : B B :,, back : : : :, : : : : bad : : balance : balancing : ban : bargaining : : : : based : : : : : basic :, basis : : : : : answers : antislavery : anybody : : :,,,, : : anybody's : anyway : : apart : apathetic : : : : beat : : began : : : : associated : associating :, behalf :, : :, : : : : association : : : : :,, : belief : : : :, : :, : : : beliefs : :, :,,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : :, : : believe : : : : broadly : brought : : : : building : C C : :, : : :, called : : campaign : : : : : :, campaigning : : : campaigns :, : candidate : : :,, care : : : : :, Official : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, cause : : : : : :, Page  condition : : : : : : civil : :, :,,, : : : : claim : : : : :, :, :, conduct : : confused : Congress : conditions : : claiming : claims : : : clearly : : :, : : :,,, : : clarify : clear : : Ceballos : chairperson : challenge : challenging : chance : change : character : chief :, : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : :,, coin : : :, : :, : :, : come : : : : :, : :, : :,, : : : :, : comes :, : collective : client : : : : : : : : : : : : :, connection : conscience : : consciously : consequence : consequences : : consider : considered : constitution : : : : : : : : constitutional : :, :, : : : : : : : : : constitutionally :, : : :, believed : best : Bethesda : better : big : bit : bizarre :, : blah :,, blatant : boat : books : born : boss : boundaries : box : boy : Branti : : : : : : : : : : : : Branti­type : break : Breyer :,, :, :, :,,, :,,,,, : : : :,,, Breyer's : brief : : : :, briefing : briefs : bring : : : : : : : : : brings : : broad :, : broader : chief's : : chill : : :, : chilled :, : : : : careful : carries : carry : case :, :, :, :,, :,, : : :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, :, :, : :, :, chilling :, : : :, :,,, :, : chills : : : :, : choice : : :, :,, : : : : : : Circuit : : : : :, choose : : cases : :, Circuit's : : : : : :,, : :, citizen :, : : :, : : company : :, :, coming : : commit : committed : common : : : commonplace : contested : : context : : :,, : : : : : : contract : contract­type : contrary : contrast : convey : concern : : cop : compel : : complaint : complaints : completely : : :, : : : : :, : : core : : corollary : correct : : : : City : : : concerned : couch : Alderson Reporting Company Official describing : desk : detective : determine : difference : : : : : :, different : : :, : :, :, : : : diminish : : earlier : easily : easy : EEOC : effect :, : : : : :,, : :, : effective : effects :, : : effort : either : : directly : : : : : election : Elrod : : : Page  employment : : : : : :, : :, encourage :, endorsed : engage : : : : : : : : : : engaged : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, councilman : dealing : counsel : : decide : :, decided : : : country : : counts : couple : course : : decisions : :, decision : : : : : : court :, : : declaratory : : :, declaring : : : : :, : : declare : : :, :,, : deepens : :, :,, defendant : : : : : :, : : : : : : defined : : :,, : : defining : : definitely : demean : Democrat :, : : : : : : : : :, : courthouse : courts : : Court's : Democrats : : :, : : covered : create : : : define :, : disagree : discharged : disclaimed : discriminate : discrimination :, discussed : : : : : : : : disfavored :, dismissal : :,, :, : engages : : : : engaging :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : entering : : entire : : entirely : : employee :, : : : : : :,, : : : environmentalism : : : : :, entitled : : employee's : employees : : : : : : : : : : : equally : espouse : ESQ :,, : :,, essentially : :, : ET : employer : : evaluate : evaluated : evaluating : evening : event : everybody : :,, : : :, :, :, :, :,, :,, : : : : :, : :, : employer's : : : evidence : : exact : : exactly : : :, : : : dispute :,, :, distinction : : created : creates : critically : : cross : crossing : curiae : : : D D : : : : D.C :, dangers : date : day : demonstrates : : divided : doctrinal : demote :, demoted : : doctrine : : :,, : : : : :, : : demoting : denoted : department : : depend : describe : described : : : describes : : :, : : document : : doing : : : : : : : doubt : downside : draw : E E : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official general : : : : : :,, :,,, :, fish : fix : flood :,, : : fluke : : focus : : Ghaly : generally : getting : : :, :, : : : focuses : following : forms : four : framed : free : : : : :, :, GINGER : : : Ginsburg :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : freedom :, : give :, : : : : friend : : Frost : :, : : given : go : : : :, goes : Page  :, :, :, :, :, Goldstein's : good : : governed : government : : :, : :, : : : : :, :,,,, : : : :, : :,, : :,,,, :, :, : :, : : : :, :, : : government's : : : : : fairly : far : favor :, : examine : example : : favoring : examples : exclusive : excuse : exercise : : : Federal :,,, : :, : : exercised : exercising :, : : : : exist :, existed : expand : expect : expects : explain : : exploit : expressing : : expression : Federalism : felony : fiction : fight : filed : filings : fill : finance : find : : finish : fire : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : fired :,,, : F expressive : : extent : extinguish : extremely : : : : fires : : firing : first :, : : : :,, : : : :, :,, : :,,, :, : : :,,, :, :,, : :, :, : : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, :, :,, gap : :, : :,, :, :,, : gathering : facially : : fact : :, :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : factual : failing : fails :,,, fair :,, G : gaining : facts :, :, : G fundamental : funds : further : Furthermore : Garcetti : : : :,, : grabbed : gravamen : :, : : :, : :,, : Great : : : : :, :, grievable : : : : ground : :,,,, : : :, :, going : :, :, :, :,,, : :,,, :, :, :, :, :,, : :,, :, Goldstein : : grounds : : :,, : :,, : : : : :, : guarantees : guess : greater :, : : :,, :, :, :, :, : : : guide : : :,,, gun : : :, : : :, :, : : :, : :,, :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :,, : : : :,, : :,,, : hard : : H hand : hanging : happen : : happened :, : : happens : : Alderson Reporting Company Hatch :, : headquarters : hear : : heard : hearing : Heffernan : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : held : : help : : highly : hire : hiring : history : hold :, : holding : honest : Honor :, Honors : hurt :, hurts : hypothetical : : : : :, : : : : : : hypotheticals : I idea : :, : identical : identified : identify : : : ignorant : ill : ill­motivated : imagine : : :, : : : impact : impermissible : :, : : implement : important : :, : : : impossible : improper : inaccurate : incentive : incidents : included : including : : incumbent : independent : : : indicated : : individual : : : : :,, : :, : : :,, : :, individual's : individuals : : individuals' : inequitable : inference : influence : injured : : : injures : injury : : innocent : inquire : : :, : : inquired : inquiries : inquiry : : : :, : Official : insist : : instance : : intending : intent : : : : interest : : : interests : interfere : involved : : : : : :, : involving : : Iqbal : irrespective : issue :, : :, : : : : :, : : issues : J J : January : JEFFREY : Jersey : : : :, :, :,,,, :, :, :,,, :, : : : job : : jobs : : judgment : : : : : : judgments : judicially : jurisdictions : Justice : :, :, :,, Page  K keep : Kennedy :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : :,, : :,, : : : :, :, :,, : : :, : :,,,, :,,,, : Kagan : : : : :, :,, :, :,, : :, :, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : : :,, :,,, : : : :, : : : : :,, Kennedy's : : :,,, kettle : : :,, :,,,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, :,, : :,,,, :, :, :,, : : :,, :, :, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, :,, : :,,,, :,,,,, :, :, :, : :,,, : :,,, :, :, : :, : knew : : know :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : lacked : : lacks : Laughter : : : : : : : law :,,,, :,, : known : knows : L kind : : kinds :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official lots :, : mistaken : : nice : night : lower : nonaffiliated : nonassociate : nonassociation magically : : : mistakenly : money : morning : mother :, :,, : : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : :,,, maintain : : : laws :, : : M making : : management : motion :, managing : motions : : lawsuit : : marginally : motivation : lawsuits : : MARK : :, : : : number : : nonassociations : normally : noticeable : Page  opposes : opposition : oral : :,, : : : order : ordinary : orthodoxy : ought : : : : outcome : : :, lawyer's : layers : lead : leave : : : left : legislature : let's : : : : : : liable : life : lights : liked : litigation : : little : : : local : : : : : motive :,, : materiality : : : matter : :, multiple : : : : N : : : : : : N :, : : matters : mayor : : :, : mayor's : : mayoral : Md : mean : : narrow : nature : necessarily : necessary : : : : : : need : :, : : : : : : : : : : : neither : : : : : : : : neutral : : :, : : :, :,, : meant : meeting : members : mentioned : meritless :,, : never : : O outside : overbreadth : O : : : : : O'Hare : : oversight : : : : : : : : : objection : oblivious : obviously : occur : office : : : P P : Pa : Pacer : page : : pamphlet : : : : parade : : :, : part : : officer : : : officers : : officials : oh : : : : : : : particular : : : : : party : : : :, :, : : : : : : : pass : :,, : : : :, : passed : :, Paterson : : neutrality :, okay : : logic : logical : long : : longer : look : : : message : : : : : millions :, : :, looked : : mimics :, : : : : : : : : : once :, one's : : : one­off : : : : looking : looks : loophole :, missed : lose : : lot : : mind : : minute : misperceived : New : : : :, :, :,,,, operating : :, :, :,,, :, : mistake : : : :, : : : : : news : : : opinion : : people : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : opponent : : opportunity : opposed : : : : : : : patronage : : : : pay : Alderson Reporting Company promotion : politics : : proposed : :, quite : : Official plaintiff's : politically : :, :, : :, perceived : : plaintiffs : : : : perceives : perception : : :, : : : plausible : : : : play : : please : : person : : : : : : : pluck : : : : point : : :,,, : : : : : : : :,,,, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, position :, : : : : : : : :, : possible : : person's : personal : perspective : : pointed : points : police : : possibly : potato : potentially : : : : practically : : : : precedents : Page  prohibiting : promote : promoted : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, questions : proposition :, : :, : : : R protected : : R : raise : raised : : : : : : :, : : : raises : rare : : :, read : readily : real : : protections : : : : : : protects : : : : : really : : : : : : : : : :,, :, precise : : prefer : pregnant :, provides : provision : : : : persuaded : Petitioner :, police's : policies : : :,, : policy :,, : : : :, : : : political : : prevent : : : :,,,, :,, :,, presented : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : pressure : preserved : President : press : : : private : probe : probing : pretty : :, :,, prevail : :,, : : : : : :, : primarily : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : problem : : : : : :, : : : problems : : :,, : : : proceeded : : :, : proceed : : : : progeny : : public : :, : :, :, : : : : :, :, reason :,, : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : reasonable : : : : reasons : : : : : punish : punishing :, pure : purpose :, : : purposes : pursuant : pursue : pursued : pursuing : put : : putting : Q reassigned : REBUTTAL : : recognize : : : : recognized : : : : : : record : question : : redistricting : :, : : : : refer : reference : Petitioner's : Philadelphia : philosophy : : pick :,, : : picked : : : Pickering : : : picking :, : piece : place : : : : : plaintiff : : :, : : : :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Respondents : : : : Respondents' :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : rooted : rule : : : : :, rules : : running : : restatement : result :, rid : : : right :,,, :,, : : :,, : : : : :,,,, Ruritania : :,,, :, Ruritanianism :, :,, :, :,, Rutan : : : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : : : S : : :,, : saw : : :,,,, saying : : :,, : : : :,, :,, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : says : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : rights :,, S referring : refers : refused : refuses : regarded : : : regarding : regimes : register : relate : relied : relief : :, : remain : : remaining : remand :, remedies :, remedy : :, remember : : : : : remove : Replace : reply : reported :, Republican :, : :,, : : : : : : : :, : Republicans : : requirement : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, requires : requiring : reserve : resolve : respect :, : :, : : :, ROBERTS : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, risk : rival : respond : Scalia :,, :,,, : :,, : :, :, :,,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : :,, : school : second : : Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : :,, seemingly : : : : : : settled : :, : : :,, :, : : sex :, : shalt :, share :, : shoot :, show : : : : secure : see : :, :, : : : :, : : seek :, seen :, sees : send : sense :, : : : : :, : : : : separate : serious : : service : : : : set : Page  sir : sites : sitting : situation : : six : slightly : small : Smith :,, Solicitor : solve :, somebody : : : : : : someone's : somewhat : : sorry : : : : : : sort : : Sotomayor : :, :,, :, :, :,, : : :,, :, :, :,, : sounds : : : Spagnola : : : : : :, : : : : :, showing : shows : side : : : : : : : sign : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : significant : : : signs : simple : : : simply : : : : speak : : speaker : speaking : : specific : : : specifically : : speech :,,, : : :,, : :,,, : : : : : : : : : Official takes : talk : : talking : : : : : talks : : tangent : technically : technique : tell : : : telling : : tenet : terms : : : test :, testified : testimony : : tests : text :, Thank : : :, :, theory : thing : : : :,, : : : : :,, :, :, : :,, :,,,,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, thinking : Page  thinks : : : : : : : : Twombly : : : : : : type : : Third : : : : THOMAS : : : : U U.S : unable : uncertain : unclear : thou :, thought : : : : : : : : unconstitutional : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, thousand : : thread : three : threshold : understand :, : : : : understanding : thrust : till : time : : understood : undisputed : : : : United :,, : : : : : universe : unwritten : use : : usually : : : : : transfers : tried : : truck : true :, :,, try : : trying : :, : : : Tuesday : turn : : twice : : two : : : : : V v : : : versus : : vetoed : view : : : : : : : : views : : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, : VII : vindicate : :,,, squash : staff : stand : standard : : standing : standpoint : start : : state :,,, : : : :, : : : statement :, : : sued : sufficient : suggesting : suits : summary : : : supervisor : : supervisor's : support : : : : : :,, :, : : supported : : states :,, : : : : : : supporter :, : : : supporting : statute : : : :, :,, : :, statutes : statutory : : : stems : stifle : stopped :, stopping : stops : straight : strand : strange : : : street : : strong : stronger : subject :, : : subjected : submitted :, substantive : : substitute : succeed :, : :, : : :, :, : : suppose : : : : suppress : : : : suppressing : : Supreme :, sure : : surprise : surprised : survey : sweeping : sympathetic : T T :, take :, : :, : : : : : : :, : taken :, : : : things :, : : : : : : : : times : : : : Title : today's : tore : totally : tow : town : transferred : : : : think : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official : : : : : ­ : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : vindicates : : violate :, : : : :, :, violated : : violates : violation :, : :, : : : : : :, : : violations : violent : virtue : vote : : : : : W waived : walking : want : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : wants : : Washington :, wasn't :, : : : : : : : :, : :, water :, Waters : : : :, way : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : We'll : we're : : : : : : : we've : Web : week : weight : well­known : went :, :, :, :, : weren't : whatsoever : : wide­ranging : widespread : : wishes : Wittig : woman : wondering : wording : words : : : worked : workforce : works : world : : worry : : : : wouldn't : : : write : wrong :,, : : : : wrongful : x :, X Y yeah : : : : : : : yesterday : Z Alderson Reporting Company 