Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  DANNY BIRCHFIELD,                   :             Petitioner,               : No. ­         v.                          NORTH DAKOTA,                                   Respondent;            : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  WILLIAM ROBERT BERNARD, JR.,          :             Petitioner,               : No. ­         v.                          STATE OF MINNESOTA,                              Respondent;            : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  STEVE MICHAEL BEYLUND,               :             Petitioner,               : No. ­         v.                          GRANT LEVI, DIRECTOR,                NORTH DAKOTA DEPARTMENT OF            TRANSPORTATION,                                Respondent.            : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioners.  THOMAS R. McCARTHY, ESQ., Arlington, Va.; on behalf of            Respondents in Nos. ­ & ­.       KATHRYN KEENA, ESQ., Assistant Dakota County Attorney,          Hastings, Minn.; on behalf of Respondent in          No. ­.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review APPEARANCES (Continued):  IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,          Department  of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United         States, as   amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.     PAGE    on behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS R. McCARTHY, ESQ.          On behalf of the Respondents in      Nos. ­ & ­                                 ORAL ARGUMENT OF   KATHRYN KEENA, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent in No. ­                ORAL ARGUMENT OF   IAN H. GERSHENGORN, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CHARLES A. ROTHFELD, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Birchfield v. North         Dakota and the related cases.                 Mr. Rothfeld.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The fundamental problem with the statutes at       issue in these three cases is that they make it a           criminal offense to assert a constitutional right.        Under laws of North Dakota and Minnesota, a person who           is stopped on suspicion of impaired driving is obligated         to take a warrantless chemical test to determine the          alcohol content of their blood.                 The States concede that these tests are       searches under the meaning of the Fourth Amendment. The          United States and North Dakota appear to recognize that         no exception under the recognized exceptions of the law         requirement applies. Nevertheless, a person is        obligated to take this warrantless ­­ to submit to this          warrantless search, and is committing a criminal offense         if he or she does not do so.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it correct to say that         you concede that the State could revoke the driver's         license for refusing to take the test, either blood,         alcohol or Breathalyzer?               MR. ROTHFELD: That ­­ that is not at issue          in this case. We haven't taken a position on that,            but ­­ but I ­­ but we don't dispute for purposes of             this case that the State could do that.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, let's ­­ let's       assume that that is a concession or that we hold that or             that that's a premise. If the State can impose a civil              administrative sanction, why couldn't it also impose a        criminal sanction? We could have hypotheticals where        you would just be no more than three days in jail,           criminal sanction, or a three­year suspension, which is         obviously greater. Why should there be a difference?                      MR. ROTHFELD: I ­­ I think the fundamental           distinction that ­­ that governs the outcome of this         case, we think, is that ­­ is that between the State           taking away a benefit that it didn't have to give you in             the first place, which is what the Court addresses in          the unconstitutional conditions line of cases.                  In this situation here, where the State is        saying by fiat, you are subject to a criminal penalty,           affirmative criminal penalty, for ­­ for asserting a        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review constitutional right.                          In the case that you are hypothesizing ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think the        conditions are just different. I ­­ I don't think that             analytically ­­ analytically it's a ­­ it's a different           proposition.             MR. ROTHFELD: But I ­­ I have to disagree            with that, Your Honor, for this reason: I ­­ I think              that in the unconstitutional conditions line of cases,        what the Court has said is the State has given someone a            benefit that it did not have to give in the first place.            And that all the State is doing when it takes that           benefit away is saying you're back in the position that          you were to begin with. There is no sort of direct            penalty that's attached to what the individual is doing.                     And the Court in those cases has said, we         will look to see the practical effect of the combination          of the benefit and the condition to see whether or not           the State in ­­ in reality is trying to do           indirectly what it could not do directly, that being         the ­­ the   suppression of the constitutional right.       And so in   those cases, the Court will look to see is          ­­ what is   it, agree with the connection between the        benefit and  the condition? And it will look to see the degree of            coercion that the ­­ the State's manipulation of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review benefit and condition imposes on the individual to        surrender a constitutional right.                 But as the Court ­­ the Court has made very          clear in this entire line of cases what it's trying to           do is figure out, is the State trying to do indirectly           something that it could not do directly, which is         abdicate a constitutional right?                                         JUSTICE ALITO: One way ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: This ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: One way of looking at what         the State is doing is not to criminalize the assertion          of a constitutional right, but to criminalize reneging         on a bargain. And the bargain was, we give you a             license to drive, and in exchange for that, you consent          to a ­­ to a blood­alcohol test under certain           circumstances. And if you renege on that bargain, then          that's what's criminalized. Why isn't that a better way           of looking at this?                MR. ROTHFELD: I ­­ I think it ­­ to look at              it that way, I think you're sort of in ­­ in the world              of consent. In this case, at least, there is no           suggestion that consent of that sort was present because         in this case, there ­­ there is no reason to believe           that the defendants had any idea that they were agreeing          to the bargain that ­­ that you ­­ you described.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, under Justice      Alito's hypothetical, suppose if for every driver's       license you had to sign a consent form, I consent to             take a Breathalyzer test in the event the officer has           grounds to require it.                MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me answer that        question in two parts, Your Honor. First, as to what's           going on in this case, where there is nothing like that           on ­­ on the form, what's happening here, the way that           these statutes operate, if you drive on the roads in          North Dakota or Minnesota, you are automatically and        irrevocably subject to the State's ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm testing Justice      Alito's question. Suppose there is real consent. Is          that ­­             MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I ­­ then ­­ then the           analysis would be ­­ not the analysis in this case,          but ­­ but a consent analysis ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, it's ­­ it's real          in that everybody had to sign this form that they don't           ­­                        MR. ROTHFELD: I'm ­­ my ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm assuming they're      going to stop everybody at the border. So someone who           isn't from that particular State who hasn't signed        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review anything is still subject to the same criminal        penalties.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, that's my next       question, but let's just talk about just the State ­­         the State.              MR. ROTHFELD: And, Justice Sotomayor, that,       in fact, is the reality of this State.                                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know.      MR. ROTHFELD: But ­­ but I ­­ I think, as I              say, the analysis there would be not the analysis in          this case, but a consent analysis under the Schneckloth          line of cases. And I think they're ­­ it would be the              State's obligation to show on the totality of the         circumstances that the consent to permit the search and,         therefore, to subject yourself to the conditions is ­­        is truly voluntary, that it's the product of the         defendant's choice, that it was not the product of         coercion ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: You know, that especially       in North Dakota and sparsely populated States, you have         to drive in order to ­­ so we know that consent is ­­ is              fictional in that sense. But suppose that it was          voluntary and that it was explained and so forth and          the ­­ and the ­­                MR. ROTHFELD: But ­­ but ­­ I think ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ and the drivers sign        it. It still seems to me you'd ­­ you'd have an            argument that it's ­­ it's coerced.                  MR. ROTHFELD: I think that's right. I          think, as I say, the analysis would be a consent            analysis under Schneckloth. One of the key points of          that is coercion, and I would think that if someone is            told, you cannot drive, particularly in a rural State          like North Dakota, and probably anywhere, but certainly        there, something which is absolutely essential to daily        life, to going to your job ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that would be        grounded in what provision in the Constitution?                   MR. ROTHFELD: That would be grounded in the         Fourth Amendment, because the ­­ the ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, the ­­ the right         people have to drive. I thought you were just           postulating something saying ­­ I mean you're saying the          States could not take away that right.                   MR. ROTHFELD: No, no, no. I'm ­­ I          apologize, Your Honor. That's not what I meant to say.            What I'm saying is, if ­­ if the submission, as Justice           Kennedy hypothesizes, is people are told and actually        are aware that they are being told that if they drive           they are consenting to be searched, that they're        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review consenting to submit to the chemical test, I think          whether the State can execute on that depends on whether          or not there is consent.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, no. But I         thought you said, well, of course there's coercion        because you can't survive in North Dakota without a car,           which I'm happy to postulate, but ­­ but what is ­­ what            is the basis for that ­­ that right?                    MR. ROTHFELD: I ­­ I think that's not a ­­             not a right that's granted in the Constitution. What ­­           what's ­­ the relevance of that is that there would be           coercion, we think, within the meaning of Schneckloth,        within the meaning of this Court's Fourth Amendment        coercion, you know, voluntary consent.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so for        purposes of analyzing this case, we have to assume that          States could prohibit people from driving, period.                               MR. ROTHFELD: I think that that's right.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Now, as far         as the border goes, now when it's ­­ I understand           stopping people at the border. But what if there's a           sign at the border that says anyone who uses the State           roads consents to, you know, blood alcohol testing if         they're ­­ they're pulled over?                 MR. ROTHFELD: Again, that would ­­ that        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would not be this case, because in this case there is no            suggestion that these defendants had any idea that these         statutes existed, let alone that they were voluntarily        surrendering their right to assert the Fourth Amendment.                    But in the hypothetical that you suggest, I        think it would be a difficult case for the State to            make, because the State's obligation would have to be to          carry the burden of showing that the defendant actually         voluntarily surrendered the right to ­­ to resist ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is it true that the        State could prohibit driving altogether without a       reason?             MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I ­­ I sort of conceded            that to the Chief Justice. That's not an issue in our            case. I'm not sure whether that is true. And if the             State could not do that, then that makes their case even           weaker, because in that ­­ they could not then condition          ­­ they would not have a ­­ have a benefit that they              could withdraw.                          JUSTICE ALITO: You mean ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose the reason         would be that the issue we're talking about, all the          traffic deaths, right? I mean, if ­­ I mean, obviously             it's not a realistic contention, but that's ­­ a lot of             the hypotheticals aren't. I'm trying to get to the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review basis of, it seems to me that the flexibility that a           State has in this situation depends upon what rights the          motorist has.              And I understand the Fourth Amendment       argument, but it does seem to me that if you're making           an unconstitutional­conditions argument, it is pertinent      to determine what authority the State has in any event.                      MR. ROTHFELD: That's right. But let me ­­         let me be very clear. I think that there are two points              that are crucial. One is that we are not making an            unconstitutional­conditions argument. We are saying      what the State is doing here is a ­­ is a direct              assertion of ­­ direct imposition of criminal penalties        on people who assert their Fourth Amendment rights.        This is nothing to do with a condition because, as I            say, these ­­ these defendants are not shown to have          been aware that they were subject to a condition at all.                        JUSTICE ALITO: But we're interested in ­­       in other possibilities. And so if you assume that a           State can condition the ­­ the right to ­­ the ability           to drive on the State's roads ­­ and let's assume this           is not somebody who is crossing the border. Assume a           State can condition the ­­ the ability to drive on a           State's roads on consenting to a blood­alcohol test,         perhaps under certain circumstances. Let's say this is         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review done in writing at the time when the person applies for           the license, so it's not ­­ it's not just implied.                      Why does that ­­ what is different about        that situation from a number of other situations that I           can think of? For example, conditioning a ­­ a license             to operate an interstate passenger train on submitting        to a blood­alcohol test in the event of reasonable          suspicion. The person is operating the ­­ the train          under the influence of ­­ of alcohol, or the same thing           with someone who is operating aircraft.                  Or suppose there were a law that said that          if you want to enter certain government buildings, such         as this building, the ­­ the condition of entering is          consenting to a search, and you have to sign something,           you have to go through the magnetometer. And then if a            person got through that, and there was reasonable        suspicion that the person had smuggled in some kind of a           weapon, the person would be subjected to a search. What            would be the difference between that situation and this         situation?             MR. ROTHFELD: I think there would be a          number of ­­ of distinctions. One would be, I think            that's in at least some of the hypotheticals that ­­         that you offer, the train hypothetical, for example,        that's the Skinner case. There is a special­needs          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review exception to the warrant requirement applies. And so         there is no ability, no ­­ on the part of the individual            to resist the search. I mean, there is no ­­ no             warrantless ­­ there's no requirement for a warrant in          the first place.                 I think entering the government building     would probably ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In those cases, don't       you just lose the benefit? You don't come into the           building.                                     MR. ROTHFELD: That ­­ that's correct.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You lose your job.       MR. ROTHFELD: Well, again, let's ­­ let's        be ­­ be clear on ­­ on sort of what the doctrine is. I               think in the Skinner situation, I mean, there simply is           no Fourth Amendment right. So we're ­­ we're not          asserting the benefits and conditions world, we're       simply saying you have no ­­ no right to resist the           search. I think that's true entering the building as           well. I think, otherwise ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but if ­­ if you say          that, and I ­­ and I recognize that there's some            circularity in ­­ in both positions here. But you say,           well, in Skinner there was no constitutional right        because we could take the constitutional right away.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Well, that's exactly what the government is going to         argue.                         to help us.               MR. ROTHFELD: But I ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it doesn't seem to me         MR. ROTHFELD: I ­­ again, I ­­ I think I ­­               I would look at it differently, Your Honor. I think            that what's happening in a case like Skinner is the           Court is addressing the substantive scope of the Fourth         Amendment. It's saying that in the circumstances of this         search, is there a requirement for a warrant, because ­­           and as ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, we would say,       suppose we said this is like Skinner. If the Chief           Justice asked about statistics, suppose there was a        compelling showing that there was a measurable increase         in traffic fatalities. If this was not in force, we           would say this is a special condition, and therefore you           must consent. And the bottom line is ­­ and that means            there is no constitutional right because we just said         there's no constitutional right.                MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I ­­ that, I think,           Your Honor, would be creating a new exception to the           Fourth Amendment, and it's not a certain­conditions        analysis. But ­­ but it's an important point, so let me            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review go back to this.                  I think what was happening in Skinner is the        Court ­­ and that whole line of cases, Skinner and          Vernonia and Von Raab ­­ the Court is saying we're          looking at the circumstances that an individual's right        to privacy, the ­­ whether or not there is discretion on           the part of the law enforcement officer to decide         whether or not to execute the search, all those things          go into special needs. And the Court says in these           special­needs situations, there is no Fourth Amendment       ­­ applying the ordinary Fourth Amendment principles,       there is no Fourth Amendment entitlement ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Maybe ­­ maybe I       misunderstood, but I thought that was the whole thrust          of Justice Alito's question. Why can't we say it's a           special needs? Let's assume the statistics are        compelling.             MR. ROTHFELD: But I ­­ I think that it's ­­            I think it's ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: And when we talk about ­­        talk about innocent ­­ innocent lives, just as we were          in Skinner.              MR. ROTHFELD: I think ­­ I think that the            analysis there is, I mean, do we look ­­ we look to the              basic Fourth Amendment's characteristics that go into       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review whether a search is required. In McNeely, I mean, the             Court essentially addressed that very question. The        Court addressed the argument that the nation's impaired        driving problem is so severe, so compelling, that we can          disregard the warrant requirement, and the Court       rejected that. And in fact, no member of the Court           accepted that as principle in McNeely.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm not sure        that was the ­­ I'm not sure that's different in this           case. I mean, in the ­­ in the railroad case, I think               what we're saying is that the need for safe         transportation on the trains to protect the innocent        people there is ­­ is compelling enough that ­­ that it           falls within the special­needs exception. And I'm ­­        again, I'm not ­­ not sure why that analysis wouldn't          apply here.                I ­­ I don't know. I suspect more people           die from drunk driving accidents than from train        accidents, and so the special need would seem to be just           as ­­ as compelling.                MR. ROTHFELD: But I think that that was not           the rationale in Skinner, certainly not the entire        rationale. I think that the principal reason for saying           there was no warrant requirement there. And the Court          said not just that there was no warrant requirement but          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that there was no probable cause requirement; that there         could be a search without suspicion at all. No one is             suggesting that that's appropriate here.                   I think that the reason the Court came to        that conclusion, both in Skinner and Von Raab and         Vernonia and that entire line of cases, is kind of the           whole combination of characteristics that there was no        discretion, as I said, on the part of the law           enforcement officer to decide who to search, that ­­        that there were a variety of things that had sort of            nothing to do with the ordinary criminal process. These          were not criminal investigations at all.                  And the Court has said time and again that         in the ordinary law enforcement circumstance where a        search is being conducted, that a warrant is required.          That is the presumption unless ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: The presumption ­­ but       there are many ways of analyzing this case, so let me           try to get you to focus on one that doesn't have to do             with consent or any of these differences that you ­­         many of them that you've been discussing.                   One way to analyze it is you just ask: Is           it ­­ there is no such thing as an exception to the            Fourth Amendment. The question is whether the Fourth         Amendment requires a warrant in these circumstances, and         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it seems to me if it does, then you win. And if it              doesn't, then the State has considerable freedom. It         couldn't boil people in oil, but it might be able to do            this. All right. So that's how ­­ what I'm thinking.                                                Now, the question is ­­    MR. ROTHFELD: It ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: And I don't find this very          much in the briefs, and it surprises me. That's what I            want you to address. Why ­­ why isn't there a big             difference between a blood test and a Breathalyzer? I            mean, look, I look at a Breathalyzer; it's a little box              the size of a cell phone. It has a little straw on the                end, and you breathe into it. And what you breathe into            it is carbon dioxide, which is going to go into the           environment anyway; you're not going to keep it. And          moreover, it takes place quickly, so the evidence hasn't         disappeared. A blood test, you have to go somewhere           else. There is risk involved. Time elapses, so you           lose some of the evidence. And it's painful in some           instances.             So, I immediately think, isn't there a        difference? So encapsulated in what I'm saying is what          is wrong with a Breathalyzer test when it can save lots            of lives and is given to those people where there is           probable cause, I take it, or at least reasonable          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review suspicion to think they're drunk. It'll clear the         innocent; it'll inculpate the guilty, very little       interference. But a blood test, I mean, that might be a              different thing.              Okay. I'd appreciate what your response is        to that line of thought.                 MR. ROTHFELD: And I will do that. I will             say to begin, I think that your prefatory statement is           quite correct that if a warrant is required here, we           win. If a warrant is not required, then the State has             considerably more leeway in what it can do.                    On the breath test, breath test is a        significant intrusion on personal integrity. As the        Court said in Skinner, the ­­ first of all, there is no            question that the breath test is a search in the Fourth            Amendment ­­ meaning of the Fourth Amendment. That's         conceded by ­­ by my friends on the other side. And the             Court's presumption has been that when there is a search           in a law enforcement proceeding, a warrant is going to            be required unless one of the regular exceptions to the          warrant requirement applies there.                And I think it is conceded by the         United States and North Dakota that there is no so ­­ no            such exception here. And so ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why can't we say that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with respect to a breath test that this is a search             incident to arrest?               MR. ROTHFELD: I think that it's not a          search incident to arrest for the reasons that were         stated by the dissenting opinion in ­­ in the Bernard          case by Justices Stras and Page of the Minnesota Supreme          Court, which is, the court has made very, very clear          consistently from Chimel on through Riley most recently        that search incident to arrest turns on the existence of          one of two considerations, either the search is        necessary to preserve officer safety, or to preserve        evidence.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think that this         would be based on the notion that it's necessary to          preserve evidence, plus the notion which Justice Breyer        suggested that this is about as uninvasive as a search           can possibly be. And so that given those two things           together, that it is useful to preserve evidence and         that it is a extremely uninvasive search, that we can           assimilate it into the search­incident­to­arrest     doctrine.             MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me answer both of         those points. On ­­ on the preservation of evidence,          the evidence that's being tested here is the        blood­alcohol level, so alcohol level in the blood. And          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they're simply using breath as a means of doing that.           As to that, breath and blood are identical. And so, as            the Court ­­ the Court addressed this in McNeely.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, but there's something       very different in the level of invasion, and certainly         it's appropriate to look at the invasiveness of a search           when deciding whether to do a search incident to arrest.           I mean, if that weren't true, we wouldn't have talked          about how much you could get off of a cell phone in             Riley. If that weren't true, we would allow people to           do body cavity searches when they do search incidents to          arrest.             So it seems to me that the Court can look at           the level of invasion incident to a search when deciding           whether a particular search comes within the        search­incident­to­arrest doctrine, and that that might      be a way of separating out this category of cases from            the ones that we were talking about in McNeely.                     MR. ROTHFELD: Well, let me say two things         about that. First, our sense is that a breath test is             in fact a significant intrusion on personal integrity         for the reasons the Court suggested in the Skinner case.          When one takes one of these Breathalyzer tests, I mean,           it is not, Justice Breyer, simply that you're exhaling         in the ordinary way and carbon dioxide is dissipated         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review into ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say ordinary way.         I said you blow hard into a little straw­like thing           that's connected with what looks like a cell phone. So            using the word "significant" or not doesn't help me.                                                         MR. ROTHFELD: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, it is what it is.           MR. ROTHFELD: It's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: And that ­­ that ­­ the         question is why it is so intrusive that the Constitution          insists on a warrant where that insistence could         undermine in many cases the evidence that you are         looking for? Now, that's ­­ that's a question of           several factors. And it doesn't ­­ just doesn't help me           to say significant or not significant. That seems to me           the question, not the answer.                 MR. ROTHFELD: Well, as to why we think it          is ­­ why we think it is significant as a personal            matter, when one takes a Breathalyzer test of this kind,           a tube is inserted into the person's mouth. You have to            exhale continuously for an extensive period of time.        Could be as many as or seconds. And the point of              it is to expel what the Court has characterized in          Skinner as deep­lung air. It's ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: What does that have to do         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with it? I mean, after all, if in fact the person's             eyes turn bloodshot when every time he drank four         bottles of whiskey, you could look at the his eyes, and           that wouldn't be intrusive at all. I mean, what you're            looking for doesn't have much to do with the intrusion.          It's the way you're looking for it that's the problem.          That's the problem. It's not that you happen to want to            know it for a particular reason.                   MR. ROTHFELD: You're inserting a tube into         a person's mouth to get them to expel something from          deep within their body so that it can be tested by the            government. And my ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. I know we've          assumed that it's only evidentiary, but in my        experience, police, when they do the road test, do it          because they want to confirm that you are in fact drunk.           Before they take you in and take you off the road,           they're doing this test as part of the probable cause          evaluation: Is there enough probable cause to bring you          in? There may be, independent of it, but sometimes the           breath test exonerates people and they go on their merry          way.             So why are we thinking that it is only         evidentiary? I do think the blood test is, by the way.             Once you've arrested someone, you've decided to take        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review them off the road, and the road is now safe from that            person. But ­­               MR. ROTHFELD: And that is true with a         Breathalyzer, too. We're talking here not about        preliminary field sobriety screens; we're talking about       people who have been arrested or as to whom there is           probable cause to believe that they are ­­ have been          driving while intoxicated.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: As I said, there's        always ­­ there's probable cause, and there's probable        cause.             MR. ROTHFELD: But these ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm meaning why can't we        view it as just part of the necessity of the ­­ of the             stop and suspicion of the stop?                  MR. ROTHFELD: Because I think again the ­­         the tests we're talking about here, the ­­ under the          laws of both North Dakota and Minnesota, the officer has          the right to give ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: The right. So what is the          percent of tests of Breathalyzers that is given at ­­ by           the car? And under what ­­ and what percent of           Breathalyzers is given after the person has been        arrested and moved to jail or the equivalent?                    MR. ROTHFELD: Well, there ­­ as I said,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they're field sobriety tests. I think that's given in           practically every case as an initial screen.                   JUSTICE BREYER: I'm saying what percent is        which? Okay? I'm asking because I'm curious and think           that might be relevant. You may not know. So if you             don't know, say you don't know.                  MR. ROTHFELD: I don't know, Your Honor. I           think that the answer to that question, how many people          who are stopped in a preliminary way are then arrested           for suspicion of driving while impaired, and I'm not         sure that there are statistics that anyone has that are          available.             JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the Breathalyzer      test was improved, there's better technology. So let's         suppose that all that's required is to put the         Breathalyzer a couple of inch ­­ an inch from the           person's mouth and wait for the person to breathe, and          that would be sufficient to measure blood alcohol.        That ­­ would you say that's a search?                     MR. ROTHFELD: I think that might not be a           search. I think that would be a very different            situation.             JUSTICE ALITO: All right. So if you         compare that with what ­­ what has to be done here, what            is the big ­­ what is the big difference between those?           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That you have to put a straw in your mouth?                       MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I would think, Your         Honor, that most people ­­ maybe this is just me, but my            suspicion would be that if presented with the        possibility of either inserting something into your       mouth and expelling something from deep within your body         to be tested by the government, people will find that          more intrusive than having an officer look in their         backpack. I think ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: It doesn't seem ­­ it        doesn't seem realistic. The reason why people don't         want to submit to a blood­alcohol test is that they           don't want their blood alcohol measured. It's not that          they object so much to blowing into a straw. Do you             disagree with that?               MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I ­­ I think maybe I            do, Your Honor. Obviously people don't want to have ­­          people who are stopped on the road don't want to be           tested in any respect. There's no question about that.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's not       true. If you're not drunk, you'd be happy to be tested,            right?             MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I think ­­ I think           that's an intrusion, too. And maybe that ­­ that          ultimately, you would be happy to be tested and let on           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review your way.              JUSTICE BREYER: It's an intrusion when you        pat down someone having probable cause to believe he's         committing a crime, and you pat him down, which is the            worst intrusion, I would guess. Pat­down is a much more             intrusive form of search than saying would you blow into          a straw.              MR. ROTHFELD: Well, I ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: But we allow it.                   MR. ROTHFELD: Let me, again, sort of offer         two points on that. One ­­ one is, the States, in their             treatment of blood and breath tests, as the Court         described in McNeely, almost uniformly treat the breath        tests and blood tests identically. And as the Court          suggested ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Why? That's ­­ that's        really my unknown question: Why. Why? That's why I            started with that, because I really don't know the          answer.             MR. ROTHFELD: And ­­ and I think the          answer, Your Honor, is that people understand the breath         test to be ­­ it's designed to obtain the same evidence,           literally ­­ exactly the same evidence as the blood         test. And why, in response to Justice Alito's         question ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's, I guess ­­        please, go ahead.               MR. ROTHFELD: But I ­­ I think that you            were concerned about the dissipation of this evidence.        I think as to the blood and the breath test, it's ­­           it's exactly the same.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, you're right that it's      designed to get at the same evidence, and you're right          that the dissipation of the evidence works in exactly         the same way. But you're suggesting that we should          close our eyes to the fact that there's a very           significant difference in the degree of invasiveness.       You know, even assuming that both of these are searches,          which I have to say, you know, I think that that's ­­             we've ­­ we've held that, and so blowing is a search,            there's no question about that, but there are searches,         and then, again, there are searches. There are more          invasive searches and less invasive searches. And I         guess my intuitions are that that's an important        difference when we think about these questions.                   MR. ROTHFELD: Well, as to the nature of the          breath test. And, again, I've been addressing this         and ­­ and I'm not sure how much more there is to say             about it, but I ­­ but I think that the reality is when               a foreign object is inserted into a person's body and           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they are asked to expel something from deep within their          body to be tested by the government, that sort of, on           the face of it, is an intrusive proposition, something         that most people regard as ­­ as the Court suggested in           Skinner ­­ a significant invasion of their personal         integrity.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the standard       sobriety tests? I take it you're not challenging a           police officer said, walk a straight line.                    MR. ROTHFELD: That's ­­ that's right. I ­­          I think that would not certainly ­­ certainly would not          be a search. I doubt it would be a seizure. So I think                   ­­ I think that that's correct.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Even though it's      involuntarily, the person doesn't want to do it?                    MR. ROTHFELD: If it's not a search, we're          not concerned with Fourth Amendment limitations.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­     MR. ROTHFELD: It ­­ it may be a seizure           and ­­ and I ­­ that's something we have not analyzed or             thought about, and we certainly are not challenging it         here.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it is ­­ it is a          seizure if you say to a person, now you walk a straight              line, and that person is in the control of the police           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review officer at the time.                MR. ROTHFELD: I think these are almost all          voluntary. The officer asks, would you walk a straight           line? People do it or attempt to do it. So if that's              the case, certainly there can be no Fourth Amendment         problem.             So ­­ but ­­ but those are not ­­ as I say,             they are not challenged here. I think they present a            different ­­ an entirely different set of issues.                                                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess, for some ­­         MR. ROTHFELD: I'm sorry, Your Honor.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Go ahead.        MR. ROTHFELD: Just to return to Justice        Kagan's point, I think in addition to the particular          characteristics of the breath test, which we do think         are personally intrusive, I think it is the fact that           the Court has always, whenever it has confronted a         search ­­ and there is no question that these are          searches ­­ in an ordinary law enforcement       investigation, not in the special needs kind of, sort of          general investigation, the Court has said there must be         a warrant unless one of the recognized exceptions apply.         And the recognized exceptions, I think, are        substantially conceded by the other side, do not apply         here. So it would be, I think, a novelty.            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well ­­ but I guess the          question that I asked ­­ I mean, I agree with you that               you do need a recognized exception, and that we should           not feel good about making up new exceptions        willy­nilly.             The question is, why isn't this a search         incident to arrest given the various aspects that I've         mentioned, the fact that the evidence does dissipate        over time, that getting a warrant might interfere with          that, and that it's ­­ relatively uninvasive.                   MR. ROTHFELD: Right. If I may answer that           question, Your Honor, and then sit down?                               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.     MR. ROTHFELD: I think ­­ for dissipation         for search­incident­to­arrest purposes, my understanding     of ­­ of that doctrine is, one is concerned with ­­ with            the suspect doing something affirmatively to get rid of         the evidence, flushing the evidence down the toilet.        That is the classic search­incident­to­arrest situation.      The Court in McNeely made very clear that we're not          dealing with that here. The alcohol, breath test, blood          test doesn't have to dissipate at a predictable level.          It's going to remain in the body to be tested later on.                        And so I don't think that justifies a search           incident ­­ shoehorning into the     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review search­incident­to­arrest doctrine. It's simply graded      from an entirely different category of threats to        evidence, as I understand it.                              And if I may ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why isn't ­­ why isn't it         an affirmative effort to get rid of the evidence because          you know the longer the interval passes, the less likely          that the test is going to reveal a level that's over the             standard amount.              MR. ROTHFELD: Well ­­ but, I think, Your          Honor, for the evidence suggested in McNeely, which ­­        which says that there is nothing you can do, nothing          affirmative you can do to take this evidence and hide          it, it's going to be dissipated in a predictable way,           and it's not in our control to do it. And if the State              can test you quickly, and breath tests are ­­ can be           very quick, the State will be able to do ­­ obtain the            evidence. If the State gets a warrant, they can do            that, and that's what they should do.                               If I may, Your Honor.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.                   Mr. McCarthy.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS R. McCARTHY                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                     IN NOS. ­ & ­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. McCARTHY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The North Dakota statute strikes a bargain        with individuals who wish to use the State's public         roads.             Conditioning their use thereon, on consent      to a blood­alcohol test, if arrested for drunk driving,          the Court has held that this is a valid bargain, and            that States may enforce it with the imposition of         significant consequences, including license revocation     and the use of test refusal as evidence in criminal          proceedings.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about another       bargain, if people find that texting while driving is         becoming an increasing problem, and so when you get a          license, you're ­­ you give implied consent for the         officer to look at the texts or whatever they can look           at on your cell phone to make sure, you know, a minute             ago you were texting somebody while driving? Is ­­         would that be acceptable under your rationale?                   MR. McCARTHY: I ­­ I think it's highly           doubtful, Your Honor. I think there's many differences          between that and what's going on here.                   First of all, the interest here is ­­ is a          uniquely compelling interest?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I assume. I          don't know what the statistics are going to say. It           wouldn't surprise me if there are at least as many          accidents caused by people texting while driving as        drinking while driving.               MR. McCARTHY: Even still, Your Honor, I        think this statute, it's ­­ given the history, given the          history here, it's a uniquely compelling interest. But          on top of that ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you mean        "the history"?              MR. McCARTHY: The history of the State's        battle in combatting drunk driving.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, there's not       that much history for texting, because there haven't        been iPhones around.               MR. McCARTHY: Certainly, Your Honor.                  Nonetheless, there's ­­ in these cases,      there's first, the search only comes up when the driver          has been arrested. So there is probable cause to          believe that this person was driving drunk.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know. I don't ­­                       MR. McCARTHY: So this law is targeted very         tightly right there on the ­­ on the people that are           causing the problem.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't ­­ I don't           see that that's a difference with respect to my          hypothetical.                         MR. McCARTHY: Well ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: People swerve in the        road because they're texting just like they do when         they're ­­ you know, when they're intoxicated, and        they're stopped for doing that. And, you know, the          officer says, let me see your phone, as opposed to just           like let me see your breath ­­ let me test your breath.            Let me check the phone.                 MR. McCARTHY: Again, Your Honor, I think ­­         I think it is different because there is probable cause.          The officer has reason to believe the person has been          drinking and driving as opposed to ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What does it ­­       where does that probable cause come from?                   MR. McCARTHY: It comes from the field        sobriety tests. It comes from doing ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: He's got to do those         before the Breathalyzer?               MR. McCARTHY: Not necessarily. I suppose         an officer could do a preliminary ­­ the on­site          screening test, breath test before the sobriety test.        But, typically, what happens with ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: The car's been weaving.       The alcohol is smelling. His ­­ his speech is ­­ is            slurred. His eyes are red.                              MR. McCARTHY: Yes. There's ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is ­­ this is        standard stuff.                          MR. McCARTHY: Yes, this is all standard.        JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it's like the Chief        Justice's hypothetical of weaving on the road while        you're texting.              MR. McCARTHY: Well, even ­­ even aside from         that, there's a whole separate set of ­­ the intrusion           is much different. As the Court indicated most recently          in the ­­ in the cell phone case, that there is ­­           it's ­­ that's separate. It's one level over, and it's           much more intrusive to go into that, and there's not the           same interest with the dissipation of the evidence as         there is in the case of the drunk driving.                     Not only that, but what's happening here is        the States are really in a terrible bind. The situation            here, if ­­ if States are left only with administrative          penalties for refusal, then what happens is it creates a          loophole in the system that makes it very, very         difficult ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. McCARTHY: ­­ for this ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you can get a                                warrant.               I mean, you're not left with that. You        don't want the administrative expense of calling a        magistrate or setting up a system to get a warrant, but             it is a very powerful alternative. That's what we said            in McNeely.              So it's not that you don't have an out. The           issue for us is: Do we dispense with a very important             requirement in our law, that before you search ­­        particularly the inside of a person with a needle or in             an intrusive way, that you get a warrant? I'm ­­ I'm             not sure why you think you're left with nothing.                     MR. McCARTHY: Well, Your Honor, two things.        One, we think McNeely's helpful for us because what         the ­­ what the Court was concerned about there was          forced blood draws over the objection of the arrestee.         And those don't happen under this system.                   And that's ­­ the second part of McNeely is         that McNeely pointed to these types of statutes and         said, these are alternatives that don't require forced        blood draws, that avoid the problem because they're ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They were only talked       about in civil consequences; suspend the license.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That's directly related to the condition that the        license is given. But I ­­ I ­­ criminal sanctions are              a very different thing. In scope and in effect. You're            putting someone in jail; you're not taking just their         license away.              MR. McCARTHY: Criminal penalties are      different; we don't dispute that. And that is really          just the essence of the question on the table here.          Given that the Court has already endorsed these types of          conditions being imposed on the privilege of driving and         has endorsed significant consequences being used as an        enforcement mechanism. So ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Could you say something       about what the practical consequences of requiring a        warrant for every Breathalyzer would be in a State like           North Dakota? I ­­ when ­­ my picture of North Dakota             is that it's not like New York City. You don't have            night court going on all the time. And so how many of             these tests occur during some period of time, and how          many magistrates would you have on duty, let's say, at          : o'clock in the morning to field a request for a            warrant?             MR. McCARTHY: Well, I'll ­­ the first ­­        first part of my answer is that if a warrant was            required in every case, that would go well beyond what          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the Fourth Amendment requires. Because even this ­­        even in McNeely the Court acknowledged that many cases         of warrant won't be required.                 But in North Dakota, Your Honor brings up an         interesting point. It's not that there are judges or          magistrates on ­­ on duty all the time in North Dakota.           In fact, they're considered what is known there as on          call. So they're not on duty, but they may be ­­           they're reachable somewhere, typically by phone. But it         often takes a while, especially in rural jurisdictions.                     JUSTICE BREYER: How long? What it says in          the ACDL brief is that in Wyoming it takes five minutes           and in Montana it takes minutes. How long in North            Dakota?             MR. McCARTHY: In North Dakota, in the        larger jurisdictions where there's a little bit of a          quicker process where they use more telephonic warrants,        and the arresting officer can go directly to a         magistrate in those systems, my understanding is it        takes about a half an hour to hour. But in the smaller              jurisdictions where it's more rural, where it's       oftentimes harder to get somebody on the phone, and         there the process is different. The ­­ the officer has           to go through a prosecuting attorney first and then to a            magistrate. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why is it harder to get         somebody on the phone in rural ­­ than in a busy city?                                     MR. McCARTHY: I think a large ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think people in the         rural areas were sitting waiting for the phone to call.                      (Laughter.)             MR. McCARTHY: Your Honor ­­ Your Honor, I         think in large part it's a lack of resources and           manpower. There's not as many people available to cover          all the times, and so ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that excuses you from        a constitutional requirement? We're now going to bend         the Fourth Amendment, which I always thought started on          the presumption that we favor warrants, we don't        disfavor them. But since many jurisdictions seem to         manage it, we give a pass to North Dakota because it            doesn't want to?               MR. McCARTHY: It's not that ­­ it's not         that North Dakota's asking for a pass here. There's a            couple things here. One again is that a warrant is not             required in every case.                The second thing is that the ­­ the        warrant ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McCarthy, I think what         we're ­­ people are asking you is to try to get some            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sense of the real world harms here. So let me ask you             to assume something.               Assume that you actually could put into       practice a system which got you a warrant in or              minutes, which many States of a similar kind have done.           What then would be your interest in the ­­ in ­­ in the             rule that you're asking us for?                  MR. McCARTHY: The ­­ the interest would be         almost the same, really, because ­­ and this is the          important part here ­­ is that the warrant ­­ the ­­ the            purpose of the warrant is to authorize a search over the            objection of the arrestee. But that's not happening         here.             The ­­ the State does not want to undertake         those searches because it's a public safety risk, not          only to the officer and to the arrestee, but the medical           personnel would be in between them. And this is          something the Court acknowledged as legitimate ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: If ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you obstruct justice       by refusing to comply with the warrant, you can punish          someone for the obstructing justice, and you can get the          same outcome as putting them in jail for being drunk and           driving. So what is it that justifies doing away with           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review something as important as the Fourth Amendment warrant        requirement?                         minutes.             MR. McCARTHY: Again ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you can do it in          MR. McCARTHY: Again, it's not that the        State is trying to get rid of the warrant requirement.          I think it helpful if we ­­ to take ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No. What it's trying to         do is get evidence of someone ­­ this is a pure law             enforcement need. This has nothing to do, necessarily,         with the safety of the community because the person's         been taken off the road. And we presume that you can            suspend their license. So this is something more.                     MR. McCARTHY: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is ­­                 MR. McCARTHY: I'm sorry. Your Honor, this         is different. This is something more. But it's not           about doing away with a warrant requirement. And I           respectfully disagree that ­­ that the suspension of a         license and the arrest of the person takes them off the           road and makes it not a public safety interest. It's            still very much a public safety interest, and it          requires some explanation here.                But the problem here is that the States        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review really can't effectively ­­ and North Dakota in        particular ­­ cannot enforce its drunk driving laws        without a penalty for refusal that actually has teeth ­­                                              JUSTICE KAGAN: No, but ­­     MR. McCARTHY: ­­ because the way it is ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's what we're       asking. Because if you could get a warrant easily in            every case, I mean, then I'm struggling to figure out           what your interest is in having the kind of law that you            have. So ­­ but maybe I'm just not understanding          something. So ­­ so it really is a question.                       Suppose you could set up a system where         somebody could be reached within or minutes, and          they would, in almost all circumstances, give a warrant.          And in a couple, say, no, I don't think you've satisfied             the requirements, right? So ­­ and you could do that in             or minutes. What would be the problem with just            relying on a system like that?                   MR. McCARTHY: Again, there's two ­­ there's        two problems. One is that the warrant's not required in           every case, but ­­ and so this would go beyond the           Fourth Amendment and put ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: But I'm asking about your        practical needs, and then, you know, we'll figure out         like what is or what isn't consistent with the Fourth          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Amendment. But your practical needs.                  MR. McCARTHY: Again, the ­­ the other point         here is that the warrant ­­ all ­­ is ­­ the point of             the warrant is to authorize the search over the         objection. The State doesn't want to do that. And I            think it's ­­ to step back ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think it's not ­­ I did            not understand that answer. What we're struggling for         in the wake of our recent cases where we talk about           warrants, we find out that modern technology allows, in         some States, both sparsely populated and heavily       populated, to get a warrant in minutes. And the ­­            the position the States are arguing here is that there          has to be an ­­ that a warrant is not necessary, it             takes too long. We're saying: Suppose it takes           minutes; what then?               MR. McCARTHY: Well ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're asking for an       extraordinary exception here. You're asking for us to         make it a crime to exercise what many people think of as             a constitutional right. There is some circularity        there. And you could point to no case which allows           that.             So we have to show that there is exceptions         ­­ there is a necessity for the exception, and you're           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review just not answering the question about whether or not, in          the wake of our recent decisions over the last three or           four years, warrants have been expedited in many cases,         and why; and if they have been, why that isn't an answer            to your argument.               MR. McCARTHY: Well, there's a ­­ there's a          couple reasons. One is to ­­ to require a warrant in             this situation, I think what actually required the Court          to ­­ it would essentially invalidate the statutes that         the Court upheld in Mackey and Neville. There was no           warrant required in those ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: We're making law. I don't          want ­­ none of us want an answer in terms of law. We              want to know a practical fact. The practical fact is,            is it possible that you could get a warrant in            seconds? You have a button on the cell phone. It has a               big "W."              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: The policeman presses it.       A voice comes on, and it says, what's the problem? You            explain it in seconds, and they say, ah, I got it.             Okay. You got your warrant. Or there's something          unusual, and he says no. Okay?                   Now, if that were in front of us, it         wouldn't take me too long to decide this case because          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I'd say why don't you use it? You might answer that's            ridiculous. It isn't seconds; it can't be. It isn't            five minutes. It isn't , even, in most parts, and it            can't be without added expense. Or you could say it           doesn't make any difference and explain it. I think           you'd have a hard time with that one, but I want to know               what your answer is on the facts.                   MR. McCARTHY: On the facts, there is delay         in ­­ in ­­ some delay in getting a warrant, and that             does make a difference here.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Why does it make enough of         a difference?              MR. McCARTHY: Well, there's a couple        reasons. But I want to step back here, because the            implication of a Fourth Amendment right is the start of           the analysis; it's not the end of the analysis. Because           we're in the unconstitutional­conditions context where      there is a bargain here. And the Court has always            allowed States to impose bargains ­­ to impose        conditions on the use of the public roads in this          manner. For nearly a hundred years the Court has           allowed this type of thing as a mechanism to impose           conditions.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How long ­­     MR. McCARTHY: So it's really just the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review criminal element that ­­                                       question.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right ­­     MR. McCARTHY: ­­ makes it different ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: You're not answering the       JUSTICE ALITO: Do you know how many        Breathalyzer tests or blood tests are administered       during any period of time in North Dakota?                    MR. McCARTHY: There's approximately ,      of the two, and they're roughly / over the course of           about a year.                JUSTICE ALITO: , per year?                  MR. McCARTHY: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ask you just a          different kind of just factual question, which ­­ how         many of these are done roadside, how many are taken to           the police station, when are people taken to a police           station? What is the practice? Sorry. I see your red              light.                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please answer.      MR. McCARTHY: So there ­­ the only ­­ the          only test that's done on­site is the preliminary test         which is not admissible in a court. The blood tests are             done at a medical facility, either by a doctor or a             nurse. The breath tests are done at, usually, a police            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review station or a jail or someplace where they have the           chemical breath test.               Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.                   Ms. Keena.                       ORAL ARGUMENT OF KATHRYN KEENA                        ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                              IN NO. ­               MS. KEENA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               I'd like to follow up on some of the         questions of the practicality of search warrants in        these situations. And having grown up miles from the           North Dakota border and attending college in the        Fargo­Moorhead area, I'm very familiar with what the        realities are in the rural area. And yes, we ­­ we ­­            it may be possible to get a search warrant in every            case, but if that's what this Court is going to require,           in Minnesota, we are going to be doing warrants and          blood draws in every case.                 And that is not what this Court wants.                    JUSTICE BREYER: What ­­ why?                  MS. KEENA: Because, why ­­ why would I now,           as a police officer, cause any more delay? Because           there is going to be a delay getting that search           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review warrant. And why would I delay by taking someone to the             police department ­­ because that's where most of these         tests are being conducted in Minnesota and North Dakota;         they're not done on the side of the road. They're           taken ­­                                                                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Blood and breath?      MS. KEENA: Breath, yes.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Breath.    MS. KEENA: And breath.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are they done ­­      MS. KEENA: Blood ­­ blood, you have to go          to the hospital.               JUSTICE BREYER: Because I see ­­ I see           the ­­ the breath part is the part that sort of now gets             me. If you're taking them to the police station anyway           to do the breath test, and it just requires a phone call             to get the warrant, what's the problem?                   MS. KEENA: But ­­ but why bother? Because          now I've ­­ I've transported this person to the police          station, I then have to get a warrant, and now take             the ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Phone on the way. Phone on          the way. You say ­­                 MS. KEENA: So ­­ so let's talk ­­ let's          talk about the rural aspects of Minnesota and North         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Dakota. In a lot of these jurisdictions, there's only           one officer on duty. I grew up in a town of ,,                miles from the North Dakota border. There was only ever           one officer on duty, and that hasn't changed.                    The other problem is there's not a hospital         located in every jurisdiction in Minnesota and North        Dakota. And, for example, in the town that I grew up             in, the nearest ­­ the nearest hospital would actually         be in Fargo, North Dakota. So now, where do I ­­                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you do the breath        test, then. You don't take them to ­­                    MS. KEENA: I ­­ I ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ do blood test.       That's the practical alternative. You have two tests,         bread ­­ breath test, blood test.                  MS. KEENA: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can choose precinct       or hospital.              MS. KEENA: If they choose to take the         breath test.              Now, what ­­ I'm not going to get a warrant           to take a breath test, because ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Why?                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?                MS. KEENA: I can't force somebody to blow          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review into the straw.               JUSTICE BREYER: Right. You can make it a          crime not to. That will force them. Okay. So ­­                                    MS. KEENA: That's ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I knew ­­ that was somehow          missing in this argument. I think what people are           trying to figure out, at least me, is if ­­ first,           forget the blood test. The blood test is a separate            matter, in my mind. I'm thinking solely about the          breath test. Do you ­­ does the Constitution require          you to get a warrant before you administer the blood ­­           the breath test, other things being equal?                               MS. KEENA: And ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: The Constitution leans in       that direction. And so I ask you, why not? And now              you've told me all the things that cut against you. You            say, well, before we give the breath test we take them           to the station, and so then that seems to take           minutes, and ­­ and in the meantime why can't you just           call the magistrate, and at least we have some kind of           safeguard against total arbitrary behavior. That's       where you are.               MS. KEENA: Well ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Is there ­­ and so why is          that bad for the State?     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. KEENA: Well ­­ and I have to look at            our implied­consent statute and what that allows and        doesn't allow. So currently, Minnesota's      implied­consent statute says once I offer a test and           they refuse, we're done. We're done. So ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: But you ­­ I don't ­­ I           don't know how to explain it more clearly than that.          I'm not talking law. I'm talking practical facts. If           you're prepared to come back and say to me, you know, if            we have to get a warrant, percent of the drunk            drivers are never going to be caught, ah, I'll listen to           that.             If you come back to me and say, you know, if           you say that a warrant is required, it will mean that             policemen have to spend ten seconds more than they'd          otherwise spend on a telephone, I say well, that's a            point, but not that much of a point.                                 Now, do you see? I'm trying to get a fact.            MS. KEENA: Well ­­ and I don't have those           type of statistics to answer that question.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask a different ­­          maybe a different way of asking a similar kind of            question.             When we decided McNeely, there were two       opinions. But even the opinion that was, you know, the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review concurrence, or just ­­ I don't remember whether it was           a concurrence or a dissent ­­ but the one that was ­­                        ­­            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There was one that        JUSTICE KAGAN: The Chief Justice's opinion,       even that said ­­ and this was with respect to a blood             test. But the Chief Justice's opinion said, look, if          there's minutes between the time that you're stopped         and the time that we can get you to a hospital to get a               blood draw, and you can get a warrant in that            minutes, then yes, you have to go get a warrant in that              minutes.              So at the very least, why wouldn't that be         the case? You know, if ­­ if you're ­­ if all of these              things ­­ I mean, I have to say when I originally              thought about this case, I had in my mind roadside           stops. But in all of these cases you're actually          driving these people to a station house. So why can't            you get a ­­ at least what the Chief Justice said in             McNeely, which is, okay, if you can get a warrant within            that time, you have to get a warrant within that time.                        MS. KEENA: And, you know, and speaking on         behalf of Minnesota ­­ and it's very clear, Minnesota         treats ­­ and I don't necessarily disagree with you.          We're ­­ Minnesota's up here as kind of the alternative          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review argument. Minnesota specifically treats blood tests       differently than breath tests. We specifically do. And          our court has recognized that.                 So, for example, under the implied­consent      law in Minnesota, if you are ­­ in order to get a blood              or urine test, you have ­­ you have to offer both. And             so we do treat it differently. And the case ­­ and            Minnesota treated it differently in the Bernard case;        that's very clear. And they very clearly stated that in           ruling that they weren't going to address blood or         urine, and they will be shortly because there are two          cases before them where that issue ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's good. Let's talk        just about the breath test.                 Number one, I'm ­­ I'm not sure why they're         not roadside, but number two, if you take them to the           police station, then you have the ­­ our question about          the warrant. Let's talk just about the breath test and           the practicalities of ­­ of adopting the Petitioner's        position.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume ­­ I know         my colleagues are ­­ but as part of this, okay, assume,           as Justice Kagan did, that a system could be put in            place for a warrant on a breath test. If you're doing              it at the precinct, you can do it as you go there.            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Right now, we get dozens of consent cases where the          police ­­ of homes, where the police tell the ­­ the           homeowner, we're applying for a warrant. And the          homeowner says, well, then I got to do it.                      And so the number of warrants are much less         because of that. Because they know they're going to get           a warrant. So if you can put a system in place for a               warrant and you tell the person, if you don't take the           warrant, you're going to ­­ if you don't do the blood ­­           the breath test, you're going to be charged with         obstruction, what are you losing out?                  MS. KEENA: Well, what we're really losing        out is the enhanceability. That is ­­ that is the           difference between charging someone ­­                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's enhanceability?     MS. KEENA: For a DWI. So in both           Minnesota ­­ well, I'm sure everywhere ­­ there's        enhanceability with DWI laws.                So in Minnesota ­­ and, for example, if I         just charge ­­ if I can't charge the DWI or refusal and             I'm only left with an obstruction, I can no longer use            that event to enhance any future DWI that same person          might commit. So ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? You change the        law. I mean, you know, it's as if you want us to create               Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review an exception to the Fourth Amendment, and a very drastic           one, to give someone the right to say yea or nay without            a warrant, but we don't permit people to say yea or nay            when a warrant is present. If they don't comply,           they're charged with obstruction, and there will be        consequences to obstruction. I ­­ I ­­                         MS. KEENA: But not the same ­­ not the same       consequences that it would be if it was a DWI or a             refusal.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's because you       choose not to penalize obstruction at a higher level.          That's your choice. We're ­­ we're now creating an          exception to the Fourth Amendment because of your        choice.             MS. KEENA: Well ­­ and ­­ and it's         Minnesota's position that a warrant isn't necessary.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I appreciate that.                      MS. KEENA: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I'm assuming if you        can get a warrant.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Justice ­­ Justice Sotomayor       is assuming that you're going to lose. So she wants to            know what your reaction is to that.                   (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MS. KEENA: I don't like it. I don't like                         it one bit.               Thank you.              (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Gershengorn.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF IAN H. GERSHENGORN                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               MR. GERSHENGORN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                I'd like to do three things this morning.        First, address the real­world consequences. Second,       explain why I think a bright­line criminal rule is at            odds with common sense, the U.S. code and this Court's          precedent. And, third, explain why it would be a          mistake to have a warrant requirement.                   In the real world, I think it's critically         important that this Court not assume that warrants are         available /. That is not the case in the real world.            The Court knows that from the NHTSA studies that are in           the record. The North Carolina example is ­­ is one.           What the ­­ what the study did there was compare three           jurisdictions that were able to put in a warrant          requirement against the nine jurisdictions that, for       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review various resource reasons, availability of judges reasons       and other reasons, were unable to do it.                    The experience of the park police, I can         tell you in the wake of McNeely, is that while they can            get the warrants / in Maryland, they have stopped         doing blood draws, except in extraordinary cases in        Virginia and D.C. because the magistrates are not        available /.              Even in McNeely itself, where the Court       listed in a long, long footnote ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why is that? Why ­­         why in Maryland have they been able to and Virginia not?                       MR. GERSHENGORN: In the Federal ­­ for the         Federal system, it's not a resource constraint. Some of           it, as the Court recognized in McNeely, is a willingness           of the judges to be available /. A matter of            priority is in Federal court. You may not get ­­ in the             Southern District of New York, you may have /         availability for terrorist attacks, but you may not have         them for routine drunk driving.                 And so even in D.C. and Virginia, where you         may have it for fatal crashes, it's not available /.                      JUSTICE BREYER: How long it takes ­­ how         long does it take ­­                MR. GERSHENGORN: Eight.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: No number. A person is          drunk. He is percent above the legal limit, whatever           that is. How long does it take to dissipate, do you            know?                         MR. GERSHENGORN: To dissipate, I don't ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, how long before         that would ­­ would register percent above is now          equal to or less than?                             MR. GERSHENGORN: So Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a number? Have          you come across any kind of study on ­­                    MR. GERSHENGORN: So some of the       statistics ­­ I don't have the exact statistics, Your          Honor. What the Court has found is there's significant          dissipation but that you can back­calculate if you get         it. But there is a delay in getting the warrant at             times.             In the Maryland case, you can get it as soon          as minutes. But a warrant can take as long as a half                hour or for as long as minutes or two hours. That's             at page of the study. So I think it would be a big                 mistake for this Court to decide the case.                      I was going to say in the McNeely footnote,        the Court listed states that have electronic        warrants, which is not the same as / judicial         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review availability. But that leaves states that don't have          it. And so I really think it's a mistake for the Court               to decide it on ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: But there are more and more         every year, aren't there? I mean, we're now up to over             , aren't ­­              MR. GERSHENGORN: So Your Honor, there are        definitely more and more every year. But, again, I          think that if the Court is doing a rule based on the             idea that these warrants are constant ­­ are always         available, there is a serious risk that in ­­ once you            require that, then the evidence is lost, particularly in         a breath test in the jurisdiction where you can't get a           warrant.             So if I could then turn to the ­­ to the            bright­line criminal rule that I understand to be the          core of Petitioner's case, in McNeely, this Court said         that a State may condition driving on public roads and           may require as a condition that a motorist arrested or            detained for drunk driving agree to a BAC testing and           that the State may impose significant consequences on        the subsequent refusal.               So the question is: Does the Constitution        impose a bright­line rule against criminal penalties,        even when lesser sanctions are insufficient to overcome        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the natural incentive that many drivers will have not to          abide by that condition?                As a matter of common sense, I think that           doesn't make sense. The idea that you can only withdraw           a government benefit has major problems. For example,         if the condition would extend beyond the term of the          benefit, canceling the benefit does nothing.                  And the U.S. Code reflects that. If I         could, Your Honor, I am subject under U.S.C. to a             one­year ban when I leave the Solicitor General's Office          for contacting or communicating with the SG's office on         an official matter. That is punishable under U.S.C.           by up to a year in jail. That is a criminal penalty                as a condition on my employment.                   That is not the only situation. U.S.C.          criminalizes contributions by government employees.       U.S.C. criminalizes a probationer's refusal to         give DNA.              The idea that there is a bright­line between         administrative sanctions and criminal sanctions that      forces the government only to rely on withdrawal of the          benefit is just not the case. That's reflected in this           Court's case law.               Back in , in the Stephenson case, which        is discussed in the briefs, that was a situation in           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review which Texas had conditioned driving on the Texas roads         and as a ­­ and restricted that by ­­ by imposing all             sorts of permitting requirements. Now, in that era, the          Lockner era, those were viewed as unconstitutional       interferences with private contracts. And although the        other side identifies Stephenson as a case that did not           have criminal penalties and that was just a withdrawal          of the benefit, I think if the Court looks, we read that             case differently. And I think if the Court looks at            page of Stephenson, it will say that the ­­ see that            the Texas statute imposed criminal penalties.                  And so again, the idea that the only thing         the government can do to ­­ is withdraw a benefit in the             context of an unconstitutional condition and can't go to         the ­­ to the core of it, which is to enforce the            prohibition, really makes ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think one of our          concerns is that driving is so essential for so many          people that it's really different than opting to work         for the Solicitor General's Office.                 (Laughter.)             MR. GERSHENGORN: So Your Honor, I take that          point, but I think this is the critical. What the Court             said in McNeely, the Court crossed that bridge in         McNeely, and in Breithaupt and in Mackey and in Neville.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Excuse me, Your Honor.                What the Court has said is for years,         yes, of course, it's different than working in the         Solicitor General's Office. But it's a dangerous         activity where you're driving two tons of steel down the          road, and the Court said you can condition driving.         That is a reasonable condition that the State can          impose.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: This is a helpful answer,         and your ­­ your time is running, but I'm going to stop            you just to ask another question.                              MR. GERSHENGORN: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it permissible, based       on the pleadings and the briefs that are filed with us,           for ­­ for the Court to make a distinction between           taking a breath test, refusing to take the breath test           and refusing to take a blood test?                    MR. GERSHENGORN: Certainly, it is, Your       Honor, and we set forth that in our brief. I do think              what this Court said in Skinner, and Your Honor's         opinion in Skinner, is ­­ the Court has never held the           way it did in McNeely that a warrant is required and it             should not do so here. The Court said in McNeely ­­ in             Skinner, that there are no significant privacy       interests, that we cannot include a breath test to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review implement for privacy concerns. That makes good sense         because the intrusion is much smaller, the amount of         information that is revealed is just the alcohol. It's          a much narrower set, and it can be done as part of the             regular booking process.               So on that side of the scale, the privacy         interests are substantially smaller.                            And the second ­­   JUSTICE KENNEDY: And are those tests often        administered roadside or ­­ everybody has ­­ they've        been telling us they have to go to ­­ I thought they             were roadside.              MR. GERSHENGORN: Your Honor, as a general         manner, they're actually done at the station. There's a          preliminary test that can be done at the side of the           road that often is not admissible in evidence. There          are these so­called BAT mobiles, the blood­alcohol       testing mobiles that can be done at the side of the           road, but many jurisdictions, including the park police,        are not using those. They actually are done at the           station.             But I also would like to say, on Your          Honor's opinion ­­ on Your Honor's question, that the         warrant requirement is kind of an odd fit in the ­­ in            the breath context, because ­­ because even with a         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review warrant, generally the warrant ­­ of course, it ­­ it          provides the function of having a neutral magistrate         look at the evidence. But generally with a warrant,           then the officer can force compliance. That's part of          what the warrant allows. That's not possible in the          breath context.              What this Court ­­ the ­­ a warrant ­­ a           warrant for a breath analysis can't be ­­ can't be           accomplished without the consent of the breather. You         can't force somebody to breathe steadily enough. It's         like an extended birthday­cake blowout, candle blowout,       you can't force somebody to do that. And so the warrant            is kind of an odd fit. And I think then ­­                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but presumably       there're sanctions for failing ­­ failing to comply with         a valid warrant.                           MR. GERSHENGORN: But ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If the police have a         warrant to search your house and you say I don't care,            I'm not going to let you in, I mean that ­­ it's ­­             presumably is subject to criminal sanctions as well.                    MR. GERSHENGORN: So, Your Honor, it might        well be, and I ­­ but I just think it just ­­ it shows a                 little bit why the use of the warrant doesn't ­­ doesn't           quite map on, the way I think in a usual search context.              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               I think the other problem that you have is        because you can't force compliance, you might have a ­­          a statute ­­ another statute later to ­­ to do it. But             because the consequences are not as clear, what it will          do is drive the State to the blood ­­ blood testing           which one can force.                But that's the very situation that this       Court recognized in Neville, and that the States here         have told you, I think consistent with Neville, is a           situation that States don't want to be driven to, to a           forced blood draw on a nonconsenting individual.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Again, what about that       is ­­ assuming, for argument's sake, that you can take a           Breathalyzer without a warrant. What need is there          for ­­ for a blood test without a warrant? I mean, why                isn't it, at a minimum, that if you're going to have a             blood test, you need a warrant?                   MR. GERSHENGORN: So, Your Honor, one       difference, of course, is that the blood test does ­­ if           an officer has a suspicion that there's other than          alcohol at issue, the blood test is critically        important. If there are drugs ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Of course it's important.       But it's going to take time. You've got to get to the             hospital. There's risks involved. It's a more serious           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review intrusion. And so the requirement, as we said, could be           pretty minimal. You go to ­­ during that , minutes            you're going to the hospital, go get a warrant.                      Nobody's saying they can't do it. The        question is whether they have to have a magistrate's          approval, and so that's what my question was.                    Assuming you win on the Breathalyzer, why       would you win on the blood test?                   MR. GERSHENGORN: Your Honor, we ­­ we win         on the blood test, because the ­­ because there is no           bright line on criminal sanctions, and because it's        critically important outside the blood context and ­­       where you need the drug evidence.                                          Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       Three minutes, Mr. Rothfeld.            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES A. ROTHFELD                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                             MR. ROTHFELD: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        And if I may, I'll make three quick points,          two legal and one practical.                 First, I think given the discussion here,        the Court should not lose sight of the ­­ what we think            is the fundamental legal proposition, what's going on in         this case, which is in North Dakota and Minnesota,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review people who drive on the roads are automatically ­­        irrevocably lose their Fourth Amendment right to resist        warrantless searches. There's no consent here, there's        no knowledge that's been demonstrated on the part of         these defendants.              So the ­­ the proposition that's being       offered by the government is that States can simply         attach to any benefit that is provided to individuals         the surrender of a constitutional right, whether or not          the individuals know that they're going to do it. And           in the future, a criminal penalty can be attached to the            exercise of that constitutional right. That's quite a         remarkable proposition.                I think that the examples that Mr.      Gershengorn offered of ­­ of criminal penalties that can         be attached to ­­ to government employees, for example,         are situations in which there is no First Amendment         right. Those are Pickering cases in which there are ­­          are substantive limitations on what the government       employees can do, so there would be no constitutional         problem there.              Second, on practicalities, there have been      discussion about the nature of warrants and how ­­ how          readily available they are. If the Court reveals the          studies by the National Highway Traffic Safety       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Administration, which has looked at this extensively, it        will find, as a contrast to some extent to McNeely, that            warrants are almost universally available on quick and        efficient terms.              The amicus briefs that filed on our side of         the case demonstrate this is true in the vast majority          of cases. There are more ­­ more States that ­­ that            provide these warrant mechanisms now than did when        McNeely was decided, so it's going to become a universal           mechanism.             As the NHTSA study shows that in virtually        all jurisdictions, including rural jurisdictions, as      Justice Alito asked about, these are ­­ warrant        procedures work effectively, that the officers on the        field, the magistrates and the judges who handle these         cases, the prosecutors, all ­­ almost universally praise        the warrant process as something that's going to be         effective that drives down test refusal, that makes        confrontations between officers and drivers     substantially reduced, and that drives up DUI       convictions. And so warrants are an effective way of          addressing this. And as the Court said in Riley, the           answer to a situation like this is simply get the           warrant.               A third, final point on the question of       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review breath versus blood tests, the Court, so far as I'm          aware, has never said that once there is a search that's            taken place in a law enforcement investigation, that one          can cut out certain character ­­ certain ­­ certain         types of procedures or certain types of evidence that's         being sought. The presumption is that a warrant should           be required.              And in the Skinner case, I mean, the Court          addressed both blood and ­­ and breath tests. Although          it noted there were differences between the two, it         treated them identically for Fourth Amendment purposes.       It said that they have essentially very, very similar         characteristics. They involve similar personal ­­      degrees of personal intrusion. And I do not think that            there is any supportable reason for treating the two         differently for purposes of the warrant requirement.                   Honor.                                     If there are no further questions, Your       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : abdicate : abide : ability :, : able : : : : above­entitled : : absolutely : acceptable : accepted : accidents : : : accomplished : ACDL : acknowledged : : activity : added : addition : address : : : addressed : : : : addresses : addressing : : : administer : administered : : Administration : administrative : : : : admissible : : adopting : affirmative : :, affirmatively : ago : agree : : : agreeing : ah : : ahead : : air : aircraft : alcohol : : : : : : : : : : : Alito :, : : :, : : :, : : Alito's :, : : allow : : : allowed : : : : Amendment's : amicus : : : : amount : : analysis :, : :, : :, : : : :, : analytically : : analyze : analyzed : analyzing : : answer : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : answering : allows :, : : : anyway : alternative : : apologize : appear : APPEARAN... : : applies : : : : apply : :, : : alternatives : altogether : Amendment : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Reviewapproximately assume : : April : arbitrary : area :, areas : argue : arguing : argument : :,,,, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : argument's : Arlington : arrest :,, :, : : arrested : :, : : : : arrestee : :, arresting : aside : asked : : : : asking : :, : :, : : : asks : aspects : : assert : : : :, : : : :, :, : assumed : assuming : : :, : : attach : attached : :, attacks : attempt : attending : attorney : : authority : authorize : : automatically : : availability : : : available : : : :,, : : : avoid : aware : : : B BAC : back : : : : :, : back­calculate : backpack : bad : ban : bargain :, :, :, : : bargains : applying : : : asserting : appreciate : : : appropriate : : approval : assertion : : assimilate : Assistant : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :,, : :,,, brings : :, : building : :,, :,, :,,, : : :,, : :, :, buildings : burden : busy : button : C C : : call : : : : Breathalyzer : : : :, : : : :, : canceling : : : : : calling : candle : car : : car's : carbon : : : : : : : : :, category : : caught : cause : : :, : :, : : :, : caused : causing : cavity : cell : : : : : : certain : : : :,,, certain­condit... : : care : Carolina : carry : case : :,, : challenged : challenging : : : :,, : : : : :, : certainly : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : change : :, : changed : : :, character : :, : characteristics : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : characterized charge :, charged : : cases :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : : charging : CHARLES : :, : : check : :, : : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : : :,,, :,, :,, :, blood­alcohol : : : : : : : bloodshot : blow : : : blowing : : blowout : : body : : : : : : boil : booking : border : :,, : : : based : : : basic : basis : : BAT : battle : becoming : behalf :, : :,, : : : : : : behavior : believe : : : : : bend : benefit : :,,, : : : :,,, :, : benefits : Bernard : : : better : : BEYLUND : beyond : : : big : : : : : bind : Birchfield : : birthday­cake : bit : : : blood : : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : Breathalyzers :, breathe : : : : breather : Breithaupt : Breyer : : : : :,, : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, bother : bottles : bottom : box : bread : breath :, briefs : bridge : brief : : : : : : : :,, : :, bright : : :, : : : :, : : bring : bright­line : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review come : : conditions : : :, conditioned : conditioning : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : constitutional : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, commit : committing : confirm : confrontations conducted : constraint : contacting : content : contention : : : : confronted context : : : connected : :, : connection : Continued : consent :, continuously : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : contracts : contrast : contributions control : : : chemical : : : Chief :, college : combatting : : : combination :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : :, comes : : : :, : :,, :,,, : : :, :,, common : : :, :, : communicating : : Chimel : choice : community : : : : :, compare : choose :, : compelling : : :,, : : :, : :, :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, : : : : : : :, Court's : : : : : circularity : : circumstance : circumstances : : : : : : : city : : civil : : classic : clear : : : : : : : : : : comply : : : compliance : consenting : : : : consents : concede : : consequences : : conceded : :, : :, : concerned : : : : : considerable : : : concerns : : : concession : conclusion : considerably : considerations : considered : consistent : :, clearly : : concurrence close : code : : coerced : coercion : : : :,, condition : colleagues : : : : : :,,, consistently : : : :, :,, constant : Constitution : : convictions cover : crashes : create : core : : creates : correct : creating : : : : : counsel : : : : : County : couple : : : : : course : : : : :, court : : : crime : : : criminal :, :,,, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, criminalize : : : : :, :, : :,, :,,,, : criminalized : criminalizes Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : defendants : : : : definitely : degree : : degrees : delay :, :, : : demonstrate : demonstrated : : difficult : dioxide : direct : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : doubt : doubtful : direction : dozens : directly : : drank : drastic : DIRECTOR : draw : disagree : : : : draws :, : : : : : :, critical : critically : : : crossed : crossing : crucial : curiae : : : curious : currently : cut : : D :, daily : Dakota : : : : DUI : duty : : : :, DWI :, :, : E E : :, easily : effect : : effective : : effectively : : either : : : : elapses : electronic : element : employees : :, employment : D : D.C :, : department : disappeared : : : : depends : discretion : : drinking : efficient : effort : drive : : Eight : : described : designed : : : :,, Deputy : : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : : :,,, die : : : : detained : determine : : : :, : :, : : : discussed : discussing : discussion : driven : driver : driver's : : drivers : : : : disfavor : dispense : dispute : : disregard : dissent : dissenting : Dakota's : dangerous : DANNY : days : dealing : deaths : decide : : : : : decided : : : deciding :, decisions : deep : : : deep­lung : defendant : defendant's difference : : :, dissipate : : :, : :, : :, : : : dissipation : dissipated : : differences : : : : : : : distinction : different :, : : : : : distinctions : : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : District : DNA : doctor : doctrine : : : : : differently : doing :, : : encapsulated endorsed : drives :, driving : : : :, : enforce : : :, : : : :, :, : enforcement : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, enhance : enhanceability :,, enter : entering : drug : drugs : drunk : : : : : :, : entire : : : : : : entirely : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review footnote : Gershengorn : entitlement : environment : : : :, : : exceptions : : :, : : equal : : equivalent : exchange : era :, Excuse : especially : : : ESQ :,, : :,,, : essence : essential : : essentially : : : excuses : execute : : exercise : : exhale : exhaling : existed : existence : evaluation : exonerates event : : : : : everybody : : : expedited : expel : : : : evidence : expelling : : :, expense : :,, : :, experience : : :,, : :, : explain : :,,, : : : : : : : : evidentiary :, exact : exactly : : : :, extend : extended : extensive : extensively : extent : explained : explanation : :, : example :, extraordinary : : : : : : examples : exception : : : : : : : extremely : eyes :, : : F face : Alderson Reporting Company facility : fact : : : : :, : : : : :, : force : : : :,, :, factors : facts :, : factual : failing :, falls : familiar : far : : Fargo : Fargo­Moorh... : fatal : fatalities : favor : Federal : :, feel : fiat : fictional : field : : : : : figure : : : : filed : : final : find : : : : : first : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : forced :, : forces : foreign : forget : form :,, : forth : : found : four : : Fourth : : : : :, : :, :,,, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : freedom : friends : front : function : fundamental : : : further : future : : G fit : : G : five : : flexibility : flushing : focus : follow : general : : : General's : : : generally :, : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : getting : : : : GINSBURG :,, : give : : : : : : : : : : given : : : :, : : : : :, : go : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, goes : going :, : : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : good : : helpful : : : : hide : higher : highly : government : : : : : : : Highway : :, : history :, :,, :,, governs : graded : GRANT : granted : greater : grew :, grounded : hold : homeowner :, homes : Honor : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : Honor's : :, hospital : :,, : : : hour :, : hours : house : : hundred : hypothesizes : hypothesizing : hypothetical : : : : : hypotheticals : : : grounds : grown : guess : : : : : guilty : H H : : : half : : handle : happen : : happening : : : : : happens : : happy : :, hard : : harder : : harms : Hastings : hear : heavily : held : : : help : : : I IAN : : : idea : : : :, : identical : identically : : identifies : immediately : impaired : : : implement : implication : implied : : implied­consent :, : important : : : : : : :, : impose :, :,, :, : imposed : : imposes : imposing : imposition : : improved : incentive : inch :, incident :,, :, : : incidents : include : including : : : increase : increasing : inculpate : independent : indicated : indirectly : : individual : : : : individual's : individuals : :, influence : information : initial : innocent : : : : inserted : : interval : intoxicated : : intrusion : : : : :, : : : : intrusive : : : : : : : : intuitions : invalidate : invasion :, : invasive : : invasiveness : : investigation :, : investigations inserting : : : inside : insistence : insists : instances : insufficient : integrity : : : interest : : : : :, :, : interested : interesting : interests : : interfere : interference : interferences : interstate : involuntarily : involve : involved : : iPhones : irrevocably : : issue : : :, : : : issues : it'll :, J jail : : : : : : job : : JR : judges : : : : judicial : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review jurisdiction : : jurisdictions :,, : : :, : :, justice : :, :, : :, : :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, :, :, : :,, :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :,,, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :,, : :, : : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : :,, :, :, : : : :, : key : kind : : : : : : : : : : : : : knew : know :,, :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : : knowledge : known : knows : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,,, :,, :, : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : Justice's : :, Justices : justifies : : K Kagan : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : Kagan's : KATHRYN : : : Keena : : L lack : large :, larger : :,,, :,,, : :, Laughter : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : law : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : keep : Kennedy :, : :,, :, : : : located : laws : : Lockner : long :, : : : :, :, : :,, longer : : : leans : leave : leaves : leeway : left : : : : legal : : : legitimate : lesser : let's :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, level :, :, : : : : LEVI : license : : : :, :, : :, : : life : light : limit : limitations : : : look :,, : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : looked : looking :, : : :, looks : : : loophole : lose :, : : : : losing :, lost : lot : : lots : M Mackey : : line : : : magistrate : :, : : : : : : : :, : : magistrate's : magistrates : : : : magnetometer : major : majority : listed : : listen : literally : little :, : : : : lives : : making :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : manage : manipulation : : : : : : : : : manner : meaning : :, missing : mistake : : : misunderstood : mobiles : : manpower : map : Maryland : :, : : means : : : : : modern : Montana : morning : matter : : : : : : :, measure : motorist : : meant : measurable : : measured : mechanism McCARTHY mouth : : : :, : : moved : : : : : : : : :, :,,, mechanisms :,,, :,, : medical : N :, : : :, narrower : : :, :, : mentioned : nation's : :,,, :, : MICHAEL : : : :,, :,,, National : natural : miles : : nature : mind : : minimal : member : merry : nay :, : N McNeely :, minimum : nearest :, nearly : Minnesota : necessarily :, : Minn : : : :,, : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : Minnesota's : : : McNeely's : mean : : : : : necessary : : : : necessity : : need :, : : :, : :,, minute : :, : minutes : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : neutral : : :, : :, never : needle : needs :, : : : : : Nevertheless : Neville : : :, new : : : : NHTSA : : night : nine : Nobody's : nonconsenting : North : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : :,, :, : : : :, :, : : : Nos : : : obstruct : obstructing : obstruction :, : :, obtain : : obviously : : : occur : odd : : odds : offense :, offer : : : : offered :, office :, : : officer : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : noted : notion :, novelty : number :, oftentimes : officers :, official : :, : :, nurse : O O : : o'clock : object : : objection : : : obligated : : oil : okay : : : :, : : : : on­site : : once : : : : one­year : ones : operate : obligation : operating : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :, : : penalty :, Petitioner's possibilities : Petitioner :, positions : presumption opinion : : :, : : opinions : opposed :, opting : oral : :,, : : : : : order : : ordinary : :, : : : originally : outcome : : outside : overcome : P P : page : : : : painful : park : : part : : : : : : : : possibility : Petitioners : possible : :, : : phone : : : : :, : :, :, : :,, people :, :, : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, Pickering : : :,, picture : : : : : : : : : : : : : place : : : : possibly : postulate : postulating : powerful : practical : : : : :, : : : practicalities : : practicality percent : : : : :, period : : : : permissible pleadings : please : : practically : : : : : : plus : point : practice : : praise : precedent : precinct : :, : : : pretty : principal : principle : principles : priority : privacy : : :, private : privilege : probable : : :, :,, : : :, probably : : probationer's : problem : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : problems : : procedures : : proceeding : proceedings : process : :, : : product : : prohibit : : prohibition : proposition : : permit : : : : : : : : :, permitting : pointed : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : predictable : : : : prefatory : particular : : : : : particularly : : : parts : : pass :, passenger : passes : pat :, Pat­down : penalize : penalties : : : person :, :,,, : :, : :, police : : : : : : : :, : person's : :, : : : points : : preliminary : : : : : : : : premise : :, : :, : prepared : :,, : :, : : : presented : preservation present : : : personal : policeman : policemen : preserve : populated : : : : : :, :,, presses : personally : position : : presumably personnel : pertinent : : : : :, :, presume : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :, prosecuting : prosecutors : : : quick : : : quicker : quickly : : quite : : : protect : provide : provided : provides : provision : R : : : public : : R : :, Raab : : railroad : : : rationale : pulled : punish : punishable : : : : recognize : : recognized : :, : : : : record : red : : reduced : reflected : reflects : refusal : : : : : : : : : pure : purpose : purposes : : : :, put : : : : : : : putting : : Q question :, : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : refuse : refusing : reachable : reached : reaction : read : readily : regard : real :, : register : regular : :, real­world : : realistic : : realities : reality : : relevant : : really :, : : : :, : : : :, reason : : rely : relying : remain : remarkable : remember : renege : :, : reneging : : : request : : : require : : : : : : :, reasonable : : : : reasons : : : : :,, required : : :, : : : : : : questions : REBUTTAL Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : requirement : :, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : requirements : : requires : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, rights :, requiring : Riley : : resist : : : : : risk : : : :, resource :, resources : respect : : : : respectfully rejected : related : : relatively : Respondent : relevance : : : :, : : Respondents : risks : road :, :, : : : :, : : :, roads : : :, : : : : : : : :, roadside : : : : : :, response : : ROBERT : restricted : ROBERTS : :, : return : reveal : :, : : : revealed : : :, reveals : : : revocation : :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : ridiculous : right : :, revoke : rid : : :,, : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Rothfeld : satisfied : save : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, : : seizure :, see :,, says : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, :,, :, : : saying : : seconds : :,, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :, screen : : :, : :, screens : : :, search : : : : : :, sense : : : : : : :, scale : Schneckloth : : : : screening : scope : : serious : separating : : : : : separate : : : : : : : : similar : : :, simply :, :, : : : sit : sitting : situation : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : situations : : : : size : Skinner : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : slurred : smaller : :, smelling : smuggled : so­called : sobriety : : : :, solely : Solicitor : : : : somebody : : : : : : :, someplace : soon : sorry : : : sort : :, : : : : : : : sorts : Sotomayor : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, :,,, : :, :,,, : sought : Southern : sparsely : : speaking : special : :, : : special­needs : : : specifically : : speech : spend :, standard : : :, start : started : : State : :, :,, :,, : : : : :, : roughly : routine : rule : : :,, ruling : running : rural : : : :, : : : S S : : safe : : safeguard : safety : : :, : : sake : sanction :, : sanctions : set : : : : : shoehorning : :, :, : setting : : : : severe : :, : : :,, SG's : :,, :,,, : :, shortly : : : :, : :, : : : : :, shown : : :, shows : : showing : show : : : : : search­incide... : : :, : searched : searches : : :, :,, : : : side : : : : : :, : sight : sign :, : : : signed : significant : : :,,, : :, :, : second : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review suggestion : : supportable : supporting : : : suppose :, : : : :, :, : : : suppression : Supreme : : : sure : : :, : : : : : : : surprise : surprises : surrender : : surrendered : surrendering : survive : suspect : suspend : : suspension : : suspicion : :, : : : : : : swerve : system : :, : :, : : : T T :, table : take :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, :, taken : : :, : : takes : : : : :,,, : :, : talk : : : : :, : : talked : : talking : : :, : :, targeted : technology : : teeth : telephone : telephonic : tell :, : telling : ten : term : terms : : terrible : terrorist : test : : : : : : : :,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, :,,, :, : : :, :,,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :, : tested : : :, :, : : testing : : : : : tests : : :, : :,, : : : : :,,, : : :, : :, Texas :,, texting :, :, : : texts : Thank : : :, :, :,, :, : :, : :,,, : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : stopped : : : : : : stopping : stops : straight :, : Stras : State's : : straw : : : : :, : : stated : : statement : states : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : station :, : :, : : : :, statistics : : : : straw­like : strikes : struggling : : studies : : study : :, : stuff : subject : : :, : : : subjected : submission : submit : : : submitted : : : : : : :, : submitting : subsequent statute : : : :, : :, statutes : : : : : steadily : steel : step : : Stephenson : :, STEVE : stop : : substantially : : : substantive : : sufficient : suggest : suggested : : : : : suggesting : systems : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : treated : : : : : : THOMAS : true :, : voluntary : : : : Von : : W W : treating : treatment : treats : understanding : : : : : :, : : : undertake : uniformly : uninvasive :, : wait : uniquely : waiting : wake : : : truly : try : : United : : trying : :, : : : : walk :, : : : : :, : : tube : : universally : turn : : turns : two : : : universal : want : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, wants : : : useful : uses : type : : usual : types : : usually : unknown : unusual : :, : upheld : : : urine :, :, : use :,, : : :, : : : :, : : thereon : they'd : thing : : : : : : : : things : : : : : : :, : : think :, :,, :, :,, :,, :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : :,,, :,, : : :,, : : :, : : :,,,, :,,, : : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : :, thinking : : : third : : : : thought : : : : : : : : threats : three : : : :, :, three­year : thrust : tightly : time : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : times : : toilet : told :,, : : tons : top : total : totality : town :, traffic : : : train :,, : trains : transportation : : transported : treat : : warrant :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :,, :,, : :, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : :,, : : :,, : : :, : :,, :, : :,, :, :, : : :, :, typically : : U U.S : : U.S.C :, :, V v :, : : Va : valid : : variety : various : : Vernonia : ultimately : vast : unable : unconstitutio... : : : : : versus : view : viewed : unconstitutio... :, : Virginia :, undermine : understand : : : virtually : voice : voluntarily : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review weaving :, : : : :,, Wednesday : :,,,, weren't :, :, : :, : whiskey : :,,, WILLIAM : : : : :, willingness :, : : :, : : : : / : : : ­ : : : : : : ­ : : : : , :, : : ­ :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : , : : : warrant's : warrantless :,, : : :,, warrants : wish : : willy­nilly : win : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, withdraw : : : withdrawal : : word : work : : Washington :, : way :,, working : works : : : : world : :, : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, worst : wouldn't : ways : we'll : : we're : : : : : : : : : : :,, writing : : wrong : Wyoming : : : : X : : :, x :,,, : / : : :,,, : : : : :, Y : : : : :, yea :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : we've : years : : : : year :, :, : : : : York : : : :, weaker : weapon : Z : Alderson Reporting Company 