Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  DAVID ANTHONY TAYLOR,                :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, February ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: DENNIS E. JONES, ESQ., Abingdon, Va.; on behalf of            Petitioner. ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     DENNIS E. JONES, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ANTHONY A. YANG, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   DENNIS E. JONES, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Taylor v. United         States.             Mr. Jones.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF DENNIS E. JONES                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. JONES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Hobbs Act has two elements. The first         requires that the accused to obtain property from        another by either extortion or robbery. The second is          the jurisdictional element, in that the consequence of        either the extortion or the robbery creates an        interference with commerce.               The effect on commerce is the jurisdictional       element of the crime, and like all elements, it must be           proven beyond a reasonable doubt through the        introduction of particularized evidence necessary to      establish this element.               In the case ­­ in this case the government         was not required to prove the effect­on­commerce       element, which ultimately resulted in the conviction of        Mr. Taylor.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: One of the things you say         in your brief is that you were not even given the           opportunity to show that the victims dealt exclusively        in home­grown marijuana.               If you ­­ if you had that opportunity, how         will you have shown that this, the marijuana in         question, was grown in Virginia rather than some other         place, some other State?                MR. JONES: Your Honor, they're ­­ in all         likelihood, I would either call as a witness a retired             DEA agent or an ATF agent or a retired local police            officer who had years of experience in that field         qualifying that person.               Virginia is ­­ is a State, like all the          other States, that has the ability to grow marijuana         in­State. It's been going on for years and years and           years. There's not necessarily ­­ we ­­ we cited in our            brief not only the DEA statistics for a time period           that's shown not only the amount of marijuana that was          subject to the eradication plan of DEA in Virginia but          also a couple of local news articles and events where in            Botetourt County, I think the most current one was ,           about the time we were before the Fourth Circuit.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that could show that        it could have been grown, but you could say that for           Alderson Reporting Company Official every State in the Union. But you made that ­­ you said             you wanted to submit proof that the victims dealt         exclusively in home­grown marijuana, and since every       other State also has marijuana dealers, how could you ­­         how could you show exclusively, that this marijuana came         exclusively?             MR. JONES: We're ­­ for one thing, it could          have cross­examined him on ­­ on that point. But          pursuant to the motion in limine, I think trial counsel           at that point believed that he ­­ he was precluded from           even going into that area with ­­ with the victims.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Jones, suppose you        had been able to show this. Suppose you had been able            to show that it was a dealer who dealt in intrastate            marijuana exclusively. What difference would that have        made under the terms of the Hobbs Act?                    MR. JONES: Under the ­­ under the terms of          the Hobbs Act, the government would have borne the proof          of going forward and ­­ and showing an effect on ­­ on            interstate commerce with ­­ with that ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you see, that's the        thing. I mean, I don't think that the Hobbs Act             requires the government to show an effect on interstate         commerce. As you said in your opening statement, the          Hobbs Act only requires an effect on commerce, and then          Alderson Reporting Company Official commerce is defined: Commerce means all commerce over         which the United States has jurisdiction.                  Now, for sure the United States has       jurisdiction over interstate commerce, but under Raich       it also has jurisdiction over intrastate drug       trafficking.             And so if you just sort of put the pieces of           the statutes together, it seems to make it completely         irrelevant whether the drug trafficking was intrastate       or interstate, because in either case, it was commerce         over which the United States has jurisdiction.                   MR. JONES: I think the difference        between ­­ I think what Hobbs addressed ­­ excuse me ­­           what Raich addressed was, of course, the Controlled        Substance Act.              Controlled Substance Act is ­­ is a matter         of regulation of ­­ of interstate commerce and not so          much ­­ did not address, as a ­­ as a separate issue,              the effect on ­­ on commerce.                  So what the Hobbs Act in our view addresses         is the effect, not so much the regulation.                      A ­­ a reading of ­­ of the Raich case,          the ­­ the words ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but doesn't the        Hobbs ­­ doesn't Raich say that the government has ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official the United States has jurisdiction over intrastate drug        trafficking?                         MR. JONES: It does, Your Honor.       JUSTICE KAGAN: So why isn't that enough?        Because this statute, again, does not require that there         be an effect on interstate commerce. It ­­ it          affects ­­ it requires that there be an effect on          commerce as defined in the statute. And as defined in           the statute, all it says is that the commerce has to be            one of a kind over which the United States has           jurisdiction. And Raich says the United States has         jurisdiction over even intrastate drug dealing.                  MR. JONES: Raich does say that, but the         plain language of the Hobbs Act and the ­­ the essence           of the crime itself is the effect. The word "effect" is            used in the Hobbs Act.                 And even if ­­ if you ­­ by the regulation          of commerce does not in and of itself have an effect on            the commerce.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then you could make        the same argument if it was conceded that these drugs          were an interstate. You say, oh, well, you still have           to show an effect.                Is that what you're saying?     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. JONES: Yes, sir.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Based on your answer to                                Justice Kagan, doesn't make any difference whether it's        local or interstate.                           MR. JONES: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: There is still a failure         of proof somehow.               here.             MR. JONES: There is a failure of proof          JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's ­­ that's very       hard ­­ that's very hard to comprehend.                   MR. JONES: Your Honor, there was no proof         here. The ­­ the only proof that was admitted to record            was ­­ was through ­­ through some police officers         who ­­ who considered to be experts. There was some           questions I think the dialogue ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you ­­ do you think         robbery of an item in interstate commerce has an effect          on that commerce?                           MR. JONES: Do I think robbery of ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Of goods in interstate       commerce have an effect on interstate commerce? Or does          the government in every case have to show that there is           an effect.              MR. JONES: I think if the goods are ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: The government in every       case in your submission has to show that if there's a           robbery of goods in interstate commerce, that it has to          put on an economic expert to show that there's an effect           on interstate commerce when there's been a robbery.                                             That's your position?   MR. JONES: No, Your Honor. Not ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. Well, then how         do you explain your answer that "effect" is the key word           here?                         isn't.             MR. JONES: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: You just concluded that it        MR. JONES: In ­­ in the numerous cases that          have been cited in our ­­ our brief, as well as the            government's brief, you take for example the Tillery        case that ­­ that is out of the Fourth Circuit. That            was a ­­ that was a ­­ that was a robbery of a dry                  cleaner in the Portsmouth/Virginia Beach area of       Virginia. I think it was about $ taken in that            robbery if I ­­ if I recall it correctly.                       The ­­ the effect on the commerce was the         ability of ­­ of that business to purchase its coat          hangers, for example. They came from China. They came           from Mexico. There was also cleaning solvents that ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official that was purchased and used by that business that was          manufactured and transported from Georgia to Virginia.       The evidence in ­­ in those cases showed that whatever          the subject or the ­­ of the commodity that was being           sold or used by that particular enterprise had ­­ had          traveled in interstate commerce, and in some instances        the individual himself had traveled in interstate       commerce. So you had evidence to that fact.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose ­­ suppose the       victims of this robbery, the drug dealers, ­­ suppose         the police had a warrant to go into the house and            they ­­ there is marijuana there and they take it.          Could the victims ­­ who were they? They were Worley or            Lynch ­­ could they be prosecuted or could they not be           prosecuted because the government was unable to show        that the marijuana they possessed came from out of         State?             MR. JONES: Could Worley or Lynch have been         prosecuted as a drug dealer?                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.                MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor. I think they           could have been.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: They could have been,       even though ­­ even though all of the marijuana came          from Virginia?  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. JONES: I think they could have been          under ­­ under the Controlled Substance Act under        Title .              JUSTICE ALITO: Under ­­ when Congress       enacted the Hobbs Act, did it intend to exercise the          full measure of its authority under the Commerce Clause?                     MR. JONES: History tells us that it did, I          think, and this Court's precedence tells us that it did.                      JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Could Congress        enact a statute under ­­ under Raich, based on the           reasoning of Raich, prohibiting the theft of a        controlled substance just as it has put ­­ enacted         statutes prohibiting the growing of marijuana or the        production of other controlled substances?                             MR. JONES: Excuse me. Could it have ­­         JUSTICE ALITO: Could it enact a statute         that makes it a crime to steal a controlled substance,            exercising its Commerce Clause authority under the       reasoning of Raich?               MR. JONES: It could have, but with ­­ from          our view. However, you would still have to show that           effect, that impact, that influence on ­­ on the         marijuana or drug trafficking.                JUSTICE ALITO: On a case­by­case basis.        Then why can it prohibit the growing of marijuana across          Alderson Reporting Company Official the board without proving anything about the particular        marijuana in question, but according to you, it cannot         prohibit the sale of ­­ I'm sorry, the theft of          marijuana?             MR. JONES: Well, I ­­ I think our position            is that it's ­­ it's the effect, and ­­ and the ­­ the             effect can ­­ can come about in ­­ in many ways that's            been addressed. You can have a reduction on ­­ on the             movement of marijuana from one State into your State,         because there's ­­ there's no need for it, but that          would require evidence as to that effect or that         interference or that ­­ even the influence on ­­ on the           commerce piece of it.                JUSTICE ALITO: Why is that needed ­­ why is          that not needed in a situation in which the person is            growing marijuana? For personal use?                  MR. JONES: From our view, the ­­ U.S.C.           regulates all drugs. And there's a difference in           regulating from our ­­ in our view, there's a difference           in that regulation component from what the effect on         interstate commerce is, itself. They're standalone       elements, from our view. And since it's a criminal           element that must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt,          if you stop just at the robbery and say that as a result              of the subject of that robbery being a drug dealer in            Alderson Reporting Company Official toto, without looking at the specific piece of what the          drug dealer is doing business in, and whether it's         traveled in interstate commerce, or whether it's, for        example, methamphetamine. When you manufacture      methamphetamine, which you clearly ­­ controlled under       the Controlled Substance Act, those ingredients, Coleman       fuel, lye, phosphorous, they all travel in interstate        commerce. And the fact that they have done that ­­ been            in ­­ been in that travel in that commercial lane          triggers the Controlled Substance Act to ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. ­­                MR. JONES: ­­ prohibit.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Jones, I guess I'm         trying to figure out what we're disagreeing about. So          let me give you a proposition, and you tell me whether            you agree with it.                The Hobbs Act prohibits robberies that      affect marijuana trafficking, whether the marijuana      trafficking is interstate or intrastate.                 Do you agree with that?                 MR. JONES: I disagree with that.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But why is that? Because         that's what I was saying at the beginning, that it seems            clear to me that under the terms of the Hobbs Act, the            Hobbs Act does prohibit robberies that affect commerce.        Alderson Reporting Company Official Raich says commerce includes both interstate and       intrastate marijuana trafficking. So the Hobbs Act        prohibits robberies that affect marijuana trafficking      generally, whether it's interstate or intrastate.                              What's there to disagree with in that?       MR. JONES: I ­­ I agree from the standpoint            that the Controlled Substance Act under Raich regulates.        But beyond that point, what the Hobbs ­­ if Congress had           wanted to use the word "regulate" rather than        "affects" ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well ­­                MR. JONES: ­­ Congress could very easily       have done that.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but I said ­­ I used            the word "affects." I didn't use the word "regulate."           I said the Hobbs Act prohibits robberies that affect         commerce. Commerce is either interstate marijuana       trafficking or intrastate marijuana trafficking under      the definition in this statute. So you ­­ the          government has to show that a robbery affected some kind           of marijuana trafficking. It doesn't matter what kind.         Wouldn't you agree with that? I mean, it just seems ­­                        MR. JONES: Yeah. I ­­ I ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ it's the current of the         statute plus Raich.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. JONES: Right. It's ­­ it's the         commodity that's the subject of the robbery that has         to ­­ has to affect. And if ­­ if Congress ­­ if ­­ if               the Hobbs Act, in the plain language of it ­­ and I            think we're talking about the very last phrase, commerce         that's regulated by Congress, in ­­ in that situation,         if the commodity itself is a standalone, if that's the           interpretation of the statute, then commerce is affected        by ­­ by the taking of ­­ of the commodity subject just            because it's regulated, nothing more.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess this goes back          to Justice Kennedy's question. I mean, seems to me           pretty self­evident that a robbery of a business affects           a business. Wouldn't you think that that's right?                     MR. JONES: Yes ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, I don't think that           the word "affects" is doing a whole lot of work here,            because of course a robbery of a business affects a            business, right?              MR. JONES: Yes, ma'am.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So ­­ so it's not          really "affects" that's the problem here. The problem         seems to be that you're resisting the notion that the          business could be entirely intrastate.                 But what I'm suggesting is that the terms of          Alderson Reporting Company Official the Hobbs Act itself, given Raich, make clear that the          business can be intrastate, because the definition of        commerce here doesn't say "interstate commerce." It        says "commerce over which the United States has        jurisdiction." And because of Raich, we know that the          United States has jurisdiction over even intrastate drug        dealing.             that.             MR. JONES: Yes, Your Honor. I agree with           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what is        the ­­ the standard of proof that you hold Congress to           when it exercises jurisdiction over intrastate      businesses with an effect on interstate commerce or        interstate commerce?              Somebody challenges Congress's exercise of     jurisdiction because it doesn't fit within the       interstate commerce or effect on interstate commerce,       and the statute's evaluated according to what standard?                    MR. JONES: I'm not sure that I understand          the question, Mr. ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, somebody      says ­­ you know, challenges ­­ as we've had challenges,          in cases like Lopez and others ­­ that, Congress, you          don't have authority to regulate this matter, because it         doesn't involve interstate commerce, doesn't have an       Alderson Reporting Company Official effect on interstate commerce, and so on. But how do           we ­­ how do we evaluate that?                   Does ­­ well, does Congress have to prove        beyond a reasonable doubt that the ­­ there is an effect            on interstate commerce?               MR. JONES: In ­­ in congressional hearings,        the congressional hearings that we have, and the        conclusions that they come to after they go through that          process and there's satisfaction of that, they       promulgate the law.               But if they create in ­­ in the passage         of ­­ of that acts; for example here, the Hobbs Act is            what we're saying is the ­­ is the plain reading of it,            is that if ­­ if in their wisdom the element is to            establish this element, then it becomes an element of         the criminal offense.               And it's not so much the element of the         regulation, but it's the element of the criminal        offense. And when you have the element of the criminal           offense, then I fall back, or it's our view that then            the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution give         precedent. And if Congress has not provided for that          element in there, then we believe that ­­ that this          Court is the place to have that addressed.                    JUSTICE ALITO: I don't think there's any         Alderson Reporting Company Official question that this is a jurisdictional element and the          jurisdictional element has to be proven. That's not the          issue.             The issue is the meaning of the       jurisdictional element. And if the jurisdictional       element means, as interpreted in Raich, and it's a ­­          you know, it's a controversial area of constitutional         law, but it's a precedent and you're not challenging          it ­­ so the jurisdictional element as interpreted in         that case is anything that has an effect on ­­         anything ­­ any purely ­­ any local activity that is of           a type which, if taken in the aggregate, would have a           substantial effect on interstate commerce, that falls       within the Commerce Clause.                If the jury is instructed in that way, and         that's basically the way I think it was instructed here,           all they have to find is that there was a theft of ­­             there was a robbery of drugs, and it had some effect on             the supply of drugs.                MR. JONES: In this case I think they were           instructed that our ­­ our view of that instruction was          that it was a per se or strict liability instruction;           that if ­­ if ­­ because in that instruction, it's my           recollection that Judge Conrad said, I tell you that if           this happened, this is satisfied.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah, well, that's ­­ that's        the ­­ that's what Raich ­­ that's the interpretation of          the Commerce Clause.               Do you want the jury to decide what the         Commerce Clause means? It would be an interesting ­­         under those who ­­ who think that juries once upon a           time had the authority to decide legal issues. Do you           want them to decide whether the majority or the dissent          was correct in ­­ in Gonzales?                  MR. JONES: No, sir, I would not. What I            would ­­ what I'd like to have an opportunity in ­­ in            this case was to address what we typically see as facts           that constitute whether you're a drug dealer or whether          you're not. And in this case there wasn't.                     If you ­­ if you take ­­ if you look at the            evidence that was ­­ that was produced, it's ­­ it's          been embellished. But ­­ but the plain reading of the           testimony ­­ for example, in the Lynch case, there was          no showing that ­­ that the ­­ that they had actually           been engaged in a drug dealing enterprise. It was           rumored that a person had been robbed, not Mr. Lynch but            a person had been robbed at some point in time in the            past, I think of pounds of marijuana.                     In ­­ in the Worley case it was ­­ it just           stated you ­­ you couldn't go anywhere that Mr. Worley          Alderson Reporting Company Official had acknowledged selling marijuana one time, about three        or four years prior to this instance. There was simply           no showing in the evidence of this case that you even           had a commercial enterprise going, being conducted at         either one of these residences. It's ­­ it ­­ it was an             inference upon an inference.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that seems to me a         different kind of argument that you're making now. Now          you're not saying that the question is whether the         marijuana that was being dealt was intrastate or        interstate. Now you're suggesting that what you really         wanted to prove was that this person wasn't a dealer at            all; is that correct?                MR. JONES: That's ­­ that's ­­ that's ­­        that's where we got here on this case, was ­­ was the            absence of particularized evidence as to what was ­­        what was taking place here. And we weren't able to,           pursuant to the rulings, we simply were not able to          address that.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Wasn't there evidence      that this gang, that they were in ­­ in the business of            trying to rob drug dealers because they thought they'd         find either the drugs or the money?                   MR. JONES: Mr. Fitzgerald, who, from the        evidence of this case, I believe to be an organizer or            Alderson Reporting Company Official certainly one of the leaders in this ­­ in this group of            individuals. Our client, Mr. Taylor, he ­­ he was          added, I believe the evidence shows, for ­­ for these           two events.              And the evidence in that case ­­ and        judge ­­ even Judge Conrad, I ­­ I sense that he became              a little frustrated and he tried to clear it up, because           when you start reviewing the evidence concerning the        Worley robbery ­­ when you start considering the        evidence concerning the Worley robbery, Mr. Fitzgerald's       testimony is, I don't know what's there. I don't know             what to expect ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't ­­ I don't          understand where we're going here. It seemed to me a           few minutes ago you said, oh, there's no evidence that          he was a drug dealer. But that's not the question            presented. Your question presented assumes that he's a         drug dealer, so don't argue that.                              MR. JONES: I'm ­­ I was trying ­­ I ­­            JUSTICE KENNEDY: So we know that there's a         drug dealer here. We take the case on that basis.                                   MR. JONES: Yes, sir.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right. So we're        talking about the interstate and local. So it seems to           me that you've ­­ you just have not raised the point           Alderson Reporting Company Official that there was no evidence that he was a drug dealer.                                                MR. JONES: Well, what ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's not in your petition.        MR. JONES: Our ­­ our point in our petition          was ­­ is that there was a failure to present           particularized evidence of the impact or the effect        on ­­ on interstate commerce as a result of the           activities of these people, and we were precluded from         addressing that.              The whole theory of the case in ­­ when it          was presented in the district court, was ­­ was twofold;          number one, that this interstate ­­ that the interstate         commerce element had ­­ had not been met, and that there           was no particularized evidence to show that this        influence or this impact on commerce.                  May I reserve?                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Certainly,     Mr. Jones.              Mr. Yang.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY A. YANG                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. YANG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Three characteristics of Petitioner's    robberies underscore that this case falls within       Alderson Reporting Company Official Congress's Commerce Clause power.                Petitioner's robberies targeted, first, the     inventory in a commodity; two, that inventory belonged         to a commercial participant; and third, it was a          commercial participant in an established interstate      market in marijuana that is a Federally­controlled        substance over which Congress has exercised      jurisdiction.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if it weren't        commercial aspect, then you wouldn't ­­ you wouldn't ­­        you would have to demonstrate jurisdiction beyond a        reasonable doubt?              MR. YANG: No. I think there ­­ what ­­           when you get out of the commercial sphere, the courts of           appeals have drawn a distinction between robberies of         businesses that are engaged in commerce, as the victims         were here, and true individuals who just get robbed.                     And I think the courts have fairly uniformly         recognized that the ­­ while the robbery of a business           is kind of economic in nature and more directly         implicates Commerce Clause concerns, when there's a       robbery of an individual, the links are much more         attenuated and there's a longer chain of causation to          get to commerce.               And so in those contexts, even within the        Alderson Reporting Company Official depletion of assets theory that my brother espouses        before the Court, the courts have said, as a normal           matter, robberies of individuals just don't fall within        the Commerce Clause. But what we have here is the           robbery of marijuana, which we know from Raich, Congress         regulates the trade in marijuana. It's in the marijuana          trade.             It's difficult to, I think, come to any         other conclusion, that the robbery of such marijuana        from marijuana dealers engaged in trade over which        commerce has jurisdiction is not a robbery that affects          commerce over which the United States ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, except that       Congress doesn't have to prove beyond a reasonable doubt          before exercising its jurisdiction that there's an       affect on interstate commerce.                MR. YANG: That ­­ that's what ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if you're       prosecuting somebody, you do have to show beyond a         reasonable doubt that the elements of the crime have         been satisfied.              MR. YANG: Well, what you do need to show is           that the robbery affected commerce over which the United         States had jurisdiction. And we know ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Beyond a reasonable        Alderson Reporting Company Official doubt.                         MR. YANG: Beyond a reasonable doubt.        But we do know that Congress ­­ that ­­ from          Raich, that Congress does have jurisdiction over the        entire marijuana trade.               Now, the reason Congress has jurisdiction,      as Raich explain ­­ Raich explained, was it now analyzed          under the rational­basis review that often occurs in        this type of context. But the fact of the matter is, at             the end of the day, there is no doubt, it is a            certainty, that Congress has jurisdiction over the       marijuana trade. And so when you rob ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I ­­ I suppose           it's a ­­ maybe an academic question, but your          conclusion that Congress has jurisdiction over the       marijuana trade is based on a different standard of          proof than the criminal one.                 So yes, you can say of course Congress has         jurisdiction here, but that has been established only        under, I guess, a rational­basis standard. But now you            have to show Congress has jurisdiction pursuant to a         much more daunting standard of proof.                  MR. YANG: We're not shying away from the         standard of proof. But what ­­ as we explained, the           question of whether a robbery affects interstate        Alderson Reporting Company Official commerce has both legal elements as well as factual         elements.             The factual elements, as we explain in our        brief in this case, involve: Did the robbery occur?          Were they robbing and targeting the marijuana of        marijuana dealers?               But the legal question ­­ which judges every       day instruct juries under what the law is, and Gaudin          teaches us that juries must follow those instructions ­­        the legal conclusion is that the United States has         jurisdiction over the entire marijuana trade.                  Now, there would be strange anomalies if       juries were allowed to relitigate Raich in every case.         Is there an affect ­­ you know, does Congress have          jurisdiction over intrastate commerce? Juries would be        coming up with divergent results over the question        whether Congress has jurisdiction over intrastate      marijuana trade, contrary to Congress's own decision in        the decision of this Court.                 That is a purely legal question. It is ­­          you can prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Congress          has jurisdiction over the marijuana trade by looking at         Raich. That's a legal question ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: So what's ­­ what's the        instruction that the Court should give to the jury with          Alderson Reporting Company Official respect to this jurisdictional element?                 "Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you've       heard evidence that there was a robbery of a drug            dealer. I ­­ you are instructed as a matter of law" ­­                                                              MR. YANG: You are ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY ­­ "that" ­­    MR. YANG: ­­ that the marijuana trade ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ "that the marijuana       trade is a subject over which the Congress has          jurisdiction and this statute controls"?                             That's not a very good interpretation.       MR. YANG: Well, I think you would ­­ I           think that ­­ I think that goes a long way there. I               think the ­­ the judge would instruct the jury that the           marijuana trade is Congress ­­ commerce over which the         United States has jurisdiction.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: And there's ­­ there's       nothing for the jury to find on this point?                                 MR. YANG: Not on that point.       But the jury must determine that there       was ­­ the robbery affected jurisdiction, of which ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was it ­­ was there a         jury involved in this case, or that ­­ was this on a            plea?             MR. YANG: There was a jury.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a jury? So          what ­­ so we don't have to speculate. What did the            judge charge?              MR. YANG: Well, the judge's instructions, I        think, could have been more clear. This case, of          course, is a challenge to the sufficiency of the          evidence, not the jury instructions.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what was the ­­                   MR. YANG: But the jury instructions are ­­        are basically on page of our brief. We've replicated            the most relevant portions of the charge.                   And, you know, there are the standard       instructions about the government has to show the        jurisdictional element beyond a reasonable ­­ beyond a         reasonable doubt and establish that the Court defined        "commerce" to mean commerce over which the United States         has jurisdiction, and then said that that could be         satisfied by reducing the ­­ having a ­­ showing an           affect, and that affect can be ­­ you know, I think            there's ­­ in here is quite ­­ any kind of affect would            be sufficient. And then there was an explanation that,          you know, the ­­ the reduction of articles or         commodities in interstate commerce, in this case illegal        drugs and drug proceeds. So ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it ­­ it seems to me          Alderson Reporting Company Official that this instruction is much more defendant­friendly       than the one you indicated that is a minimum. In other             words ­­                         MR. YANG: Friendly ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ I read this ­­ if ­­ if            I'm the juror, I read these instructions as saying that           I have to find that this affects interstate commerce.                     MR. YANG: I think the judge could have          done ­­ had a much more government­friendly instruction         in this case. And in fact, given Raich, the judge,           as ­­ as I was just explaining, could have instructed           the jury that the ­­ all the marijuana trade, that is           both the actual trade within and intrastate trade, is         commerce over which the United States has jurisdiction.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but if ­­ if ­­ if I            can make sure I understand.                  The jury is told that you have to find         beyond a reasonable doubt that this defendant affected         commerce over which the United States has jurisdiction.                                                                                MR. YANG: Correct.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that right?      MR. YANG: That is correct.      JUSTICE KAGAN: Does that have ­­      MR. YANG: The jury could ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ to be found beyond a         Alderson Reporting Company Official reasonable doubt?               MR. YANG: It has to find that jurisdiction        element beyond a reasonable doubt. That has actual ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: But whether the United       States has jurisdiction over the marijuana trade, be it         inter­ or intrastate, has already been decided by Raich.                     MR. YANG: Correct. I mean, this is no           different than, say, if there's a murder on the special           and maritime jurisdiction of the United States. The         judge will say, what is the special and maritime         jurisdiction of the United States? Will instruct the         jury what that is.                The jury then makes the relevant historical       facts to the case, and applies that legal instruction to          the facts in order to find the relevant        jurisdictional ­­                         doubt.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is ­­     MR. YANG: ­­ element beyond a reasonable         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the defendant       allowed to present any evidence to the contrary?                                MR. YANG: Well, on our ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It would be kind of         silly to say they've got to prove something beyond a          reasonable doubt. All the United States has to do is           Alderson Reporting Company Official this, and then ­­ and the judge instructs the jury that           they've satisfied that burden?                MR. YANG: The defendant is entitled to        present evidence that contradict all the relevant facts.                     But the ­­ I think what you're asking about         is whether the fact that this particular marijuana might         have been grown in­State ­­ right? I think that's what            you're saying ­­ would somehow undermine the       jurisdictional element. And as a matter of law, it does            not.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Is it ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ in any ­­ in a          marijuana case, what evidence could a defendant put on          that would prevent the establishment of the       jurisdictional element?              MR. YANG: The defendant could show that        there was not an attempt to rob a drug dealer of            marijuana.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. That goes to         the first question of whether there was a robbery: Was            there a robbery? Did it have an affect on ­­ on             commerce within the jurisdiction of the United States?                                MR. YANG: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any       Alderson Reporting Company Official evidence that a defendant could be allowed to introduce          going to the second element?                 MR. YANG: Well, if they were targeting        marijuana in that robbery, as was the case here, from          marijuana dealers who were trading ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's the question,       Mr. Yang: From marijuana dealers.                    I mean, it seems to me the defendant could        say, no. I was targeting a home grower. You know, the               kind of person from Raich. I just ­­ I was growing this               marijuana for myself. I had no intention of ever           selling it.              At that point, you wouldn't be robbing       somebody who was engaged in commerce, right?                   MR. YANG: Or, I was just robbing a house,            and I happened to stumble upon this.                      I mean, there are ­­                           JUSTICE KAGAN: There are ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but those are        two very different things. Robbing a house and stumbled           upon is one thing, but if you have somebody who is           robbing marijuana that's grown for home consumption or        whatever, can the defendant say the jurisdictional       element is not satisfied because of that?                   MR. YANG: Well, I think home consumption         Alderson Reporting Company Official raises different issues, and I'll ­­ I'll tell you why.          The Hobbs Act governs robberies that have an affect on          commerce over which the United States has jurisdiction.        There's some question whether just growing marijuana for        your own use by itself is commerce, or whether it's an           activity that affects commerce that would bring it        within ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's say ­­                 MR. YANG: ­­ the element of Raich.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's ­­ let's say that        this Court had a decision that home­grown marijuana has          an affect on interstate commerce. Let's say that         that's ­­ then there's a trial. What instruction ­­          can ­­ can any evidence be introduced?                   MR. YANG: Well, if the Court had said that          just growing marijuana ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Contest commerce part ­­     part of the indictment?                MR. YANG: I ­­ I think if you're ­­ if             you're asking whether the Court has decided that growing         marijuana is itself commerce over which the United        States has ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's ­­ let's assume ­­       let's assume the Court has decided that ­­                   MR. YANG: Well, then there ­­ there's ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ and then there's a        Is ­­ is the defendant entitled to introduce                    trial.             any evidence on that point?                                                     MR. YANG: No.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: So ­­    MR. YANG: Because that's a legal ­­        JUSTICE KENNEDY: So does the jury have any         discretion to ­­ to return a verdict of not guilty if it             finds that there was a robbery of a drug dealer ­­ of ­­              of ­­ of drugs that have been home grown?                     MR. YANG: Under your predicate, no, there        would not. I mean, this is ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­                MR. YANG: This is not new in the law,          right? I mean, juries are instructed on the law. They             determine any of the relevant facts that would be         relevant to the elements of the offense, but they have          to do that within the framework of the law as instructed           by the judge.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it may ­­ that         may be familiar in the law, but I'm not aware of any            case where the burden is on the government to prove          something beyond a reasonable doubt, an element of the          crime, and you're saying there's no way that the         Alderson Reporting Company Official defendant ­­ no evidence that defendant could       introduce ­­ could rebut the government's showing, in        any case.                          MR. YANG: I don't ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what's your        best authority for that proposition?                 MR. YANG: I guess it depends on what you           consider to be the element of the offense and how you           define it as a legal matter.                   What we're ­­ what we're saying is the jury         does have to find beyond a reasonable doubt that the           jurisdictional element was met. But just as if         Congress, for instance, as it ­­ as it could, could          directly prohibit ­­ if Congress directly prohibited       robberies of marijuana from marijuana dealers,      Statute U.S.C. ,­something, that prohibits that,       and it says the jurisdictional element of this case is          that the robbery ­­ is that the robbery has to target           marijuana of a marijuana dealer, the jury would be          deciding precisely that.               And here, what we have is the same type of          thing through the Hobbs Act, which I believe my brother           has admitted both at, I think it's page of his brief             and at oral argument, extends to the full extent of the           Commerce Clause. The whole purpose of enacting a         Alderson Reporting Company Official "affects commerce" provision is so you don't go through         and have Congress ­­ the burden of it, you know, then           drug dealers and we have to do, you know, robberies of           this business and that. Congress exercised the full         scope of its power. And so ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the government have       to prove anything in this case different from what it          would have to prove if this was a charge of robbery            under State law?               MR. YANG: Well, yes. I mean, a robbery            under State law wouldn't be relevant, at least under our          theory of the jurisdictional ­­ it doesn't matter        whether it's marijuana or whatever. It would just be a           robbery of an individual within the definition of        robbery. But here, in order to ­­ the additional proof           which is relevant to the jurisdictional element is that         the robbery targeted the marijuana of marijuana dealers.        And by the nature of the targeting of a commodity, the            inventory of a commercial entity engaged in an         interstate business that Congress regulates, as this       Court ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Still, it's very odd that        this is a Federal case. I mean, they ­­ in fact, they               took, what, a couple of cell phones, $?                     MR. YANG: What you're seeing is part of the          Alderson Reporting Company Official whole Federal investigation here, if you remember that        this was an investigation into the Southwest Goonz,        which was a gang that was engaged in particularly          violent and dangerous robberies in Roanoke. The DEA         tracked about home invasions to this gang. There          were other prosecutions. This particular defendant was        a bit of a tagalong, and he was prosecuted. But the             main participants in this endeavor, which ­­ you know,         the DEA was contacted by local law enforcement which         said this is becoming a serious problem in Roanoke, and           DEA came in and busted this gang. This is just one            particular defendant.               years.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The tagalong, he got        MR. YANG: Well, and he was involved in some          very serious crimes. Actually, I think home          invasions.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Actually ­­ actually, I       think got , my chambers was telling me. You might           check that. Which is, to me, one ­­ one year too many,             but whatever.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A year's a year.          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Going ­­ going back to        this case, the example that you gave with reference to          the maritime jurisdiction, what you tell the jury is,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ladies and gentlemen of the jury, if you find that the           incidents that have been considered in this court        occurred on the high seas, then the jurisdictional        element is satisfied.               MR. YANG: Yes. And you'd probably have to          define what the high seas were as well.                                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Pardon me?     MR. YANG: You'd also have to define what         the high seas were for the jury.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Okay. Then in this case,         it suffices, in your view, if you say if you find there            was a robbery of a drug dealer, then the jurisdictional            element is satisfied?               MR. YANG: We think it's a little easier          than that in this case. If you find that there was a             robbery targeting the inventory, the marijuana of a drug          dealer engaged in the trade of that marijuana, then         it's ­­ there's a very direct and I think undeniable            effect on ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: And the only defense       evidence that could be introduced in the case is that          the ­­ that the drugs were not involved? The defense           could show that drugs were not involved.                   MR. YANG: They could, and that would target         direct ­­ there were other ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's about all they        can do with reference to the jurisdictional element?                    MR. YANG: I think that's right in this          particular case because that's the only factual question        that's really relevant.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, maybe the person       wasn't a dealer.                MR. YANG: Yes, that's ­­ yes.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Did you         concede that earlier, that it's not covered by the Hobbs          Act if the person's not a dealer?                    MR. YANG: Well, I didn't concede it. What           I said is you'd have to have a different theory.                       JUSTICE KAGAN: You said it was a very          different thing.              MR. YANG: It was a different thing. And it            supports ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: And it would be a much          harder thing.              MR. YANG: It would be harder.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: And it would be at least an          awfully good argument by the defendant that if the         person was not a dealer, it's not affecting commerce in           the regular ­­ in the relevant way?                   MR. YANG: That's correct.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though Congress       can regulate that transaction?                MR. YANG: Well, there ­­ there would be a          question. I think that there are arguments to be made            that would go beyond the arguments that we're making         here, and we're not pressing those today for various         reasons. I think as the Court has recognized, this is            an area of some difficulty at times. Lopez recognizes          that commercial power is necessarily one of degree, and         that the Court's decisions have not provided precise        formulation in the nature of things it cannot.                    And so what we're ­­ the Court ­­ I'm         sorry ­­ but the Court's taken an incremental approach,         and we're doing something similar here.                  JUSTICE ALITO: I asked Mr. Jones whether         the Hobbs Act exercises the full measure of Congress's         Commerce Clause, an authority which I thought a number           of cases have said. Do you agree with that?                      MR. YANG: It does. It does. Not only           that, but I think ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Because then you do run into         these limitation ­­ in the search for a limiting          principle, which you seem to be addressing. So Congress          could prohibit and has prohibited a person from         possessing even a very small amount of marijuana, right,          Alderson Reporting Company Official a single cigarette, a single marijuana cigarette?                                MR. YANG: That's correct.     JUSTICE ALITO: So if one person steals a         marijuana cigarette from another person, robs that       person of one marijuana cigarette, that's a violation of          the Hobbs Act?               MR. YANG: Well, there's a different        argument there, and let me tell you why. The pure           possession ­­ and we're not talking about the actual         trade in marijuana but just the personal possession,        that raises different questions. That was addressed by         Raich. Now, there is an argument that could be made           that that would fall within the Hobbs Act. At the same            time ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: It falls within the Commerce        Clause, doesn't it?               MR. YANG: It falls ­­ certainly the        possession is something that Congress can regulate as        Raich teaches. Now, whether the robbery of one         possessing, that's yet additional ­­ an additional link        into the Commerce Clause inquiry. And what I can say is             that the courts of appeals have recognized, as this         Court has, the ­­ in a search for the outer limits of             the Commerce Clause, the courts have pulled back and         they've suggested that when you're robbing just a mere          Alderson Reporting Company Official individual who's not a business or engaged in a business            in the ­­ in the context of the robbery, that raises           different questions and it's much more difficult to        establish necessary nexus.               We're ­­ we're not actually taking that on        in this case because we don't think we have to. What we             have in this case is robbery of the commodity,         marijuana, from people engaged in its trade when we         know ­­ we know that falls well within commerce over          which the United States has jurisdiction.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose someone robbed the       farmer in Wickard v. Filburn of the wheat that the          farmer was growing for personal consumption. Would that         be a violation of the Hobbs Act?                    MR. YANG: Wickard is a little bit more          complicated because it was personal consumption but in        the context of a commercial enterprise, right? He was           growing wheat for his animals and growing wheat ­­ he          also grew wheat for sale. So ­­ but the wheat that            we're talking about is the wheat that he was growing for           his own use in his business. I think there would be a              stronger argument there than what you'd have if you just          happened to stumble upon someone, you rob them, and you          picked up, you know, some wheat or a marijuana cigarette           out of their house.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Again, we don't deny that there are, at the         fringes, difficult questions that this Court may have to         address at some point. But we're talking ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is your understanding       of what the defendant wanted to ­­ the evidence the          defendant wanted to introduce?                MR. YANG: I think the defendant wanted to          introduce evidence that not all marijuana in Virginia is         coming from out of State. And that's not legally          relevant to our ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was there any challenge to        the status of these victims as dealers?                   MR. YANG: I think there might have been          indirectly through cross­examination, but what we're      talking about here is, remember, is an attempt. This is           an ­­ the Hobbs Act ­­                                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand that.       MR. YANG: ­­ not only ­­ not only covers ­­          JUSTICE KENNEDY: It was an attempt against        persons who were in the drug trade?                   MR. YANG: And at least at a minimum who the            defendants believed were in the drug trade, and that's         really what the relevant question is here. Because if,          for instance, there's ­­ you know, two people make an          elaborate plan to rob a bank and then they end up            Alderson Reporting Company Official showing up at a business that's not a bank, it's            actually someone's house, they can be charged with        either a conspiracy or an attempt charge based on the           facts as they ­­ as they understood them.                    And here, I don't think there's much of an          argument that the evidence was sufficient to show that         these individuals had the understanding that the two        victims here were drug dealers that were engaging in         marijuana ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Yang, I'd like to ­­        for you to explain to me what the difference in charges           are between this robbery and a regular robbery, let's          say of a business. Because as you've noted, there are            many circuits that say if you just rob a person           individually, that's not a Hobbs Act robbery. But if           you rob a business, it is. So how does a judge charge               in a regular Hobbs Act case and this kind of case?                        MR. YANG: Well, it will depend, I think, in           part on the government's theory of the case. The          government makes charging decisions and presents its       theory, and the judge would have to charge with         respect ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understand the       charges, counsel.              MR. YANG: So in the normal case, and this          Alderson Reporting Company Official is the ­­ this is kind of the ­­ the mind run of cases              that all the courts of appeals have accepted are as kind           of a depletion­of­assets theory case.                  Now, in those types of cases when you're        involving the robbery of a business, the government puts          on evidence ­­ this could be any type of business pretty           much ­­ that the business engages in some kind of          interstate commerce. That's kind of showing something        particularized, just like here you're showing it's the        marijuana dealer.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Engages how, either by       buying goods in commerce ­­                MR. YANG: Buying goods from out of State,         selling to out­of­State customers, buying equipment from       out of State, all types of things.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume that that's       true.             MR. YANG: Uh­huh.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is the jury charged that        this particular robbery had to affect that?                   MR. YANG: Yes, because what they end up ­­         the theory, the depletion of assets theory, which again,         this has been established in all the courts of appeals          for quite some time, is that even if you're robbing          not ­­ something that has not moved in commerce, say,          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.    MR. YANG: ­­ what you're doing is you're         money ­­                         depleting the assets of an enterprise that is engaging         in interstate commerce. And so by doing that, you're          hindering its ability to engage in interstate commerce        on a prospective basis.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So ­­ so the jury is         charged to make that determination, that this act of         robbering the money hindered the commerce in some way?                     MR. YANG: Or has the potential to.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is that different        than his argument, your adversary's argument that ­­                   MR. YANG: Oh, I think that that is his           argument. I think he accepts in his brief the depletion            of assets theory and says that the government has to          show that this marijuana moved in interstate commerce,        or that the dealers sold to people out of State, which I            will note parenthetically is a little difficult when         we're talking about an attempt, and we're talking about         people who trade in marijuana. They don't always ­­ are           not always forthcoming in their admissions to law        enforcement, but that's his theory.                 Our position is that is not necessary       because we know already ­­ although that's one means of          Alderson Reporting Company Official showing an effect on interstate commerce, there are        other means. And the theory here is that the robbery           affects commerce over which the United States has        jurisdiction.             We know that commerce of the United States        has jurisdiction includes the inter­ or intrastate trade        in marijuana, and that, therefore, in this theory ­­        which is different, it's a different way of proving the           same jurisdictional element ­­ that under our theory        here, the evidence was sufficient because there was        sufficient evidence to show that these ­­ the Southwest         Goonz, including Petitioners, were targeting these two       victims because they expected to gain marijuana from the         individuals who they thought were drug dealers.                   If the Court has no further questions, we'd        ask that you affirm.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Jones, you have five minutes remaining.                 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DENNIS E. JONES                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. JONES: Thank you, Your Honor.                   The ­­ I'd like to digress to ­­ to the          question about a single cigarette, if ­­ if that is           stolen, would ­­ or subject of robbery, would ­­ would          that affect the Hobbs Act.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             Taking the extension that my friend is       suggesting here, if we read the last phrase of the Hobbs           Act, it says, "All other commerce over which the United          States has jurisdiction."               The application of Raich to controlled      substances, the Controlled Substance Act, if the ­­ if         it has no limits on ­­ on this element of interstate           commerce, then the answer to that is if a person comes            up and ­­ and robs an individual of a single joint of             marijuana, it could possibly trigger a Hobbs Act         conviction because it's "all." It encompasses "all."                      I don't think that under any interpretation      of ­­ of the Hobbs Act has it ­­ has it been discussed             that we're going to make robberies a ­­ a generalized            Hobbs Act ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: That isn't this case.       This case is a robbery of a drug dealer, correct?                        MR. JONES: That's correct. And what we're         saying, Your Honor, is that in ­­ in the robbery of a            drug dealer, it still requires an independent finding        about whether or not there was this effect on commerce.          And that's what's lacking here. That's ­­ that's what's          lacking in ­­ in this case, and that's what we're          suggesting should take place.                The government should have to prove that       Alderson Reporting Company Official element so that the jury, in its deliberations, would         make that independent finding on that element on the         jurisdictional element.              Any questions?               With that, Your Honor, we would ask the       Court to reverse.                                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Case is submitted.   (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : ability : : : Abingdon : able :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : affirm : agent :, above­entitled : aggregate : : ago : agree :, : : : : ALITO :,, absence : academic : accepted : : : : accepts : : :, accused : :, : acknowledged : act : :,, allowed : : : Official Officialassets : : :, Assistant : assume :, : assumes : ATF : attempt : :, : : attenuated : authority :, : : : : aware : awfully : B : : Amendments : amount : : back : : analyzed : animals : anomalies : answer : : : ANTHONY :, basically : : :,, :, :, :,,,, :,, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, activities : activity : : APPEARANCES Beach : acts : actual : : bank : : based : : basis : : appeals : : :, : : : : : : : application : applies : approach : area : : : : becoming : beginning : behalf :, : :, : : : believe : : : : argument : : believed : : belonged : :, :, : : : : best : : :, : : : :, : arguments :, articles : : asked : asking : : aspect : beyond : : : : : :,, : : :, :, :, : : : : bit : : : added : additional : :, : : addressed :, : : : addresses : addressing : : admissions : admitted : : adversary's : affect :, Page  board : borne : Botetourt : brief :, :, chain : certainly : : : certainty : : : : : bring : brother : : burden : : : business : : : :,, :, : : : : : :,, :,, :, : businesses : : busted : buying :,, C challenge : : challenges :, : challenging : chambers : characteristics : charge :, : :,, charged : : : charges :, charging : check : Chief :, : : :, : :,, : :,, :,,, : : : :, : : : : : : cigarette :,,, C : : call : case :,, : : : :, :, :, China : :, :, : :, :, :, Circuit : : : :, circuits : : : : cited : : : : : Clause :, : :, : :,, : :, : :,, : :,, : : cleaner : cleaning : clear : : : :, : : : : : :,, case­by­case : cases : : : : : : causation : cell : : : clearly : client : coat : Coleman : come : : address : : argue : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : : : : : : : : depletion­of­assets : :,, : :, dealers : : : : : :, : : dialogue : : : : difference : : : determination : determine : : : : : dealing : : correctly : counsel : : court :, : : :, : :, : :,, : : : dealt : :, :, : : : : conducted : Congress :, :, :, : : :, :, County : : :, : couple : : :,,,, course : : : :,, :, :, :,, :, : comes : coming : : commerce :, :,, :,, :,,, :, :,, :, :, :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, Congress's : :, :,,, : : : :,,, congressional : :, :, :, :,, Conrad : : Court's : : decided : : :,,, :,,,, :, : :,, : :, : considering : : :,,, conspiracy : :, : constitute : : : : Constitution : :,, : constitutional : :,, :, consumption : :, :,, :,, covered : covers : create : creates : crime : : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, consequence : consider : considered : courts :, : :, :, deciding : decision :, crimes : criminal : : : : defendant : decisions : decide :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : different : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, difficult : : : : difficulty : digress : direct :, directly : :, disagree : : disagreeing : discretion : discussed : : :, contacted : Contest : commercial : : :,,, context : : : : : : commodities : contexts : contradict : commodity : contrary : :,, : : : : controlled :, :,,, :,, : :, completely : complicated : component : comprehend : concede :, conceded : concerning :, conviction : concerns : concluded : conclusion : : correct : : : : conclusions : :, : : : : : defendant­friendly dissent : :,, : : : cross­examination defendants : defense :, cross­examined : define : :, current : : defined : :, customers : : distinction : district : divergent : doing : : : :, doubt : : D D : D.C :, dangerous : daunting : definition : : : : : :,, : : : : : degree : :,,, deliberations : demonstrate : : : DENNIS : :, drawn : :,, day : : DEA :,, : : deny : Department : depend : depends : : : : depleting : : :,, depletion : dealer : : drug :, :, :, : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : controls : controversial : DAVID : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : : : : example :, enact :, enacted :, enacting : encompasses : exclusively : : Filburn : endeavor : : : : Fifth : : figure : field : :,, drugs : : :, : : : : enforcement : : dry : : engage : engaged : excuse : : exercise : : exercised : : exercises : find : : : :, :, : :,, finding : : finds : first :, : Page  :,, : : :, : : give : : : given : : : go : : : : : goes : : : E E : :,, :, : : earlier : easier : easily : economic : : effect : :, : : : : : : :, : exercising : : expect : engages :, engaging : : expected : enterprise : experience : expert : experts : explain : : : : : : entirely : entitled : : : :, :, entire : : :,,, :,, :, : : :, entity : :, :, equipment : :, :, eradication : : : : espouses : : : ESQ :, :, effect­on­comme... : either :, : : : : : : : : essence : establish : : : : established : : : explained :, explaining : explanation : extends : extension : extent : extortion :, F fact : : : : : : : facts : : : : : : factual :, : failure :, : fairly : fall : : : : establishment elaborate : element :,, : : : :,,,, evaluate : : :,,,, evaluated : : : : events : : :, :, evidence : : :, : : : : : :,, :,,, : :, :,,,, : : : :,, : :,, : : : : : : February : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : embellished : falls : : :, : familiar : farmer :, elements :, : : :, good : : goods :, : going : :, : : : :, : : fit : Fitzgerald : Fitzgerald's : Gonzales : five : follow : formulation : forthcoming : Goonz : : forward : government : found : four : Fourth : : framework : friend : Friendly : fringes : frustrated : fuel : full : : : governs : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : government's : government­frie... : : : : further : G G : gain : gang : :, : Gaudin : General : generalized : generally : gentlemen : grew : group : grow : grower : growing :, : : : :, :, :, grown :, : : : guess : : : : guilty : H Federal : : Federally­contro... Georgia : : GINSBURG :, hangers : Alderson Reporting Company happened : : : hard :, harder :, hear : heard : hearings :, high :,, hindered : hindering : historical : History : Hobbs : :, :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,,, hold : home :,, : :, home­grown : : : Honor : : : : : : : : : house : : : : : I illegal : impact : : : implicates : in­State : : incidents : includes : : including : incremental : independent : : indicated : indictment : indirectly : individual : : : : : individually : individuals : : : : : inference :, influence : : : ingredients : inquiry : instance : : : instances : instruct : : : instructed :, : : : :, instruction : :, : :, : : instructions : :,,, : instructs : intend : intention : inter­ : : interesting : interference : : interpretation : : : : interpreted :, interstate :, :,, :, :,,, :, :, : : :, :,, :,,,, : :, : : : Official :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : : intrastate : : : :, : :,, : :,, : :, : : : introduce : : : :, introduced : : introduction : invasions :, inventory :, : : investigation : : involve : : involved : : :, involving : irrelevant : issue : :, issues : : item : J joint : Jones : :, :,, : :, : : :, :,,,,, :,, : : :,, : :, :,, : :, :, : :, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : judge : :, : : : : : : : :, judge's : judges : juries : :, :, : jurisdiction :,, : :,, :,,, : : :,, :,,,, : :,, : :,, : :, :,,, : : : : :, : Page  :, :, : :,, : :,, : : : :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, :, :,, :, : :, :, :, :, : :,,, :, :, : :, : :,, : :, :,, : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : :,, : :,, : : : :, :, :, KENNEDY : jurisdictional : : :,,,, : : : :, : :, :, :, : : Kagan :, : : K juror : jury : : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : Justice : :, :,,,, : :, :, : : : :,, : : :,, : :,,, :, :, : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :,,,, : :, :,, :,,, : :,, Kennedy's : :,, : key : :,, : kind : :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : Lynch :, :,,, :, M know :, : :,, : : : : ma'am : :,, : main : :, : :, majority : : : : making : : : :, offense :,, mere : met : : : : methamphetamine officer : officers : oh : : : Okay : : once : opening : opportunity :, Mexico : mind : minimum : : Page  : :, persons : petition :, Petitioner :, :, : : Petitioner's : : Petitioners : phones : phosphorous : phrase : : picked : piece : : pieces : place : : : : plain : : : : plan : : plea : please : : plus : point :, : : : : :, : : : police : : : moved : : out­of­State : manufacture : minutes : manufactured : marijuana :,, money : : : : murder : : :,,, :,, : morning : :, :,, motion : : :, :,,,, movement : : :, : :,,,, N :,, :, :,, : N :, : :, : : :,, :,,,, :,,, :,,, :,, : : : : need : : :,, :, needed :, : : : :, :, : necessarily : : : : nature : : : oral : :, : : : order : : organizer : outer : P P : page : : : Pardon : parenthetically : : participant :, participants : particular : necessary : : part :, : L lacking :, ladies : : lane : language : : law : : : : : : :,, : : : : leaders : legal : :,, :, : : : legally : let's :,,, :,, : : liability : likelihood : limine : limitation : limiting : limits : : link : links : little : : : : local :, : portions : : : :, Portsmouth/Virg... : : new : news : nexus : normal : : particularized : position : : note : noted : notion : : :, : possessed : possessing : : : maritime :, : market : matter : : : : : number : : : : : : : numerous : : particularly : passage : people : : : :, : : : mean : : :, : : :, :, :, obtain : occur : occurred : occurs : measure : : odd : long : longer : look : looking : : meaning : Lopez : : means : : lot : lye : : : : O : : O period : person : : :, : : :, : :,, : : person's : personal : Alderson Reporting Company : possession :, : possibly : potential : pounds : power : : : precedence : precedent : : Official : : rational­basis : remember : proven : : : : provided : read :, : reading : : predicate : present : : proving : : : : provision : presented :, pulled : precise : precisely : precluded : : : presents : pressing : pretty : : prevent : principle : prior : probably : problem :, : proceeds : process : produced : production : prohibit : : :, : : prohibited : : prohibiting : : prohibits : :, : purchase : purchased : pure : purely : : purpose : pursuant : : : put : : : : puts : Q qualifying : question : : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : questions : : : : : : quite : : R Raich :,,, :, :, : :,, :, : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : promulgate : proof :, :, :, : :,, : R : property : proposition : : prosecuted : :, : prosecuting : prosecutions : prospective : prove : : : : : raises : : : : : raised : : : replicated : require : : required : requires : : : : : : really : : : : reason : reasonable : reserve : residences : resisting : respect : : Respondent : : : : :,, : : :, : :,, : : : result : : : : reasoning :, resulted : results : reasons : retired :, rebut : REBUTTAL : return : reverse : review : reviewing : right : : : recall : recognized : : : : Page  : :, : : : : :,, :, :, : :, :,, : : :, :, robbing : : :,, : : ROBERTS : :, : : :,, : :,, :,,, : : : :, : : : : robs : : rulings : rumored : run : : recognizes : recollection : record : reducing : reduction : : reference : : regular : :, regulate :, : : : regulated :, regulates : : : : regulating : regulation :, : : : relevant : :, : :, :, :, :, relitigate : remaining : :, : : :, : : : : : : S : : S Roanoke :, rob : : sale : : satisfaction : : : : satisfied : :, robbed :, : : robberies :, :, : :, : : : : : : robbering : robbery :, :, :,, : : : : : : :, : :, :, :,,, : : : : : : : :, saying : : : : : : : : : says :, : :, : : : scope : se : search : : seas :,, second : : see : : seeing : self­evident : Alderson Reporting Company Official substance :, :,, : : : : : substances : : substantial : suffices : sufficiency : sufficient : : :, suggested : suggesting : : :, supply : supports : suppose :, :,, : : Supreme :, sure : : : T taken : : : talking : : : : : : :, selling : : : sphere : standalone : : standard :, :,,, : sense : separate : serious :, show :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : State :, :, : : : : : : : : showed : showing : : statement : : :, : : : : : : stated : standpoint : start :, States :,, : : :,, : :, :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : shown :, shows : shying : silly : similar : simply :, single :, : : sir : : : situation : : Sixth : small : sold : : Solicitor : solvents : somebody :, stolen : statute's : statutes : : steal : steals : : :, someone's : sorry : : : sort : SOTOMAYOR stop : strange : strict : stronger : stumble : : :, :, stumbled : : :,, subject : : Southwest : : special :, specific : speculate : : :, : : submission : submit : submitted :, statistics : status : statute :,, T :, tagalong :, :, :, take : : : : : : : : Page  : : testimony : : Thank :, : theft : : : theory : : : : : : :,, :, :,, they'd : thing :, : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : trading : trafficking :, : : : : :,, :, transaction : transported : : :,, travel :, things : : : : think : :, :, :, :, : : :, : :,, : :, :, :, : :,,, :, : : : : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, : third : thought : : : traveled :, : trial : : : tried : trigger : triggers : true : : trying : : : Tuesday : two : : : : : : : twofold : type : : : : types :, typically : U U.S.C : : Uh­huh : ultimately : undeniable : undermine : underscore : understand : : : : : understanding : : target : : targeted : : three : : targeting : : Tillery : : : : : Taylor : :, time :, : : : : unable : : : : : : times : teaches : : Title : tell : : today : told : toto : tracked : trade :,, telling : tells :, terms :, Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  year :, : : : Yeah : : : :,, : : :, year's : : :, :, :, : Z understood : uniformly : Union : United :,, : :,, :,, :, :, : : : :, :, :, : :, : :, : use : :, : : V v : : : Va : various : verdict : victims : :, :, : : : : view : : :,, : : : violation : : violent : Virginia :,, : :, : W want :, wanted : : : :,, warrant : Washington :, wasn't : : : : way :, : : : : : ways : We'll : we're : : : : : we've : : weren't : : wheat :,, :,,, Wickard :, wisdom : witness : word : : : :, : words : : work : Worley :, :, :, wouldn't : : :, : : x :, X Y Yang : : :,, : :, :, :,,,, :, :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :,,,, :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :, years :,,, : : ,­something : : : : : : ­ : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 