Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ANTOINE BRUCE,                      :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          CHARLES E. SAMUELS, JR.,              ET AL.                              : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ANTHONY F. SHELLEY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondents.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE ANTHONY F. SHELLEY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   NICOLE A. SAHARSKY, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ANTHONY F. SHELLEY, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Bruce v. Samuels.                   Mr. Shelley.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY F. SHELLEY                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. SHELLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               There are at least three reasons why the        Court should adopt what the courts of appeals have         called the per­prisoner approach under PLRA      Section (b)().              One, the per­prisoner approach best comports      with the statutory text.                Two, the per­prisoner approach is the only       one consistent with the careful balance Congress struck        between deterring frivolous prisoner lawsuits and      preserving their right to bring meritorious ones.                   And three, the per­prisoner approach avoids      anomalies and disincentives that Congress could never       have intended, disincentives such as discouraging      prisoner work by taking one hundred percent of their         income month after month.                  I would like to, of course, start with the        Alderson Reporting Company Official text. The key sentence is in ­­ the key sentence is the             second sentence of Subsection (b)(). It says the         following: "The agency having custody of the prisoner         shall forward payments from the prisoner's account to        the clerk of the court" ­­ singular ­­ "each time the           amount in the account exceeds $ until the filing         fees" ­­ plural ­­ "are paid."                  The combination of that singular, clerk of       the court, and filing fees, plural, indicates the        per­prisoner approach because it means one clerk is to         receive payments, even when there are numerous filing        fees.                                     twice.             Filing fees, the plural, appears in the ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: There ­­ there ­­      MR. SHELLEY: ­­ in the statute exactly        JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't there be more than        one filing fee for a single court?                    MR. SHELLEY: No, there cannot, not in the         way Congress understood the term in the PLRA. If you           look to (b)() and (b)(), Congress creates it almost as          a term of art. A filing fee includes ­­ a filing fee,               with the word "filing" in front of "fee," a filing fee            includes all of the subsidiary costs to start up a case.                        So a court of appeals, for instance, has a          Alderson Reporting Company Official $ docketing fee and a $ statutory fee, and that's           referred to as a ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what happens if you        have ­­ the district court makes an order, there has to           be a filing fee?                             MR. SHELLEY: In the district court?       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, and then that fee is         not totally paid. In fact, the prisoner loses, so          there's a cost award in addition. And then it goes up             to the court of appeals, where there's another filing         fee.                         MR. SHELLEY: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does ­­ does ­­ on your         reading, does the court of appeals filing fee also have          to wait until the district court filing fee is fully          paid?             MR. SHELLEY: Yes. There would be an         initial partial filing fee that's paid upon the ­­ the          filing of the appeal. Under Subsection (b)() there's a           percent initial partial filing fee that would be         assessed against the prisoner.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that would be across        the board that you always have to pay.                                MR. SHELLEY: Always have to pay that.        But the second filing fee, the one from the         Alderson Reporting Company Official court of appeals, would line up. So the first filing           fee from the district court would be paid off first, and           then sequentially the court of appeals would be paid         off, but only percent would be taken every month from           the prisoner. You wouldn't take percent.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: If he files enough cases,        he's never going to have to pay for it, right? I mean,              you know, he files cases, that percent will          never ­­ will never come home to roost.                    What ­­ what's the disincentive for him ­­       for his continuing to file cases?                  MR. SHELLEY: Well, first of all, it would         come to roost back in when Congress enacted the          statute because the filing fee for a district court case           was only $, and a court of appeals was . And so a               prisoner who earned, say, or ­­ or $ a            month, which is not outlandish given the small wages,         could pay off a filing fee in a ­­ in a matter of months                 under that. It's much higher now.                   But to get to the rest of your question,         Justice Scalia, there are a number of other things in           the statute that work in tandem with (b)() to stop that           kind of behavior. So there's the initial partial filing          fee. He or she is always going to have to pay that.             There's the three­strikes rule, which comes into being.        Alderson Reporting Company Official There's the ability of the district court or court of          appeals to sui sponte dismiss under the PLRA those cases          that are frivolous.               JUSTICE SCALIA: All right. So ­­ so you          say there are disincentives, but this was intended to be          a disincentive. Was this not intended to be a          disincentive?                         MR. SHELLEY: It was and it is.        JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm pointing out that it's        a very ineffective disincentive if the person keeps        filing a lot of cases.                  MR. SHELLEY: Well, it's not an ineffective        disincentive because it creates months and months more        of additional income being garnished. So it lines up          with the others. None of them were anticipated to be           wholly barriers to filing a lawsuit. And this one, as            with the others, creates a whole scheme where there are           added disincentives.              But Congress also wanted to make sure the        meritorious cases would be brought. And so it didn't          want to be overwhelming and put ­­ and put the thumb too            much on the scale to kill all of those cases.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Shelley, can we go back         to the sentence that you're relying on, because I have           to admit I don't understand your reading. The ­­ the            Alderson Reporting Company Official sentence says ­­ and I'm taking out some unnecessary         words. It says, the agency shall forward payments to          the clerk, singular, until the filing fees are paid.                     Now, that makes perfect sense if the filing        fees are all in one case, going to a single clerk. But              if you're right and what they mean is the filing fees           are in multiple cases, then it doesn't make sense to say           that the agency shall forward payments to the clerk.         The only way to make that sentence makes sense, if the           filing fees are in multiple cases, is for Congress ­­ is           for the statute to have read, the agency shall forward          payments to many clerks or to several clerks seriatim.         And that suggests not the per­prisoner approach, but the         per­case approach.              MR. SHELLEY: I think that's incorrect        because I think what ­­ what you should insert, if ­­ if             necessary, in front of the clerk of the court is the           relevant clerk of the court. So the prison officials          are going to distribute to the relevant clerk of the          court.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But then ­­ so that ­­ that          seems right, to make the sentence work the way you want           it to work ­­ and this is the sentence you are relying            on. To make it work the way you want it to work, you              have to add language to it.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. SHELLEY: You ­­ you do not, because         there's still ­­ there's one clerk of the court, and          there's always going to be a clerk, because every case           the filing fee is paid to a clerk; so there's always            going to be the clerk of the court. And ­­ and in most              cases ­­ in ­­ in all cases, there's only one filing.                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I'm going to say, you         know what, even as I look at that, even if you add that              language, it still doesn't make sense. "The agency         shall forward payment to the relevant clerk until        multiple filing fees are paid." It's just ­­ it          doesn't ­­ the two halves of the sentence don't connect          there.             MR. SHELLEY: Well, the filing fee's plural.        It ­­ it can't allow for the ­­ for the per­case           approach, the opposite approach, because filing fees we        know means more than one. And so it has to mean more             than one, because in (b)() and (b)() Congress used         this term of art to mean filing fee encompasses. It's           the thing that comprises all of the other fees.                     And so I would say that the opposite side is           the one that cannot make any textual sense out of that           sentence, because there's never more than one filing fee         from a ­­ to a single clerk.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but Congress doesn't       Alderson Reporting Company Official know that. Congress just thinks fees in a case, fees in             a case. So then it makes perfect sense. Give the fees             in a case to the clerk. But you're saying give fees in              multiple cases to the clerk, when it's not. It's give           fees to ­­ in multiple cases to multiple clerks.                      MR. SHELLEY: It's give the fee to that        clerk that that clerk is owed until all the fees are           paid. You keep going back to a clerk until all the fees              are paid. So ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't ­­ isn't the       statute drafted, though, that with a single­case focus,         that is, throughout, talks about an action?                    MR. SHELLEY: Not ­­ not true. First of          all, the whole purpose of the statute was to deal          with ­­ with multiple filers. So the whole ­­ Congress           comes into it with a purpose of dealing with individuals           who file many cases.                But second of all, the three­strikes rule       assumes numerous cases. And I'd also point to         Section (d), which has the statutory language, "The        officers of the court shall issue and serve all process          and perform all duties in such cases."                   So there are references to more than one        case in various plays. But even if it was written in a             singular way, in a way to deal only with one case, that             Alderson Reporting Company Official really doesn't prove anything against us. It just means          you got to look to other statutory construction tools,         because it would just say that there's going to be an           initial partial filing fee in every case. And there          needs to be installment payments in every case.                    And we don't disagree with that. We agree         that there are installment payments in every case, and         it's just a matter of when. And the statute doesn't            answer when, necessarily, right off the bat.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But why is the initial        fee ­­ the initial partial fee, you say each time you           file it, you've got to pay that? Why shouldn't that go            the same way?               MR. SHELLEY: Well, the ­­ the two sections         are written differently. (b)() is very different from         (b)(). It's a different collector. One is the prison            official. The other is the clerk of the court. One            mentions filing fees, plural. The other only mentions         filing fee, singular. There's a $ rule in the           second ­­ in the second ­­ in (b)() but not in (b)().            So they ­­ they are a little bit different.                      But even if ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: If you don't know ­­ I         mean, I can't get anything out of the second sentence,           to tell you the truth, because I think that a prison is              Alderson Reporting Company Official usually within a single district. And so when you're           worried about a multiple filer, what he does is he files            about cases in the same court.                   And ­­ and therefore, it's perfectly      understandable why Congress would refer to multiple       fees, because they are going to be like ten of them.           It's the people they are really worried about are ­­ are           what's at issue. So I can't get anything out of the             second sentence.              It's the first sentence that ­­ that is, it         seems to me, both your strength and your weakness.         There it talks about after payments of the ­­ the          initial partial filing fee. Okay. It sounds as if it's            talking about a case. And so what do we do about that?              I mean, there it is. "After the initial partial filing           fee, the prisoner shall be required to make monthly         payments of percent," et cetera. That's where you          have the word "fee."                MR. SHELLEY: Well, first of all, I don't          think Congress necessarily had in mind a prisoner who is           filing numerous cases in the same court, because if you          look up to (a)(), for instance, it talks about the          prisoner having to file a statement of his indigency.          And Congress talked about it needed to be obtained from          the appropriate official of each prison at which the         Alderson Reporting Company Official prisoner is or was confined.                 And the government concedes that prisoners      are moved around all the time, and therefore, there are          numerous districts ­­              exclusive.                         JUSTICE BREYER: I don't mean it's        MR. SHELLEY: Sure.    JUSTICE BREYER: I'm just giving you an        explanation as to why they might have used the words          "fees," even though they previously defined a filing fee          of $.              MR. SHELLEY: So then let's go to that first          sentence in ­­ in the statutory text in        Subsection (b)(). We don't disagree that after a         partial filing fee is assessed, the installment payments        will also start to kick in. It's just a matter of do              they line up or do they ­­ or do they come first.                        So I don't think under that ­­ I don't think            (b) ­­ (b)() in that first sentence then would answer          the question. It ­­ under our theory, you also get a ­­             you also get an installment payment after the payment of          the initial partial filing fee.                 But ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In terms of one of your         purposes, why isn't the government's concession that in        Alderson Reporting Company Official no circumstance can a fee percent be taken until ­­           unless it's above $? Why doesn't that take care of           your problem?              MR. SHELLEY: Because I don't think the         government's position is ­­ is statutory allowed. So if          you take a situation where, let's say $ was earned by            the prisoner the ­­ the previous month, and that's all          that was in the account. In that case you'd have to            take ­­ under the statute, you meet the statutory terms.          There's $ in ­­ in the account, and you have to take             percent. "Shall" is the word. Shall take percent            if there's over $. Well, there's $ in there. The            government would say, we're not going to take the          percent because it's going to send it under $. So           that ­­ that can't work out.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, what the      government ­­ I understand ­­ and they'll correct me ­­          is I think they are saying that if you pay a ­­ the               initial filing fee, and you're down to $, they can't          take another ­­ another percent.                   MR. SHELLEY: Sure. Well, that's ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's how I understood        their concession.              MR. SHELLEY: So that was their alternative        position. But even that one won't hurt our purposes          Alderson Reporting Company Official argument, because if you take a prisoner who now, let's           say, he has $ in income. And that's not outlandish           because if you earn cents an hour and you work a            ­hour week, you have $. In that situation, the          first four encumbrances will take $ each, $, leaving         you at $. The last one is going to take the whole             amount, cause you have got a fifth encumbrance and          you're over $.               So under even this alternative approach, you       take percent of the income every time the income is           more than $. Maybe I should go through that again.                                    Okay. So ­­   JUSTICE BREYER: If you're clarifying it,       $, I guess you'd take a dollar. All right. I mean,                what's unclear?              take .              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you're at , you        MR. SHELLEY: The statute says percent if         it exceeds $. So if you have $ in there after            the ­­ after the fourth one, you have to take the fifth             percent increment ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: They can't administer it       that way. I mean, is there somebody who is           administering this that way?                MR. SHELLEY: Every circuit who has looked        Alderson Reporting Company Official at it has described the per­prisoner approach as one         that as long as there's $ in the account, it's the           trigger. You can take the whole income.                    that?             JUSTICE BREYER: And they are really doing        MR. SHELLEY: As far as I know, yes. Well,            the BOP says it is not. I understand the States, where             many of the prisoner are, are doing exactly that. And           we showed two ­­ we cited two district court cases where           they went over what the States were doing, and they          drain it down to zero.                   I mean, the Newlin case says you can drain        it down to zero. Torres, Siluk. In fact, that's why            they ­­ they ­­ the ­­ the Second, Third, and Fourth           Circuits all got into this issue of ­­ of the          constitutionality or the purposes because they said,       look, prisoners are going to be left with zero.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: That's inconceivable to me.       I mean, what? Is ­­ is there a constitutional           requirement that prisoners be given income while they        are in prison?               MR. SHELLEY: There isn't, I ­­ I don't           think. They are given the essentials, but the point of           it is, is that ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Especially if the fact that        Alderson Reporting Company Official they don't have any is their own fault, if they keep           filing baseless suits.               MR. SHELLEY: Well, but the ­­ you'd be out          of ­­ you wouldn't be filing baseless suits because you          got the three strikes, eventually. But Mr. Bruce, for          instance, had ­­ had six cases before he incurred his          first strike, even. And so the ­­ the constitutional          dimension that the Second, Third, and Fourth Circuits        have all adopted goes to the point of you can't put           the ­­ the prisoner in the position of losing          percent of the income that he works to earn as ­­ as             the Hobson's choice to filing what may be a meritorious           case. They haven't said it's unconstitutional. They've         just said the statute leaves you scratching your head.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it ­­ it's not a         Hobson's choice if he forfeits all except $. That's          going to be the difference, whether he has $ in his           account or nothing.               MR. SHELLEY: Yes. Yes. And as this Court           has said, and as Congress said in when it enacted           the in forma pauperis statute, a man who has very little            cares about each penny. And in prison if you have $,            it makes a difference. It makes a difference that month             than if you had zero. It's a difference between ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: Is there a way of         Alderson Reporting Company Official interpreting the statute, which I think would make ­­         I ­­ I would guess, not in every case, where this            multiple thing is likely to arise is where: Files a           frivolous case, it's dismissed by the district court,        and then he takes an appeal. Okay? There we have two.                         And so the question is ­­ he has to get the           filing fee. Then the next slot is going to be, like,             percent or percent, right? But you should leave           him with $.               Given the purpose of the statute, which is        to stop these frivolous suits, or at least make it a           little tougher, doesn't it make sense, say, what I just           said: Leave him with the $, but you can take the             percent: percent for one court, percent for           the other?              Now, maybe what I've just said doesn't make        sense. To me, it makes sense at the moment. But it             would ­­ it would both leave him with the $, but allow            the clerks to collect the percent for the district          court, percent for the Court of Appeals.                                Is ­­ is that impossible to bring about?        MR. SHELLEY: I think it is, given the          statutory language. I think, given the fact that the           prison officials shall forward payments each time the        amount in the account is greater than $ doesn't allow          Alderson Reporting Company Official the prison official to say I'm going to use it as a            floor, as opposed to a trigger.                   And while that might have been the way        Congress could have written it, it did not. And given           the way Congress did write it, the best approach is that           per­prisoner approach that leaves some money to the        prisoner for things like phone calls.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Actually, I ­­ I didn't          realize the back end of this. Forget about the          prisoner. I'm thinking about the courts.                   Basically, you're saying the last court that       brings him over ­­ the moment he has over $, the            court who gives ­­ no. That doesn't happen. The           court ­­ he pays a filing fee. He now has more than $               in the account. That court gets more money than the           other courts?              MR. SHELLEY: No. They all get ­­ they all           get percent. The ­­ the way it should work is, is             there $ in the account? If there's $., you then           can take percent, a percent installment. Perhaps           another percent for cost; that's a different issue.          But you ­­ for the filing fees you take a percent             installment, and it goes down to, say, $ at that point.           That's the end of it under the ­­ under the per­prisoner           approach that we espouse.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Under the per­case approach, the way the       courts of appeals at least have understood it, if there          is $. in the account and there are five filing fees,           that's percent of the $. that goes. percent           for each.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: That wouldn't be true for        a Federal prisoner, because the Bureau of Prisons says         no matter what, the prisoner has to be left with $.                       MR. SHELLEY: It's a matter of grace. It's           not set out in regulation. It's not set out in           guidance. It's ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do they know to the        extent to which the States are following that?                    MR. SHELLEY: Yes. To the extent we've been          able to investigate that, we've cited two ­­ two         district courts in our reply brief. I think one from            Iowa and maybe one from another Midwest state ­­        Maryland and Iowa. Those two cases, the ­­ the way the            Court's decision reads, it indicates that they are        looking to see if there's $., and then they're         taking ­­ they're going down , , , and .                      And I would also note, if you look at Siluk,           the Third Circuit; Torres, the Fourth Circuit; and        Judge Easterbrook's decision in Newlin, they all talk        about if there's more than the $, you take percent           Alderson Reporting Company Official if there's five filing fees.                             JUSTICE GINSBURG: If ­­ if ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, I don't see how          the Bureau of Prisons can do this as a matter of grace.             I mean, the statute says what it says, "shall." I           don't ­­ I don't know why think they can do ­­ they may              have their own views on what's good policy, but         Congress, it seems to me, has written the statute         exactly the way you say.                 MR. SHELLEY: I agree. I agree with that.            The only possibility is that alternative approach they        say, where they stop after the first one goes below $.           But that one takes percent of the income and helps           us in proving the per­prisoner approach, because in most         cases, where there's any ­­ any ­­ any job or wage           income being earned by the prisoner, you're going to         take percent because the last percent increment         will be above the $ threshold.                  JUSTICE BREYER: You can interpret it the        other way, linguistically. You say, you forward the          percent each time the amount in the account exceeds          $. Well, the instant you write that check, you say,           it ­­ it does not exceed $, and therefore you can't           forward it. So you can't write that kind of a check.                           I mean, isn't that literally ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it exceeds $        until they cash the check.                             MR. SHELLEY: I would agree with that.         JUSTICE BREYER: Well, now we're getting       into the technicalities of banking ­­                 (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ which ­­ so ­­ so I ­­           I ­­ I think you can read it the way I suggested, if               you're not too technical about it. It seems consistent          with the language.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Does the Fed have a        position on this that ­­ that ­­ that Chevron requires          us to defer to?                MR. SHELLEY: No. No Chevron deference        here. There's no regulation. There's no guidance.         It's a statement in an adversary brief.                    But, Justice Breyer, I think that there        are ­­ there are a number of machinations that can be            go ­­ that can be gone through in order to defend           this ­­ this idea or that idea, and the government comes           up with alternative ones that they're not even using to          try to deal with the plural filing fees, for instance.                      But our approach is much simpler. Our        approach is you read the statute the way it ­­ the way            it states a "shall." You know, "shall the prisoner."           Alderson Reporting Company Official  You don't look to see if it's ­­ the payment's going to            be under $ afterwards, but look to see if it's over as            a trigger and then pay.                 In addition, you don't have a lot of other          problems with our approach. You just figure out which          one was first, which one was second, which one was          third.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What happens ­­ I think         this ­­ this ­­ Mr. Bruce had multiple filings, right?                                  MR. SHELLEY: At this point, yes.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes. It's something       like ­­ how many? ?                              MR. KIMBERLY: . But ­­ but the first ­­          JUSTICE GINSBURG: . So it is ­­        realistically, those later fees are never going to be         paid, because he's going to be released from prison         somewhere along that chain.                MR. SHELLEY: First of all, Mr. Bruce didn't         incur ­­ the last seven or so have not been filed,           essentially because he had had three strikes by the         th. So there's really only lawsuits we're ­­ we're           talking about that could have filing fees.                   But the answer to the question, Justice       Ginsburg, of whether he's never going to pay those,         again I would go back to and say Congress thought,            Alderson Reporting Company Official well, they could be paid relatively quickly if the         filing fees were lower.                  But you ­­ you touch on a question that is         unsettled in the lower courts, which is does the amount          come due at the end of when the prisoner ­­ when the            prisoner sentence ends? And the courts of appeals are          divided about that, with the Fifth Circuit saying, yes,         it does come due, and you have to come up with some kind             of a plan with each of the clerks to which you owe             money, and you shall pay it off. Other circuits say it            is. It does come due, but it only comes due and you             have to pay it if you're not in forma pauperis at the            time the government seeks to collect it after you're         out ­­ out of release.                 So I don't think it's correct to say, at          least as a matter of law, it's settled as to whether            these filing fees forever go away once the prisoner ­­         prisoner leaves prison.                 I had also started just talking about the       difference ­­ the different problems of the per­case        approach that ours avoids. And the, as I mentioned,           the ­­ the per­prisoner approach allows you to line up          the fees one after another. You just have to figure out            which one was incurred first, second, third, fourth.        But under their approach, what happens after the fifth         Alderson Reporting Company Official one? You have five. Takes percent of income. And             at that point, well, the sixth one becomes our approach.          If you have six, seven, eight, it then becomes the ­­          the sequential approach that has all the problems they         say our ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought the       government's position was you can't get blood out of a          stone, so when it's percent, that's it. Sixth,          seventh, eighth, we'll just have to ­­                  MR. SHELLEY: They stood in line. What ­­         the government says that ­­ page of their brief is           that that gets deferred. Deferred until one of them          gets paid off. So then you have to figure out, well,            one of them got paid off, so which one do you switch in,             and how much do you switch in? And it just ­­ the             problems start to multiply.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Why do you pick the        earliest? I mean, all of them ­­ all of them are owed.              Why don't you pick the nearest court?                   MR. SHELLEY: Well, you could. You could         pick the nearest court; you could pick the last one, the           most ­­ the most ­­                                        JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.    MR. SHELLEY: ­­ the most current.       But the way the courts of appeals have        Alderson Reporting Company Official looked at it, they've looked at, in time, the first.                      And I don't think the government disagrees        because, at least when you get to the sixth one, it's ­­           they ­­ they treat that one as being deferred under          their approach, with the first five being paid.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is he on the hook         for the filing fees here?                                         MR. SHELLEY: He is not. He is not.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not?      MR. SHELLEY: I don't understand the Court         to apply the PLRA for its cert petitions, for instance.          And in any event, I believe his filing fee was paid            on ­­ oh, he is ­­ he is subject to a filing fee in this                case, and he did pay it. But I don't understand the             Court to apply the PLRA to cert petitions.                    One last point I wanted to make is that I           think it is often thought that a prisoner who has            filing fees or filing fees is a recidivist prisoner,           but that's not the case.                 As the ­­ the Second Circuit noted in the         Whitfield case, that single case produced five       encumbrances. It was a district court appeal, it was a            district court case, a Second Circuit appeal. There          were two cost awards from the district court and the          court of appeals, and there was a second appeal. There            Alderson Reporting Company Official were five encumbrances in one single piece of        litigation. So these encumbrances can add up quite         quickly, and you can get up to five, seven, eight.                      And that case, it was a meritorious case,         the Second Circuit said. It wasn't a frivolous case.           The prisoner didn't win, but it was ­­ it was a case             that wasn't, as ­­ as Justice Kagan used in the last           argument, it wasn't a laughing­stock case. These         were ­­ it was a meritorious case in the sense that it             was one that could be brought by any other American that           the prisoner ­­ that the prisoner brought.                   So I'd like to reserve the remainder of my         time for rebuttal.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Saharsky.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF NICOLE A. SAHARSKY                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MS. SAHARSKY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               This statute is written from the perspective       of a single case. And what I mean by that is that for                each action or appeal, it provides a list of things for            the Court to do: To check for the affidavit of           indigency, to check for three strikes, and as relevant         here, to require full payment of filing fees on an          Alderson Reporting Company Official installment schedule.              So what we're talking about here is       Subsection (b), which is the filing fee provision, and         it says, first, that an IFP prisoner has to pay the full            amount of each action or appeal, talking about a single           action or appeal, and then it sets out an installment          plan, which is an initial payment and a monthly payment.                       So we're at the point where Petitioner       agrees that the initial payment is for each case, but          the ­­ he says that the statute somehow shifts         perspective to all of an inmate's cases when it starts          talking about the monthly payments.                 And we just don't think there's any kind of         clear explanation in the statute that does that. We          think the burden should be really on him to show a shift             from a single case to all of the cases, and it wouldn't             make sense to do that.                   I think Justice Scalia made the point in       this discussion that there just wouldn't be any marginal         deterrence if an inmate could file as many lawsuits as          he wanted and not make any additional ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: You say the word "fees."        What about the word "fees"? Does that show?                     MS. SAHARSKY: Right. What petitioner says        is that the word "fees," plural, always means more than          Alderson Reporting Company Official one case. And we know from the text of this statute            that that's not true, because there are several places         where Congress says "fees" and it's referring to a         single case.              So for example, in Subsection (b)(),      Congress talks about the amount of fees permitted by         statute for a civil action or an appeal. In (b)() it             talks about any court fees required by law for an action           or appeal. Similarly, in (a)() and (a)() it talks          about fees, plural, for a ­­ a single action or a single               appeal.             And to be clear, we think that in this         statute Congress used "fee" and "fees" somewhat       interchangeably in the way that people do out in the          world; that people would say "attorney's fees," "an        attorney fee award," "fee shifting," "we're shifting all        the fees," that sort of thing, that that's just common          usage, and that the single/plural fees in       Subsection (b)() just does not provide the kind of         strong indication that would be necessary to overcome        the real thrust of the rest of the statute, which is           that it's something that a court does for each of these            cases. It sets out this payment plan; it does each of            the other things that are set out in the statute.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Saharsky, I       Alderson Reporting Company Official don't ­­ I can't ­­ I'm not terribly persuaded by your            deterrence argument. I mean, no statute pursues its          purposes at every cost. And maybe Congress decided they          could ­­ they didn't need to take the last cents an            hour the prisoner earned to promote the deterrence when         they have all these other anti­filing provisions in the         law.             MS. SAHARSKY: Well, this is the only        provision that provides a financial deterrent. There         are other provisions, like the three­strikes provisions,       et cetera. But this is the one, and this is in the             record, where members of Congress said it makes an         inmate stop and think: Is this lawsuit worth the cost?                                   And in the amount that ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but Congress is        talking about, okay, they have to pay the filing fee.          Certainly Congress didn't focus, I wouldn't think, on         whether it's ­­ well, I assume they didn't focus on           whether it's per case or per prisoner, because it's         really quite unclear.               MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we think that Congress        did make that decision when it wrote the ­­ the statute           from a perspective of a single case. Congress ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I wanted to talk         about that. I ­­ the first reading, two struck me as             Alderson Reporting Company Official different than one, because in ­­ in one you're talking          about, oh, this is what the Court should do. But on two             you say this is what's required of the prisoner, and it           just says up to percent.                  Now I know one says required two, but it          immediately shifts its ­­ he's required to pay the whole          thing, and that's the important point. But ­­ but two,           it says this is what's required of the prisoner, monthly          payments of percent of the preceding month's income.                                 MS. SAHARSKY: Right. Towards ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To me that seems to         be more a prisoner focus than a case­by­case.                      MS. SAHARSKY: But it's ­­ it's linked to         Subsection (b)(). This whole thing is talking about         what happens in a ­­ in a specific case. It starts by               saying the ­­ "When a civil action or an appeal is            filed, you shall pay the full amount of the filing fee,           and here's the way to do it." And Subsection (b) then            triggers ­­ Subsection (b)() then triggers      Subsection (b)().              We think Judge Shreenavossen got this      exactly right in the opinion for the D.C. Circuit where          he said that when you start reading (b)(), it is          triggered from (b)(), and it continues the per­case        focus that it's talking about, first we have an initial          Alderson Reporting Company Official partial payment for one case, and then we have monthly          payments to pay off the balance of that case.                                 And that's ­­  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure that's        responsive to my point. I guess what I was saying is I               don't think it carries forward the case­by­case basis        because it speaks solely of what's required of the         prisoner in a way that doesn't address case by case at            all. I mean, that's why this is such a confusing             statute.             MS. SAHARSKY: Well, we think ­­ the reason         that we think it does, just to be clear as possible, is            because of the language that starts Subsection (b)(),        which is, "After payment of the initial partial filing         fee" ­­ which is for one case ­­ "then the prisoner is            required to make monthly payments," which is to pay the          remaining amount because we know he has to pay the full           amount for one case.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of percent of the         preceding month's income. To me, I ­­ well, I would             think at least as reasonable as you're reading, to say          when you look at what is required of the prisoner,           percent of his income, that doesn't have anything to do          case by case, because what you would require, of course,          is that he pay percent if there are two cases, or             Alderson Reporting Company Official percent if there are three, or all of it, if it's above            $. And I think he ­­ anyone ­­ someone looking at             that may say, no, he's only supposed to pay percent           of his income.               MS. SAHARSKY: But this ­­ this part of the          statute, and all the parts of this statute, really, are          talking about the perspective of a single case. And we            think the percent makes sense in that regard, because          as one member of Congress said ­­ and this was quoted in            the D.C. Circuit's opinion ­­ the filing fee of ­­ of            percent is small enough not to deter a prisoner with a            meritorious claim, but it's large enough to deter        frivolous claims or multiple filings.                 So the percent essentially leaves room       for multiple filings that you could apply at more than          one time when a prisoner has a second case, a third              case, a ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, yes, but he        doesn't get off the hook for the other ones. It's           just ­­ has to pay it further down, you know, it's ­­           it's like a mortgage. I mean, you get years, you              have to pay it further down. If you're on years, you             have to pay it less.                             MS. SAHARSKY: Well, I think ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, it's not         Alderson Reporting Company Official like he's getting off Scott­free.                 MS. SAHARSKY: Right. I understand your         question, but I think that there are a couple of            problems with that. One is that there's nothing in the           statute that suggests that you would delay the payments.         And it doesn't make sense in terms of the statutory          purpose to delay them.                As Judge Easterbrook's opinion for the      Seventh Circuit said, if you want to have a         pay­as­you­go system where there's an immediate cost to        each individual case, the person needs to have an         obligation to start paying right away, not five years in          the future, or perhaps never.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he pays the         percent in every case right away.                  MS. SAHARSKY: Right. But that's a one­time          payment, and it could be quite small. And that's very           different from having an ongoing monthly payment that        starts right away and that you have to pay.                     But I do want to address another ­­ another          point that I think your question raised, which is are           prisoners ever going to be paying these amounts,        particularly where they have filed numerous cases like        the individual in this case. And I think the answer is             no, for two reasons. The first is a practical one. The              Alderson Reporting Company Official second one is a legal one.                     I guess I'll start with the legal one that        numerous courts that have considered this issue have        said that once a prisoner is out in the world and is no              longer a prisoner but wants to continue his case, he can            try to qualify for regular IFP status and no longer have           to make his payments. So potentially, he's not making          those payments.              And regardless of how you would decide       that legal ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You agree with that        interpretation?             MS. SAHARSKY: It's not something that we've        taken a position on in this case.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then I don't think         it's fair to rely on it.                  MS. SAHARSKY: Well, then I ­­ I do think            it's fair to rely on it in light of the fact that no one              is collecting ­­ no one is ­­ there's not any          centralized mechanism to collect now.                 And that's really the second point that I        wanted to make, which is regardless of how you would          resolve that legal question, and actually the reason        that the administrative office has not, so far as we          know, taken a position on that, is because there are           Alderson Reporting Company Official serious practical problems to collecting.                 One of those problems ­­ when you ­­ when         you look at the statute, Subsection (b) allows you to          take money from the trust accounts, so it's fairly easy          to collect while the individual is in prison. But once           the person is out in the world, courts ­­ each          individual court trying to collect filing fees that        are ­­ that the inmates ­­ the former inmate's on the           hook for is quite a difficult thing.                    We have spoken with folks from the       administrative office who tell us that there is not now          any centralized system for trying to refer those        obligations for treasury, and I think you could imagine          how cumbersome that would be. So to think that          potentially paying five years down the road, or never         paying is any kind of marginal deterrent I think would           be wrong.              We think that Congress knew that there were        multiple filers out there, and that if they were going          to file more lawsuits, they should pay more. And just           to be clear about what Congress was saying here, no one           is precluded from going to court. All Congress is          saying is something very reasonable, which is if you         have funds available and you continue filing more        lawsuits and appeals, you should have to pay. You          Alderson Reporting Company Official should have to contribute. And we think that that makes           complete sense.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Saharsky, can I get back          to the $ rule and the BOP policy with respect to this?            I think it was the Chief Justice who said that he didn't            really understand. And I share his lack of          understanding about how the BOP is actually doing this,         given the language of the statute.                  The statute says, you know, "shall forward       payments each time the amount in the account exceeds         $." So that suggests to me that if you're looking at            an account with $ and cent, you make the next            payment. And I understand from your brief that that's           not what the BOP is doing. And how can the BOP be not              doing that?              MS. SAHARSKY: Well, a ­­ a couple of           answers. First of all, we think that that language that           you ­­ you cited can be read multiple ways, as I think             the discussion with Justice Breyer perhaps suggested,       that it could mean a $ floor or it could mean that you              start making payments at the $ and then go below the           $.             The BOP has long­standing ­­ has taken the        position, long­standing position, that you have a $         floor that is not in any kind of regulation or published           Alderson Reporting Company Official guidance. The way that we do it is we have a database              that is basically for inmate trust accounts. It's just          an electronic system for having money coming in and out          of the accounts. And we have had that $ floor in            there since that database was set up in . But we            think the statute could be read both ways, and we think           it is more consistent with Congress's intention to leave         the $ in ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's probably right.       But how can it be read that way? Tell me how it can be               read that way.                           MS. SAHARSKY: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying you can't       touch $. In ­­ in all cases, $ will always remain            in the account. How can you read it that way?                       MS. SAHARSKY: Well, because when it says        "exceeds $," I think you could ­­ you could read it as             that it can't ­­ kind of the flip side, that you can't            go below the $. Or you could say that you could start             at the ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Just read the language.       Read the language. What ­­ what language produces that          result?             MS. SAHARSKY: Right. We think that it         is ­­ when you say it exceeds $ that that means that            Alderson Reporting Company Official you can't ­­ there's the flip side of it that you can't            go below $. But to be ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't follow. It ­­        it says you can take percent if the account exceeds           $. If the account exceeds $, you take percent of            the account.                                      MS. SAHARSKY: Well, Justice Scalia ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what it says.       MS. SAHARSKY: Right. If ­­ if you ­­ we           think that it can read both ways, but this is ­­ if you             disagreed about that, we don't think that that issue         resolves this case for a number ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Anyway, why can't you read        it that way? You forward the payment each time the           amount exceeds $. Forwarding it consists of pressing         an electronic button. And so the instant you press that           button, it does not exceed $. And there we have it.            So there is a way of construing the language which is            consistent with the obvious purpose to me, which is to          leave this prisoner with at least $.                   MS. SAHARSKY: Well, that's what we think.        We think it can be read multiple ways. And so far as we              know about the experience, it has been read multiple         ways. There are cases in the courts of appeals that           have read it one way versus the other. To be clear            Alderson Reporting Company Official though, these cases not ones that have gone through any          detailed statutory analysis, not even as much detail as         this Court's discussion at argument today, but have just         said in an offhand line either you can go below the $            or can't. They've kind of gone both ways on that.                       And in terms of experience, we know from the         Second Circuit's case that's cited in the briefs,        Whitfield, that New York did not go below the $. I            asked counsel of record for the States. The States          filed a brief on our side of this case, and ­­ and the              counsel of record is the Solicitor General of Michigan.         He said that Michigan does not go below the $. My            friend on the other side has suggested ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But does all of this by         all of the States, all of the prisons? Because your           adversary says that some are going below the $.                     MS. SAHARSKY: I'm not sure that that's        true. He cites two cases. One is ­­ they're from            Maryland and from Iowa. One of the cases said that           there was ­­ that it went below the $ in a ­­ in one               case. But it didn't say that was the State policy.           I ­­ you know, I don't know if it was.                       And then the second was an individual       accounting clerk who had gone below the $ and who had           done it manually. So I don't know that that represents            Alderson Reporting Company Official any kind of policy either.                  But if I could step back, I think it is not            necessary for this Court to resolve the $ issue to          resolve the question presented, because the question is        should an inmate who files more cases have to make          monthly payments?              And just as ­­ and just parenthetically to        highlight why the Court doesn't need to resolve the $          issue to resolve this case, this was not an issue that           Petitioner briefed before the D.C. Circuit. It's not         anything that the D.C. Circuit's opinion addressed. And         it's not something that was in the certiorari petition.         So why ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: And that issue could come        up in the very first payment, couldn't it? If the guy            has $ and cent in his account, the very first            payment could raise that issue.                             MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, that's true.      JUSTICE SCALIA: So it's not an issue        presented by the ­­ by the question of whether you use           the per­case or per­prisoner approach.                                         MS. SAHARSKY: I completely agree.       JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a problem either way.         MR. SULLIVAN: However you resolve the       question presented, that would still be a separate         Alderson Reporting Company Official question, one that the courts of appeals have not         considered in any level of detail.                              The extent ­­  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Saharsky, I       find ­­ I ­­ I think others may too. I find the issue                 that's before us very difficult to resolve based on the          statutory language. Is there any doctrine tantamount to         the rule of lenity in interpreting a criminal statute          that applies here? Because the thing that strikes me          most is the extreme harshness of your position. We're          talking about earning cents an hour, filing fees of          $, $. And the money is used to ­­ for what?            Phone calls to family and friends, stamps for letters,         and to buy books. And you're going to take the last,            you know, whatever so that someone who's in there for           years can't even buy a book? That seems very, very            harsh.             And you seem to be willing to interpret the         ambiguity in the statute to save the last $, but          you're unwilling to interpret what I think at least I           regard as the ambiguity in the statute to allow         prisoners ­­ I mean, they are prisoners. They're not ­­           that's perhaps not entitled to any grace, but who in          some States earn cents an hour. You're not willing           to interpret that ambiguity in a way that allows them to            Alderson Reporting Company Official keep that so they can pay for phone calls to their           family.             MS. SAHARSKY: Well, a couple of answers.         First of all, we think that this is not ­­ this ­­ this             question of a person having so little in their money ­­           money in their the account only arises in the case that           you're talking about someone who has filed five or more          lawsuits, which is not the ordinary case. I mean, it is             obviously a case to consider. But at least in the BOP's             experience, the vast majority of people who have orders         owed are for one lawsuit, two lawsuits. Most of the           court of appeals' cases below are like that, et cetera.                      Putting that to the side, of course, this        statute never prevents a prisoner from bringing a         meritorious case because of the safety­valve provision.       We also interpret the $ amount to leave money in the           account.             There's also, of course, administrative     remedies, which administrative exhaustion is required.      So that helps resolve any questions about making sure         that claims are heard.      And, in fact, the BOP does have       the discretion to allow     phone calls, et cetera, to     indigent prisoner, also    stamps, et cetera, et cetera.                 So in terms    of what you potentially perceive     as harshness, this only     arises in cases where an inmate      Alderson Reporting Company Official is filing so many cases, that potentially a large          portion of his income used to pay filing fees. And           really that's ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just a thought.        Well, if you're there for years, maybe you should let           them buy a book.                 MS. SAHARSKY: Right. And this ­­ again,         this situation there ­­ I think most prisons actually          have libraries that books are available. And like the          Court has had some cases about what libraries ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sure they are ­­        I'm sure they are very good libraries, too.                    MS. SAHARSKY: Well, just ­­ just to be         clear, you know, this is a situation that only arises in            the fairly atypical situation. We ­­ it's true that the           statute does not specifically address the ­­ the        situation of a prisoner with five lawsuits or six          lawsuits and orders et cetera. But we think the reason           that that is and that the Seventh Circuit suggested in          one of the early opinions after PLRA was enacted is          because Congress thought that the three ­­ three­strikes        provision was going to prevent all of these lawsuits,         but it ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Do a lot of prisoners buy          books? I mean, does Amazon really make a lot of money              Alderson Reporting Company Official off these people?                                       MS. SAHARSKY: I can't say, you know ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think ­­       MS. SAHARSKY: ­­ the experience that we have        in this case, for example, might be good to highlight,          which is Pinson, the individual who has filed more than          a hundred cases ­­ gets regular deposits into his         account, had been using them to buy books and other          materials. Those are in the Joint Appendix starting on          pages , , et cetera. So it shows that prisoners are            able to ­­ even Pinson who has filed over a hundred            cases is able to ­­ to pay those amounts.                     And just to ­­ just to clarify, I think the           Court is thinking of a situation of, you know, a           prisoner who has cents of income or $ of income.           But we don't think that that is the typical situation.          Pinson's account at the time he filed shows that he          received an average of ­­ I think it was $ a month of               income. I have asked the BOP for statistics just           because I was curious about what is the median income           that's received, what is the median deposit. They said          that for the ­­ the past fiscal year, the median ­­          median income an inmate receives is approximately $ a         month. So, in fact, with that, if an inmate has            percent that he's paying towards filing fees, he could         Alderson Reporting Company Official pay them off at a reasonable rate. And we think that             that's just really a much better alternative from what          Congress intended.              JUSTICE KAGAN: But that does raise ­­ I         mean, as Mr. Shelley says, using that exact $ number.          If you have $ and you have five lawsuits, the $ is            gone, assuming that the BOP's policy is not uniform and          maybe is not statutorily authorized.                 MS. SAHARSKY: Yes, I think that ­­ I think            that that is the implication of it, and we think that           that is what Congress intended.                   I am not sure if the Court is interested in         such information, but we actually did go ahead and just          look in our database to see how many inmates have one           PLRA order that they're paying as opposed to five orders          that we're paying. And what we found, just checking          last week, was that inmates ­­ there are inmates of           the over , in the federal system who are paying on           one order, and only inmates of the over , who           are paying on five or more orders or who had six, and            then inmates who have six or more orders.                     So this actually is a ­­ a very small           problem, at least federally, and we would not want this          very small tail to wag the dog of this statute that is            clearly ­­ clearly intended by Congress to make sure         Alderson Reporting Company Official that inmates who are filing frivolous lawsuits have a         financial disincentive to do so. And ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Be clear about your       policy. And I think your adversary agrees. Under (a),            the percent has to be paid on all five cases whether            the amount is above or ­­ the amount in the account            is above or below , correct?                               MS. SAHARSKY: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So those five cases       would always wipe out the $.                  MS. SAHARSKY: The $ is not an impediment         to the initial partial filing fee. It is only in the            second part of it. That ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So ­­ and so the $         floor starts once the account goes up ­­ you have to ­­           a bottom. You have always $ in your account, but any            dollar that goes into your account after that,         percent has to be paid.                  MS. SAHARSKY: Right. Be we think ­­        assuming that it's over the $. But we think that ­­           that there's a ­­ you know, that there's at least $ in             the account or would wait until there was $ in the           account. So if I'm understanding your question        correctly, we would wait until there was $ in the          account as just a matter of ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you would take        percent. Let's say there's $ and ­­ there's $.           The one extra dollar is paid to whom?                                MS. SAHARSKY: To ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume there's      five cases there.               MS. SAHARSKY: We would ­­ if we can't pay          all of the five cases, as we believe Congress intended,          we would pay the oldest lawsuit. The oldest ­­ and ­­           and ­­ and I don't mean that by filing date. I mean the                oldest order that was ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would take that entire       $?             MS. SAHARSKY: Yes. Because the statute        says to pay percent per case, so we would try to do             the closest thing that we ­­ we could to that.                      And as Justice Ginsburg said, you can't get        blood out of a stone. There comes a point at which, if               there's not funds, we can't pay. But as we understand           the statute, and we think it makes perfect sense in          terms of what Congress wanted, if you have money         available and you continue to file more lawsuits and get          orders entered, that you ­­ the inmate should have to          pay for them.               So at the end of the day, we think that the           Alderson Reporting Company Official D.C. Circuit got it right, that both when you look at           the specific text of this provision, which is        Subsection (b) about filing fees but really the entire         statute written from the perspective of a single case, a           checklist for a single case, that Congress wanted         inmates who were filing more lawsuits to pay more.                     And we think that that makes sense and that         also ­­ and I want ­­ this is, I think, a partial answer                to one of the prior questions of the Chief Justice in           terms of interpretative canons, etc., that it's       consistent with what this Court did last term in the          Coleman case.              In the Coleman case the Court was       considering the three­strikes provision, but it      recognized that that provision is written from the        perspective of a single case, a single action, or           appeal. You could get a strike for the action. You             could get a strike for the appeal.                    And the same thing we think is true for the          filing fees. You could owe the filing fees for the           action. You could owe the filing fees for the appeal.           And we think that that makes complete sense.                    So unless there are further questions, we       would urge the Court to affirm the decision of the          D.C. Circuit.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Oh, you have four minutes remaining.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ANTHONY F. SHELLEY                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. SHELLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        First of all, with respect to the ­­ the         hypothetical that Justice Sotomayor asked, in fact, I        think if the account had $ in it, the government's          position would lead to none of the clerks of the courts           being paid because the first payment would take the ­­         the balance under $. So that seems, again, as a           number of justices have mentioned, other than       Justice Breyer, a perverse reading of the $ rule.                      But I also want to take on the idea that           this is the only provision in the statute that provides          for a financial effect on the prisoner when filing a           lawsuit. No ­­ as the Chief Justice mentioned, the          initial partial filing fee applies in every case. No          $ rule. No minimum.                 So that is a ­­ an immediate financial         incentive not to file a frivolous lawsuit because money          is going to go immediately. And if it doesn't go           immediately, it's a debt that gets paid sequentially,         much like the per­prisoner approach would adopt for        (b)(). But (b)() then takes a longer­term point of           Alderson Reporting Company Official view. (b)() is an immediate financial disincentive.        (b)() is the longer financial disincentive month after        month with the installment payments.                   I also want to take on the idea that "fees"         and "filing fee" appear interchangeably in the statute.        They do not. Ms. Saharsky mentioned the word "fees,"          but "fees" unadorned with the word "filing" in front of          it appears differently than does the word "filing fees."                     The plural "filing fees" appears in exactly       two spots: (b)(). And then in the cross­reference to           the cost section, I believe it's (f) ­­ in the (f)            section where it says that costs shall be charged the          same way as filing fees. They both use the plural           "filing fees."              So this was purposeful. Congress used the        plural "filing fees" only twice. And that's because, I          think, they were talking about the ­­ the numerous cases          being paid to a single clerk.                   And finally, I'd like to say, it has often         been said that the measure of a society is not how it             treats it's outstanding citizens but how it treats        weakest.             Here there's no ­­ it's criminals. Here        there's no real reason to pile on to prisoners with this           additional onerous financial incentive when the other       Alderson Reporting Company Official aspects of the PLRA do the work of deterring frivolous          lawsuits along with the disincentive that's provided       under the per­prisoner approach.                We would ask that the Court reverse the        D.C. Circuit.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: A agrees : : ahead : AL : a.m : : : ability : able : :, allow : :, Appendix : above­entitled : : appears : : : : allowed : allows : : : : account :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : Amazon : : :, :,,,, :, : alternative : : : : : ambiguity :, : American : amount : : applies : : apply :, : approach :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : Page  : : : brief : : B b :,, : : : : : :, briefed : :,,, briefs : :,, : bring : : :,, : :,,,, bringing : : : : :, :, : brings : brought : : : back : : : Bruce : : : : : : : balance : : : :, burden : Bureau : : button :, buy :, : : : C C : : called : calls : : :, canons : care : careful : cares : carries : case : : : : : :,, :, :,, : : : : :, :,,,, :,,,,,, :, :, :, : :,,,,, :, :, : :,, :, : :,, : :,,, : : :,, :, : :, banking : : : : barriers : : : : based : : :, baseless :, : : : argument : : basically : :, appropriate : approximately : :, :, : :, : : basis : : : accounting : accounts : : : action : : :, :,, : :,, add : : : added : addition : : additional : : : address : : : amounts : : analysis : anomalies : answer : : : : : answers : : ANTHONY : arises :, : art : : asked : : : bat : behalf :, : :, : : : behavior : believe : : : aspects : assessed : : best : : Assistant : assume : : bit : assumes : assuming : better : : addressed : administer : administering :, : : anti­filing : anticipated : ANTOINE : : : : Anyway : : appeal : : administrative : admit : adopt : : adopted : adversary : : : affidavit : affirm : agency : :,, : :,, : attorney : :, :,, : :,, atypical : attorney's : appeals : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : appeals' : authorized : available : : : average : avoids : : award : : awards : agree : :, appear : : : : APPEARANCES blood : : board : book : : books : : : : BOP : :,, :, : : BOP's : : bottom : Breyer : : : :, : : : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Page  counsel : : : : : : : couple : : date : day : deal :, : dealing : debt : court :, :, decide : course : : :, decided : : : defend : :,,, :, :,, :,, decision :, :, :, : :, :, : : : defer : : : : deference : :,,, :,,, :, :, defined : :,,, :, :, Department : : :, : deposit : : : : deposits : : : : described : :, : detail : : delay :, deferred :, : Court's : : detailed : courts : : : :, :, : : : : : : creates : : : criminal : criminals : cross­reference : deter :, deterrence : :, deterrent : : deterring : : difference :, :, : different :, : : : : : difficult : : dimension : disagree : : disagreed : disagrees : discouraging : cumbersome : differently : curious : current : custody : : : : : discretion : : :, discussion : : : : database :, disincentive : cash : cause : cent : : centralized : : cents : : :, : cert :, Certainly : certiorari : cetera : : :,,, : : chain : charged : CHARLES : check :, : :, checking : checklist : Chevron :, Chief :, : : : : connect : consider : : : considered : clearly :, clerk :,, :, : :,,, :, considering : :,,, :, consistent : :,, : : : : : : : clerks :, : : : : closest : Coleman :, collect : : : :, collecting : : collector : consists : constitutional : : constitutionality : construction : construing : continue : : : continues : continuing : :,,, : contribute : cases :,, : case­by­case : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : :, :,,, Circuit's : : :, : : : : :, : : : circumstance : : : : :, : :, :, :, :, :, : circuits : : cited : : : : : cites : citizens : civil : : claim : claims : : clarify : clarifying : clear : : Official comports : comprises : concedes : concession : : confined : confusing : Congress :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : :,, :,,,, : : : :, : :,, : : : : Congress's : : :, : combination : : : : come :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, coming : : :,, : common : complete : comes : : : : : D D : D.C :,, correct : : :, correctly : cost : : : :, : : choice :, circuit : : : completely : costs : : Alderson Reporting Company Official encumbrance : fairly : : encumbrances : family : : : :, far : : : fault : Fed : federal : : federally : fee :,,, : :,,,, :,,,, :,,, : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,,, : :, : disincentives : : :, dismiss : dismissed : distribute : district :,, : Especially : ends : entered : entire : : entitled : : : : : :, : :,, districts : divided : docketing : doctrine : dog : doing :,, :,, dollar : : : drafted : drain :, due :,,, duties : E E : : :, earliest : early : earn : : : earned : : : : earning : Easterbrook's : : easy : effect : eight : : eighth : either : :, electronic : : enacted : : : encompasses : espouse : ESQ :, :, : essentially : : essentials : et : : : :,,, : : event : eventually : exact : exactly : : : : : example : : exceed : : exceeds : : : : : :, :, : exclusive : exhaustion : experience : : : : explanation : : extent :, : extra : extreme : F f : :, : : :, fact : :, : : : : : fair :, Page  :,, filer : filers : : files :, : : : : : : : :,, :, :, flip : : floor : :, filing :,,, : : focus : : : :, folks : follow : following : : forever : forfeits : :,,,, :,,,, :,, :, :, :, :,,, :, :,,,, :,, : :, :, Forget : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, :,, : : : : Forwarding : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :, :,, :,,, forma : : former : forward : :, : : : :, : : : found : four : : fourth : : : : : friend : friends : frivolous : : :, : : : : : front : : : full : : : : fully : fee's : fees :,,, : :,, :, : :,,,, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :,, : :,, : :,,,, :, : : : : :,,, :,,,,,, first :,, : : finally : financial : : :, :, : filings : : find :, : fifth :, : : figure : : : file : : further :, :, :, funds : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, future : : G G : garnished : : : : : : : fiscal : filed : : : : : five : : : General : : :, :, getting : : Alderson Reporting Company Ginsburg :,, halves : : : : happen : :, : : happens : : :,, : : : : harsh : harshness : give :,,, given : :, :,, : : : head : hear : heard : helps : : gives : giving : go : : : higher : : : : highlight : : : : : Hobson's :, : :,, : :, home : hook : : goes : : : : : : : hour : : : :, going :, :, hundred : : : hurt : :,, : : : :, : : : hypothetical : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : idea :, : I good : : : government : :, : : : : government's : : : : grace : : : greater : guess : : : : guidance : : : guy : H IFP : : imagine : immediate : : : immediately : :, impediment : implication : important : impossible : incentive : : includes :, income : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : :,, Official :, inconceivable : incorrect : increment : : incur : incurred : : indicates : : indication : indigency : : indigent : individual :, :, : : individuals : ineffective :, information : initial :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : inmate : : : : : :, : inmate's : : inmates : : :,,, : : insert : installment :, :, :, :, : instance : : : : : instant : : intended : :, :,, : intention : interchangeably : : interested : interpret : :,, : Page  interpretation justices : : interpretative : interpreting : : investigate : Iowa :, : issue : : K Kagan : : :, : : : keep : : : keeps : key :, kick : : : : kill : : :,,, KIMBERLY : :, : kind : : J job : Joint : JR : Judge : : : Justice : :, :, :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, : : :,, :,, : : : : : :,, :,,,, :,,, :,, :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, : :, :,, :, : :,,, : :,, : :,, : : :, : :,, : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : knew : know : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, : L lack : language : : : : : : :, :,, : : large : : laughing­stock : Laughter : law : : : lawsuit : : : : : : lawsuits : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official lead : leave :,, majority : making : : : : : : leaves : : man : manually : marginal : : : leaving : left : : legal :,,, Maryland : lenity : let's : : : : materials : matter : : O O : : : : : : :,, : : : obligation : obligations : obtained : obvious : month's : : obviously : monthly : : offhand : month :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : : months : : office : : officers : official : : Page  P : page : : pages : paid : :,, :, : :, :, : : :, :, :, : :, : parenthetically : : :, letters : level : libraries :,, light : line : : : : : lines : linguistically : linked : list : literally : litigation : little : : : : long : long­standing :, : : :, : : : mortgage : : moved : : mean : : : multiple :, : :,,, :, : : :, : : :, multiply : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : :, measure : mechanism : median :, N N :, : nearest :, : : : necessarily : means : : :, longer :, : longer­term : meet : look : : : member : : : : members : :, : : mentioned : : : :, : : necessary : : : need : : needed : needs : : never : :,, : :, : : : : part : : officials : : partial :, : :, oh : : : :, :, okay : : :, : : : : : oldest :,, once : : : : one­time : onerous : ones : : : : ongoing : opinion : : : : opinions : opposed : : opposite :, oral : :, : : order : : :, : orders : : particularly : parts : pauperis : : pay :, :, : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, :, :, : :, : : : : :,,,, : pay­as­you­go : looked : :, mentions :, New : looking : : meritorious : : loses : losing : lot : : : Midwest : Newlin : : : : :, NICOLE : : : : : Michigan :, note : noted : November : number : : : : : mind : minimum : minutes : moment : numerous : : : : : : : : money :, :,, : paying :, :, : :,,, ordinary : outlandish : : outstanding : overcome : overwhelming : owe : :, owed : : : P payment : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : : : payment's : payments :, :,, :, : lower :, M machinations : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : petitions :, : :, phone : : : : :, preserving : press : pressing : prevent : pick :,,, prevents : piece : previous : previously : pile : prior : prison : : pays : : penny : people : : provided : provides : : : proving : provision : : : : : :, : provisions :, : : : : Pinson :, per­case : : Pinson's : : : : places : : plan : : : plays : per­prisoner : :,, : : : :, please : : : : : PLRA : : : : perceive : percent : : : :, : : : plural :,, : : : : :,, : : :,,, : :,, :,, : point : : : : : :,,,, : : : :, :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, :, : :, :, : :,,, policy : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, perfect : : portion : position :, pointing : published : : : : purpose :, : : : : : : : : : purposeful : prisoner :, purposes : : : : pursues : put :, : Putting : : :, :, :,, : : : : : :, :, : : :,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :,, : : :, : :, : : : questions : Q qualify : question : : prisoner's : prisoners : :, : :, : : : prisons : : :, quickly : : quite : : : : quoted : : : : :, :, probably : : : : : problem : : raise : : : R : R : perfectly : perform : permitted : person : : : : possibility : possible : potentially : perspective : : : : : : : practical : :, : persuaded : perverse : petition : petitioner :, preceding : : precluded : presented :, problems : : :, : :, process : produced : produces : promote : prove : provide : Alderson Reporting Company Page  real : : realistically : realize : really : : : : : : : : : :, : : reason : : : : reasonable : : : reasons : : rebuttal : : : receive : received :, receives : recidivist : recognized : record : : : referring : regard : : regardless :, regular : : regulation : : : relatively : release : released : relevant :, : : rely :, relying : : remain : remainder : remaining : : : : : :, : :,,, : referred : : : refer : : references : raised : rate : read : :, : :,, :,,, :,,,, reading : : : : : reply : : reads : remedies : represents : require : Official sections : see : : : shifting :, shifts : : show :, : : showed : seeks : send : shows :, sense :,, :, Shreenavossen : :,, : : : : : : :, sentence :,, : :,,, :, : :, :, : : side : : : :, : started : starting : starts : : Siluk : : Similarly : simpler : single : : : state : : statement : : : : : :, :, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : Samuels : : save : saying : : : : : : :, : Page  specifically : spoken : sponte : spots : stamps : : start : : : : : : : : : : states :, : : : : :,, : statistics : status : statute : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :,, :, :, : :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : statutorily : statutory : : : : : :, : : : : step : stone : : stood : stop : : : : strength : : required : : :,,, :,, : requirement : requires : reserve : resolve : : :,,, : : resolves : respect : : Respondents : : : responsive : rest : : result : reverse : right : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, : : : : : road : ROBERTS : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : room : roost :, rule : : : : : :, S S : : safety­valve : Saharsky : : :,, : separate : sequential : says : :, : sequentially : :, : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : : : : seriatim : serious : serve : set :, : : sets : : settled : seven : : scale : Scalia :, : : :, : : : : seventh : : :, : :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :,,, : single­case : single/plural : singular :, : : : situation : : :,,, :, six : : : :, sixth :, : slot : small : : : :, society : solely : share : Shelley : :, :,, :, :,,, : :,, : : Solicitor : : : :, : : : : :,, :, :, :, : : :, : :, :, :, : :, : :, somebody : somewhat : sort : Sotomayor : :, : : : :, : :,, : sounds : speaks : specific : : shift : schedule : scheme : Scott­free : scratching : second : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : section : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official :,,, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :, : : : :,, : :,,, :,, : : :,, : : : thinking : : thinks : third : : : : : : thought : : : :, three :, : : : : : three­strikes : strike : : : : : strikes : : talk : : talked : talking : : : : strong : struck : : subject : submitted :, Subsection : : talks : : : :,, : :,, : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, tandem : : : : : tantamount : technical : technicalities : tell : : : ten : term :, : : terms : : : : : : : terribly : text : : : Page  vast : versus : view : views : : : : : : trust : : truth : try : : : W wag : trying :, wage : twice : : two : : : wages : :, : : wait : :, want : :, :, : : :,, : : : : : typical : :, : : : : wanted : : : : : : : subsidiary : suggested : : : : suggests : : : sui : suits :, : SULLIVAN : supposed : Supreme :, sure : : : : : : :, :, switch :, system : : : : T T :, tail : take : :,,, :,, : :,,,, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : taken : : :, : takes : : U unadorned : unclear : : unconstitutional : : : : : : : : : understandable : : : : understand : : : : threshold : textual : thrust : Thank : :, thumb : : theory : thing : : : :, : : : : things : : : : time : : : : : : understanding : : : : : : understood : : : : today : tools : Torres : : unnecessary : : : uniform : United :, think :, : totally : touch : : tougher : treasury : treat : treats :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : trigger : : :,, : :,,, :,, :, : :, triggered : triggers :, true : : : unsettled : unwilling : urge : usage : use : : : usually : V v : : various : Alderson Reporting Company wants : Washington :, : wasn't :,, way : :,, :, : :, : :,, :, :, :, : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : ways : : :,, : we'll : : we're : : :, :, : : : we've :, : weakest : weakness : Wednesday : week : : went : : Whitfield : : wholly : Page  : : : : : : willing :, win : wipe : word : : : :,, :,, words : : work : : :,,, : : : : works : world : : : worried :, worth : wouldn't : : : :, : write : :, written : : : : : :, wrong : wrote : X x :, Y year : years :, : : : : York : Z zero :,, : : : : :, :, :,, : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : :, :, :, :, :, :, :,,, : : : : :,, :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : : : : : :,,, :,,,, :, : :,, . : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, :, : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : th : ­ : : : : : : :, : (b)() : (d) : : : : : :, Official : :, :, :, : :, :, : :,, : :,, :, :, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :, :, :, :, :, : :, : : : :, :, , :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : ­hour : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company 