Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  DIRECTV, INC.,                      :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          AMY IMBURGIA, ET AL.                  : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf          of Petitioner.  THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ., Bethesda, Md.; on behalf of            Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                             ORAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, DIRECTV v. Imburgia.                   Mr. Landau.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The court below violated the Federal      Arbitration Act by refusing to enforce the parties'        arbitration agreement on grounds the Ninth Circuit       characterized as "nonsensical."               The agreement provides for individual     arbitration and expressly precludes class arbitration.      And just to underscore that point, it specifies that if          State law would force the parties into class        arbitration, then the entire arbitration agreement would       be unenforceable.              The court below interpreted the reference to       State law to mean inoperative State law preempted by the          FAA. But neither respondents nor the court below         identified a single case in the history of California or           American law adopting that interpretation for any       contract. And it would be ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: What about the problem that        this is California law and a California court said          that's what the contract means under California law? In          other words, I can't find a case that we're supposed to             say ­­ or we have the power to say that they're wrong,            even if they were to say the words "do not turn on the             light" mean turn on all the lights.                               MR. LANDAU: Your Honor.     JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­ so ­­ and they may          have done that in this case.                              about it?              MR. LANDAU: Here ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Nonetheless, what do we do        MR. LANDAU: What you do about it is look to           the Federal Arbitration Act. There is not a general           Federal contracts act, but there is a Federal         Arbitration Act that Congress passed specifically      because a particular kind of contract was not getting          enforced by the courts, and Congress was concerned about         that. So what Congress ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The principle of      contract interpretation ­­ I ­­ I beg to differ with            Justice Scalia, the ­­ I thought that what the court           asked itself is what did the parties intend when they          used the words "State law"?     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that correct?      MR. LANDAU: That's what the court purported        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the interesting                                          to answer.              part. You used the word "purported." What California          law did it apply ­­                            MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that disfavors      arbitration? What contract principle did they use?                    MR. LANDAU: Well, again, a lot of cases,          you have courts that are ­­ are bringing in some          principle external to the contract, and those are kind         of easy cases. This Court has now made clear that           courts can't rely on principles external to the contract         that are hostile to arbitration.                 But courts also, under the Federal      Arbitration Act, have a responsibility to enforce the         contract according to its terms with a reference to the           Federal substantive law ­­ for more than years, the          court has made clear that the Federal Arbitration Act         creates Federal substantive law. What is the content of          that Federal substantive law?                JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was the point of        putting State law in at all? If Federal law applies,           Alderson Reporting Company Official then it makes no sense to have any reference to State           law. If State law means State plus Federal law and           Federal law trumps State law, the reference to State law          is just inexplicable.               MR. LANDAU: No, Your Honor. It's to the          contrary, Your Honor, with respect. The reference to         State law was a recognition of the concern ­­ the           problem that the parties were confronting, which is        State laws were being enacted, as in California in their          Discover Bank rule, that would force the parties into         class arbitration against their will.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: And we had not yet held at          the time this contract was made that those laws are          invalid.             MR. LANDAU: Precisely, Your Honor. And so         at that point, the problem they were focusing on was          State law. They could have also said, you know, if this            is unenforceable or used the passive voice. But here,          they chose to take the bull by the horns and be honest            about what was actually the problem, and they said State          law.             But the use of the term "State law" does not          indicate a recognition or a desire to ­­ to have            inoperative State law that's been preempted by the        Federal Arbitration Act. As the Ninth Circuit said,         Alderson Reporting Company Official that ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm still not sure that I         understood your answer to Justice Breyer's question.       His question was, this Court purported, and did, give an          interpretation of the intent the two parties had when         they entered into a contract. And that is a matter of              State law.                          MR. LANDAU: Your Honor.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I understand the          problem of preemption. I understand the problem that          preemption is ­­ that a judicial decision is         retroactive. This was not the State law. But the ­­           let's assume that the trial court in the California ­­         pardon me ­­ that the California appellate court said         the intent of the parties was to interpret the law to           mean A. And ­­ and "A" meant this superseded or           preempted State law. How can we reverse that         determination if it's a matter of State laws         interpreting a contract made by two people? I ­­ I ­­              that was the question and I'm ­­ I'm not quite sure what            your answer is.               MR. LANDAU: I'm sorry. I'll try to be as           clear as I can.                 The answer is because ­­ you wouldn't go any         further if you didn't have something called the Federal         Alderson Reporting Company Official Arbitration Act. And the Federal Arbitration Act says         that this particular kind of contract, an arbitration        agreement, is not solely a question of State law. There            is Federal substantive law created under the Act.                    To be sure as this Court said in Volt ­­ and           I'm quoting from Volt: "The interpretation of private         contracts is ordinarily a question of State law which          this Court does not sit to review."                   And we have no quarrel with that       proposition. But the key word there is "ordinarily,"         and this case shows that ordinarily does not mean         exclusively. Because the Court in Volt went on to          say ­­ and I think this is critical, and I think you              could quote this passage from Volt and be finished with          this case. It says, "In applying general State         principles of contract interpretation to the      interpretation of an arbitration agreement within the       scope of the Act, due regard must be given to the           Federal policy favoring arbitration and ambiguities as       to the scope of the arbitration clause itself resolved         in favor of arbitration."                JUSTICE ALITO: Does that mean that whenever        there is a dispute about the scope of an arbitration           clause and a State court says that it includes a certain             subject or doesn't ­­ it doesn't include a certain          Alderson Reporting Company Official subject, that there is, then, the question of Federal         law because insufficient weight has been given to the         presumption of arbitrability?               MR. LANDAU: Yes, Your Honor. There is a          Federal question. Again, ordinarily you start out with         the proposition that contracts are governed by State        law. And we should be very ­­ let me be very clear. We               are not by any means saying that the Federal Arbitration          Act federalizes this entire area. We are kind of saying           the opposite, that it generally is a matter of State           law, but there is a Federal toll. So you always have a              Federal question to be a check on the State court's           application of law for cases like this when it is          perfectly clear what is going on.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this may be an extreme         case, but where ­­ how do you define the borderline?                      MR. LANDAU: Again, Your Honor, I think in          the average case, the State court can interpret State         law as it sees fit, but then this Court's responsibility          in reviewing State law ­­ this Court obviously can         decide what cases it wants to take to review State law           has ­­ this Court's responsibility is to basically do         what Volt said it would do, which is did the State           court, in applying State law principles, give due regard         to the Federal policy favoring arbitration and construed        Alderson Reporting Company Official out in favor of arbitration?                 JUSTICE BREYER: And I found no case ever          that's done that. And I have exactly the same problem            that Justice Alito has.                            MR. LANDAU: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, once we start with          this case, even if this is not too difficult under State           law, we've got every arbitration contract in the world         where one lawyer or another will suddenly be saying, oh,          the interpretation of the contract here by the State         court judge is not favorable enough to arbitration or         hostile to the act. And suddenly we have Federalized,          if not every area, a huge area of State contract law.                                    MR. LANDAU: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Now, there's another way to        do it. We could just ask the California Supreme Court.           Now, what about that?                            MR. LANDAU: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Or ­­ or come up with an          answer to what Justice Alito just asked.                   MR. LANDAU: No, your Honor. Again, you         wouldn't ask the California Supreme Court because       ultimately this is a Federal law question.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Why not ask. No.        Ultimately, it's a State law question, what does the          Alderson Reporting Company Official contract mean. And the contract, on reading it, seems          to mean that it applies to laws that are laws, not laws            that have been held unconstitutional. So what I've         looked at, I've looked at civil rights cases, for all          kinds of cases. I can't find any.                     MR. LANDAU: Even if this case came from the          California Supreme Court, and the California Supreme       Court said we ­­ again, it has never done that, and           that's one of the odd things about this case. But even            if the California Supreme Court were to say, we as a           matter of California law say that this ­­ you know,          State ­­ a reference to State law means preempted or           repealed or otherwise inoperative State law ­­ again, I         think that's hard to imagine, but let's say they said          that, you as the Supreme Court of the United States          would still have a responsibility to make sure that that           comports with the Federal policy of arbitration.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe that's so. But if         the California Supreme Court had said this, I would          look ­­ they would read the Contract as if it said, if            there is a law in the State of California, a State law,              or if there ever has been, whether that law is          constitutional or not constitutional, whether it      violates the Supremacy Clause or not, if they ever wrote          those words in the State legislature into a law, there           Alderson Reporting Company Official is no arbitration contract. Okay? I guess parties have            the right to do that. And if the California court said            as a matter of California law they did it right here, I             don't know that we'd have a ground to stand on.                       MR. LANDAU: And that's, Your Honor, where,        respectfully, the Federal Arbitration Act, again ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: But you ­­ you need a test,           Mr. Landau. You're ­­ you're ­­ I ­­ I sympathize with              Justice Breyer's point. You need some test.                                MR. LANDAU: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Where does it stop? We're         going to reinterpret every State interpretation of ­­ of         State law that ­­ that ends up invalidating an         arbitration agreement? Certainly not. So what's the         test?                         MR. LANDAU: The test is ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: Can't you say that at least         in this case where ­­ where the State court's         interpretation flouts well­accepted universal contract     law principles, the most important of which is you         interpret a contract in a manner that makes it valid            rather than invalid. And they went out of their way to            interpret this in a manner that causes the whole          agreement to be thrown out.                 MR. LANDAU: Correct, Your Honor. That is         Alderson Reporting Company Official why this ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: So give us a test. Say           that, you know.                           MR. LANDAU: The test ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to go any         further than that, where it ­­ where it flouts standard          contract interpretation principles.               MR. LANDAU: Well, certainly, Your Honor,       that is clearly one way to look at ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you really think that        the parties here ­­ this is something that I don't know            whether to quarrel with or not.                  The California court said, we don't know       what the parties even thought about preemption. And it          was three years into litigation that preemption was        settled by this Court. Do you really think they would           have said that ­­ one of the parties would have said,           your adversary, oh, yes, now I'll go into arbitration         after three years of litigation?                 MR. LANDAU: Absolutely, Your Honor, because       the only reason that they were not arbitrating from the          get­go was because ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Was because California                  law said ­­              MR. LANDAU: Correct.    Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you don't.      MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what they wanted.                                           If California law said no, they wouldn't.                   MR. LANDAU: Right. Right. And so once it           is clear that the thing that would have forced them into           class arbitration is gone, either because the California        Supreme Court repealed it or because this Court held it          to be preempted, then it ­­ again, it's nonsensical to          say ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But when they entered ­­       when they entered the agreement, both parties       contemplated that State law meant California law.       That's why you did not object to the lawsuit being          brought in court. So if the parties' intent at the time            they entered the agreement and at the time the lawsuit          in court was started was clear, the parties intended         that the arbitration agreement would be out because the         no class action was unenforceable in California. That's         what they intended at the time they made the contract;          isn't that so?               MR. LANDAU: No, Your Honor. What they         intended was that this would turn by reference to State          law. At that time, State law was as Your Honor           describes. You are absolutely correct. But they didn't          Alderson Reporting Company Official say, if State law as it exists today requires         arbitration. In other words, there's nothing in the         contract that freezes this in a particular point in          time. It takes a snapshot ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we're trying to find        out what the parties meant, why wouldn't we look to see           what they meant at the time the contract was formed?                      MR. LANDAU: Well, because, again, it's ­­       what the contract that they chose used an important         verb. We've been talking a lot about the noun in the             sentence, the clause "the law of the State." But then           the verb says if the law of the State would find, not if             the law of your State today finds.                   And imagine, Your Honor, if California had       repealed its CLRA, which has the anti­waiver provision        that they are relying on. Well, I don't think anybody            would say, well, because the CLRA was in effect at the           time this thing was ­­ was enacted, that if a CLRA is             later repealed, we still have disclaimed arbitration.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Landau, let's assume        you're right, that this is a really bad mistake when it            comes to arbitration. So just to take you back to           Justice Alito's point and Justice Scalia's point, you        know, usually we don't fix bad mistakes ­­                   MR. LANDAU: Correct.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ when State courts       interpret State law. I mean, there are a lot of             mistakes when it comes to interpretation of contracts,        including arbitration agreements.               So, again, what's the standard? There's       nothing on the face of this opinion that indicates         hostility to arbitration. To the extent that you can          find reasoning in this opinion, which you have to search          to find, but to the extent that you can find reasoning,           it's about interpreting form contracts, interpreting ­­      whenever you see an ambiguity in a form contract, you           interpret it against the drafter. And that's a         principle of contract interpretation that, as far as I         can see, has been used hundreds of times in California.          It appears to be a very common principle of contract           interpretation in California whenever California courts      look at a contract of adhesion.                   So why isn't that just what they did, and is          what they did?               MR. LANDAU: Fair enough. But even by its          terms, the predicate for that is some ambiguity. You          can't just say, well, guess what, contract of adhesion,         immediately we go to construing against the drafter.        You have to have an ambiguity. There's no antecedent          ambiguity. And the court really didn't identify        Alderson Reporting Company Official anything other than to totally question begging       assertion that the general ­­ specific governs the        general.             Again, Your Honor, I want to be very clear          here, our rule is very narrow. And this Court does not            have to go any further than it went in Volt to say,            generally, contract interpretation, even if it's      erroneous, is a matter of State law. But ­­ and we're             not saying that every mistaken contract interpretation       gives rise to a Federal question.                   What we are saying, though, is just that the         Federal court's role is to make sure ­­ to look at what            the State court did and say, can we see that this court            gave effect to the healthy Federal policy regarding        arbitration and construed doubts in favor of       arbitration? Here, you see the opposite. And, you          know, with respect, Your Honor, you can't see on the          face of it that they say it's hostile, but how ­­                      between ­­                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do we draw the line         MR. LANDAU: Excuse me, Your Honor.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do we draw the line         between wrong and the standards you're arguing?                   MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, again, I think ­­ I           was quoting to you the language from Volt. That has           Alderson Reporting Company Official worked for the last years that it's been on the           books. I think ­­ this case, again, is not a great case               for saying how wrong does wrong have to be. I mean,             clearly, here, it's nonsensical. Again, I think there          may be cases that will have ­­ and I think you have a              standard. If I were to come ­­ I could use other words               like unreasonable or manifestly wrong.                 JUSTICE BREYER: I'm back to my point. I          looked in civil rights cases.                             MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: The south passed statute       after statute like the sit­in statutes and so forth to          try to prevent the Equal Protection Clause from being         implemented. So I looked at a few of those that my law               clerk got. In none could I find the court saying this             matter of State law where it isn't itself        unconstitutional, you know, what ­­ what is a trespass          and so forth. There ­­ it violates the Federal law,           what they'd say is we interpret the State law.                                 MR. LANDAU: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: They've gone that far,       because we think the State would interpret the State law          this way. But I can't find an analogy to what you're             saying.             MR. LANDAU: Well, again, Your Honor ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: We'd have to say an        interpretation of a contract where that interpretation        is ­­ is what?                            standard.                         MR. LANDAU: Please go back to Volt.        JUSTICE BREYER: What ­­ I'm looking for the         MR. LANDAU: Is not ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: You read me the words. It          didn't say what to do.                             MR. LANDAU: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: It said they have to        conform with Federal ­­               MR. LANDAU: Well, no. It said ­­ it said           they must read it with a ­­ with the ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: That looks like we're the        supervisor of all State contract interpretation judges.                   MR. LANDAU: No, Your Honor. Again, what ­­         again, what Volt says, it's ­­ ordinarily, it's a         question of State law. Your ­­ your role as under the            Federal ­­ there is substantive Federal law under the         Federal Arbitration Act. That has been clear and         established for more than years. The State ­­ the           Federal Arbitration Act applies in State Court. That         has been clear for more than years. If you say ­­                        JUSTICE BREYER: My other suggestion ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official we're not going to make too much progress on finding the           standard, but California does accept requests from us,        or other Federal courts, to explain what California law         is. I've looked at that statute. And if this is so             outrageous as a matter of contract interpretation of         State law, why don't we just ask them?                                this case.              MR. LANDAU: Because, again, Your Honor ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: They have not considered       MR. LANDAU: They ­­ they denied certiorari        over the ­­ one of the justices. And ­­ but, again,            what Your Honor's role is is to interpret this as a           matter of Federal law. So the ­­ again, it would go            away if ­­ if they were to change the rule as a matter              of State law. But ultimately, the Federal issue is          always present here. The ­­ again, there's always a          Federal issue just to make sure that the State court          hasn't gone too far.                Again, I understand exactly what the Court        is grappling with. Where do you draw the line on where            it goes too far. Again, our point is this case is so             far on one side of the line. And ­­ for instance ­­                        JUSTICE SCALIA: Why ­­ give us all the         reasons why this case is on the wrong side of the line.                        Justice Breyer has ­­ has mentioned the ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official the rule of contra proferentem, that you interpret a ­­          a contract against ­­ against the person who drafted it.                      Now, that's on the other side. What are ­­         what are the rules of contract law that ­­ that so           clearly outweigh that?               MR. LANDAU: I think, Your Honor, you         started out by, one, that you want a contract to be            valid. They went out of their way to look to a way to               make this unenforceable. And if you just take a step            back and look. It is ­­                                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Make what unenforceable?      MR. LANDAU: The arbitration agreement.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, the arbitration      agreement was enforceable in lots of situations.                               MR. LANDAU: No, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There was no agreement       to arbitrate class actions.                MR. LANDAU: Right. But their ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was an       agreement to arbitrate other disputes.                 MR. LANDAU: That's not their ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And single disputes.                  MR. LANDAU: Their position is that the        arbitration provision is entirely unenforceable in this       case. This arbitration is entirely unenforceable with        Alderson Reporting Company Official respect to California.               Again, what is going on here? It's clear         the parties say we want to arbitrate our disputes,         unless State law forces us into arbitration. Once State          law can no longer force you into arbitration, they don't          have any plausible narrative for why the parties would         have agreed to blow up and jettison their arbitration         rights if nobody is actually forcing them into        arbitration.             JUSTICE BREYER: Go back to Justice Scalia,        please. What I understood this to be is one reason this             interpretation from your perspective is an unreasonable       really weird one is because the statute basically says         go to arbitration unless you are in a State where the            law would require class arbitration. And if that's the          State you're in, dump the whole arbitration ­­                                           MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ business. Okay.       Now, one reason that's a bad interpretation        is that probably what they meant is valid State law.                                                                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course.     JUSTICE BREYER: All right. That's one.        MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: Now, is there any other?        MR. LANDAU: There's another one, Your Honor        Alderson Reporting Company Official that in Section here, there's a choice of law           provision specifically addressing the arbitration     clause. And the general choice of law provision is in           Section of the agreement, but ­­ excuse me, in Section             ­­ but it says, "notwithstanding the foregoing." In          other words, the fact that State law and FCC or other           law applies. With respect to the arbitration provision,         the FAA shall govern.                So our position is, it is nonsensical to say         that when the contract goes out of its way to say the            FAA shall govern the arbitration provision, that you        would take a reference to the law of your State in the             arbitration provision and say the law of your State         completely unaffected by the FAA.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Landau, I completely        take your point as to what the parties must have wanted,           and it does make this State court opinion unsatisfying,         would be a kind word for it, but ­­ but, you know, in              fairness to the State court, part of the problem was the           way this contract was worded. Everybody else finds ways          to word contract provisions like this so that there         isn't a problem. If the contract had said, you know, if             class action waivers are invalid in your State, then         Section is unenforceable, there would have not have          been this problem. This is ­­ it's a very unusual            Alderson Reporting Company Official contract provision. Most companies use very clear ones.         This one did not.                And so the ­­ the State court had to sort of           puzzle over what it meant and, as you say, probably got           the answer wrong. Strike the "probably." Got the          answer wrong. But, you know, wrongness is just not what           we do here.               MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, but, again,       wrongness is not what you do here, but this is an           arbitration contract. And, again, I think this is why           you have to ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: Did you draft this       provision, Mr. Landau?               MR. LANDAU: I did not, Your Honor.                     (Laughter.)             MR. LANDAU: But, again, I ­­ I ­­ I am not               defensive about the way this was drafted.                                           JUSTICE GINSBURG: How ­­    MR. LANDAU: They said State ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: How was the provision       changed? Now, this provision is no longer in DIRECTV          contracts; is that right?                            MR. LANDAU: That's correct, Your Honor.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what ­­ what ­­ it         was taken out and what was put in instead?         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. LANDAU: The new provision, Your Honor,        which I have here, it says ­­ it just ­­ it takes out              the word "State law" and just says "if this is          unenforceable."               And, again, the ­­ but the reason it said       State law was not to suggest that inoperative State law          should do it. It was recognizing the fact that the evil            against which it ­­ the clause was being put in was           State laws that would force you into class arbitration         against your will.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have ­­ do we have          someplace that has the change that was made in the          language of the contract?                MR. LANDAU: I do, Your Honor. I have the             new ­­ here it is, Your Honor. The current version of            the DIRECTV contract says, "A court may sever any         provision of Section that it finds to be unenforceable           except for the provision on class representative and        private attorney general arbitration." That's in       Respondent's brief on Page .                 Again, I'm not saying there aren't other       ways to write it, but the fact that there are other ways            to write it doesn't mean that it's ambiguous. And          again, I'm sure this Court construes many statutes that         could have been written in other ways, but that doesn't          Alderson Reporting Company Official make them ambiguous.               Let me just please underscore one more       point. If the contract ­­ and the California Court of           Appeals said, if in Section the law of your State is             governed by the FAA, if that had been in Section , then            they would have had no problem with this enforcing the          arbitration provision. But it does say that. It just           says that in Section . Section , the choice of law            provision, specifically says that the FAA shall govern        Section , the arbitration provision. The law of your          State language in Section is governed by the FAA. So,             in fact, it is right there on the contract.                     And, again, at the end of the day, we know          that Congress had a ­­ Congress was concerned because of           this kind of gimmick where courts were coming up with          strained interpretations to avoid enforcing arbitration      provisions. This is FAA . We are not asking this            Court to make any new law, but just to reinforce what           you said in Volt, which is ordinarily, it is a matter of             State law.              And, Your Honor, Justice Breyer, you said       that you couldn't find any case. Well, Volt is a case             where the Court went on to examine. The Court didn't           say we defer to California State law and it is,          therefore, unassailable to use the words that       Alderson Reporting Company Official Respondents would.              To the contrary, Volt said we are         going to  consider the ­­ the interpretation proffered       by the  State court and decide whether we think it is          consistent with the Federal policy favoring arbitration       in the FAA.   So there is a Federal component. It isn't ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: But the ­­ Volt says the law          of the place interprets the law of the place exactly in           the way ­­ or allows that interpretation exactly in the          way that this State court interpreted it.                   The law of the place was just the law of the           State unmodified by any possibly preempting Federal law.                    MR. LANDAU: Right. But in Volt, of         course ­­ the issue in Volt was that the court there did            not refuse to enforce arbitration. The Volt court said,          you know, we don't have a problem with this, because           this is all about the efficient process in terms of          arbitration. And the Volt court went out of its way to            say we find that this favors the Federal policy         fostering arbitration.              And the court reiterated that specific      interpretation of Volt and insisted on it in        Mastrobuono, Casarotto and Preston. In other words,        Volt took pains to say that the interpretation that we          upheld there was a pro arbitration provision that gave          Alderson Reporting Company Official effect to the Federal policy favoring arbitration.                               I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Goldstein.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. GOLDSTEIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   This case is a reprise of Oxford Health.         The argument of the party that wanted arbitration in         Oxford Health, the arbitrator had just gotten it        terribly wrong under this Court's decision in       Stolt­Nielsen. And this Court may well have had         sympathy for that, but the Court realized that it was          going to actually have to write an opinion about the          case, an opinion that the lower courts were going to          have to apply in later cases. And the difficulty is           that if you interject Federal law here, you are going to           have just a wealth of DIRECTV challenges, because in          every instance in which the State court announces here's         how we understand this language, which is State law         language in our contract, it will be open to the party           proposing arbitration to say no, actually, if there is         an ambiguity in the ­­ in the law ­­ excuse me ­­ in the              contract, then you are obliged to apply a presumption in           Alderson Reporting Company Official favor of arbitration, and this is always a Federal          question.                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but that's ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: So if you said that ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If ­­ that may be a          problem with the FAA. But the FAA was adopted because           State courts were hostile to arbitration and Congress        didn't like that. Now, how were they hostile to          arbitration? They were hostile to arbitration by        adopting special rules of contract interpretation that       disfavored arbitration. And in those instances, what        the FAA says is that that's what they wanted to stop,           special rules of contract interpretation, ordinarily a       matter of State law, but not when it's hostile to the           FAA.             And what could be more hostile to the FAA         than to interpret a phrase that says nothing about the           FAA to dispense with our holdings about ­­ as they came           about ­­ our holdings about what the FAA has to say.           And to do that even though there's a provision in the            contract that says this is governed by the FAA.                                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: So, sir ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, I        understand ­­ I'm sympathetic to the notion that this is          a matter of State contract interpretation, but that is         Alderson Reporting Company Official precisely what the FAA was getting after, State judges         interpreting contracts under special rules hostile to       arbitration.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: So, Mr. Chief Justice, if I         could deal with your real concern about where this         statute comes from, the idea that this is kind of the           core discrimination against arbitration that the statute       is after kind of structurally and then what exactly         happened in this case.                The root of the FAA ­­ and it's reflected in          the ­­ in the statutory text in Section ­­ is that             State courts were adopting doctrines that were hostile        to arbitration. Discover Bank's one of them this Court          concluded. What the FAA is not concerned with ­­ and           Congress could well pass a law that would be ­­ is the             threshold question of whether there's an arbitration       agreement in the first place; that is, we have been          unable to locate in this Court or any other court a time             when the courts overturned the determination under State        law whether the parties had agreed to arbitrate vel non.          That's an antecedent question.                It may well be that Congress could conclude        that there is a problem like that and adopt a statute             like it. But to do that here is to really open up an              enormous can of worms. What you have is the ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure that I        understand what you're arguing.                            MR. GOLDSTEIN: Sure.    JUSTICE SCALIA: You're arguing that the ­­       the FAA does not cover State gimmicks that disfavor         arbitration so as long as what they say is there is no            arbitration agreement in the first place.                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: No, Justice Scalia, don't ­­       don't misunderstand me. If the Court were to ­­                                             JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what you said.       MR. GOLDSTEIN: I apologize, then.       If the Court were to conclude that this is         just an effort to discriminate against arbitration, then        I think the Court has doctrines and the lower courts          have doctrines. We are not saying that you have to turn            entirely a blind eye to the idea and let a State court              get away with anything.                My point is different. And that is, that         this is not a doctrine that is intended to discriminate           against arbitration. It is not an indicia of a          pattern ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if we were to         look to determine whether it is ­­                              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ surely, that's a        Alderson Reporting Company Official Federal question.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes. If you were to ­­ we           agree that there is a backstop here, and it's an           important backstop. And that is, if you conclude that a           court is just, you know, making it up and discriminating          against arbitration, we think that's an important role        for the court to play. But the difference here is that            the argument is that the State court really got this          wrong and had an obligation to kind of presume that the           parties wanted to engage in arbitration.                  That is a very, very, very different        proposition of law because it asks the Federal courts to          interject and the State courts to interject ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's exactly what Volt       says, what Mr. Landau quoted, is "Due regard must be          given to the Federal" ­­ in interpreting a contract.          We're talking about interpreting the intent of the        parties ­­ "Due regard must be given to the Federal          policy favoring arbitration and ambiguities" ­­       we could ask whether or not this clause is ­­ this statute           is ambiguous ­­ "and so the scope of the arbitration          agreement must be resolved in favor of arbitration."                    MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. There are two points         about that.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Now, if this was a State          Alderson Reporting Company Official law contract looking at State law principles, but there         is a Federal rule that must be followed in ­­ in making             that interpretation, and that is a matter for us to           review.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. There are two things         about that. The first is, Justice Kennedy, the language          that kind of trailed off in your sentence is that the           Court has been very clear that ambiguities in the scope          of an arbitration agreement have to be construed in         favor of arbitration, and here's the reason. And that          is, if we know these parties have agreed to arbitrate ­­          this is in the first options. It's in lots of cases ­­            if we know you and I have agreed to arbitrate so that             there's an arbitration agreement, we're going to assume        that all of the cases fall into the bucket of          arbitrability, and that's a fair common­sense       presumption.             But what the Court said in Justice Thomas's        opinion for the Court in Granite Rock is that the          question of whether there's an enforceable arbitration       agreement at all is not ­­ is a State law question, not             a Federal law question, and here's the reason. There          are two interpretive principles under the Federal       Arbitration Act. Number one is, we want to only require           people to arbitrate when they have ­­ we are convinced          Alderson Reporting Company Official under their State law contract they did intend to         arbitrate. We can't presume that you and I intend to            arbitrate because that's the question we're asking.                   And the most important thing for you to        understand about the nature of this Section in the           contract is that it does determine whether there is         going to be any arbitration at all in California. That           is to say, is there any agreement between DIRECTV and          its California consumers to arbitrate?                 And I can point to ­­ it's very important          that you understand that.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I just don't          understand, then, Mr. Goldstein ­­ and maybe it's the         same question that Justice Scalia asked ­­ I don't see           why it's better somehow to discriminate against       arbitration by declaring arbitration agreements     unenforceable writ large than it is by narrowing the         scope of arbitration agreements unfairly.                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. There are two just ­­         there are two rules at stake. When it comes to the            question of whether you and I have an arbitration          agreement at all, what the court has said is two things.           One is, this is going to be a matter of State law. But,               of course, if all you're doing is ­­ this is a game.             You're just trying to evade enforcing the Federal        Alderson Reporting Company Official Arbitration Act. That's a ­­ you know, that's a role             for the Federal courts.                 What Mr. Landau is relying on and what the        language that's quoted from Volt that comes from Moses         H. Cone is talking about is something quite different.         And that is, construe every ambiguity in favor of         arbitration. That's what I'm resisting, not ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: What he'll say, I think, is          ­­ we certainly pressed him on it enough ­­ is that           the ­­ read the sentence, the relevant sentence. "If          the law of your State would find the agreement to          dispense with class action procedure unenforceable, then       the entire Section is unenforceable." All right.          That's what it says.                Now, would the law of California find the        agreement "dispense with class action" procedure      unenforceable? The answer to that question is clearly         no. Because they did have a law like that, but it was              invalid. So in order to read this in your favor, you'd            have to say these words: If, however, the law of your            State would find this agreement, you have to read it as           saying, if, however the invalid law of your State would          find this agreement to dispense with class action        unenforceable, then.              Now, nobody ­­ it's very hard to say that         Alderson Reporting Company Official the parties meant if the invalid law of your State would           find it and, therefore, contract interpretation is a        question of law, this question of law was decided by          California to read the word "law" as "invalid law,"         there is no case in California or anywhere else, to our           knowledge, that has interpreted contracts in such way        out of the arbitration context, and therefore, this rule         of law interpreting this word this way is discriminating         against arbitration. That's something like what the        argument he's making. Your answer to that is?                     MR. GOLDSTEIN: First, is that there is no         administrable line that he can identify between       something that's wrong and really, really wrong. But in          any event, it's not ­­ it's not correct that the          contract is improperly interpreted.                Here are the reasons: The first is that,         Justice Breyer, if you and I have a contract that says             if California law would prevent us from having a class           action waiver, we will not arbitrate at all. That is           not preempted. That's the second holding of Volt.         Remember, all AT&T versus Concepcion is, is a rule that           says, if California forces us to engage in class action          arbitration. But you and I can agree to anything at            all.             This contract, when it says, "If the law of         Alderson Reporting Company Official your State would find the class action waiver invalid"         is a perfectly fine thing for us to agree to. That's             State law and even accounts for preemption because the         FAA does not preempt California law in that        circumstance.             JUSTICE BREYER: But does California have a        law, a valid law that would find the agreement to           dispense with class action unenforceable? Does it or         doesn't it?                          MR. GOLDSTEIN: It does. It does.        JUSTICE BREYER: It does. In other words,         California now has a law that makes it okay to dispense            with class action procedures.                MR. GOLDSTEIN: In several respects. The        first is there are several cases ­­ there are an array           of cases that aren't subject to the Federal Arbitration         Act. And the second is if you and I agree to follow              that law, it is not preempted.                  Let me also point to some other indicia        that's going to make it very hard for ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you have to agree with         Justice Breyer ­­ or do you not ­­ that California          interpreted this contract as saying if there is an         invalid State law that prohibits arbitration, then       that's binding on us.    Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what you're saying.       MR. GOLDSTEIN: We don't, Your Honor.       So remember, my point is this: If you and I                                                           have a contract to follow that State law, which is this            is a contract, then it's not invalid because Concepcion          and preemption only apply when the State forces you to          do something. But in all events ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, sure. The parties can         do anything they want. But the question is, did the           parties do what they want ­­ did the parties do that           here?             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Right. And, Your Honor, my         problem is that that's going to be the question in every           case. And if we say we're going to reverse this           decision, then every time there's going to be a Federal           question about whether this is really what the parties         intended, that every time that the contract is ­­ is          ambiguous under State law.                            But I did have a couple of other things ­­           JUSTICE SCALIA: That's one horrible, and       the horrible on the other side is if we ­­ if we agree             with you, the States can do whatever they want to ­­ to            invalidate arbitration agreements so long as they're       doing it under the guise of contract interpretation. Is          Alderson Reporting Company Official that not also a horrible?                  MR. GOLDSTEIN: It is ­­ is a possible          horrible, Justice Scalia. So let me just give you the           choice between the two of them. There is no evidence           that the latter is actually happening, and you do have          the backstop. And that is, we fully agree that if you            conclude that a State court is just making it up and            discriminating against arbitration, the FAA has a role         to play.              What I'm saying to you is that they do, in          truth, want a different legal rule, and that is, you've           got to construe these in favor of arbitration. That's          the principle that he's trying to derive from Volt, Your          Honor. That's a whole other kettle of fish than the            backstop that you and I are talking about.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if we could see a         State court opinion that doesn't say anything that is         explicitly against arbitration, but it interprets a       contract in such a strange way that the only possible           explanation for the interpretation is hostility to       arbitration, can that be invalidated?                 And ­­             MR. GOLDSTEIN: I think so, Your Honor.         JUSTICE ALITO: So that's the question.       Does this case fall to that category?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GOLDSTEIN: All right. If that's what         the question is, because that is not the Volt principle.          That is the idea that this is just wildly out of bounds.            It's the incredibly fact­bound question about whether       this one decision is wildly out of bounds. So let me            talk about the other reasons it's not remotely wildly         out of bounds. Because if you write an opinion about           anything other than legal rule you just articulated,        Justice Alito, we are going to be in an incredible way.                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, you say that's not        the Volt principle. Why isn't it the Volt principle?          Ambiguities. I mean, this is even more than an           ambiguity. Even ambiguities have to be interpreted ­­        resolved in favor of arbitration. And this is more than           an ambiguity.              MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay, Justice Kennedy.      Because in my ­­ I may be mistaken, but I think that you               and Justice Alito are describing two different legal        rules. Justice Alito is saying, as I understand it ­­           and I don't purport to speak for the Justice,          obviously ­­ is that if this is a crazy decision, it's            invalid under the FAA. The ambiguities construed in         favor of arbitration principle is an ordinary       interpretive principle. And the reason, Justice       Kennedy, just to bracket this, why the Volt principle,         Alderson Reporting Company Official the Moses H. Cone principle doesn't apply here, and that          is that it's ambiguities in the scope of an arbitration          agreement. Here the question is whether the parties had          an arbitration agreement whatsoever.                So we ­­ I think we've now agreed on the           legal rule perhaps. And so let me tell you, if I could,              why I don't think you can write an opinion that says            this is nuts.               JUSTICE ALITO: And add to that, what did         the Ninth Circuit say about this? The Ninth Circuit          said it was absurd. Was that the word?                                                                     MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah, it was ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: Right.    MR. GOLDSTEIN: ­­ nonsensical.     JUSTICE ALITO: Nonsensical.    If we agreed with the Ninth Circuit that it         was nonsensical, we ­­               MR. GOLDSTEIN: I mean, I just don't want to            ­­ I don't want to play around with words, Your Honor,            about nonsensical or not. I think you and I are             basically on the same page about the FAA principle.                     Here's what I have in terms of why this is           not remotely outside the bounds, why, if you write an          opinion reversing here, you are going to invite an         enormous amount of second­guessing of State law contract        Alderson Reporting Company Official interpretation. The first is that Section of the          contract expressly contrasts State and Federal law; that        is, it says the law of your State, and then          distinguishes Federal law from that.                 The second is, as Justice Ginsburg says, why        is it the parties even referred to State law at all if            what they are talking about is just "it would be          invalid."             The third is both before this contract and        after this contract, DIRECTV wrote this contract very        differently in the way that it now says this contract          means, and it says if it would be found invalid, and as            was mentioned in the first half hour, every other         Fortune company wrote it that way as well. So there            are a whole series of very good contrasts for us.                         I also have what I think is the pushback to          the intuition that DIRECTV really must have always        intended for the contract to pick up Federal preemption         law. And here's the reason why that's not right:          DIRECTV claims and has applied the power to unilaterally         change this contract, and that is a huge deal in the ­­            in the context of a national form contract.                     Here's what happened here: DIRECTV put this        into the contract in before AT&T v. Concepcion was          a glimmer in anyone's eye at all. And it referred to            Alderson Reporting Company Official State law, and everybody agrees at that time that         California's Consumer Legal Remedies Act was going to        control and was going to prevent any arbitration in         California whatsoever. DIRECTV filed an amicus brief in         Concepcion saying we will not arbitrate with anyone in         California before the court's decision in Concepcion.                   And the way that DIRECTV intended to account        for changes in the law is that they would change the           contract unilaterally when the law changed, and I can          prove it. In the wake of Concepcion, DIRECTV rewrote          the contract. It did it before the California Court of           Appeals' decision in this case.                 DIRECTV had another mechanism fully     available to it that would account for the idea that          now, under the Federal Arbitration Act, the State can't         forbid class action waivers. It didn't need this         contract to do anything other than to pick up existing          California law.              And I will add a couple of other points just            about whether, as a matter of Federal law, you would           want to say that right now we have to go to arbitration.            Remember, DIRECTV's position is in the teeth of the         efficiency of the Federal Arbitration Act. Its view is          that the parties intended that three years into the         litigation, what they would want is to blow up the          Alderson Reporting Company Official litigation and send everybody to thousands of individual        arbitrations. That is an extremely implausible       interpretation of what the parties would want if their         goal was to have an efficient dispute resolution        mechanism.             And so what I'm ­­ the point that I'm trying          to make, Your Honors, is while I am sympathetic to the            concern, and it may be a concern directed at California           in particular, that we need to be attentive to whether          or not those courts are discriminating against       arbitration. My point to you is that you may believe           this is wrong, like you were concerned in Oxford Health          that the arbitrator had got it wrong, but you have to           adopt a legal rule here. And there are too many points             in favor of the California Court of Appeals' decision to          say that this is wildly out of bounds and have an           administrable legal rule that the lower courts can        actually apply. You can say it's way out of bounds; you            could say it's nonsensical. But then the lower courts          are going to look at what happened here, and they are           not going to view it as something that is just wildly           impossible.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess I don't          understand why it's a question of way out of bounds or            slightly out of bounds. It's a question of whether it            Alderson Reporting Company Official demonstrates hostility to arbitration. And I think the          way you show that is you say, well, look, here they           found a number of provisions illegal, and they struck          the whole thing. Here, every other case that's not          about arbitration, when they find a couple of provisions          illegal, they just sever those; they keep ­­ you know,          try to keep in effect the rest of the agreement.                      That's a different rule for arbitration       contracts than other contracts. It's not a question of           way out of bounds or way in bounds. It may be a hard               question in some cases; it may be easy in others. But            it's a very simple question of ­­ of what the rule is.             The rule is does it demonstrate hostility to arbitration         contracts?             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay. Mr. Chief Justice,        let me just distinguish this case from the one that you           granted in the Long Conference, which is the factual         scenario that you just described. In that context, what          you have is an arbitration agreement. You know that the           parties have agreed to arbitrate and what you then do is           assume that they intend the arbitration to be effective.         This is importantly, doctrinally a very different case.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's ­­ I       understand the point and ­­ but, as I understand the           arbitration law, if you have an arbitration agreement,        Alderson Reporting Company Official says you're going to arbitrate workplace disputes, but        not safety disputes ­­                           MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ and if there's an         issue, is this a safety dispute or not, that's covered           by the arbitration agreement. The arbitrator decides        that.             If you have a contract that says you agree          to arbitrate with all of our subsidiaries except the one          that does this, that's not for the arbitrator because         you have to decide if that other subsidiary has agreed          or not.              Now, this one talks about methods of       arbitration. It doesn't seem to me to be covered by           either of those two paradigms.                 MR. GOLDSTEIN: Excellent. So you've just        described Prima Paint and the assignment between the        court and the arbitrator. Here is why it is in the            paradigm of not favoring ­­ not presuming arbitration,        and that is, the effect of this contract, Your Honor.          The effect of Section is not to determine ­­ this was             Justice Sotomayor's question about whether there'd be       some arbitration in California, but just not class        arbitration. The effect of this provision is to mean          that there will be no arbitration between DIRECTV and         Alderson Reporting Company Official any of its customers in California at all. There is no            agreement to arbitrate any dispute.                 And let me just give you the proofs of that.          They filed an ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but just clear        up, there is an agreement to arbitrate some disputes         between DIRECTV and its customers.                             agreement.             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Your Honor ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the arbitration       MR. GOLDSTEIN: Your Honor, so ­­ if I could           just distinguish. There is an agreement on the subject          of arbitration, that is to say, Section is in the            contract. What Section of the Federal Arbitration Act           asks is, is there an agreement with ­­ to resolve any           disputes by arbitration? And what Section tells you           in the States where it is effective, where the ­­ what           we call the blowup clause takes effect, is that in all           of those States, DIRECTV will not arbitrate with        individuals, it will not arbitrate with respect to class         arbitration.             If I could just give you the reasons we know           that's true. DIRECTV filed an amicus brief in         Concepcion saying we do not arbitrate with anybody in         California. It then ­­ and you can see this in the            Alderson Reporting Company Official Stevens declaration in opposition to the motion to        compel arbitration said we have gotten small claims         requests related to these early termination fees, which        is ­­ and in court, which is the subject matter of our            complaint. And we have arbitrated with one party.                        So what was going on ­­ and so there ­­ in        California, DIRECTV was arbitrating with no one       whatsoever because of this contractual provision. And        that brings it not within the Volt principle, Your         Honor. We interpret ­­ when we have an arbitration          agreement, we're going to put things into the bucket,         your argument ­­ your ­­ your point, Your Honor, about          scope when it comes to safety disputes. But rather,          within Granite Rock, which said quite expressly, what we         are ­­ when we are talking about the antecedent         question, we're trying to figure out if you and I have            agreed to arbitrate any subjects whatsoever. When we're         in that circumstance, we can't presume that we are         arbitrating, because the first principle of the Federal        Arbitration Act is to not force people to arbitrate when          they haven't intended, and to require people to        arbitrate when they have.                So, Justice Kennedy, the distinction I was        drawing with Justice Alito is if we had an arbitration          agreement and we were trying to figure out if, say,          Alderson Reporting Company Official class cases were in and individual cases were out, it          would make a little bit more sense to say we're going to             presume and resolve ambiguities in favor of putting        class cases in.               But this is not that situation. It is the          question whether we are going to arbitrate with anyone.         Now, that is not to say that Federal ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: It may be, but that's quite         different from the question of whether there was an         arbitration agreement. Certainly, whether there was an        agreement in the first place is quite different from         what the meaning of the agreement is. And the ­­ the            courts decide the ­­ the first thing, and it's ­­ and           not the arbitrator. But this is not a ­­ there is no              doubt here that there was an agreement.                               MR. GOLDSTEIN: I ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: There is no doubt that        there was an agreement. The only issue was a matter of             interpretation of that agreement, whether a provision of         the agreement blew it up.                             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Okay.    Justice Scalia, what I am saying is you ­­         I ­­ you and I agree, but the consequence of the place             we disagree is important; that is, you and I agree that            this is in the contract. We have a contract on the             Alderson Reporting Company Official subject of arbitration. When this Court has said that          we will construe arbitration agreements and their scope        to include all the subject matter, that is, we will          construe them in favor of arbitration, it has been doing          so when we not only have an agreement on the subject of            arbitration, but we have an agreement to arbitrate some         disputes.             JUSTICE BREYER: It may have. They may         have. And I just don't want ­­ I want to give you one                other issue.                          MR. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah.    JUSTICE BREYER: Because it's in my mind,        and I'd like you to respond to it, if you wish. Because             I think there's some pretty good arguments that this         particular interpretation, consciously or unconsciously,     is flying in the face of an opinion of this Court, which            I disagreed with. That was an opinion that ­­ that said            that this particular provision of California law is        invalid. I dissented.                 All right. So we have, on the one hand, the           risks that we'll get into, too many State law cases, if           we take their side. On the other hand, there is the            risk that they'll run around our decisions. Now, when          you get to that second thing, even though I dissented, I            think it's an extremely important thing in a country          Alderson Reporting Company Official which has only nine judges here and thousands of judges          in other places who must follow our decisions ­­ and          think of the desegregation matters, et cetera ­­ that we          be pretty firm on saying you can't run around our          decisions, even if they're decisions that I disagree         with, okay?              Now, I raise that because I think it is a            factor, and so I would like you to ­­ to say whatever             you want.              (Laughter.)             MR. GOLDSTEIN: Justice Breyer, there's one       threshold point that needs to be made, and that is five           members of the Court in Concepcion, as I understand          their opinions, would not have applied Concepcion in        this circumstance. They would not extend it here         whatsoever, because the four members of the Court who ­­         you and the other members of the Court who agreed with           it would not extend it to the circumstance in which the           parties have agreed by contract.                 And Justice Thomas explained in his opinion       in that case that the opinion there ­­ that the ­­ the            principle opinion depended on obstacle preemption, and       there is no argument here that this case implicates         obstacle preemption because it's a question of contract         law. So at the threshold, I don't think Concepcion           Alderson Reporting Company Official would apply here at all.                 But your question is bigger. And that is,         look, I'm concerned that if we, as the Supreme Court ­­          U.S. Supreme Court articulate a question of Federal law,          particularly on a statute that's as important as the          Federal Arbitration Act, particularly on a statute that         is ­­ is rooted in a concern about hostility of the            State courts, we have to show people that we're serious.          A couple of things about that.                  First is, we know the California courts are        serious in the wake of ­­ excuse me. We have filed a             supplemental brief. The California Supreme Court has        decided a case called Sanchez. And Sanchez dealt with           the contract that is written like every other Fortune          contract is. And it talks about if the ­­ the            provision barring class action waivers would be deemed        invalid. And the California Supreme Court said that's         controlled by Concepcion. That is an enforceable        arbitration agreement right there. And so now we are          dancing on the head of the pin about one contract that's           entirely defunct, and the question of whether the        reference to State law, when contrasted in another        provision of the contract with Federal law, is so far          out of bounds.                 I think that what you have to do is compare         Alderson Reporting Company Official two prospects, Justice Breyer. One is the concern. And           we recognize the concern that if you write in an opinion           that says, nah, we're not going to take too hard a look,             that the State courts will run wild. All I can tell you              is that there really isn't evidence of that happening at          all. And the Court has doctrines like discrimination         against arbitration that can handle it.                  The second is a reality. We know for a fact             that if you announce an opinion that says, this         interpretation of State law ­­ because we know what the          California law is here. The California Court of Appeals          has told us. This interpretation of State law is just           too bad and invalidated my arbitration agreement, that's        now a question of Federal law, and we are going to            relitigate what State law means. That is a boundless           rule that is going to be invoked in every single          arbitration case. And so you just have to choose          between those two prospects.                One is you know what will happen. You will          be going against the very first principle of Federal         arbitration law, which is that we look to State law in           determining whether an arbitration agreement is formed,       or you have the hypothetical prospect. And what I can            say to Your Honor is we have a legislature that is there             in the event that the hypothetical prospect comes to         Alderson Reporting Company Official pass. We have doctrines to deal with this. I am just              terribly worried about how it is that you write an          opinion that says this is not just wrong, it's really          really wrong, and explain why in the face of the other           things in this contract, the contrast with other        contracts that I have given you are out there. You do             retain the possibility, of course, of not deciding the         case at all in the wake of Sanchez, why it is that we             need to have an opinion about this, given that this is a            contract that doesn't exist anymore, and the California        Court of Appeals has resolved it is a question that ­­           that is, you know, very difficult to answer.                    But if you are going to write an opinion in          the case, please do not do it in a way that just invites              litigation upon litigation upon litigation because you,       as in Oxford Health, are concerned that this Court got          it wrong, just like you were concerned that the         arbitrator got it wrong. It is an unfortunate cost of           the Federal system that Congress decided this is the job          of the Federal courts. Not everything is a Federal           case.                                     remaining. If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Landau, you have three minutes      Alderson Reporting Company Official         REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Your Honor. I'd         like to make three very quick points. First, the fact           that opposing counsel, my friend, started with Oxford        Health is very telling because Oxford Health was a very           different case about the scope of this Court's review of          an arbitrator's decision. Everyone there agreed that        the parties had delegated the question of the        interpretation of the clause to the arbitrator. And         that's a very different question. We don't have that           here. We are ­­ in this case, this Court is reviewing            what a court did. You're not reviewing it under the            arguable standard. It's a very different standard.                     Second, my friend said that, well, no       question that special rules for arbitration would be        preempted is discriminatory. And again, those tend to         be easy cases. You're not probably seeing as many of           those cases anymore. But now this case in a sense shows             that there's a new frontier, when a court will just            basically reach the same goal by saying black means         white. Guess what? I haven't done any different rule.            I'm just applying State court principles of       interpretation. But at some point, you can't just have          a rule ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Why ­­       everybody is assuming that this is just a crazy          interpretation, but if you start with the proposition        that it's the intent of the parties, and everybody's         framing this as invalid State law, or valid State law,          but your own company decided before Concepcion that it         was okay, they would litigate everything, they would        take the words as they stood.                  MR. LANDAU: Because prior to Concepcion,       State law was valid. The question is ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it wasn't. If it         was preempted, it was preempted back then.                   ­­            MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, but it's hard         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And ­­ and it's       preempted forever.              MR. LANDAU: And it would have been futile         to make that argument. In fact, we would have been           subject to punitive damages. I mean, we were just           taking it at its ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Probably could have done       what happened here and bring it up to the Supreme Court.                       MR. LANDAU: Well, again, you know, hats off         to AT&T for doing that, but there are futility doctrines          that recognize that not everybody has to do that.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And how far does this        go? When do we make this judgment?                    MR. LANDAU: Again, Your Honor, you could        decide this case on the ground, as the Chamber of          Commerce urged in its amicus brief, that this is so far           beyond the pale as an interpretation, that it can only          be explained as discrimination. Again, discrimination       is ­­ you know, it is an existing category for knocking           these out. It's not the exclusive category. And I           think discrimination becomes a hard principle to apply         when you have individual contracts. Somebody can always         say well, you know, my ­­ you know, discrimination         anticipates you have two things that are similarly        situated. So how can you say you're discriminating?         Again, I ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why ­­ why is it that          it's so farfetched ­­               MR. LANDAU: It's so farfetched ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ to place the       legitimacy of this action at the time the complaint is          filed as opposed to three years later or the day before           a trial or the day after a trial before judgment is            entered?             MR. LANDAU: Because the parties use ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You could come in and        Alderson Reporting Company Official make a motion at any of those times. Why does the             interpretation of the contract ­­                            MR. LANDAU: They use ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ have to be at the         time that you make your ­­                 MR. LANDAU: Because they use the verb tense         "would find," Your Honor. They didn't say State law          right now. They didn't freeze it in place. There's           nothing ­­ and they have no way of saying when it would            be frozen in place. Just a line ­­ in a sense, this is                the ultimate gotcha kind of case. And the question          before this Court is, is this Court going to basically          give a stamp of approval to a gotcha?                      The last point I want to make is that the           other ­­ my friend says that there's a question here           about whether there was an arbitration agreement in the         first place. There is absolutely no question that         there's an arbitration agreement. The California Court        of Appeal acknowledged that there was an arbitration        agreement and construed it to be self­defeating,       construed there to be a blowup provision that destroyed          what the parties were trying to accomplish.                   Thank you, Your Honors.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official OfficialPage  A a.m : : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : absurd : accept : accomplish : account :, accounts : acknowledged : : : anymore : anticipates : anybody : :,,, : : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, :,, anyone's : : :,,, apologize : : :, :,,,, Appeals : : :, :, : :, :,, Appeals' : Appeal : : : agreements : :, : : act : :,, :, : :, :, : : : :, : : : Alito : : :,, : : : agrees : AL : :, :, :,, : :, : action : : :,, : Alito's : allows : : :,, : : : ambiguities : : : : :, : : APPEARANCES : appears : appellate : application : applied : : applies : : : : apply : :, : : : : : applying : : : approval : ambiguity :, arbitrability : : actions : add : : addressing : adhesion :, administrable : : adopt : : adopted : adopting : : : adversary : agree : : : : : : assuming : AT&T : : asking : : asks : : assertion : assignment : assume : : array : :,, : articulate : :, :, : :, articulated : :, :, asked : : :,,, :,,,,, : :,, : : : : :,, :,,,, :,, :, :,, :, :, :, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :, :,, :, : :,,, :, :, :,,, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, :, : :,,, :, balance : :,,,, Bank : : :,, Bank's : barring : basically : attentive : attorney : available : average : avoid : : : : : bad :, : backstop :, back : : :, : B arbitrator's : area : :, arguable : arguing : : : : : : : beg : begging : behalf :, : :, : : : argument : : believe : Bethesda : :, :, : : : : better : : : : beyond : bigger : : binding : arguments : arbitrate :, : : : :, :,, arbitrations : : : : arbitrator : :, :,, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : :, : : :, ambiguous : : : : American : amicus : : : amount : analogy : announce : announces : answer : :, : : :, : : : :,, : AMY : : : : : agreed : : :, :, : : : :, : agreement :, : :, : : :,, anti­waiver : : : antecedent : arbitrated : arbitrating : :, arbitration :, :,,, :, :, :, :, :,,,,, :, :, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : : coming : : : :, characterized : :, : : check : :,, :, Chief :, :, Commerce : :, :, common : :, :, common­sense : :, : : : :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : : companies : company : choice :, : : : bit : black : blew : blind : blow : : blowup : : books : borderline : boundless : bounds :,, California's : call : : choose : chose : : CHRISTOPHER Circuit : : : :, : : bracket : Breyer :,, : :,, called : : Casarotto : : :, case :, :, : :, :, :, :, : :, : :, : :, :, civil : : : : : : : : claims : : :, :, class :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : :,,,, : :,, :,,,,, :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : Breyer's : : brief : : :,, : : : cases :, : bring : bringing : brings : brought : bucket : : bull : business : C C : :, : : :, :, : :, :, : :,, : :, category : :, causes : certain :, certainly : : : : : California : : certiorari : clear :, : :, :, : :, : : : : clearly : : challenges : Chamber : change : : come : : : : clerk : CLRA :,, :, : : : cetera : : :, :,,,, : :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : : changed : : comes : : changes : : : : compare : compel : complaint : : completely : : component : comports : : :, circumstance : Concepcion : : : :, : : : :, : :, concern : : :, : :, :, : : : : : :,, concerned : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : :, conclude : : : : concluded : clause :, : : : Cone : : : : : : : Conference : conform : confronting : Congress :, : :, : :, : consciously : consequence : consider : considered : consistent : constitutional :, construe : Page  : :, construed : : : : :, construes : construing : Consumer : consumers : contemplated : content : context : : : contra : contract : : :, :, :, : : : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, : :,, :, :, :, : : :, :, :, :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :, : :,, : :,,, : : : :,,,, :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, :, :, : contracts : : : :, : : : :, : : : contractual : contrary : : Alderson Reporting Company contrast : contrasted : contrasts :, control : controlled : convinced : core : correct :,, : : : : : : : cost : counsel : : : : country : couple : : : : course : : : : cover : covered :, crazy : : created : creates : critical : current : customers :, D : damages : dancing : day : :, deal : : dealt : decide : : court :, :, :, :, : :, :,, D : :,,, : D.C :, :, :, : :,, :, : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, :, : :, :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,, : :,, : :, :,, : :, : : : decisions : : :, :,, : :,, : : :, :,,, : :,, defer : : :, :, : : declaration : declaring : deemed : defensive : : : decides : deciding : decision : : :,, Page  : effect : : : : : :, : effective : : efficiency : efficient : : effort : either : : enacted : : ends : enforce : : : enforceable : : : enforced : enforcing :, : engage : : enormous : : entered : : :, : entire : : : entirely :, erroneous : ESQ :, :, : established : et : : evade : event : : events : everybody : : : :, everybody's : evidence : : evil : exactly : : :, : : examine : Excellent : Official court's :,, define : : : : defunct : : : delegated : courts : :, demonstrate : : :, : demonstrates : : : : denied : :, : :, : :,, : described : :, : : depended : derive : : : : : : : discrimination : : :, :, discriminatory : disfavor : disfavored : disfavors : dispense : :,, : : describes : describing : desegregation : desire : destroyed : determination : disputes :, : :, : : : : dissented :, dispute : : determine : : : : : : : determining : distinction : differ : distinguish : difference : different : distinguishes : : : : doctrinally : : :, :, :, :, doctrine : doctrines : :, : : : : : : draft : : :,, : :,, : : : draw :, :, : drafted : : drafter :, : DIRECTV's : drawing : disagree : : due : : : disagreed : disclaimed : Discover : dump : : : E discriminate : E : :, early : easy : : : : discriminating Alderson Reporting Company differently : : : difficult : : doing : : Equal : difficulty : : : : : : directed : doubt :, decided : : DIRECTV : : doubts : exclusive : exclusively : excuse : : : : : exist : existing : : exists : explain : : explained : : : : : : :, : :, : : : favorable : favoring : : : : : : favors : FCC : Official firm : first : : futile : futility : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : fish : fit : five : fix : flouts : : flying : focusing : Page  : :, :, :, : : : : :, :, : : G G : game : general : : govern :, good : : :, : : gotcha :, generally : : gotten : : get­go : getting : : gimmick : gimmicks : Ginsburg : : : governs : : : : Granite : :, : : governed : : : : give : : : : : : : : : given : : :, :, gives : glimmer : go : :, : : : : :, : : goal : : goes : : going : : : : : :,, : :, : :,, : : :, :, : :, :, :,,, : : granted : grappling : great : ground : : grounds : guess : : : : : guise : H H : : half : hand :, handle : happen : happened : : : : happening : : hard : : : : : : : hats : he'll : Goldstein : : head : :,, : : :,,, :, : :, : :, :, Health :, : : : : healthy : hear : : : : extend :, extent :, external :, extreme : extremely : explanation : Federal : : :, :, explicitly : :,,, : expressly : : :, : :, : :,,,, follow : : : : : : :,, followed : : :,, forbid : :, :, :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,, forcing : : : : : :,, foregoing : :,, : forever : : : :, form :, : :, :,, FAA : :, : :,, : : :, :,,,, : :,, : : : : : forced : forces : : eye : : : : : force : : : : F face : : : : fact : :, : : : : fact­bound : factor : factual : fair : : fairness : fall : : far : : Federalized : federalizes : fees : figure :, filed : :, : : formed : : forth :, Fortune : : fostering : found : : : find : : : four : framing : : :,, :, : freeze : : :,, freezes : : : :, : : finding : friend :, : :,, : finds : : :, : farfetched :, fine : favor : : finished : frontier : frozen : fully : : further : : : : Alderson Reporting Company held : : : history : holding : holdings :, honest : Honor : :,, : :, : : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : :,, :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : Honor's : Honors : : horns : horrible :, :, hostile : : : :,,, : :, hostility : : :, : hour : huge : : hundreds : hypothetical : : I idea : : : : identified : identify : : illegal :, imagine : : Imburgia : : immediately : implausible : implemented : implicates : important : : :, : : : : : importantly : impossible : improperly : include : : includes : including : incredible : incredibly : indicate : indicates : indicia : : individual : : : : individuals : inexplicable : inoperative : : : : insisted : instance : : instances : insufficient : intend : :, : intended :, : : : : :, : intent :, : : : interesting : interject : :, interpret : : :, :, :, : : : : interpretation : Official : :, : :,, :, :,, : :, :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : interpretations : interpreted : : :, : : interpreting : :, : :, : interpretive : : interprets : : intuition : invalid : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : invalidate : invalidated : : invalidating : invite : invites : invoked : issue :, : : : : J jettison : job : judge : Page  :, judgment :, judicial : Justice :, :, Kennedy :, :, : : : : :, : kinds : knocking : know : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :,, : : : :, :,, :,, kettle : : : :,, key : : : :,, kind : : : : : : :,,, :, : : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, :,,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, : : : :,, : : : :, :,,, : :,,,,, knowledge : :, :, :, : : :,, Landau : :, :,, :,, : :,, :,,, :, :,, : :, :, : :,,,, :,, : : :,, :,,,, : : : :,,, : : :, :, :, :, :, : : : :,, : : :,, : :, :,,,, : : : :, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : :,, : : :,,,, : :, : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, K L justices : KAGAN : : : : : : keep :, : : :,, judges : : language : Alderson Reporting Company legitimacy : Md : let's : : mean : : : nine : Official : : :, : :, : needs : : : : neither : : : : matters : never : new :, : : :, : : Ninth : : : : : : : : non : : : :,, meaning : means : : : : : : : : : : meant : : :, little : locate : long : : :, : : : mechanism : : members :, : mentioned : : methods : : : : : :, : : : mind : : :, minutes : looked :, : mistake : mistaken : : : : : : : : : large : Laughter : : law :,,, legal : :, : : : : legislature : : : :, : : longer : : look : : litigate : litigation :, : light : lights : line :, : :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,,,,, : :,,, :,, :,, :,,,, :,,, :,,,, :, :, : : : :,,, :,,, : : : :,,, :, :, :, : :,,, : :,,,, :,, :,, :,, : :,,, :,, : :, : :,,, : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, :,,,,, : :, : :,,, : :,,, : : : making : : : : : :, :, manifestly : :,,,, manner :, :,, : laws :, : looking : : looks : lot : : : lots : : lower : : Mastrobuono : : :, : M Page  opinions : opposed : opposing : opposite : : opposition : options : oral : :, : : order : ordinarily :, : : : : : ordinary : outrageous : outside : outweigh : overturned : Oxford :, : : : : P P : p.m : page : : : pains : Paint : pale : paradigm : paradigms : pardon : part : : nonsensical : : : : :,,, : notion : notwithstanding : noun : number : : nuts : O O : : object : obligation : obliged : obstacle :, obviously : : October : odd : oh : : okay : : : mistakes : : misunderstand : Moses : : motion : : N N :, : nah : narrative : narrow : narrowing : : : : particular : : : : : : : : : : : : : : particularly :, once : : : parties : : ones : open : : opinion :, :, :, : :,, : : : :, : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, :,, : : :,, :,, : lawsuit :, lawyer : matter : :, national : : : : : : : nature : need :, : Alderson Reporting Company Page  reference : : :,, : : : : referred :, : : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : reflected : :, :, refuse : : : : refusing : :, : : regard : : :, : : :,, regarding : : :,, reinforce : :, questions : quick : quite : : : :, quote : quoted : : quoting : : R R : : :,,, raise : : :,, : :,, :,, : : : : : : : real : : : reach : read : :, :,, : reading : reality : realized : really :, reinterpret : reiterated : related : relevant : relitigate : rely : relying : : remaining : Remedies : remember : : : remotely : : repealed : : :, representative : reprise : requests : : Official : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : possibility : possible :, parties' : : possibly : party :, : power : : pass : : passage : passed : : passive : pattern : people : : precisely : : procedure :, precludes : predicate : preempt : preempted : : : : : : : prohibits : : :,, proofs : procedures : process : proferentem : proffered : progress : :, : perfectly : : person : perspective : Petitioner :, :, : : phrase : pick : : pin : place :,, preempting : preemption : : :, : : : :, present : pressed : Preston : proposing : proposition : : : : prospect :, prospects :, Protection : prove : provides : : : : : : presume : : provision : : : : :, places : plausible : play : : presuming : presumption : : : : please : : : : : : plus : point : : pretty : : prevent : : : Prima : principle : : provisions : : :, punitive : purport : purported :, : :, : :,, :,, : : :, : : : pushback : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : principles : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : points : : prior : : : policy : : private : : pro : : : : probably : : : : :, : : position : : : problem : :, put : : : : putting : : puzzle : Q quarrel : : question :,, :, :,, :, :, : : : : : : require : : : : : : : : : requires : : :, reserve : reason : : resisting : : : : : : : resolve : : resolved : : resolution : reasoning :, reasons : : : : REBUTTAL : : recognition :, recognize : : recognizing : : : respect : : : : : respectfully : respects : respond : Respondent : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, Sotomayor's : run : : : see : :, south : :,, : speak : : : seeing : sees : self­defeating : : specific : : specifically : special :, : send : sense : : : : : : specifies : stake : stamp : sentence : : stand : S S : : safety :, : Sanchez :, : saying :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : says :,, :, series : serious :, settled : : : : sever : : : :,, show : : :, : : shows : : :, : side :, : : :,, : :,,, :, :, : simple : : similarly : : : single : : Respondent's : respondents : : responsibility : :, : rest : retain : retroactive : reverse : : reversing : review : : : : reviewing : :, rewrote : right :, :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : rights : : : Page  :,, :, : :, : :,, :, : :, :, :,, : :,, : States :, : : :, statute :, : : :, : : : : standard : : statutes : : State :,, : : : :, standards : start : : : started : : : : : : :,, : structurally : subject : : statutory : step : Stevens : Stolt­Nielsen : stood : stop : : : : :,, strained : :,,,,,, strange : : :,,, Strike : :,,, :, struck : :,,,, :, :, :, :, :,,, :,, : subjects : :, :, :, :, :, :, subsidiaries : :, :, subsidiary : :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,, :, :,,, suggestion : :,,, superseded : supervisor : :,, : : :,, supplemental :,, : : :,, :, :, :,, : supposed : Supremacy : Supreme :, : : : suddenly :, suggest : submitted : substantive :, : : Scalia : : rise : :,, :, risk : : :, risks : : :,,, ROBERTS : : : : : :,, :,, :, : : : :, Scalia's : scenario : : : scope :,, Rock : : role : : : : : : root : rooted : rule : : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, rules : :, : : : : : : : search : second : : : : : : second­guessing : Section :,,, : :,,, :, : : sir : sit : sit­in : situated : situation : situations : slightly : small : snapshot : solely : Somebody : someplace : sorry : sort : SOTOMAYOR : :,, : : :, :, :, :,, : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  trying : : unmodified : : : : : unreasonable : wanted : : : : : : : Tuesday : : unsatisfying : wants : unusual : upheld : urged : use : : : : : : :, Washington :, wasn't : way : : :, :, :,, : :,,, : thing : : : : : : :, things : : sure :, : : : : : :, : surely : sympathetic : : sympathize : sympathy : system : T T :, take : : : : : turn :, : : : : think :, : two :, : : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : U.S : : :,, : : U ultimate : ultimately :, : third : : : : Thomas : : : : : : : : usually : V v : : : valid : : : : : : Thomas's : thought : : unconsciously thousands : : vel : verb :, : unable : unaffected : unassailable : version : versus : view : : violated : violates : unconstitutional : : : three :, : : : underscore : : : : voice : understand :, Volt :,,, : : :, :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : :,, : : ways : : :, we'll : : we're : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : we've : : : taken : takes : : : talk : talking : : : : : : talks : : teeth : tell : : telling : tells : tend : tense : term : termination : terms : : : : terribly : : test :,,, :, text : Thank : :, : : : : they'd : wealth : weight : : :, : weird : : :, :,,,, :,, : went : : : : : : : : :,,, : : well­accepted whatsoever : : W : :, : waiver : : white : waivers : : : wild : wildly :,, threshold : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : thrown : time : :, :, :, : : : understood : :, : : : : unenforceable : : : : :,, : :, : :,,, : times : : today :, told : toll : totally : trailed : trespass : trial : :, true : trumps : truth : try : : : universal : United :, : : unfairly : unfortunate : unilaterally : want : : : wake : : :, wish : word : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, worded : : :, : words :,, Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : worked : workplace : world : worms : worried : wouldn't : : : : writ : write :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : written : : : : wrong : : :,, : :, : : :, :, :,,, : : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : wrongness :, wrote : : : x :, X Y Yeah : : : years : :, : :, : : Z :, :, : : : : : : : ­ : : Alderson Reporting Company 