 Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  DAVID A. ZUBIK, ET AL.,                :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents;           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  PRIESTS FOR LIFE, ET AL.,              :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          : DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN         : SERVICES, ET AL.,                                Respondents;           : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHBISHOP OF          WASHINGTON, ET AL.,                  : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents;           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  EAST TEXAS BAPTIST UNIVERSITY,        ET AL.,                             : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents;           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  LITTLE SISTERS OF THE POOR HOME         : FOR THE AGED, DENVER, COLORADO,        ET AL.,                             : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents;           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  SOUTHERN NAZARENE UNIVERSITY,        ET AL.,                             : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents;           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  GENEVA COLLEGE,                     :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF          HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,            ET AL.,                                         Respondents.           : : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioners in Nos. ­, ­, ­ & ­.         NOEL FRANCISCO, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioners in Nos. ­, ­ & ­.        GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,           Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.     PAGE       On behalf of the Petitioners in      Nos. ­, ­, ­ & ­                       ORAL ARGUMENT OF   NOEL FRANCISCO, ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioners in      Nos. ­, ­ & ­                         ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.         On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.          On behalf of the Petitioners in      Nos. ­, ­, ­ & ­                       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, Zubik v. Burwell, and the           consolidated cases.              Mr. Clement.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN               NOS. ­, ­, ­ & ­                   MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The Little Sisters of the Poor and their        co­petitioners face a dilemma that the Religious Freedom         Restoration Act does not allow. They can adhere to          their religious beliefs and pay millions of dollars in         penalties, or they can take steps that they believe to          be religiously and morally objectionable, and that the        government deems necessary, for them to provide       contraception coverage through their health care plans.                   Now, the government concedes the sincerity      of these religious beliefs, but it attempts to recast         them as an objection to the very act of opting out or            objecting. And with all due respect, that is simply and           demonstrably not true.               The Little ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you explain to me        the analogy with military objectors during the war?        Many of them felt that ­­ genuine belief; they were          pacifists ­­ that if they registered as pacifists, that         that would mean other people would have to serve in          their lieu. They were going to jail, and many of them            did go to jail, because of this belief.                    Why is going to jail less burdensome or less         important than paying a financial penalty?                   MR. CLEMENT: Oh, I ­­ I don't think it is,             Justice Sotomayor. But let me stick with the         conscientious objector example in the draft context,       because I think the way to analyze a conscientious           objector case is to say that because they face jail          time, there's clearly a substantial burden. Of course,          you get to the second part of the analysis, and you           probably would insist on a conscientious objector        actually objecting.              But I think it's important to distinguish        between ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's stop there.                  MR. CLEMENT: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To the extent that a        conscientious objector's good faith belief is that if I         register, someone will serve in my lieu, what burden is          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it on the government? Meaning, if ­­ if you're looking           at it in terms of strict scrutiny, the government sends          out how many notices to people to come and serve?          Ten ­­ you know, ,, ,. Do you really think it            makes a difference if it knows whether or not one person            is not going to show up? And if we're going down that             road of what's the difference, why would that law         survive?             MR. CLEMENT: I think it would, because I          think it would be very difficult to administer that kind          of system if either you couldn't even know about the          objection or you couldn't take any steps on the         government's part to fill the spot.                              But I think what's critical ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, then, isn't that       the same thing here? If you don't know who can pay, or             who ­­ who's not eligible, or who's eligible to pay, how           does this system work?                MR. CLEMENT: Well, two things, Your Honor.        One, this is perhaps the unique government program where         the government can provide an exemption without actually        requiring somebody to opt out, because that's exactly        what they do for the churches, for the integrated         auxiliaries, and the religious orders ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The churches have to       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review tell us that their church plans ­­ have to tell the           government their church plans. Somebody has to tell the          government who's eligible or not eligible.                              MR. CLEMENT: That ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is that different       from military service?               MR. CLEMENT: Well, first of all, Your        Honor, that's just not true with respect to the         churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and the      religious orders that stick to their knitting and only         engage in religious activity. So factually, there's        that distinction.              But I think the more important thing, Your         Honor, is I would distinguish between the situation         where somebody has an objection to opting out because         the government's going to take wholly independent steps        to find somebody to fill their spot, and a conscientious           objector who objects to objecting on a form where the           only way they can object is if they list the name of            somebody else who's draft­eligible who will then be        obligated to serve in their stead. I would ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but the client,       then ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: You ­­ you ­­ you began,         Mr. Clement, by saying that the government       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review mischaracterizes your position, and I was just not quite          sure where that argument was taking us. You're getting          more into the specifics of it now, but could you just           begin again there, and ­­                            MR. CLEMENT: I ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ again, what we are        talking about?              (Laughter.)             MR. CLEMENT: I would be delighted ­­        delighted to do that, Justice Kennedy.                  My point was simply that my clients do not         object to objecting. And part of the reason you know           that is they have not been shy about objecting. They           told the government in the regulatory process that they         were making a mistake when they eliminated the true          exemption to religious orders to only those orders that         stuck to purely religious things. And my client the          Little Sisters could not go out because they serve the          elderly poor on a nondenominational basis. That's why          they don't qualify for the exemption. So they objected          then. They objected when they filed this lawsuit. They           reaffirmed their objection when they filed the notice        that was necessary to comply with this Court's interim         objection.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Clement, that       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review might be so. But what happens if somebody did just           object to objecting? It seems all your arguments would          apply the same way. In other words, somebody comes in           and says, I do object to objecting because objecting          will make it easier for the government to fill my slot.           That's a perfectly understandable thing to say. And          that's part of my sincere religious belief. And you say           the sincere religious belief is what controls. And         there too it would seem under your very theory you would           have to say that that's a substantial burden, even if           it's objecting to objecting.                MR. CLEMENT: Two things, Justice Kagan.       First, it would only qualify as a substantial burden if           the objection requirement was enforced with massive       penalties. And that's a relatively rare situation, but          it's ­­ but ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Yes. I mean, we have            the same penalties that we have here, and the person is           just objecting to objecting. And that's part of the          religious belief because that will make it more likely         that the government will be able to fill the slot and to            take efforts to, you know, to ­­ to provide         contraceptives.             MR. CLEMENT: I understand, Justice Kagan.        That brings me to the second part of my answer, which is            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I think the right way to understand that hypothetical ­­         and I was explaining to Justice Kennedy, it's just a           hypothetical.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's a hypothetical        that's directly implicated by your very theory of the         case, because your theory of the case says that         everything depends on a person coming in saying this is           against my religion, and that being the end­all and the          be­all.             MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think that's our          position. Our position is that ­­ the sincerity of the           religious beliefs. The government can question them.        They've conceded to them here. There is a legal           analysis about the substantial burden, but the       substantial burden analysis in this case is very clear         because of these millions of dollars in penalties, the         exact same penalties that were issued in Hobby Lobby.         And the Court said it was an easy case on substantial           burden ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: You're just not answering       the question.              MR. CLEMENT: Well, I'm trying ­­ I'm trying         to, with all due respect, which is that brings to ­­ if            you have everything else the same, that brings you to          the second part of the RFRA analysis. And I would think             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review if our objection, contrary to fact, were we absolutely         object to objecting, if you come in and the         government ­­ based on our objection, the government        provides the service through the Exchanges, through       Title X, through an Aetna uber­policy where everybody        gets their contraceptives, some overall government      policy, we, in fact, object to none of those things.          But if we did, I think we would lose under the second             half of the RFRA analysis, because I think that's the           right analysis.              JUSTICE KAGAN: So if I understand that         answer, it's that if a person had a sincere religious            belief that objecting to objecting was a form of          complicity, then that would control, and you would have         to go to the second part of the analysis, which is to            say, is there a compelling interest test? Has the           government's response been narrowly tailored? But       essentially, the objecting ­­ the difference between       objecting to objecting and your clients' position is not         a difference at all with respect to the burden analysis.                      MR. CLEMENT: Well, I do think my clients'          objection is distinguishable from the hypothetical,      because this is not an objecting to objecting. I mean,            maybe one way to understand this is, if there were, in           fact, two forms, one was an opt­out form, one was an           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authorization form, my clients would have no objection        to signing the opt­out form. They would very much have           an objection to the authorization form. And the         government ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess what I'm saying, Mr.          Clement, is I understand the factual distinction that         you're making, but the factual distinction doesn't       matter given your own legal analysis.                  MR. CLEMENT: I don't think it does based on           this Court's precedents either, but even if I'm wrong         about that, you could certainly write an opinion that         says there are three legs to the stool in this case.           There is the fact that the government demands more than          an objection, the fact that it enforces it with massive          penalties, and the reality that if that happens, then         they are going to hijack our health plans and provide          the coverage against our will.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What I don't understand,        Mr. Clement, is when will any government law that         someone claims burdens their practice ever be       insubstantial? Because every believer that's ever come        before us, including the people in the military, are         saying that my soul will be damned in some way. I'm not             naysaying that that is a very substantial perceived         personal burden by them. But if that's always going to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review be substantial, how will we ever have a government that           functions? How will we ever have anything that the          government can demand people to do in objecting ­­                    MR. CLEMENT: Two things ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that won't be a        problem?             MR. CLEMENT: Two things, Justice Sotomayor.       The first is that I do think that what you're saying            about the government not being able to function under         the substantial burden and then the least restrictive        alternative analysis, that's exactly what Justice Scalia       said for the Court in the Smith decision. And Justice           O'Connor took a different view. And they had a healthy             debate. And you can question who had the better of the            debate, but there is no question which side of the          debate settled things.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it's the side of        the debate that settles, which is if we are not asking           you to do anything except identify yourself, and if who          is going to do the action is either the government or a            third party, that that's the balance that we have         struck, that it's not a substantial burden if someone          else is going to do the act that you're objecting to.                       MR. CLEMENT: Justice Sotomayor, if the only        action involved is a third­party action like in part of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the Bowen against Roy case or in the Lyng case, you're           right, that's not a substantial burden. But when the           government says ­­ and it needs more. I want to be as              clear as I can about this. The government admits at            pages through of their brief that they need more,           just then, to know that we raise our hand and opt out.            They also need additional information about our insurer        or our TPA. So they require more. So ­­ and ­­ if we               don't ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they ­­ what other        than ­­ who is the TPA? Who is the insurer? That's             all.             need.             MR. CLEMENT: That's what they say they        JUSTICE GINSBURG: And then they have an        independent contract. The insurer or the TPA is then          not dealing with the employer at all. It has an           independent obligation that is imposed by the government        on it, and not the ­­ not the company.                     MR. CLEMENT: Justice Ginsburg, that's true       if and only if we provide the form, because it's not           just the information on the form. The government treats          that form as an authorization. In the case of          self­insured plans with TPA ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's not an      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authorization. The government ­­ the law ­­ the         regulation requires it, but it doesn't matter whether        you say yes or no. And you could say, I fill out the               form. I do not authorize. I do not permit. It won't                make any difference.               MR. CLEMENT: It makes all the difference,        Justice Ginsburg. If we don't provide the form, then          the coverage doesn't flow. We haven't provided the form          in these cases, and as a result, the coverage hasn't           flowed. The government thinks ­­ and I think it's most            obvious with respect to the self­insured plans, but it's         true of all of them. The government thinks it needs           something from us so it can take that something and make           it a plan document.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Because the government      has another interest at stake in ­­ one thing you said           and I want it clear that this is not involved at all.             No one doubts for a moment the sincerity of the belief            of your client and all the others. And since sincerity           of their belief is accepted, it's off the table, any          more than the sincerity of belief of the parents in the           Roy case was questioned. In none of these cases is that            an issue. That's accepted.                 But the government has acted in this case,        as you know, the ­­ the original health care plan didn't           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review provide these covered services for women, and it saw a          compelling interest there, a need that was marginally         ignored up until then. So as in all things, it can't be             all my way. There has to be an accomodation, and that's            what the government tried to do.                  MR. CLEMENT: I agree, Justice Ginsburg, but         just because they call it an accomodation doesn't mean         it's immune from RFRA analysis. And if what they gave           my clients is what they gave the , churches, their          integrated auxiliaries and the purely religious      activities of religious orders, if they gave that        accomodation to my client, we'd fill out any form they          wanted to. But the problem is we have to fill out a             form, and the consequence of us filling out that form is           we will be treated very differently from those other         religious employers.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: It doesn't ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: You started to talk about ­­        you started to talk about self­insured plans. Is it the           case that the form or the notice to HHS in that instance            becomes a plan instrument?                 MR. CLEMENT: In both cases, Your Honor, it         becomes a plan instrument, and I think ­­ you know, the             government thinks that our notification in this case is         the functional equivalent of the EBSA Form, and the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review reason they required a form ­­ and this shows you it's            not really an opt out, because the way the regulations          were originally designed, you didn't raise your hand and         tell the government, I object. You sent a form directly             to the insurer or directly to the TPA that they then           treated as the permission slip to provide the coverage.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's out now.                   MR. CLEMENT: Well, no, it's not out.        That's actually still one of the ways that you can          apply ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, but you don't have        to do that. You can notify the government.                     MR. CLEMENT: Well, the alternative, thanks       to this Court in its interim relief, is that we now can            file an objection that the government treats exactly the         same way. All they do that's different is they          essentially ­­ it's a mailing rule. They take our           objection and then they provide that objection to the         third­party administrator, and at least with the       self­insured plans, that becomes every bit as much a         plan document as the EBSA Form .                   And with all due respect, it's a little rich          for the government to say, This isn't your plan, don't          worry about this, when their whole interest is put in          terms of seamless coverage. If it's seamless to the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review enduser, then I don't think the Little Sisters         perception that it's seamless to them, and they are, in          fact, complicit is an irrational belief by any stretch.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is the ­­ is the essence         of your argument that ­­ and your objection is that the           contraceptive coverage is ­­ is being done through the         health insurance that you contract with?                  MR. CLEMENT: That's ­­ I think that's a          fair description of it, Justice Kennedy. And I think           the only problem the government is having understanding        our position is that that health plan is somewhat         intangible. And I think if you put this in more            tangible terms, if the ­­ if the consequence of us          filing the form was that they would come in to one of            the Little Sisters homes and set up shop in a room, they             could pay us rent, it wouldn't cost us a thing. And             then they operated a Title X clinic out of our homes? I               think everyone would understand that, of course, we are         complicit in the coverage that's provided on our        premises. And just because this is more intangible, I          don't think the principle is any different, and        certainly from the perspective ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we accept the ­­ your         clients' view on complicity, or do we have a Palsgraf           analysis and see how far the causation go ­­ I'm ­­ do            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review we just accept your view on complicity and then just see           whether or not the accomodation is possible on this and          that's the least restrictive?                MR. CLEMENT: I think that's the role that          your courts have had for the Court, because I think they            don't want to get in the role of having the truth           detector test, and that ­­ and that's not just the Hobby           Lobby decision. That goes back to the Thomas decision.          If you remember that decision, you had a religious          adherent who had an objection to formulating cylindrical        tanks ­­ cylindrical things that would go into tanks.                     Now, there was another Jehovah's Witness      that was in the record that said, You don't need to           object to that. That's not that big a deal. It's too              attenuated. And this Court specifically said, We're not         going to get in the business of refereeing those         disputes, and we're not going to get in the business of           trying to figure out and second­guessing whether Mr.        Thomas is really correctly misunderstanding his faith.                   Now, here you have a ton of amicus briefs          that reinforce that the religious beliefs that are at         issue here for the Little Sisters and for my other          clients are not at all idiosyncratic, are not at all,          you know, wrong as a matter of faith. But that's not an              area that you should get into. I think ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Are you finished?      MR. CLEMENT: Yeah, I am.       JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I have ­­ You                                               must have thought about this question, I suspect. I'll           assume, I want to assume for purposes of the question,           that this isn't just a matter of signing a form with an              objection. Your ­­ your clients are involved in the          health care plan in major ways. They probably figure ­­          sign papers every five months or every day, and they          choose insurers. They do all kinds of things. And it's            the topping, the icing on the cake, that pushes it over           the edge, which is that you have to fill out the form            saying, I object, this is my insurer, you then can           contact my employees, da, da, da, da, da. It's a whole             bunch of things.               All right. So the question is, putting that         all together now, are they protected by RFRA? I think            the reason that the Court went from Sherbert and Verner          over to Smith was they couldn't figure out how to apply           Sherbert and Verner. And it's Sherbert and Verner that          RFRA picks up. And this is at least one difficulty with            it, which is where I'm going. And I've even read St.            Benedict. You know, not ­­ not for religious purposes,          I'm trying to find out something about being a member of            society. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Sometimes when a religious person who's not        a hermit or a monk is a member of society, he does have               to accept all kinds of things that are just terrible for           him. Think of the Quakers, the Quakers who object to           Vietnam. Think of the people who object to laws          protecting blasphemy. Think of the people who object to          shoveling the snow in front of the walk that will lead           to the abortion clinic. Think of the Christian         Scientists who know when they report the accident, the         child will go to the hospital or the adult and receive           medical care that is against their religion.                   So there are loads of things. I've just         given you four. Think of the taxes. Well, there's no            question that doesn't violate the religious clause. But         plenty of other things do. So what's the line? Why do             the Quakers have to pay the taxes for Vietnam, but you           don't find the religious Jew or Muslim getting an extra          day off during the week when the law says nobody can           work on Sunday because their sabbath is on Saturday?         What is the line?                And I've been reading and reading to try to         find a fairly clear simple statement of what that line           is and how it works. And to repeat the difficulty of            Sherbert and Verner, which is what RFRA does, quite         honestly, doesn't help me. But you might.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review              MR. CLEMENT: I'm going to try, Justice       Breyer, and then I'm going to try to reserve my time for            rebuttal.             So what I would say to you is you're exactly           right, that Smith was a much more administrable world,          but Congress ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Did ­­ did they tell me         that it worked?               MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely. So here's the way         that you work it and draw the line. You first ask, is             there a substantial burden on religious exercise? That          is going to weed out some claims. If I was trying to              claim that a tax on wine, for example ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: No, the Quaker, the Quaker.        You think that wasn't a substantial burden?                    MR. CLEMENT: No, no, no. I'm just trying          to tell you that that's one step. It will weed out some             claims. I do think then there's going to be work to be              done on the second half of the test, and I think there             are some fairly obvious differences between a regime         where essentially the government itself by its own        actions has showed that people can't opt out. It's too           important. It's too universal.                 And then you come at a case like this, or           like Sherbert itself. The thing that made Sherbert an          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review easy case was the government of South Carolina had         already taken care of the Sunday objectors. So at that           point, their argument that the whole system would        collapse if we take care of the Sabattarians, it was not           a particularly persuasive argument.                  Here, they've taken care of the churches.     They've taken care of a religious order just like the           Little Sisters, if only the Little Sisters wouldn't go         out and care for the elderly and poor. They've          demonstrated that this is an easy case.                     I reserve my time.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Francisco.                                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF NOEL FRANCISCO     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN      NOS. ­, ­ & ­                  MR. FRANCISCO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                The government here has the same interest       that it has with respect to every other employee in this           country who doesn't get contraceptive coverage from an        employer­based plan. Yet for all of these other         employees, the government tells us that it furthers its         interest in other ways. The government, therefore,        needs to prove that those other ways are somehow         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review insufficient when it comes to Petitioners' employees,       but the sum total of their showing in this case is           limited to less than one column of one page of the           Federal Register. That is simply insufficient before        the government can demand that organizations like       Catholic Charities and the Little Sisters of the Poor         engage in conduct that all agree here they regard as          sinful.             Instead, what we have here is a religious         employer definition, that is, those organizations that       get the full­blown exemption as opposed to organizations        like the Petitioners here that gives a full­blown         exemption to organizations even if they don't object to         providing contraceptive coverage that treats identical      organizations differently where you've got a Catholic        school on the west side of town that has to comply.                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you suggesting that       once you have this category, the church, then any other          organization, religiously­oriented organization, has to     come within that same category as the church itself?         The government can't treat the church as special and         give it an exemption that it doesn't give to         religious­oriented organizations?              MR. FRANCISCO: No, Your Honor, I'm not        necessarily suggesting that. But in this case, when you          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review look at what the government has, in fact, done in          particular, when you look at what Congress has, in fact,          done, that is, in fact, the line that Congress has          drawn. Both in the Title VII exemption where churches,          like the houses of worship and religious organizations        like our clients get treated the same. Like in the tax            exemption regime. Here the government's entire line is         drawn from the tax world where the line ­­ where they ­­           they define those who have to file informational tax         returns ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes, the government could       do that, but does it have to? That is, can the            government say we are going to treat the church itself          ultra protected? Religious­oriented organizations are      protected, but not at that same level.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, no, I don't         think they can do that in the context of this regime. I             don't think the government can take the position that         the Little Sisters of the Poor are any less at the core            of a, quote­unquote, "church" than a house of worship,          where we have time ­­                university?                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: The same with a       MR. FRANCISCO: Excuse me, Your Honor?       JUSTICE KENNEDY: The same with a       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review university?             MR. FRANCISCO: I think with a university,          yes, Your Honor, because, again, when you look at how          Congress has drawn the lines, universities get the Title         VII exemption from ­­ for religious hiring. Churches         do. The Little Sisters ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but then you're       answering really to the affirmative in ­­ to Justice         Ginsburg's question. Once you give it to a ­­ a church,              you have to give it to any other religious organization.          That's ­­ that's your position.                 MR. FRANCISCO: Not quite, Your Honor. I         think that the problem is that the government has to          draw a definition that is coherent and that is rational.           And I think the problem here is they've drawn a           definition from the tax regime that doesn't comply when         you carry it over to this regime.                   In the tax world, when the churches, when        the universities, when the Little Sisters of the Poor         file that informational tax return, they actually get        the exact same exemption ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's going to be very        difficult for this Court to write an opinion which says          that once you have a church organization, you have to           treat a religious university the same. I just find that             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review very difficult to write.                MR. FRANCISCO: And, Your Honor, we're not        suggesting that. What we are suggesting is that when          the government has the same interest here that it has          for all of the other employees in this country that          don't get coverage from a ­­ from an employer­based          plan ­­ and it's not just the religious employers. It's           not just the grandfathered plans. In addition, you have          the self­employed, the unemployed, and the employees of        small businesses. The government has the same interest         with respect to all of those organizations.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought there was a ­­ a            very strong tradition in this country, which is that         when it comes to religious exercises, churches are        special, and that ­­ you know, we have said this most           recently in Hosanna­Tabor, but it's a long line of cases           which says that there's something very special about        churches themselves.              And ­­ and if you're saying that every time         Congress gives an exemption to churches and synagogues        and mosques, that they have to open that up to all           religious people, then the effect of that is that         Congress just decides not to give an exemption at all.          And that's why there are some people who are extremely          strong RFRA supporters who have deserted this cause        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review right here, Professor Laycock among them, because of the         mortal danger that it poses to churches.                   MR. FRANCISCO: And, Your Honor, just to be         clear, I am not suggesting that whenever you give an           exemption to churches, that exemption has to apply to         all other religious organizations. What I am suggesting          is that when the government has the same interest with          respect to both religious and secular employees, the        churches, the religious employers, the employees of       small businesses, the employees of grandfathered plans,       and the government furthers that interest with respect        to all of those employees in many other ways ­­ whether           it's the Affordable Care Act Exchanges, whether Title X,         whether it's Medicare and Medicaid ­­ at a minimum, the           government needs to explain why all of those other ways          are sufficient for all of those other employees, but         yet ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the grandfather is       traditional. There are many statutes that have        grandfather provisions that ­­ they're transitional.      And there are many statutes that ­­ that treat small          enterprises differently.              Are ­­ are you saying that once the        government makes ­­ recognizes, exempts from the law the         small business, the very small business, once it has a          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review number, like in Title VII, employees, that's it? The           floodgates open, and it has to ­­ has to open what is an             exemption for the very small business to everyone?                    MR. FRANCISCO: Not at all, Your Honor. But          what I am saying is if Title VII had an exemption that             said you can't discriminate on the basis of race unless          you've a pre­existing policy of race discrimination, in         which case you can maintain that case in perpetuity as          long as you don't change it, that's fine, then I think            that would undermine the ­­ the purpose of Title VII.          And that's precisely the type of exemption that you have          in the contraceptive mandate.                JUSTICE ALITO: Couldn't Congress, or      perhaps the Executive, survey the employees       of churches  and of other ­­ of religious nonprofits and         categories of religious nonprofits, the Little Sisters,      a big    university, and determine the percentage of       employees in  each of those groups who are members of the          religion and  draw a distinction among those groups based         on ­­ on   that survey? Couldn't Congress do that?                   MR. FRANCISCO: Justice Alito, they could do        that, and they could do many other things, as well.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we could also       just ­­ why don't we assume that if they are part of the             ­­ if the majority are part of the religion, that they           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are not going to buy contraceptives? That's their         religious tenet. And so why are we worried about this           case at all?               MR. FRANCISCO: Well, Your Honor, because I        think ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We are worried because       there are some women who don't adhere to that particular          religious tenant, and who have ­­ we perceive the         government has determined, have a real need for         contraceptives.             MR. FRANCISCO: And, Justice Sotomayor, I       think that goes to the larger problem with the         government's case here, which is the utter absence of         evidence. Let's assume, for the sake of argument ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the utter       absence? there is plenty of evidence that was relied          upon to show that when contraceptives are provided to         women in a seamless way, that the number of unintended           pregnancies dramatically falls, as does the number of        abortions. And so that health risk to women who want           contraceptives who can't get it is proven,       scientifically and otherwise.               MR. FRANCISCO: But, Justice Sotomayor, that       problem, the problem with seamlessness or whether you        call it the problem of burdensomeness, that's the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review problem that exists not just with respect to the         employers of Petitioner's employees, but with respect to        every other employee who, like Petitioner's employees,       also ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you know that we        exempt certain employers of certain size from Title VII,         and it's not because we don't believe that racial         discrimination is a bad thing, and it's not that we're           not committed to eradicating that problem, but because        at a certain point, we have assumed as a society, or as              a government, that you can't do everything.                   So you can't take care of the health needs         of a hundred percent of women, but you can of a            significant number. Why is that a judgment that is not            entitled to some respect?                MR. FRANCISCO: Because I think it means one          of two things: Either the government is willing to          tolerate all of the problems it identifies for        Petitioner's employees with respect to the employees of        grandfathered plans ­­ and we understand that there are         about million of those ­­ with respect to ­­ respect           to the employees of small businesses, with respect to         the employees of religious employers, the unemployed and        the self­employed.              Either they're willing ­­ if they're willing       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to tolerate the problems with all of those people, then          it really does question whether they have a compelling          interest in forcing these particular Petitioners to       comply. But on the flip side, if, as they suggest in            their briefs, they are not actually willing to tolerate         the problem with respect to all of those other people,          but instead, think they can further their interest in         other ways, the question becomes: Why are all of those           other ways that are sufficient for all of those other          people suddenly insufficient when it comes to       Petitioner's employees?              And that's the fundamental breakdown in the       government's side of the case. More generally, I think           we see an absence of evidence on many of the critical           issues here.              Let's assume for the sake of argument we        knew what the size of the problem was, how many women           out there actually lack access to contraceptive       coverage. And we don't know the answer to that. And            let's further assume that we knew how much of that          problem would be reduced by forcing organizations like        Petitioner's to comply. Would we reduce it by          percent? percent? percent? And we don't know            that.             We still don't know whether the government       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review could achieve a comparable reduction through less        burdensome means, and the very less burdensome means        that it says are sufficient to further its interests         with respect to all of the other employees who, like          Petitioner's employees, don't get contraceptive coverage      from an employer­based plan.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Francisco, I have to         admit to not quite understanding this argument, that ­­        it seems as though the most important laws, the laws          that serve the most compelling interests, are ­­ often         have exceptions in them. There are often small business          exceptions. There are often transition rules, like the         grandfathering provision here. And if, every time that         existed, somebody could come in and say, well, the         government must not really believe in this law because         there is an exception to it, state ­­ allows some          people ­­ then, I mean, we might as well pack it all in.              There's not a law in town that doesn't have exceptions           like that.              MR. FRANCISCO: I don't think that's right,         Your Honor. First of all, the grandfather plan is not a            transition rule. It contains no sunset provision. It          allows ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: It's lower and lower every        single year.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FRANCISCO: It's got lower for the first         couple of years, and it's leveled off in the last two           years at about ­­                                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you make any change ­­        MR. FRANCISCO: ­­ percent.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: If you make any change in         your health plan, then you're out from under the         grandfather, and every employer is going to make changes         in the health plan. So it's a diminishing ­­ it's a             transitional period. Once you make a change in your           plan, you're out from under the grandfather.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor, except that        they allow ­­ they allow employees to raise copayments         at the rate of medical inflation without losing status,         and they allow you to continue adding employees to the          plan without losing grandfathered status, which I think         partly explains why it's leveled off at about percent          over the last couple of years. But even putting that           aside, I think that once you've drawn a massive           exemption for secular and religious reasons, it tends to         undermine ­­ it tends to do one of two things. Either            it shows your interest really isn't that compelling,        because you're allowing ­­ you're willing to tolerate a         whole bunch of bad stuff for a whole bunch of other            people, or ­­ and I don't think that's really what it            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review means here. I think what it means here is the            government is telling us that it's got the same interest          with respect to grandfathered employees ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Here is the deal you would         put in place, Mr. Francisco. You would be saying to           Congress, Congress, next time you pass a law, don't put           in an exemption for churches; you're going to get in          real trouble doing that. Don't write transition rules         that will help people adjust to a new legal regime;           you're going to get in real trouble doing that. Don't           write exemptions for small businesses, even though there        are very particular concerns that small businesses face;        you're going to get in trouble for that. Now, those are            terrible incentives to give to a legislature, are they          not?             MR. FRANCISCO: No ­­ Your Honor, I think          what it means is that when the government claims an          interest, the overwhelming interest to force      Petitioners ­­ organizations like Petitioners to violate       their sincerely held religious beliefs, then yes, when        it says we're going to exempt some organizations for         purely secular reasons, some organizations for political       reasons, and other organizations for religious reasons,       then it does have to ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I see your point is that ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review let's imagine a widespread government program filled        with exemptions. There are a smaller group of people           who need an exemption for religious reasons. We look at           those other exemptions. Some seem to have good reasons;          some seem to have terrible reasons. We ­­ really, under           the RFRA or the First Amendment should exempt the         religious too, right?                           MR. FRANCISCO: Sure, Your Honor.      JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I've just described        to you the United States Tax Code where we know that you            do not have to have an exemption for those who are           religiously objecting, for example, to paying taxes       because it would support a war.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Sure, Your Honor. But I         think that the ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So what ­­ that's         what I'm looking for. Same question. And I'm not           asking it to refute you; I'm asking it because I'm          looking for what the distinction actually is. And for          the reason I just said, I don't think the distinction            can be, well, you've exempted some people, so you have          to exempt the religious people too. But that would run           throughout the government of the United States.                   So what ­­ we know there is a distinction,          or at least you ­­ I believe you when you tell me             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there's a ­­ I want to know what you think it is.                          MR. FRANCISCO: And Justice Breyer, these       are finely­grained factual ­­ factual issues ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: No, they're not. All        right, well, go ahead. You want to say that.                      MR. FRANCISCO: But ­­ but I think that when           you're looking at a regime like this one that has both            religious exemptions, that has large exemptions for       totally nonreligious reasons, and that has the exact        same problem that the government claims Petitioners       present, with respect to all the other employees in this          country, who just like Petitioners' employees, don't ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: I got where you're going         with your exemptions, but that's not the thrust of my          question. The thrust is I haven't found it yet. I want               to find what the real distinction is, whether you call          it RFRA or call it Smith, I don't care what you call it.              I'm trying to find the basis for the distinction between          those things that we do require people to do despite          their religious objection and those things that we        don't.             And if you want to think there's no such         difference, just read ­­ as you've read, Neuborne's        brief. Lists them all in two pages. Some go one way;             some go the other way. He says it's because of other            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review people being involved. That might be the answer, but          what's your answer?               MR. FRANCISCO: And I'd agree that's a tough          line, but I think the ­­                  line?             JUSTICE BREYER: What ­­ what is the right         MR. FRANCISCO: I don't think there's a         clear line for what things do we ­­ we require and what            things we don't require ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Give me a hint what the          direction is.              (Laughter.)             MR. FRANCISCO: I think the way the law          works ­­ I think the way the law works is it says are              you allowed to require them to do this particular thing          that violates their beliefs? And in making that         decision, you look at what the ­­ how the government is           treating other similar situations.                And if here the government is in fact        saying, with respect to all of these other people who          also don't get the coverage from their employers, we're         willing to tolerate it or else willing to address the          issue in other ways, then under RFRA the answer is you           have to look to those other ways to see whether they're           sufficient for these employees or whether they're       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review uniquely insufficient for these employees.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Francisco, may ­­ may I         ask a question? Is there any accomodation that the           government would offer that would in fact result in         women employees of your clients, or students of your         clients, getting health care as part of an        employer­based plan or a student­based plan, getting        contraceptive coverage? Is there any accomodation that        would be acceptable?               MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, the      accommodations that we've listed in our briefs would all         be acceptable ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: No, no, no. Through ­­ in          other words, is there ­­ is there any ­­ you object to            this notification. Is there any kind of notification         that would be acceptable?                MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, if by submitting        this notification or any other notification we got the         same treatment as the religious employers, then this        notification would be acceptable.                JUSTICE KAGAN: No. The religious       employers, their employees do not get contraceptive       coverage through the employer­based plan. I'm       suggesting ­­ I'm asking whether there's any       accommodation that would result in the women employees        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review getting contraceptive coverage seamlessly through an      employer­based plan that you would find acceptable.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, possibly so,       possibly not, and if I could explain. We've not been            offered that kind of alternative to consider. I think           the more distance you put between the Petitioners on the          one hand and the provision of the objectionable coverage         to their employees on the other, the less problematic it          is from their particular perspective.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what might be       acceptable if it puts enough distance?                  MR. FRANCISCO: Sure. Easily. Enough        distance is we file the notice of objection, and the          government furthers its interest in the same way it         furthers its interest with respect to all of the other          employees who don't get coverage from an employer­based        plan. The employees ­­ Association ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your answer to       Justice Kagan is wrong. Basically you're saying, even         if all you do is an opt­out, I raise my hand, I tell you                that I'm a religious objector, and they somehow, from          this suit, they know who your third­party administrator        is, they have a general law that requires now all ERISA            plans and insurance companies to tell them who their         clients are; that if your insurer is involved in any          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review way, you object?               MR. FRANCISCO: Not necessarily, Your Honor.       Again, as Mr. Clement was saying, if there was an          uber­insurance policy where Aetna was the company that        the government picked to provide contraceptive coverage       to all women in this country, and we happened to use           Aetna, I think we'd probably be fine.                    government?             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Paid for by the       MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor. But the         problem is when they seize control ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Justice Kagan's      question was these college students, they want to get         the same coverage that ­­ that is available for all          other conditions.              You ­­ you ­­ as far as I understand, you're           saying no. It has to be some other plan. Government            buys ­­ government provides its own plan, but as long as           you connect the insurer ­­                            MR. FRANCISCO: Uh­huh.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ it is insuring the        religious organization. As long as that insurer is         linked, it's how these students will have to get         something else. It can't get what all the other          students get for all other health protection.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FRANCISCO: And Justice Ginsburg, I'm       trying to be careful because we have many clients that          have many different views. But I think as a general             matter, I could certainly see the case that if they're           seizing control of our plans, the plans that we are          required to provide under threat of penalty, and using         those plans as the vehicle to delivering the        objectionable coverage to our employees solely as long        as they're enrolled on those plans, which is what this          does, then I could certainly see why many clients would           view that as a substantial burden on their religious          beliefs.             We then turn to less restrictive      alternatives. And Your Honor, I'll just conclude here,         it's quite clear that the government has alternatives        because it's the same alternatives that it uses for         everybody else. And if all of those alternatives are          fine with them, they at least need evidence explaining         why they're not fine for us as well.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   General Verrilli.        ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.                      ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             The accommodation that Petitioners challenge     in this case strikes precisely the sensible balance        between religious liberty and compelling governmental      interests that Congress sought when it enacted RFRA.                    As this Court recognized in Hobby Lobby, the        accommodation seeks to respect the religious liberty of        Petitioners by exempting them from the contraceptive ­­       contraceptive requirement, and to respect the interest       of Petitioners' employees ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: And is it fair for me to          infer from the way you open your remarks that you          concede that there is a substantial burden here? And           the question then is what is a permissible         accommodation? What's the least restrictive      alternative?             Do you concede that there's a substantial        burden?             GENERAL VERRILLI: We do not concede there's        a substantial burden, Justice Kennedy. We ­­ we concede          that the religious belief is sincere. We're not         questioning sincerity of the belief, but we don't think         that in a case in which the ­­ an ­­ when a question is                this, when a religious objection is made to the          independent arrangements of the government makes with       third parties to fill a regulatory gap created by          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review granting an exemption from a ­­ a generally applicable           rule, that that qualifies as ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, do ­­ do you        question their belief that they're complicit in the        moral wrong?                          GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we do not.       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then ­­ then it        seems to me that that's a substantial burden. And then            ­­ and the next question is whether there is an          accommodation and whether that's the least restrictive.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: So, look, I'm ­­ I'm        happy to discuss the substantial burden further, but I         do want to go to what I think is the critical point on              the question of how RFRA scrutiny applies, if it does          apply, and it's this: Mr. Francisco spent a lot of time             talking about the various alternatives that the       government might be able to use instead of the         accommodation, and I think there's a real problem with           every single one of them in that every single one of           them defeats the very purpose for which Congress imposed         the preventive services requirement, not just with       respect to contraception, but with respect to all        preventive services. And the point here, and I think           you can see this, if you look at the relevant statutory           provision, which you can find at Page (a) of the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review appendix to our brief, which is the preventive        services ­­ preventive services provision, the point       here of this provision is that a group health plan,           i.e., the health plan that covers people through their         employer, or individual health insurance coverage, i.e.,       the kind of coverage that's sold on the Exchanges, shall          include cost free all of the preventive services.                    The whole point of this provision, the whole        point of it, was to ensure that people who got health           insurance would get the preventive services as part of         their regular care from their regular doctor with no         barriers.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's ­­ in other        words, your compelling interest is not that women obtain         the contraceptive services. Your compelling interest is        that women obtain the contraceptive services through the        insurance plan or the third­party administrator hired by        the Petitioners, hired by the Little Sisters.                   In other words, it seems to me you can't say          that what you're trying to do is make sure everybody has           this coverage. You want to make sure they have it           through the program set up by the Little Sisters, and          that's what they object to.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, I understand that,        Your Honor. But assuming for the moment ­­ and I'm           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review happy to discuss substantial burden further ­­ but        assuming for the moment that we are in RFRA scrutiny          because there is a substantial burden, the point I'm          making here, and I do think this is critical, is that            the ­­ none of these options that the Petitioners have          identified going out on the Exchange and buying a         separate individual policy, a contraceptive coverage       only policy, Title X, Medicare, Medicaid, with respect        to every one of them, you'd have to change the law to            make them even eligible here. But even if you could           change the law, every single one of them creates the          very problem that Congress was trying to solve in this          provision because it would require setting up a one­off          jerry­rigged separate channel to get contraceptive      coverage.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The point is that        it's the form in which the services are provided that          you object to, not the fact that they be provided or           not, because that's not the question. In other words,          the Petitioner has used the phrase "hijacking," and it         seems to me that that's an accurate description of what          the government wants to do. They want to use the           mechanism that the Little Sisters and the other        Petitioners have set up to provide services because they         want the coverage to be seamless.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Now, maybe that's a sufficiently compelling       government interest, the form in which the services are         provided, but the interest is not whether or not women          receive contraceptive services. The Petitioners do not        object to the fact that the people who work for them           will have these services provided. They object to         having them provided through the mechanism that they        have set up because they think, you know, whether you or           I or anybody else thinks, they think that that         complicity is sinful.               GENERAL VERRILLI: I understand that, Mr.        Chief Justice. I understand that that's their position.                      Let me engage with you on the question of         whether that constitutes a substantial burden. We think          that it doesn't constitute a substantial burden because         the way that this accommodation is structured, although        you're quite right, it seeks from the perspective of the          employee to ensure that the employee gets the protection         that Congress designed, that from the perspective of the         employer, that this is provided through a separate         program.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're saying, don't       worry, religions, you're not complicit. That's what        you're saying?              GENERAL VERRILLI: No. We're saying that        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the judgment about complicity is up to you, but that          there is an objective limit that RFRA recognizes on the          scope of what is a cognizable burden, that that was true            in the pre­Smith case law before RFRA, and it was          recognized in Lyng and in Bowen, and those are cases in           which there was no doubt ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me then the         analysis has to be whether or not there are less          restrictive alternatives and if ­­ is this the least         restrictive alternative?              GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, as I said, Your         Honor, if RFRA scrutiny applies, then this certainly is         the least restrictive alternative.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me mention one of         them. Suppose that it were possible for a woman who            does not get contraceptive coverage under a       grandfathered plan or under a plan offered by a church            or under a plan offered by a religious nonprofit to            obtain a contraceptive­only policy free of charge on one          of the Exchanges. Why would that not be a least ­­ a              less restrictive alternative?               GENERAL VERRILLI: It has precisely the       problem. It's not a less restrictive alternative         because it has precisely the problem Congress was trying         to overcome in the preventive services provision.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: What ­­ what type of a         burden does that impose? Is it because these ­­ these           Exchanges are so unworkable, even with the help of a          navigator, that ­­ that a woman who wants to get free            contraceptive coverage simply has to sign up for that on          ­­ on one of the Exchanges?                              GENERAL VERRILLI: No, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: So she'll have two insurance        cards instead of one. She'll have one from the          employer, and she'll have one from this plan, just as a           lot of people have one insurance card for medical         services and one for prescriptions ­­                                         GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, of course.      JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ for dental or vision.        GENERAL VERRILLI: For the very reason that        the employee has to go out and get a separate policy,            even in the world that doesn't exist now, because those          policies can't be sold on Exchanges now ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, we can talk ­­ we can          talk about that in a minute, but continue with that.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: But even in that       hypothetical world, that is not equally effective at        achieving the government's interest, because the whole       point of this provision is that you get this care from           your regular doctor as part of your regular health care          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review without any barriers, including any co­pay barriers.       And I think ­­ think about ­­ consider this, please,           from the perspective of the woman employee. She has a           health plan from her employer. She goes to ­­ she goes            to her doctor, her regular doctor. She may have a           medical condition that makes pregnancy a danger for her.          She may be one of the women, and this is about            percent of all prescribed contraception, who needs       contraception to treat a medical condition, or maybe she          just wants the contraception that's appropriate for her.                    What happens under this ­­ under      Petitioners' regime is the doctor has to say to her ­­          her regular doctor has to say to her, Sorry, I can't            help you. It's not just that you don't get paid ­­ the             prescription paid for, it's not just that he can't write          the prescription, he can't counsel or educate the        patient.             JUSTICE ALITO: But why would that be? He          would be ­­ he would be paid under the ­­ under the            contraceptive plan.              GENERAL VERRILLI: Because it wouldn't be       her regular doctor. She'd have to go out and buy the            separate plan, find a doctor who is willing to take the            separate plan, assuming ­­ assuming, of course, that        there are insurance companies willing to sell these        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review separate ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you don't think that        they would be willing to sell them if you subsidize them           at percent, which is what you were doing in the case            of those who provide services under self­insured plans.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: But the whole point here,        Justice Alito, is that Congress wanted to eliminate ­­        even what were perceived by most of the small barriers,          like a or $ co­pay, because the medical experts said             that even though small barriers ­­ even when you're         getting it as part of your regular coverage, even those          small barriers work as a sufficient disincentive that         many fewer people use contraception than would       otherwise, and that ­­ and the barrier ­­ and the system           that Your Honor is positing, imposes a significantly         greater barrier even in a ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: What about the women ­­ what         about the women in grandfathered plans ­­                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ under ­­ in grandfathered        plans that offer no contraceptive coverage? What about         them?             GENERAL VERRILLI: So grandfathered plans,      let's talk about them. As I do ­­ and I will answer               Your Honor's question directly, but I do think the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review broader context matters here.                This is a transitional device. The number         of people who are in grandfathered plans has dropped by           percent. There is no reason to think it's not going            to continue to drop, and if it does continue to drop, at            the pace of the last four years, we'll be at zero very            soon.             JUSTICE ALITO: But, you know, in the long         run we're all dead. But what's going to happen in ­­                       (Laughter.)             JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ in ­­ in the interim?         What was the reason why Congress did not require         contraceptive coverage right away under the      grandfathered plans? It required coverage right away        under the grandfathered plans for ­year­olds so that        they could get coverage under their parents' health        insurance plan. It would have been no great         administrative difficulty for the grandfathered plans to       put in contraceptive coverage, preventive care coverage       right away, just as they did for the ­year­olds. And           yet Congress said, for the really important things, like         covering the ­year­old graduate student, yes, you have        to do that right away. But for these other things,           including what we're talking about today, you can        continue to have ­­ not to provide that coverage for          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review women as long as you maintain your grandfathered status.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: Your Honor, when Congress       passed the Americans with Disabilities Act, it made ­­        it didn't impose an immediate requirement that every        building be retrofitted so that access to the disabled         was possible. What it said was, in that context, that           where it's feasible to do so, buildings shall retrofit,         and then new buildings shall have these access        requirements. No one would say that the government         lacks a compelling interest in enforcing the Americans         with Disabilities Act because Congress decided on a        transitional system.              This was a big program. There were reliance          interests. Congress decided on transition. It        understood that this number was going to drop        dramatically over time. You want ­­ a good place to            know why it's going to drop dramatically over time, look          at the declaration from the Dioceses of Pittsburgh at         page of the Joint Appendix where they say, we are           sticking with our grandfathered plan now because we        don't want to trigger the contraceptive coverage       requirement, but it's costing us a fortune. We have to            change. And that's the reality, and that's why it's          going to go down.                And with respect to contraception itself,      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Your Honor, the grandfathered plan says the ­­ the         Institute of Medicine and its study, which is in the          record, said that contraceptive coverage is standard       practice now. And we cited a study that said percent             of all plans have contraceptive coverage. So most of          these women are going to have contraceptive coverage.        Now, they are not going to have it cost free, and that's            the difference. But the idea that ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, but to ­­ to come         back ­­ to come back to the point that you were making            about the Americans with Disabilities Act, that       certainly is a good point for the Americans with          Disabilities Act. It can be very expensive to retrofit          facilities to accommodate people with disabilities.                  But are you saying that the burden of simply         instituting coverage for preventive care as it was done         for coverage for ­year­olds is comparable to making        architectural changes?              GENERAL VERRILLI: No. But what I'm saying,         Your Honor, is that this is ­­ unlike the exemption for           small employees under Title VII, which exempts        million people from these fundamental protections      against race and gender and religious discrimination,       and does so permanently, this is a transitional device          where over time you're going to get down to a situation            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review where virtually nobody has ­­ is in the situation, being          in a grandfathered plan, and most of them are getting           some form of contraceptive coverage anyway. So I don't           think it undermines a compelling interest one bit.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, can we go back        to the substantial burden question? And I think that           Justice Breyer has been talking about how to draw this          line. When is it that government has to act to           accommodate, and when doesn't it have to act to         accommodate? There is some amici that have suggested a          line that at least to me helps draw some clarity to the            cases, our cases, which is, if what your religious         belief is asking the government to do is to change its           behavior with respect ­­ its regulatory behavior with        respect to others, then it can't be a substantial          burden, because we live in a pluralistic society in          which government has to function.                 And hence, you're a military objector. You         can't tell the government, no, you can't draft someone         else. You have to ­­ you can't spend your money on war.             We don't have to use you to promote the war. But if you              want to use others to promote the war, you're entitled          to do that as government. Does this line make any sense            to you?              GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Your Honor,      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that's ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because here, what the       religious groups I understand are asking is the         government not to use its regulatory power with third         parties who don't have a religious objection, and         forcing a burden on the women who its trying to help,            third parties that don't have the same religious        objection, and burdening them to do other things.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: I think that is the         essence of our position on substantial burden, Your        Honor, and I believe that trying to answer Justice          Breyer's question about where that comes from, I believe          it comes from Lyng and Bowen, which both recognize that          there is an objective limit in Lung.                   For example, the Court said that the ­­ it         did not doubt that the ­­ the government actions were          going to have a devastating impact on a religious           exercise of the ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is ­­ this is         not just a case of the government dealing with a third             party based on the Petitioners' objection. The        objection is that the government is hijacking their        process, their insurance company, their third­party      administrator that they have hired and set up to provide          these services. I understand the distinction between         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review yes, you can do what you want, but you can't compel           other people to take actions that are consistent with         your religious beliefs.               But that's not what's going on here. It is          the relationship between the insurer that the Little        Sisters have hired or the third­party administrator with        respect to other ­­ other entities that is being used by           the government to provide these services. It's not just          a third party that's being compelled. They want ­­ it's           not just that they want third parties to take certain          action.             GENERAL VERRILLI: I would agree with you to          this limited extent, Mr. Chief Justice, that that's the         context in which the government action occurs here, that         the fact that the ­­ there is this relationship between          Petitioners and their employees is the occasion for        government acting. But there is two points that are          critical, I think, and go to why we shouldn't consider           this to be a cognizable burden.                   And the first one is that what we are doing          when we act here is trying to make an alternative          arrangement that comes as close as we can to ensuring          that the employees who may not share the Petitioner's         religious beliefs get what the law entitles them to         while at the same time ensuring that the employer does          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review not have any legal obligation to pay for the coverage,          to provide the coverage in any way. I mean, I think              that the ­­ the practical features of this are critical.                       The employer cannot be charged for the      co­pay, even insurance ­­ insurance plan, self­insured,       either way, cannot be charged. The insurance company or          third­party administrator has got to use separate       segregated funds. It's got to provide separate        segregated notices. In many instances, it provides a         separate insurance card to the employees for this part         of the coverage. So what ­­ so in that respect, it is             an independent arrangement with third parties. And        the ­­ we may ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They are ­­ they are         not third parties. They are the insurance company that          the Petitioners have hired. It's the third­party        administrator that they have hired.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It seems to me that         the balance is pretty clear. You want the coverage for           contraceptive services to be provided, I think as you ­­          as it said, seamlessly. You want it to be in the one             insurance package. That's done. That is the compelling          government interest.              And on the other side, the question is        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review whether or not people who have sincere religious        objections to being complicit in that through the hiring         of the insurance company, the third­party administrator       on terms where they provided, whether the government's        compelling interest outweighs those sincere religious      objections. Is that a fair understanding of the case?                       GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it is one fair          understanding of the case. We think that ­­                    one?             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there a fairer         GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me put it this way,         Mr. Chief Justice. We would be content if the Court            were to conclude that with respect to substantial        burden, it could assume a substantial burden but that          the government has satisfied its burden under RFRA to         show a compelling interest, and that this is the least           restricted means of achieving ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Now, you aren't giving up        on the substantial burden?                GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we are not giving up         on it, because we do think ­­ but we do think the            discussion this morning is suggestive that this is a         hard question, and it is important to us. And that's           why we're fighting on it and not giving up on it.                       JUSTICE BREYER: So that's why ­­ you see,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that's exactly what I have found difficult, exact. And           I ­­ I read the briefs. Neuborne said that. Your brief              said that. We'll look to see ­­ it's not the kind of             burden that counts for purposes of RFRA or the ­­ or the            First Amendment. Where the burden is of a certain kind.                        Now what kind? And would you say, well, a          kind where it arises out of the fact that we have a            program that affects third parties in a big way? Okay?            Well, we have the Vietnamese church of the escapees in          Los Angeles who are so poor they have to meet in the            basement of a house, and the parking regulations stop          their congregation from coming even if they want to meet          only on Sunday. Think about that one. We can put that             easily into the context of third parties being hurt. So           they can't practice their religion. So ­­ so that one.                         I can think of a lot of counter examples.         But maybe you couple that with what we have in the tax            cases. Administrate. Widespread administrative rules       the government has ­­ has leeway where third parties,         widespread, administrative. You see? So I'm ­­ I'm          trying to get the thinking of the people who have          thought about this, which are you and ­­ and the others           here on what's the best way to treat that burden. It's            not hard to find in religious writing. And the people           when they go into society assume some burdens that they          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are going to find totally obnoxious.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: We are not urging you to         state a comprehensive standard here that tells ­­                                JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then what do I do?          GENERAL VERRILLI: I think ­­ I think we're           urging a more incremental approach that recognizes that         the principles articulated in Lyng and Bowen apply in a          situation where the government is acting ­­ making        arrangements with third parties in order to fill a         regulatory gap that the ­­ that has been created by the           government granting an exemption to a religious entity.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Could you ­­ could you        address Mr. Clement's hypothetical about where the ­­       the government would come into a ­­ an unoccupied room           in the Little Sisters facility that's not being used for          anything. They don't interfere at all. They even pay           rent. And they come in there, and they establish a           Title X clinic, and they are distributing contraceptives         on the Little Sisters property. And there's no         financial burden. There's actually financial benefit to        them. Is that different from the situation here, and if           so, why?              GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. We think that would         trigger RFRA, and it would be a substantial burden. The            difference is that in that situation, you're actually on         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review their premises. And in this situation ­­ and trying to           get back to what I was discussing with you, Mr. Chief            Justice ­­ Aetna is a ­­ is a different entity from             Petitioners. Blue Cross is a different entity from          Petitioners. The government makes its arrangements with        Aetna or with Blue Cross, and we make arrangements with          Aetna and with Blue Cross and other insurance companies         and TPAs to provide contraceptive coverage to other        third parties, the employees.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you say in your brief,         you admit in your brief that, at least in the case of            the self­insured plan, the ­­ the notice or the ­­ the           form or the notice becomes part of the plan. This is            their health insurance plan established under ERISA, and        you are putting a new objectionable element into the          plan. Isn't that correct?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think that's        quite right, Justice Alito. I think there's been some           confusion on that on the Petitioner's side.                   There are two separate notices that operate       here on the self­insured plan. The first is the notice           that the employer provides to the government. That's an          ERISA plan document, but what that ­­ what ­­ the legal           effect of that document is to exempt the employer from          any obligation to provide contraceptive coverage.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             There is a second document, a different         document, that the government then sends to the        third­party administrator. That document is the       document that has a legal effect that creates the          obligation on the part of the third­party administrator        to provide the coverage.                So it is not the case that the document that          comes to us is an authorizing document. That's an          exempting document.              JUSTICE ALITO: But it ­­ it is ­­ it's          their plan, and you admit that you are putting something          into their plan that they object to on religious         grounds.                         GENERAL VERRILLI: So I ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: So the difference between       that and Mr. Clement's hypothetical is that one involves         something tangible, physical property, and the other       involves something that's intangible.                GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: That's the distinction.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it's not just that        it's like intangible property. The ­­ the plaintiffs         really have a set of rules, and the third­party          administrator becomes ­­ for purpose of administering       this, it becomes the plan administrator, the sole plan         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review administrator, for this portion of the plan. But even          if one thought that there was ­­ that ­­ that this did            create a legally sufficient reason to find a substantial           burden for ­­ for third­party administrators, it's not        true about the situation with insurance companies. It's         not true about church plans. And so then it seems to me             the question is whether switching from having a        self­insured third­party administrator situation to an      insurance company situation would ­­ whether this would        be a substantial burden.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, in the case of an         insurance plan, isn't the insurance policy part of the         plan? Isn't the insurance policy the way in which          the ­­ the employer provides the benefits that are         available under the plan?                GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And then ­­ and         then the government makes an arrangement with the        insurance company that operates in parallel to that        plan. And so ­­ but ­­ but it isn't through that plan.             It's in parallel to that plan. So I think there's a             significant difference there, but ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what is        the ­­ the government's interest in requiring ­­       requiring compliance by Catholic Charities of      Pittsburgh, but totally exempting Catholic Charities of       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Erie?             GENERAL VERRILLI: So this gets to the        question of the church exemption, Your Honor. And let          me try to explain that.                    I think it's helpful to understand how it      came about. The church ­­ initially HHS decided that it           would create an exemption for churches. And then ­­ and           there were some back­and­forth, regulatory proceedings.      Petitioners participated in that, created the exemption       for churches. And then the religious nonprofits came in          and said, well, the exemption ought to be extended to          us.             The government made a judgment that as a         categorical matter, it wasn't willing to extend the        exemption to all religious nonprofits, as was requested,        but it, instead, would use this accommodation, which we         thought was the best way that we could both protect          their religious liberty and ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The difference, of       course, is, as you ­­ it's properly phrased in the          briefing, is the accommodation is the way in which the          organizations comply with the mandate. With respect to         Catholic Charities of Erie, though, they don't have to         comply to the accommodation or any other way.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: But ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They are exempt.       GENERAL VERRILLI: The reason we drew the        line is because we think ­­ and I think Professor           Laycock's brief is quite instructive on this point ­­ is          that while there ­­ no line is perfect, and I'm sure           this line isn't perfect, and there's going to be some          overlap between entities that maybe you think of ­­ or          look closer to being on one side of the line than the            other. But the line is a valid line. And it's a valid                line largely for the reasons Justice Kennedy identified        earlier, because in that category of religious       nonprofits may be some entities, like the one Your Honor          has identified, that appear very close to entities that         have an exemption. But there are also going to be lots            of other entities whose connection to that core        religious mission is much more attenuated ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have to draw the         line? Is it ­­ could you apply the same requirements           you apply to the Little Sisters to the church entity          itself?             GENERAL VERRILLI: And so I ­­ I think we            could, Your Honor, yes, under ­­ I think under ­­ I            think we would ­­ it would be an appropriate         accommodation, and I think if we had the same compelling           interest, and we'd make the same narrowly tailored means         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review argument. But we have constrained ourselves. We've         tried to be especially careful with houses of worship.         And that's a normal thing that governments do with          respect to houses of worship.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. But you        understand the argument. It's ­­ and we've said this in           cases like O Centro and others, that if you have a lot              of exemptions, it undermines your argument that this is         such a compelling interest.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. And let me try to          walk through this carefully, because I do think it's          important.             They have identified three. First is       grandfathered plans. We've had a lengthy discussion         about that. I think I've tried to show you that that ­­             I don't think you can argue that that exemption         undermines the government's compelling interest.                 They claim that there is an exemption for        employers who have fewer than employees, but that's         just wrong. In fact, there's no reason to think that           virtually anybody in the ­­ in that category of         employees of those small employers isn't getting       contraceptive coverage as part of their regular health        care from the regular doctors. And let me explain why           that is.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             There is no exemption from the contraceptive       requirement for that group. Proof of it is that several           Petitioners are in that group of fewer than         employees, and they're asking for the ­­ and they're         asking for the ­­ and they're ­­ and they've raised the           RFRA claim here. So ­­ and that's because when          employers in that group provide coverage, they have to         meet the contraceptive coverage requirements so the       employees get the coverage from their regular doctor as         part of their regular health plan.                  Then also, if your employer is not providing        you coverage in that group, then you go on an Exchange,           and then you purchase a policy on the Exchange. And            that policy provides you with contraceptive coverage as        part of your regular health plan from your regular         doctor, or you ­­ you ­­ if you are eligible, you apply            for Medicaid. And Medicaid gives you contraceptive        coverage as part of your regular health plan from your          regular doctor.              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, for the employees who        have to buy the plans on the Exchange because they work           for a small employer and the employer doesn't offer          health insurance, does that arrangement frustrate the       government's compelling interest?               GENERAL VERRILLI: No. Because in that        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review circumstance, Your Honor, the only option that that        employee has is to buy an individual policy on the          Exchange. And that individual policy will contain the         contraceptive coverage from your regular doctor as part        of your regular health care.                 The difference is with ­­ when somebody       works for a grandfathered plan, for example, in that          category, or for a church, the ­­ those people are           already getting insurance. And ­­ and so for them,          there ­­ it is an obstacle because you're forcing them          to purchase a second insurance policy. And ­­ and that            really becomes a financial penalty for them, because         part of their compensation is, of course, the health         insurance they're getting from their regular doctors.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: That just underscores that       the church plans here, religious organization plans       here, are, in effect, subsidizing the conduct that they         deemed immoral.              GENERAL VERRILLI: So, Your Honor, I think         the answer to that is that they're not subsidizing it,          because the way in which this plan is structured, the          way in which the accommodation is structured, is that         they are not to ­­ employers are not to bear any           financial burden for the contraceptive coverage that has        to be provided without charging the employer, and funds         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review have to be segregated, and all activity has to be          segregated. So there ­­ it's ­­ it's quite carefully          designed to avoid the existence of any subsidy with         respect to them. And then ­­ and so we talked about ­­                        JUSTICE KENNEDY: If it's so easy to        provide, if it's so free, why can't they just get it           through another plan?               GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because they have       to sign up for a second plan and pay for a second plan,               Your Honor. And that's precisely the kind of obstacle          that Congress is trying to insure did not exist when it           passed the Preventive Services provision of this       statute. The whole idea here is to ensure that these           employees get the health care, get this covered, get         this care from their regular doctor as part of their          regular health care without these added obstacles and        the need to go out and sign up for another plan and then             find the doctors who are going to provide coverage under          that plan. All of those are precisely the kinds of           obstacles that Congress was trying to eliminate because        all the ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it comes down to         a question of who has to do the paperwork? If it's the             employee that has to do it, that's ­­ that's no good.           If it's the religious organization that has to do it,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that's okay?              GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's a lot more           than that, Your Honor. You've got to go out and           find the ­­ you've got to go out and find the           separate ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They're on the       Exchanges, right?              GENERAL VERRILLI: But ­­ but, Your Honor,        put yourself in the position of this ­­                   Exchanges.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're not on the       GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's a falsehood. The         Exchanges require full­service health insurance policies      with minimum coverages that are set forth that are very          comprehensive.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that true with        respect to ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We're creating a new        program.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that true with        respect to every policy sold on the Exchanges?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. Every policy sold        on the Exchanges ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What about pediatric       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, except for that       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, except for       dentistry?             one.             pediatric dentistry.                          GENERAL VERRILLI: But that's a ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you could have a         separate health coverage product sold on the Exchanges.        You, in fact, do it already.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: You couldn't do it under        current law, Your Honor.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the way       constitutional objections work is you might have to        change current law.               (Laughter.)             GENERAL VERRILLI: But in this circumstance,       I think, you don't need to get to that question of           whether there is an obligation to change current law         because even if you did have a second contraceptive­only          policy available on an Exchange, that would be precisely         the kind of barrier that Congress is trying to         eliminate.             You have two policies instead of one policy.        That creates the disincentives. A lot of women          employees, I'm certain, will reach the conclusion that,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review well, you know, I've got this coverage over here ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no, no. But I          guess that substantiates the point I was trying to make,           that it's a question of who does the paperwork.                                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You said, yes, it is         a hassle to go to the Exchange, although it's ­ you            know, I've heard about how easy it is. You get an            Exchange, you get it, or you allow your infrastructure,         as Petitioners have said, to be used as the vehicle for           ­­ for providing it.                I'm not saying it comes out one way or         another from your perspective. I'm just trying to focus          on exactly what is at issue.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's a question        whether you want the employee to sign a paper or you            want the Little Sisters to sign a paper. In the one             case, it's an administrative burden as you've said. In          the other case, it's ­­ it's a violation of a basic             principle of faith.               GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I think that the          point, Your Honor, is that Congress and the Institute of          Medicine ­­ Congress made a judgment here that this does           impose a very significant obstacle with these kinds of          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review requirements, result in significantly less use of       medically­necessary services.              And it's not ­­ it doesn't just come down to          this, Your Honor ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's why it's necessary       to hijack the plans.                GENERAL VERRILLI: It's ­­ Your Honor,       it's ­­ it is why the ­­ it is why the government's            interest is advanced in the ­­ in the least restrictive          manner, in the most effective manner.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Is this right? Is it that          the reason I get that you don't want to have the women             to have to ask for the coverage is because vast numbers           of women will, quite a few who have religious objections           won't, and then there will be that middle set of people           who are inertia bound. And since they are inertia          bound, we can't say so what, because poor people who          don't object religiously, if they get the       contraceptives, that lowers the cost of health coverage        later on.              So the government has an interest in that.        And therefore, there is an interest of some kind in not           allowing a system ­­ in not having a system where the             inertia bound have to take initiative.                  Have I got that right?      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         GENERAL VERRILLI: I think that the ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Do I have the           other part right, which is this is not hijacking because          there is a Federal regulation that says the         infrastructure of the insurers' contraceptive­related     plan belongs to the insurer, not to the person who buys           the insurance? Am I correct about that?                     GENERAL VERRILLI: And that's all ­­ that's        all correct, Your Honor. And that's why when I say when             we make an arrangement with Aetna or Blue Cross, we are           not making an arrangement with Petitioners or anything        that Petitioners own.               JUSTICE ALITO: Couldn't the Executive deal       with the problem of what's available on the Exchanges at          the present time in this way: Policies are available          that provide comprehensive coverage. Could the       Executive say, as a matter of our enforcement         discretion, we are not going to take any action against          insurers who offer contraceptive­only policies, and in       fact, we are going to subsidize those insurers at          percent, just as we do in the situation of the          self­insured plans?              GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I don't believe we          would have ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: Why would that not be ­­ why          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would that not be a valid exercise of your enforcement           discretion?             GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it ­­ I don't think          it would be. But even if it were, it presents the same             problem of creating the obstacle which creates the        inertia problem, which undermines the compelling      interest, which is not just the compelling interest of         the Institute of Medicine and HHS, but if Congress         itself ­­ because the whole point of the statutory         provision here is that this is supposed to be part of           your ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand you're        saying it would be inadequate.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: ­­ health care with       regular doctors.              JUSTICE ALITO: But why would it be not         something that you could do in accordance with your         understanding of executive power?                GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I don't ­­ I don't           think that it would address the problem, Justice Alito,         because it would ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Could you ­­ could you,        General Verrilli, explain the difference between the       employer filing a form, identifying an insurer ­­ say,          Aetna or Blue Cross ­­ that covers contraceptives for         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review many other people that it insures, the difference        between that notice and the woman who now doesn't have          this coverage, has to go out affirmatively and get it          from someplace else?                                       Is it just a matter of filing ­­        GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­ I ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ the form for her, or         is there a real difference between ­­ between an          employer saying we're not going to cover contraceptives,        just our insurer's name, and the woman who suddenly         doesn't have it as part of her package and has to go out             ­­            GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. I think that's         exactly the point here, is that the ­­ the woman          employee ­­ and I do, and I try to ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. What ­­        the difference ­­ you were asked what the difference is?                      GENERAL VERRILLI: The difference is this:       It's not just about filling out paperwork; that if         you're a woman employee, you go to your regular doctor,           you say you have a medical condition ­­ I ­­ that puts              me at risk of being pregnant, or I just want           contraceptive coverage, or I need contraception to treat         a medical condition. And the way this works now, if ­­           if the RFRA exemption is granted here, is that the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review doctor has to say I cannot help you with that.                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All right. That's        the interest on one side of the equation. What do you            understand to be the interest on the other side of the           equation?             GENERAL VERRILLI: The ­­ I understand the         interest to be avoiding complicity in what they consider         to be sin. We take that very seriously, but ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which way ­­ which        way does RFRA cut in ­­ in analyzing that balance?                      GENERAL VERRILLI: I think RFRA cuts, in         this situation, quite decisively in favor of the        government here because the interests are compelling.       And the ­­ and as we've tried to explain, none of the            alternatives that the Petitioners have proposed have       come anywhere close to being equally effective in        ensuring that women get this coverage.                  And so ­­ and the obstacles that ­­ that you          get told by your regular doctor, I can't help you, I            can't even counsel you about this. And ­­ and numerous           other Petitioners have filed declarations saying that       our ­­ our insurance will not cover even any counseling          about contraception. So you've got to go out and find           another doctor. And then you've got ­­ and ­­ and           you've got to find a way to pay for that doctor, and             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review then you've got to find a way to pay for the            contraceptive coverage. It's a whole host of very          serious obstacles. It's not just about signing a form.           And that gets to the heart of the problem here.                      JUSTICE ALITO: Why do you assume that the         doctor to whom the women would go for other services          under the plan would be unwilling to provide those         services under a plan ­­ under a separate plan that            covers contraceptives?                          assumption?             GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that would ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: Why do you make that        GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, that would be a        happenstance. Somebody's got to offer that separate        plan, and that separate plan has got to ­­ and then the            doctor that she goes to as a regular doctor has to be             the same ­­ has to be under the same plan. There's no             reason to think that she could get that, and ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, the ­­ we've       used ­­ the hijack analogy has been mentioned. Can you           explain why you don't see this as a hijacking?                      GENERAL VERRILLI: All right. I think what          we've tried to ­­ the ­­ the way I've tried to explain            that, Your Honor, is that we have tried ­­ and I think             the Court recognized this in Hobby Lobby, that the goal          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of this is to exempt the employer from providing the          contraceptive coverage, to exempt them and to provide it         as separate means through separate funds without their        involvement, and therefore, it's not hijacking.                  What I'd like to do, if I could, I want to             make one point about the ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe if I could         follow up on your answer before you do. The          contraceptive services would be provided pursuant to       what plan?              GENERAL VERRILLI: When you're hired by one        of the religious organizations, you get a brochure or a           package with all your insurance coverage and, you know,         everything it is. And where would the contraceptive         services be listed? It won't be in that brochure, it           can't be in that brochure, there's got to be a separate            communication from the insurance company to the employee        telling the employee you're getting this separately from        us. That's how it works.                  Now, there ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Francisco, I think,        earlier said if Aetna offers a separate policy giving          insurance, that he thought that that would be an         adequate ­­ an adequate accommodation.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: So I think that that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review raises all the problems identified.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no. I meant ­­ I           meant: He says, generally, if Aetna, under some other          policy, offers it on the Exchange to women who might          want to go on the Exchange and buy that policy, that's           okay if they ­­ if that's the ­­ what they do.                       What's different from that from what happens       here? It's basically the same thing, isn't it?                     GENERAL VERRILLI: No. Two policies instead        of one. You have got to pay for that policy.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it is two policies        instead of one because the contraceptives are being        provided by government regulation. The only       seamlessness is that I think the woman doesn't have to           apply and pay separately or something else.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think ­­ I think           if it's a separate policy, you're going to have to apply            and pay separately. There is a whole separate regime.                         I do want to make one point about the        notice, because my friend on the other side raised the          idea of notice, that it's not just about us using the           plan, but the notice they provide. That notice         argument, I think, can't constitute a substantial burden          because it's entirely derivative of the objection to us         setting up this third­party arrangement. And I ­­ I           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review think Mr. Clement told you that this morning because he          said if government didn't take this step of providing         the coverage, we would be happy to provide any         information they want on a form.                   And so I think that ­­ what that tells you           is that the objection here, the focus of the objection,          is the ­­ is the arrangement to provide the separate          coverage and not the notice, per se; that on its own           terms, it's unobjectionable.               JUSTICE ALITO: Before you sit down, General        Verrilli, could I just ask you this informational         question about this particular situation of the Little        Sisters?             Their regular third­party administrator also     will not provide ­­ has said it will not provide the           coverage if ­­ even if they were to comply with the ­­           the form of the notice requirement. And, therefore, you          say they probably cannot be ­­ there is probably no way           under ERISA to obtain contraceptive coverage for their        employees unless you can find another third­party       administrator that you could deal with there.                   In that situation, would the Little Sisters       still be subject to fines for failing to comply?                     GENERAL VERRILLI: No, we don't think so.        If I could, just in closing, what I'd ask this Court to             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review do is to weigh the alternatives that have been put          before you here on this case. On the one side, you've            got a serious, thoughtful effort to respect Petitioners'         religious beliefs by creating a system that allows them          to exempt themselves from the requirement in a        straightforward manner and that protects the fundamental       rights and liberties and dignity of the ­­ of their          employees, many of whom may not share their religious         beliefs about contraception.               On the other side of the scale, what you've         got is a demand that those rights or those employees who            may not share Petitioners' beliefs be extinguished ­­       extinguished until such time as Congress creates and        enacts a different program that will require a separate           one­off jerry­rigged channel for them to provide and        obtain contraceptive coverage that will impose precisely       the burdens that Congress said in the relevant statutory         provision are unacceptable for all preventive services.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that's one way of        characterizing what's involved here. But you could        also ­­ it can also be said that, and it is true, that             this is a case in which a great array of religious             groups ­­ and it's not just Catholics and Baptists and          Evangelicals, but Orthodox Jews, Muslim groups, the       Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter Day Saints, an          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Indian tribe, the Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye ­­ have          said that this presents an unprecedented threat to        religious liberty in this country.                             What would you say to that?      GENERAL VERRILLI: What I would say to that,          Your Honor, is that, I think, essentially what eight          court of appeals have said, which is that RFRA requires          a sensible balance. A sensible balance is essential in           a pluralistic society like ours, in which people of         every faith on earth live and work side by side, and the            government has got to administer rules that are fair to          everyone.             The accommodation ­­ the accommodation     achieves that balance. Petitioners' position is very,        very far from that balance and, therefore, the court of          appeals should be affirmed.                Thank you.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Clement, four minutes.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS IN                 NOS. ­, ­, ­ & ­                   MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        A few points in rebuttal.                 I'd like to start with the universities,       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Justice Kennedy, because I don't think it's the case          that just because Congress exempts churches, that it has         to exempt the universities. What it needs, though, is a           rationale for drawing the line.                  Now, my friend on the other side says the        line doesn't have to be perfect. Well, under compelling          interest and least restrictive alternatives, it at least        has to be pretty good. And the line that they have            drawn here is absurd, and I would urge you to look at             the amicus brief filed by the Dominican Sisters and         authored by a former head of the tax division, because           it explains the line they have picked, using of the           tax code, makes no sense. That's an informative filing          requirement, but there is no substantive difference.                   If my clients filed the form, they get the         same tax exempt status as the churches. The only          difference in that provision is whether you filed the         form. The substantive treatment is exactly the same.                     To use that line to draw a distinction         between churches and universities or the Little Sisters        of the Poor is a terrible line to draw. And if you go               back to thinking ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But going back to that        line­drawing problem ­­ and that is in a brief that's           been mentioned several times, the Baptist Joint       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Committee ­­ our leading proponent of RFRA discusses        this line­drawing problem. Do you just say that's         wrong?             MR. CLEMENT: No, I would say that that gets           me to the next point. But if I could just finish this              point for one second.                Their original justification for the line      they drew, Justice Kennedy, was that the exempted        organizations would be more likely to hire       co­religionists and, therefore, less likely to have       employees who would use the products.                  My clients equally enjoy the Title VII       exemption which gives them the right to hire        co­religionists so their original rationale applies      equally to my clients. You have to draw a sensible            line.             Now as to the exemptions, I mean, I will           respectfully disagree with Professor Laycock.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would it have been       better to say, churches, you've got to tell us you're          going to claim an exemption, because not every church is          religious, has the same religious tenets. So is that          what you would have preferred? Is that the ­­ the sort            of incentive you want to put out there? Is that the            message you're giving, which is, there is lots of rules          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that apply differently to churches because we recognize        they are special? Others may be special like them, but           it's clear to tell what a church is.                     MR. CLEMENT: Let me answer both questions        together. First of all, the exemption is not just          limited to churches. It applies to religious orders.         And if my clients would have just stuck to their          knitting and not helped the elderly poor, they could         qualify.             But to answer both of these questions       together, not all exemptions are created equal. And         Professor Laycock is a great scholar, but even he          admitted he didn't understand the details of this        particular plan. He didn't get into that. He left it            to the parties.               And I think he subsequently said that if         there really was a requirement for these entities to          contract, and there is, then even he would recognize         there is a substantial burden. But the important point           is not all exemptions are created equal. If you create           an exemption for small employers, that's a rationale         exercise with enforcement discretion. If you create an         exemption for ­­ take the O Centro case. If the            exemption for peyote had been for a Schedule substance            that was less dangerous, maybe the government would have         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review won.             Their problem there was that the government       had already exempted the sacramental use of peyote, a         Schedule substance. So of course, they had a hard             time arguing why they couldn't provide an exemption for         a different Schedule substance.                   All of these exemptions have to be treated       the same, Justice Breyer. There is no excuse. There is            no other way than to do the hard work of looking at the             exemptions and seeing whether they make sense.                   One of the cases that Congress clearly       wanted to embrace in RFRA was Yoder. Now,         Yoder was a relatively hard case because there basically          were no exemptions. If the State of Wisconsin had          already provided an exemption for the Mennonites and it         already provided an exemption for the students upstate        where the schools are farther apart, Yoder would have         been an easy, easy case. You can't make an exemption           for all these grandfathered plans. And please, it's not          that this is a sunset provision. If you look at Joint             Appendix page , they link the grandfather provision        to the idea that if you like your plan, you can keep it.             So that's not going away.                 Just in closing, my clients would love to be         a conscientious objector, but the government insists       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that they be a conscientious collaborator. There is no           such thing.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled  matter was submitted.)   Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : able : : : abortion : abortions : above­entitled : : absence : : : absolutely : : absurd : accept : : : acceptable : :,, :, accepted : : access : :, accident : accommodate : :, accommodation : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, accommodati... : accomodation :,, : :, accurate : achieve : achieves : achieving : : act :, : : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Reviewadmits : admitted : adult : advanced : Aetna : : : :,, : : : : :,,, : : : : : Amendment : : Americans : : :, affirmative : affirmatively amici : amicus : : :, : acted : acting : : action :, : :, : actions : : : activities : activity : : added : adding : addition : additional : address : : : adequate : : : affirmed : Affordable : AGED : agree : : : : ahead : AL :,,, :,,, : :,, : :, : :, : approach : appropriate : : ARCHBISHOP : architectural : area : argue : arguing : argument : :,,, : : : : :,, : : : : :,, : : arguments : arises : arrangement : : : : :, : : arrangements : : :, array : articulated : aside : asked : asking : :, : : : :, Association : assume :, : : :, : : : assumed : assuming : : :, : analogy : : analysis : :,, :,,, : : : : : analyze : analyzing : Angeles : answer : : : :,, : : : : : :, answering : : anybody : : anyway : apart : appeals :, appear : APPEARAN... : appendix : : : applicable : applies : : : : apply : : : : : : adhere : Alito : : adherent : adjust : administer : : administering : administrable : Administrate : administrative :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : allow : : :, : administrator : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, administrators : admit : allowed : allowing : : allows :, : alternative : : : : :,,, : : : alternatives Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : Breyer :, burdensome : assumption : attempts : attenuated : : authored : authorization :, : : : : available : : : :, avoid : avoiding : Aye : B B : : : Babalu : back : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, :, cases : :, : : : :, : : : categorical : categories : category : : : : : Catholic : :, : : : Catholics : causation : cause : Centro : : certain :, : : : : certainly : : :, : : challenge : change : :,, : : : : :, basis : : : :,, : :, :,, : : : : : : : : be­all : bear : began : behalf :, : :,, : : : Breyer's : : : brief : : authorize : authorizing : behavior : auxiliaries : : belief :,, : : :, : :, :, burdensomen... : Burwell : : : :, : : business : : :, : : businesses : : : :, buy : : : : : buying : buys : : briefing : :,, : :, briefs : : : : : :, : : : brings : beliefs :, : : : : : :, :,, believe : : : : :, : :, C broader : brochure : C : : :, building : buildings :, bunch : :, burden :, cake : call : : :,, card : : cards : : bad : : balance : back­and­forth believer : belongs : Benedict : benefit : benefits : best : : better : : : : :, :, Baptist : : : big : : Baptists : : : barrier :, bit : : : barriers : :, :, : based : : : : basement : basic : basically : blasphemy : Blue :,, : : bound :, : Bowen : : : : breakdown : : : :,,,, : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : :, : care : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :,,, :,, :, : : : : : : carefully : careful : : : changes : Carolina : carry : case : : :,,, : :, : :, characterizing channel : : : burdening : burdens : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : charge : charged :, charging : Charities : : : : claims : closer : closing : : :, : co­pay : : : : co­petitioners : co­religionists :, code : : cognizable : : coherent : collaborator :, : clarity : clause : Chief :, clearly : : : : : : : : :, : clear : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : Clement : : : : collapse : :, :,, :, :, :,, :, college : : : :, COLORADO :, : :,, : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : column : come : : : : : : : :, :, : : comes : : child : choose : Christ : Christian : church :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : compel : compelled : compelling : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : compensation : compliance : Congress : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : connect : connection : complicit : conscientious : : : : complicity : :,,, : : : : : : : : consequence : : consider : : : : comply : : : :, : : :, consolidated : constitute : comprehensive consistent : client : : coming : Clement's : : : : clients : : : :, : : : : : : : concede : :,, : conceded : concedes : committed : concerns : Committee : conclude : communication : : constitutes : constitutional : constrained : contact : contain : contains : content : churches : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : :, : clients' :, company : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : companies : : circumstance clinic : : : : cited : claim : : close : : : : : :, : :, : comparable : : conclusion : :, condition :, context : : : : : : conditions : conduct : : confusion : congregation : continue : : :, : contraception Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : danger : described : description : : :,, damned : : :, : : :,,,, dangerous : deserted : : :, DAVID : designed : : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, : dealing : : : despite : details : detector : determine : determined : devastating dead : deal : : day : : : : coverages : covered : : covering : covers : : : : : decides : create : : decision : debate :, : :, decided : device : : : : :,, : : : : : contraceptive : : costing : counsel : : : : : : : counseling counter : country : :, : : : counts : couple :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : course : :,, : : :, : :, :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : court : : : contraceptives Court's : contraceptive­... : : : contraceptive­... : : : :,,, : : : : : : contract : : : contrary : control : : : controls : copayments : core : : correct : :, correctly : cost : : difference :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, differences : different : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, created : : : :, creates : : : : : creating : : : critical : : : : : : :,, : decisively : declaration : declarations : deemed : deems : defeats : define : definition : :, : differently delighted : demands : demonstrably delivering : demand : : : :, cut : cuts : cylindrical :, courts : cover : : Cross :,, coverage : : : : :, current : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, : dental : : : :,, : D : :, dentistry :, dilemma : :, : :, : DENVER : : :, D.C :,, Department :,,, : : :, : da :,, :,,,, : : : : difficult : : : : depends : derivative : directly : demonstrated diminishing dignity : : : :, : Dioceses : direction : difficulty : : : : D Alderson Reporting Company disabilities : : : :, : :, document : EBSA : : : : :, :,,,,, : disabled : disagree : discretion : doing :, : : dollars : : : discriminate : : discrimination Dominican : : : discuss : : : DONALD : : : doubt : discusses : discussing : discussion : draft : : doubts : : : disincentive : disincentives : disputes : distance :, : draft­eligible : elderly : : : dramatically element : : :, eligible :, draw : : : :, : :, : distinction : drawing : drawn :, :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : drew : : distinguish : drop :, :, : distinguishable dropped : due : : : distributing : division : doctor : : :, :,,, :,, : : : :, :, : :, doctors : : : : E E : :, earlier : : earth : easier : easily : : EAST : easy : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review :,,, : : :, entities : : : :, : :, : : : :, : employer : entitles : entity : entitled : : edge : educate : effect : : : : effective : : : effort : efforts : eight : either : :, : equal :, equally : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : equation :, equivalent : :,, eradicating : : : : : Erie :, : : :, : employer­based ERISA : : :, : : : : :, :, escapees : especially : employers : ESQ :,, :, : : eliminate : : : eliminated : embrace : employee : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : enacted : enacts : end­all : enduser : enforced : enforcement : : : enforces : employees : enforcing : engage : : : enjoy : enrolled : ensure : : : :, :, :,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : : :, : enterprises :,,, :,, : : entire : entirely : : : : : : ensuring : :,,, essence : : essential : essentially : : : : establish : established : ET :,,, :,,, : :,, : Evangelicals : everybody : : : evidence : : : : exact : : : : exactly : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review factual :, :, factually : failing : fair : : :, : fairer : fairly : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : fine : : faith : : :, : : : falls : falsehood : far : : : farther : favor : feasible : features : Federal : : felt : fewer : : : fighting : figure : :, file : : : : filed :, : :, : filing : : : : fill : : :, : :, : : : filled : filling : : financial : :, : : finely­grained : fines : finish : finished : first : : : : : : : : : : : : five : flip : floodgates : flow : flowed : focus : : follow : force : forcing :, : : form : : : :,, :,, :,, : :,,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, former : forms : formulating find : : : forth : fortune : found : : four : : : Francisco : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : : :, :, :, : :, : :, :,, : : : free : : : : : Freedom : friend : : front : frustrate : full­blown : : full­service : function : : functional : functions : fundamental : : : funds : : : further :, : : : furthers : : :, : example : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, :,, examples : exception : exceptions : exercise : exempts : : : :, Exchange : :,, : : :, :, Exchanges : : : : :, : :, :,, : : excuse : : executive : :, : exempt : : :, : : :, : :, exempted : : : : : : exercises : exist : : existed : existence : exists : expensive : experts : explain : : : : : : : :, explaining : : explains : : extend : extended : extent : exempting : : : : extinguished exemption : extremely : F face : : : :, :, : extra : :, : : :, :, : : :,, : : :, : : : :,,,, : :, : : :, : :,, :,,, facilities : facility : fact :,, :, : :,, : : : : : : : : : exemptions Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review G G : gap : : GEN : : : gender : general : :,, :, : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : given : : gives : Ginsburg's : give :, go : : giving :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, : : :, : : : :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : :,, :,, :, : :,, :, : : :, goes : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : goal : generally : : : GENEVA : genuine : getting : : :, : : : : :, : Ginsburg : going :, :, : :, :, : : : :,,, : : : : : :,, : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : : government's : : :, : : : : : good : : : : : : government : : : : : : : : : : : : governmental : : : governments grandfathering graduate : grandfather : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, : : : : : :, :, :, :, : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : :, : :,, : grandfathered :,, :,,, : :, :,,, : : :,,, :, : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : greater : : :, :, : grounds : : : : : : :, :,, :,,, :,, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : happen : happened : happens : half : : hand : : granted : granting : great : :, : H : : : happenstance : happy : : : hard : : :, : hassle : head : health :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,,, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : healthy : hear : heard : heart : held : help : : : : : :, : hijack : : : hijacking : : : : : hint : hire :, :,,, group : : helped : helpful : groups :, helps : hermit : : :, guess : : HHS : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review hired :, : : :, : hiring : : Hobby : : : : HOME : homes :, honestly : Honor : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : : Honor's : Hosanna­Tabor : hospital : host : house : : houses : : : HUMAN :, :, :, : hundred : hurt : hypothetical :,, : : : : I i.e :, icing : idea : : : : identical : identified : :, : : identifies : identify : identifying : idiosyncratic : ignored : imagine : immediate : immoral : immune : impact : implicated : important : : : : : : : : : impose : : : : imposed : : imposes : inadequate : incentive : incentives : include : including : : : incremental : independent : :, : : Indian : individual : : :, inertia :, : : infer : inflation : information :, : informational : : : informative : infrastructure : : initially : initiative : insist : insists : instance : instances : Institute : : : instituting : instructive : instrument :, insubstantial : insufficient : : : : insurance : : :, : :, : : : :,, :,, : :, :,,, :, : :,, : : : :, : insure : insurer :, : : : : :, : : : insurer's : insurers : :, : issued : issues : : J jail :,,, Jehovah's : jerry­rigged : : insurers' : insures : insuring : intangible : Jesus : : :, Jew : Jews : Joint : integrated : : : interest : : : JR : : interests :, : judgment : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, Justice : : : :,, : :, : :, :, : :,, : : : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, :, :,, :,,, :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,, :, : :,, :,, : : :,, :,,, : :, :, :, :, :, : :, :,, :,, : : : : : : : : interfere : interim : : : involved : irrational : issue : : : involvement involves : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :,, keep : Kennedy : laws : :, :, : lawsuit : :,, :, : Laycock : : : : : :, : Laycock's : : : : : : : : : : kind : : : : : :,, : : : lead : leading : leeway : left : legal : : : : : : legally : legislature : legs : lengthy : let's : : :, : : :,,, :,, :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : :,,, :, : :, :, : : :, : :,, :, : :, : :, : kinds : : : : :,, : : : :, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : : :, knows : :, : : : : : : knew :, knitting : know :,, : level : leveled :, liberties : liberty :, : : : : : : : : : : : : lieu :, :,, :, : LIFE : : : : : :, : limit : : limited : : : major : Lists : little : :, majority : making : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, mandate : : : :, : manner : : :, : : : March : : live : : marginally : loads : Lobby : massive : : : : : : long : : :, : : : matter : : : : : : : : : : look :, : matters : : :, mean : : :, : : : : : : : : : : looking : Meaning : :, : means : : :, :, : : Los : lose : : : losing :, meant :, lot : : mechanism : : L lack : lacks : large : largely : larger : Laughter : : : : law : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : line :,, : :,, : :,, :,, :,,,,, :, : :,,, lowers : : :, Lukumi : lots : : love : lower :, : Medicaid : : :, medical : : : :, : :, medically­nec... line­drawing : : lines : link : linked : list : listed : : Lung : Lyng : : Medicare : : : : : M mailing : maintain : : Medicine : : : meet :, : member : justification : K Kagan : :,, :, : : : :, : :,, :, Kagan's : Alderson Reporting Company : members : Mennonites : mention : mentioned : : message : middle : military : : : : million : : millions : : : : : : : : : : needs : : : : : : : Neuborne : minimum : Neuborne's : : minute : minutes : mischaracteri... NOEL : : new : : : : : : mission : mistake : misunderstan... nonprofit : nondenomina... : : moment : : : money : monk : months : moral : morally : morning : : : mortal : mosques : Muslim : : N nonprofits :, : : : nonreligious : normal : Nos :, : :, : : : notice : : : :,, : :, :, : : notices : : N :, : name : : notification narrowly : : : : : : : :, :, : : : obnoxious : :,, : obstacle : : : : : : : : :, : : obstacles : : : : obtain :, objected : : objecting : : : : : obvious : : : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, occurs : :,, :, : objection : : : : occasion : offer : : : offered : : : :, : :, :,, : offers : :, : :, : Oh : : : : : : : :, :, : once : : :, : : : : okay : : objectionable oral : :, : : : : order : : orders : : :, : : organization :, : : : : : organizations :,,, :, : : : : : :,,, : : : original : :, originally : Orthodox : ought : outweighs : overall : overcome : overlap : : :, overwhelming :, : : : : one­off : : : objections : open : : P : P Official ­ Subject to Final Review : necessarily : : necessary : : : : : numbers : numerous : O need :,, O : : : : : : : : objector's : objectors : : : opposed : opt : : : : opt­out : : : : O'Connor : obligated : object : objects : opting : : option : obligation : options : : :, :,, : : : : navigator : notify : naysaying : number : NAZARENE operate : operated : operates : :, : objector :, opinion : objective : : : : pace : pacifists :, pack : package : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review page : : : : : pass : passed : : pages : : patient : paid : : PAUL : : : perfectly : period : permanently : physical : picked : : picks : Pittsburgh please : : : : : plenty : : : : : permissible : : pluralistic : : place : : permission : plaintiffs : permit : perpetuity : person : : plan :, pay : :, : : : : : : : :, : paying : : pediatric : : penalties : :, : : : : : : : personal : perspective : : :, : : penalty : : persuasive : : Petitioner : people : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : perceive : perceived : percent : :,, :, : : : : : percentage : Petitioner's : :, : : : : : Petitioners : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : Petitioners' : : : : : :, : peyote : : perception : phrase : perfect :, phrased : Alderson Reporting Company :, Palsgraf : paper :, papers : paperwork : : : parallel : : parents : parents' : parking : part : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : participated : particular : : : : : : : : : parties : :, : :, : :, : : : partly : party : : : particularly : : point : : points : : : : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :,,, :,, : : :, :,, :,, : :, :, : policies : : : : : : : :, : :,,, : :, : policy : : :,, :,,, :,, :,, :, :, :,, : :,, :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :,,, political : poor : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, poses : : :, :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : : : positing : position : portion : plans : :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review possible : : : possibly :, power : : practical : practice : : : pre­existing : pre­Smith : precedents : :, : : pursuant : pushes : put : : :, : : : : : : : protects : prove : problem : : : proven : :, : provide : : : :,, : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : Quakers :, : Quaker : : : : Q puts : : racial : putting : : : : raise : : : : raised : : quote­unquote : R R : race :, : : raises : rare : rate : rational : rationale : : : reach : read : provided : : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, provides : : : : : : providing : : : : : provision : qualifies : qualify : : : question : :, : real : :, : : reaffirmed : :, reading : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : reality : really : : : : Proof : properly : property : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, questioning questioned : proponent : proposed : protect : provisions : protected : purchase : :, protecting : protection : : purely : : : purpose : : : purposes : : questions : : quite : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : reason : : : : : :, : : : : : reasons : :,, :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company problematic precisely : : :, :, : problems : : : : preferred : proceedings pregnancies : : pregnancy : pregnant : premises : : prescribed : prescription :, prescriptions : present : : process : : product : products : Professor : : : : program : : : : : : : : presents : promote : : pretty : : preventive :, : :,, : : : : : PRIESTS : principle : : principles : probably : : : : protections : Official ­ Subject to Final Review rebuttal : :, religiously­ori... : : : :, relatively : : Respondents : rights :, : :, :, :, : : risk : : road : ROBERTS : remarks : remember : rent : : repeat : report : requested : require : : :, : : : : : required : : : requirement : : : :, : : : : : requirements : : : : requires : : : requiring : :, reserve : : respect : : response : Restoration : restricted : restrictive : : : : : :,,, : : : result : : : : retrofit : : retrofitted : return : returns : RFRA : : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,,, :,, : :, : :, : : : role :, ROMAN : room : : Roy : : rule : : : rules : : : : : : run : : S S : : Sabattarians sabbath : sacramental : : recast : receive : : recognize : :, recognized : : : recognizes : : : record : : reduce : reduced : reduction : refereeing : refute : regard : regime : :, : : : : : : register : : registered : regular :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : : : regulation : : : regulations : : regulatory : : : : : : reinforce : relationship : relevant : : reliance : relied : relief : religion : : :, : religions : religious :, : : : : :, :,, : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : :, :, : : : :,,, :, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, : :, : religious­orie... : : religiously : : : rich : : : : : : : :, :, :,,, right : : Saints : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, saying : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, sake : : satisfied : Saturday : saw : respectfully Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : : : says : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : scale : Scalia : Schedule : :, scholar : school : schools : scientifically : Scientists : scope : scrutiny : : : : se : seamless : : : : : seamlessly : : seamlessness : : second : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : seeing : seeks : : segregated : : :, seize : seizing : self­employed : : self­insured : : : : : : :, : : sell : : sends : : sense : : : sensible : :, : :,, :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, : set : : : : : : : : setting : : settled : settles : share : : : She'd : she'll :,, Sherbert : :, : :, shop : sent : separate :, shoveling : show : : : : showed : showing : shows : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : :, :, : shy : : : : side :, : separately : :, serious : : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : second­guessing seriously : sign : : : SECRETARY : :, : : : secular : : : see : : : : serve :, : : : : service : : services :, :, :, : : : : :,, :, : : significant : : : significantly : : signing : : : similar : simple : simply : : : : : sin : sincere :, : : :, sincerely : sincerity : : : : snow : society : : : : : : sold : : :, : sole : solely : Solicitor : : :, solve : : : somebody : :,,, :, : : sinful : : single : : : sort : Somebody's someplace : somewhat : soon : :, : Sisters : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : sorry : : :, : : :, : Sotomayor : : sit : situation : : : : :, : : :,, : : :, situations : size : : slip : slot :, small : :,, :, :, : :, :, : :,,, : : : : :,, : : :, : sought : soul : South : : :,,, SOUTHERN : : : :, special : :,, : : : : smaller : Smith : :, : : specifics : specifically : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review subject : submitted : : : sunset : spend : spent : spot : : St : stake : standard : : start : started :, state : : : statement : States : : :, status :, : : statute : statutes : : statutory : : : stead : step : : steps : : : : submitting : subsequently : subsidize : : subsidizing :, : support : supporters : Suppose : supposed : Supreme : : substantial : subsidy : substance : :, sure : : : : :, : survey :, survive : :, : suspect : :, : switching : :,, : :, : :, synagogues : :, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : system :, : : tanks :, tax : :, : :, : : : :, : taxes :, : tell :,, : :, : :, : : : telling : : tells : : : tends :, tenet : tenets : terms : : : : : terrible : : : : test : : : TEXAS : Thank : : : :,, : thanks : theory : : : thing : : : : : : : : : : : things : : : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : think :,, :,,, : :, : :, : : : : : :,, :,, :,, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, :, :, : : :, : :, : : : :,, :,,, :,,, : : : : : :, : : :,, SYLVIA : : Ten : : :, : tenant : stick : : sticking : stool : stop : : straightforward substantive :, : : substantiates stretch : strict : strikes : strong :, struck : structured suddenly : : sufficient : : : : : : : :, sufficiently : stuck : : suggest : student : student­based suggested : suggesting : : students : :,, : study :, stuff : : :, :, : suggestive : suit : sum : Sunday : TT :, table :tailored ::take : : : :: :: :: ::, : : :: :taken :,, talk :, :, : talked :talking :: ::tangible :Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :, : : : : : :, : v :, :, :, : : understandable valid :, : truth : try : :, understanding : : : : : : :, : trying :, understood : : : :, : unemployed : : : : : : unintended :, : : : :, : uniquely : :, unique : : United : : turn : two : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, type : : U uber­insurance : uber­policy : Uh­huh : ultra : various : vast : vehicle : : Verner :, : : Verrilli : :, university : unobjectionable : : :, : : :,, : universal : universities : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : :,, :,, :, : upstate : :, : urge : : :, urging :, :, : use : : : : Vietnam :, :, : Vietnamese : : : : : : : unwilling : unworkable : : : unprecedented view : : unoccupied : : : uses : utter :, views : VII : : V :,, : : : told : : : tolerate : :, : : ton : topping : total : totally : : : tough : town : : TPA :,, : : TPAs : tradition : traditional : transition : : : : transitional : : : : : treat : : : : : : : treated : :, : :,, :,, : : : thinking : : thinks :, : : third : : :, : :, :, : :, : : third­party : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : :, Thomas :, thought : : : : : : thoughtful : threat : : three : : thrust :, time : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : times : Title : : : : : :, : : : : : : today : : : : unacceptable treating : treatment : undermine : : treats : : : tribe : tried : : : : :,, trigger : : trouble :, : true : : : : : : undermines : :, : underscores : understand : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : Alderson Reporting Company , : (a) : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, Yoder :, : : : : violate : : violates : violation : virtually : : vision : W walk : : want : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : :,, :, : :, : : : :, : : wanted : : : wants : : : war : : :,, Washington : :,,, wasn't : : way : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : :,, :, : : : ways : : :, : : :, :, we'll : : : we're : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : we've : : :,, : :, Wednesday : weed :, week : weigh : went : west : wholly : widespread : :, willing :, : : : :, :, : : wine : Wisconsin : Witness : woman : : : : :,, : women : :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : won : words : : :, : work : : :, : : : : : : worked : works : :, : : : world : : : :, worried :, worry : : worship :, :, wouldn't : : : write : : : :, : writing : wrong : : : : : : X x :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : : : : : Y Yeah : year : years :,, : Z zero : Zubik : : : :, , : , : : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : ­ : : : : ­ : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : ­ : ­ : : :, : : ­ :, :, : : ­ : : :, : : : : : : :, ­year­old : ­year­olds :, : Alderson Reporting Company 