 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  VALERIE J. HAWKINS AND                JANICE A. PATTERSON,                 : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          COMMUNITY BANK OF RAYMORE.            : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, October ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: JOHN M. DUGGAN, ESQ., Overland Park, Kan.; on behalf            of Petitioners.  BRIAN H. FLETCHER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of United States, as amicus curiae, supporting           Petitioners. STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ., Lawrence, Kan.; on behalf           of Respondent.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE JOHN M. DUGGAN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   BRIAN H. FLETCHER, ESQ.          On behalf of United States, as amicus curiae,        supporting Petitioners                              ORAL ARGUMENT OF   STEPHEN R. McALLISTER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   JOHN M. DUGGAN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Hawkins v. the Community Bank of          Raymore.             Mr. Duggan.                              ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. DUGGAN     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. DUGGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Persons who jointly and severally agree to       repay the applied­for debt are applicants under ECOA.        And that is precisely what occurred here. My clients          were required, in violation of Regulation B in ECOA as           spousal guarantors, to become jointly and severally       liable to repay the debts of their husbands' business,         which clearly qualifies them as applicants both under        the straightforward language of ECOA, as well as the         Regulation B that was adopted by the regulators.                     In this particular instance, as in many       credit transactions, the real applicants in this       transaction are not a to­be formed limited liability         company or corporation, but the persons that will stand         as guarantors behind that company.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Didn't the Federal      Alderson Reporting Company Official Reserve Board originally, I think, in take the          opposite position and said explicitly that applicant       excludes guarantors?              MR. DUGGAN: Your Honor ­­ Your Honor, with         regard to that position that was taken by the FDIC in           , they were responding to claims by the industry         that they did not want applicants broadly defined to         include guarantors for notice provisions. And in        response to that, the regulation was crafted in a way           that did, in fact, address that concern, but it was          never intended to eliminate the potential claims for        spousal guarantors.              When the case law came down and said we're         relying on the Regulation B of , according to what           the regulators adopted then in they said, we were          mistaken. We've been misinterpreted about what our        intent was. We ­­ we now need to modify the regulation            and make it clear that those persons who were         discriminated against based on marital status have the        right to bring the claim.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have to give notice         to ­­ to guarantors now?                             MR. DUGGAN: No, you do not, Your Honor.         JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how can that be? I          mean, they're either applicants or they're not       Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. DUGGAN: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: If they're applicants, you       applicants.                         have to give them notice.                             MR. DUGGAN: I think the ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying they're      applicants for one purpose, they're not applicants for        another?                         up?             MR. DUGGAN: Yeah, in this case ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: The agency can make that        MR. DUGGAN: Well, I think the Court has          already ruled in the Duke Energy case that regulators,         in appropriate circumstances, can even take a defined         term under the statute, in that case the term         "modification," and cause it to mean different things in         different subsections.              JUSTICE SCALIA: I never liked that case.                     MR. DUGGAN: My apologies.                 (Laughter.)             MR. DUGGAN: What ­­ what happened in this         case, Your Honor, was very, very reasonable by the         regulators. They came out in ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Just out of curiosity, why        ­­ well, everybody agrees that PHC Development is an         Alderson Reporting Company Official applicant, right?                          MR. DUGGAN: Agreed.    JUSTICE ALITO: Why didn't PHC Development       sue and claim that requiring the guaranties was in         violation of the law?                MR. DUGGAN: At that point in time, the case          law that had developed so far, and the Regulation B,          made it clear that the spouses had standing to bring the           claim, and the spouses were the ones that asserted the          claim.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Why does it matter, if        there's always somebody to bring a claim? In what set            of cases does the answer to this question matter?                     MR. DUGGAN: I think it's important for         several reasons. First of all, spouses who are required          to sign jointly and severally with their husbands'        businesses and their husbands are going to undertake        potential adverse credit consequences in the future.                   Let me give you an example. Divorce or         death of the primary operator of the business. If the           wife has become jointly and severally liable to repay         the husband's debt, she then is going to be strapped          with his credit profile in a business that she never had            any operational authority, that she never was involved        in, and she wasn't an investor on. She was simply           Alderson Reporting Company Official required to sign because she was the spouse of the          husband. And what's important to understand in these         cases ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait, wait, wait. You say         she was required to sign. She wasn't required to sign.           Somebody put a gun to her head? She wanted the husband             to get the loan, and this was the deal.                     MR. DUGGAN: And I think that's exactly what          the regulators ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but don't talk about        it as she was required to sign. She was not required to             sign.             upon ­­             MR. DUGGAN: There was a requirement placed         JUSTICE SCALIA: If he ­­ if he was to get           the loan, he had to get her to sign, but she was not             required to sign.               MR. DUGGAN: I'd agree. She signed the         guaranty by virtue of a condition being placed upon the           extension of credit to her husband and the lend ­­ and           the borrowing entity. And what's important to        understand is that in these cases, these borrowing        entities, and in this very case, which typifies these         small business organizations, that, in fact, it's never        really the "to­be formed limited liability company"       Alderson Reporting Company Official that's the borrower, it's always the guarantors.                   We need to look no farther than Doc ­,         Page to , which is the bank's actual approval of this             credit application. In that document, which was a part           of the trial court record, the bank, in responding to          its own internal write­up on the operating history and         the potential for the entity to pay back the debt, it           said "nonapplicable." Financial projections of the       borrowing entity? "Nonapplicable."                The precise reason to approve the loan, "I        recommend approval of this loan request based on the         financial strength of the guarantors and our collateral        position." The only collateral that was ever taken in          that transaction was the collateral of the guarantors.        To suggest that guarantors are not the real applicants         in these loan transactions is to be divorced from         reality. They are the true applicants.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's ­­ let's ­­ let's        assume that I ­­ I write a letter of recommendation for              some ­­ some young woman who is applying to a law            school, or to a college. I would really like her to be               admitted, and I've written a letter of recommendation to          sort of put my judgment, my reputation on the line on           her behalf. Am I an applicant to the law school?                        MR. DUGGAN: No.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: Would anybody use the       English language that way?                MR. DUGGAN: Well, I believe, in that         context, that person is not agreeing to become jointly         and severally liable to pay the tuition. They're not ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: What difference does it       make? Instead of putting my financial solvency on the          line, I put my reputation on the line.                     MR. DUGGAN: Well, I think it's very         important, because the regulators made a reasonable        interpretation under their broad grant of authority that        when they're required, when a condition is placed upon          the approval, that they have to come forward and be          contractually obligated to repay the applied­for debt,       they are an applicant.                JUSTICE SCALIA: They are not applying.       It's ­­ it's their husband who's applying, and they         don't have to ­­ or ­­ or it's a company that's            applying. They don't have to go in. It's up to them.                         MR. DUGGAN: The guaranties in this case        have specific requirements for independent performance      by the guarantors, such as providing financial       statements, repaying the debt, paying their debts on        time, honoring all their obligations with the lender.        If they breach one single obligation that's independent        Alderson Reporting Company Official to their guaranty, they're obligated to repay the debt         in full, and ­­                           JUSTICE SCALIA: That doesn't show ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: What if I have a child, and            I apply for that child to be admitted to the XYZ public            school for which I will pay ­­ a private school, for             which I will pay the tuition. Am I an applicant?                                                 MR. DUGGAN: I don't think so.        JUSTICE BREYER: You don't think so?       MR. DUGGAN: I think in part you may be, but            my ­­ my contention ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Wait, wait, wait. This was         a favorable question. I thought it's obvious that when           a parent applies ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you shouldn't ­­ you        shouldn't have asked that.                (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: I have a parent that          applies for ­­              concern.             JUSTICE SCALIA: You and I share that         JUSTICE BREYER: What? Wait. A parent          applies for a child, her child, to be admitted to a            school which she will pay. The child is seven years old            and has a hard time writing the application.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: Isn't it normal for us to         refer to the parent as the applicant, even though the          child doesn't?                          MR. DUGGAN: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: And it is not normal for us          to refer to the applicant for college as the parent,          even though, unfortunately, the parent foots the bill?                    minor?                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Was this corporation a       MR. DUGGAN: What?    JUSTICE SCALIA: The corporation that      applied, was it a minor?                              MR. DUGGAN: No, but the point ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Change the ­­ the       seven­year­old to a young man who is applying to law           school, who is already shaving, for Pete's sake.                                applicant?                         JUSTICE BREYER: But my point ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: Is Justice Breyer the       MR. DUGGAN: He may.     JUSTICE BREYER: I think our point for both          of us is that how we use the word "applicant" depends           upon the context.               MR. DUGGAN: Very true.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: And, therefore, what is it        about the context of the guarantor of a loan that makes            it reasonable in that context to call that person an          applicant?             directly.             MR. DUGGAN: Let me answer that question        JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't agree with         the hypothesis. Why do you accept the hypothesis? What           it means depends upon the ­­ upon the context? It means            what it means. Now, whether the person is an applicant           within the understood meaning of "applicant," that       depends upon the context, but the meaning of the word          doesn't change.              MR. DUGGAN: May I address the questions,         Mr. Chief Justice?               with me.  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's all right                   (Laughter.)                         MR. DUGGAN: Thank you so much.       The definition of the word "apply" is to        appeal to a request. And in this particular case, I            believe that anybody who signs a written contract that          says, I have independent obligations to perform under my          guaranty that make me jointly and severally liable to         repay the debt in full, and if I fail to perform, I             Alderson Reporting Company Official agree to repay the applied­for debt in totality, I don't           know how in the world that person is not somebody who is            appealing to and requesting that credit be extended by         putting their own financial wherewithal and capacity to        repay the loan on the line based on their own          independent requirement to perform.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your ­­ under your        view ­­ let me understand the theory of the case. Let's            say that you prevail, that a guarantor is an applicant           and that there is a violation of the duty to the            guarantor and that there are five guarantors. Can each          of the five guarantors bring a separate suit for          punitive damages? And also ­­ this is also part of my            question ­­ can the loan be declared unenforceable?                    MR. DUGGAN: No, the loan cannot be declared         unenforceable under the laws that exist today. The only          thing that could be declared unenforceable would be the         spousal guaranties which are deemed illegal under       Regulation B. Not all of the guarantors can bring a           claim. The husbands can only bring a claim to the            extent they suffer damage as a result of their wives           being required to be guarantors on the case.                    Mr. Chief Justice, I see that my time is          limited. I may like to reserve the remainder for           rebuttal, if there are no further questions.       Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       MR. DUGGAN: Thank you so much.                                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN H. FLETCHER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. FLETCHER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  For years, Regulation B has provided that         guarantors, cosigners, and other similar parties to       credit transactions, qualify as applicants, are entitled       to protection from discrimination under the Equal Credit        Opportunity Act and the Additional Parties rule. That         longstanding regulation is reasonable, and it reflects a        reasonable interpretation of the Act's broad definition       of the term "applicant."                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we've been       talking about applicants ­­ is it ­­ is the person an           applicant in the abstract? But one of the important          things about context here is there are two terms,         "applicant" and "guarantor." And that's the way it's         always worked in the industry. Somebody in the industry          would not call a guarantor an applicant. The person is            a guarantor. So I just wonder how we can pluck            "applicant" out. Obviously, in some sense, anybody who         is supporting the loan, you know, you can describe,         well, they're applying for it. But there's a separate           Alderson Reporting Company Official term, "guarantor." And if you ask somebody, well, what          is this person? Is this person an applicant? They           would say, no, it's a guarantor.                   MR. FLETCHER: Well, Mr. Chief Justice, the        term "guarantor" doesn't appear in the statute. And I          don't think it's true that the term "applicant" and         "guarantor" have fixed meanings in the industry and that         you could never construe a guarantor to be an applicant.           I think, in fact, often, as we explain in our brief,           guarantors and cosigners might fill out the same        application and join together in the same application        that they submit to the borrower in seeking the loan.          And so I ­­ I don't think there's an industry            understanding that you can't reasonably regard a       guarantor or a cosigner or another secondary obligor         who's playing that sort of ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait. Do you think         there's an industry understanding that there are       guarantors and there are applicants? I mean, if you           weren't in the industry and you're looking at this, you          wouldn't call the Petitioner an applicant. You'd call         her a guarantor.                MR. FLETCHER: I think you ­­ in         some ­­ certainly, in some context, you might use the          two terms differently.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Wouldn't you     call ­­ wouldn't you use the word "borrower" instead of          applicant?             MR. FLETCHER: I think certainly after the         loan had been extended, you would ­­ you would use the           term "borrower." But I think if you look at the ­­ the              context in which Congress used the term, it wrote a very            broad statute. It said, "It shall be unlawful for any           creditor to discriminate against any applicant with       respect to any aspect of a credit transaction." And           then it defined an applicant to be any person who          applies to a creditor directly for an extension,         renewal, or continuation of credit.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Would you disagree that in        ordinary speech, an applicant is understood, as       Judge Colloton said, to be someone who is asking for          something for himself or herself? And if you don't          agree with that, could you give me your best example of           the situation in ordinary speech in which the term         "applicant" is used to refer to someone who is not          asking for something personally?                MR. FLETCHER: Justice Alito, I agree that         very often, applicant refers to the person who's going         to receive the thing that's being sought. I don't           think, though ­­ and this is what the other side has to            Alderson Reporting Company Official convince you of ­­ that it unambiguously excludes any         other meaning. And in terms of my best examples in           terms of ordinary speech, I think the one that          Justice Breyer gave earlier was a good one.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me come back to         that. Suppose that this child is rejected for         kindergarten, and then the parent is glum the next day          at work. And someone says, why are you down today?           Would the ­­ would the parent say, well, I'm down today           because I was just rejected for this fancy kindergarten?                      MR. FLETCHER: I think you wouldn't say I          was rejected, but you might ­­                             JUSTICE ALITO: My application was rejected.       MR. FLETCHER: I think you very well might.          I think if you filled out the application, and you made           the request, and you were upset that it was denied, I           think it would be perfectly sensible to say my         application was denied.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Fletcher, in ­­ in some         ways, the Agency itself has admitted that this is not          the most natural reading of the term. When the Agency           explained why it was articulating this rule, it said,         well, the problem is that Section of the Act confers           standing to sue only upon an aggrieved applicant. And          so we have to come in and kind of fix that.           Alderson Reporting Company Official             And ­­ and so, too, the regulation itself        talks about applicants and additional parties as though        the two are different. And then the regulation, as I           think Justice Scalia said, says, well, this ­­ this is          our definition of applicant, but it's really only for         this purpose, not throughout the statute. And all of          those, it seems to me, are quasi­admissions that this is          not the most natural way to read the word "applicant."                      MR. FLETCHER: Justice Kagan, I'm glad you        brought that up because I very much disagree that that's           how the Agency has viewed this. I think, in particular,            you referred to the way that the Agency described the          change it was making in , when it amended the          regulation to expressly include guarantors for certain       purposes. And you're right. They said, we're doing          this because courts have ruled guarantors out of court.         But the reason that it said that was not that it           believed that guarantors were unambiguously excluded by       the statute or that it was rewriting the statute. It           did that because between and , the Agency's own          regulation had expressly said that applicants do not        include guarantors, cosigners, and other similar      parties. And so the courts that had said that          guarantors didn't get to bring a suit were pointing to           the Agency's regulation and says this statute only        Alderson Reporting Company Official protects applicants. And the Agency is telling us         expressly that you as a guarantor aren't an applicant.                        And so the Agency came in in , and it        said, our own regulation, our previous version of our         regulation, which excluded guarantors, is creating this       problem, and we want to fix it by defining them to be            applicants.             JUSTICE SCALIA: But you ­­ you don't ­­ you          don't solve a problem by ­­ by fixing a definition. I              mean, why was it a problem? It ­­ it was not a problem                if applicant meant what the prior regulation said it         meant. Why was that a problem?                    MR. FLETCHER: Well, I think ­­ I think it            was a problem because it left guarantors who had been           improperly required to sign loan documents without a        remedy.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah. But that's what the         law read. I mean, if that's a problem, it was a problem                with the law.               MR. FLETCHER: Well, that was a problem with          the Agency's own prior regulation, which expressly       excluded guarantors. When the Agency ­­ and let me step           back.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I just start? Why          did you have to pass the first regulation at all? What            Alderson Reporting Company Official caused you ­­ if it was as clear as Justice Scalia           believes, why did you need the regulation at all saying          it doesn't include?               MR. FLETCHER: So if I could just give you a            little bit of the history of how the regulation         developed. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act was passed         in . When the Agency, the Federal Reserve Board,          first passed regulations in , it just incorporated        the statutory definition of applicant in relevant part.        It didn't speak to the guarantor question one way or          another.             But in , just a year later, it added a           substantive provision that made clear that at that time         in , it regarded guarantors as applicants. It said          that for purposes of a provision of the         regulation ­­ and this is something we cite at Page of             our brief ­­ for purposes of a provision of the           regulation, it required creditors to give notice of        their credit decisions to applicants. If you have         multiple applicants, creditor, you can just give notice        to one of them. But then the regulation provided you           may not give that notice to an applicant who is a           secondary obligor, such as a surety or a guarantor.                       So the Agency's first interpretation was      actually that the ­­ the plain language of the statute,          Alderson Reporting Company Official which had been incorporated into the regulation,       included guarantors.              JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it correct that this        issue matters only where there are adverse ­­ where         the ­­ the borrower and the guarantor have adverse         interests? And if that's correct, how often does that          arise?             MR. FLETCHER: So Justice Alito, I think         it's particularly important where the borrower and the        guarantor have adverse interests for the ­­ for        instance, if there's been a divorce. And so the           spouses' interests are no longer aligned. Then I think           it's very, very important. But I don't think it matters            only in those cases. And this goes to ­­ to the            question that Justice Kagan raised earlier, which is why         does this matter?               And the reason that it matters is that a         guarantor who's improperly required to provide a       guaranty suffers a unique economic injury that is not          suffered by the applicant. So in ­­ in a common case,             the lender says, I won't extend this loan without a           signature from your spouse. And everyone agrees that         that's a violation of Regulation B, and everyone agrees          that that's not permitted.                And if, in that case, the spouse provides        Alderson Reporting Company Official the signature, as often happens, then the primary        applicant, the borrower, hasn't suffered any harm at        all. They've gotten the loan that they wanted. So they            have suffered discrimination in some sense, and they        would have a claim in some sense. But in many cases,             they're not going to have economic damages to assert in          court.             The guarantor, on the other hand, oftentimes       will have that obligation on her credit report        immediately. It could adversely affect her credit        scores immediately. And as we explain in our brief, if           there's a default on the underlying loan, then that's          going to be a black mark that's going to tarnish the            guarantor or the cosigner's credit going forward even if         she ultimately pays the debt.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: One of the things that        Judge Posner said against your interpretation is that        this actually creates liability on a scale that Congress          wouldn't have expected because if you are right, the         guarantor can come in and ­­ and declare the entire loan           invalid, and ­­ and the damages would be much higher          than it is for the borrower himself. I mean,           what's ­­ what's the answer to that?                               MR. FLETCHER: So I think ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: Is there an answer? It's         Alderson Reporting Company Official just like, well, that's what it is.                   MR. FLETCHER: Well, I think the ­­ the          first answer is that that ­­ the availability of that          remedy of allowing a guarantor to assert and actually          invalidate the guaranty that's been illegally required,       that won't be resolved one way or the other by the way            you answered this question today, which is just are         guarantors reasonably regarded as applicants as they've       been defined for years?                 But ­­ but I understand, though, why you         would be interested because it is a related question of           what remedies might guarantors have available. And we         think the answer to Judge Posner's question in that case          is that there's nothing at all unreasonable about        requiring a lender that has improperly demanded a         guaranty to not be able to enjoy the benefit of that           guaranty. As we explained at the end of our brief,           that's been the enforcing agency's longstanding policy       when the FDIC or the Federal Reserve Board or other          agencies conduct examinations of the books of banks and         when they find violations of the additional party's rule         like this.              The remedy that they apply is to require the         bank to release the improper guaranty, or in cases ­­         and I think this is another important point ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official Regulation B doesn't prohibit spousal signatures under        all circumstances. To the extent that what the bank          wants to do is ensure that in the event of a default,             it's going to be able to reach specific property that          the primary applicant is relying on, it can require a          signature from the spouse, not for personal liability,        but just to allow it to reach the property that is being            relied upon to support the loan.                                          And so if ­­   JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­    MR. FLETCHER: I was just going to say, so           in that case, I think the proper remedy wouldn't be to            void the loan altogether. It would be to give the           lender what it had the right to demand, which was a more             limited instrument.                          I'm sorry, Justice Breyer.    JUSTICE BREYER: Can ­­ can you explain        quickly ­­ I'm now uncertain. I accept the point that I             could be a rejected application for kindergarten on         behalf of my ­­ I've said ­­ I've got that. But what is              this actually about?               The law says you cannot discriminate against       a borrower, for example ­­ for example ­­ by saying that           you, the borrower, has to ­­ have to have a guarantor            from someone you're married to.     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. FLETCHER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: That's what the law says.        MR. FLETCHER: It says you can't                                           discriminate against any applicant with respect to any        aspect of a credit transaction. Yes.                    JUSTICE BREYER: And this has been       interpreted to include you cannot say to a married          person you have to have the marriage ­­ the spouse sign.                                   MR. FLETCHER: That's correct.     JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So that's where         we start. Now, if the applicant were just the applicant           for the credit himself, what would be wrong with that?          Then you'd say, well, the person who's hurt here among          the people ­­ just as if, for example, when you run a            train into a ­­ into a wall, there are a lot of people                hurt. So if the person ­­ namely, the spouse ­­ really            is hurt, why does ­­ why does she have to be an            applicant? Why can't you just sue for harm as a           result ­­ caused as a result of the forbidden          discrimination?             MR. FLETCHER: So the statutory cause of        action gives any applicant a right to sue.                     JUSTICE BREYER: I know. But why wouldn't          you sue if you're ­­ if you're ­­ if you're directly           injured as a result of a ­­ of an unlawful act? Which               Alderson Reporting Company Official is what the regulation ­­                MR. FLETCHER: So ­­ and I think the          Petitioner has suggested that there might be State law         causes of action, but I think in terms of having the            right ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Not State, just right under        this statute, you say I have suffered harm, I was about             to take this ticket, and everyone admits I would have           taken the money, invested in the lottery, and would         today be a millionaire. Hard to prove, but nonetheless,           if proved, maybe she was hurt. So why can't she sue?                        MR. FLETCHER: Because the statute gives the        right to sue to applicant.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it doesn't say ­­       okay. So you're ­­                aggrieved ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: To an aggrieved ­­ to an         JUSTICE KENNEDY: To have gotten too far,        and so your whole idea here is say she's an applicant,           too.                                                 MR. FLETCHER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And then she can sue.        MR. FLETCHER: She's an applicant.      JUSTICE BREYER: Now ­­ now, it seems to me          maybe you're pushing the edge of the word "applicant" as          Alderson Reporting Company Official they did intend it in the statute. That's ­­ that is a             problem.                                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: On that point ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Can you give an example?        JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ are there places in        the ­­ in this statute where guarantor and applicant is          a distinction that has to be made? In other words,           under your view, does applicant include guarantor in        every part of the statute?                 MR. FLETCHER: So in our view, there's no         place where reading applicant to include guarantor       wouldn't work or would create a problem. What the           Agency has done, when it amended its regulation to         include guarantors, is it asked for comments on whether         there are specific provisions of the regulation that        guarantors should be exempted from. And in response to          those comments, it decided to exercise its broad        rulemaking authority to exempt them and to not treat         them as applicants for purposes of other provisions of         the statute. So I don't think ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Where ­­ where does it get         that discretion? I mean, it says applicant in the           statute. When it says applicant, the Agency has         discretion to say, oh, yeah, it says applicant, but         sometimes we're going to ignore that.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. FLETCHER: Yes, Justice Scalia. It's        under the grant of a rulemaking authority which is in           Section (b), subsection (A).                            JUSTICE SCALIA: Which says what?      MR. FLETCHER: Which says that, "The bureau        shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes        of this" ­­ "this subchapter, and the regulations may         contain, but are not limited to, such classifications,        differentiation, or other provision and may provide for        such adjustments and exceptions for any class of        transaction."             JUSTICE BREYER: But have you got an        example? Any example at all from a magazine having to            do with finance, from anything you can find where, in          fact, in the context of financial transactions, there        are references to a surety, a guarantor, or a mortgage             insurance, there is a reference to such a person with            the word "applicant"?               MR. FLETCHER: So here's my best example,        Justice Breyer. They're on Page of their brief ­­ my            brief. And they don't use the word "applicant," but          they talk about who's regarded as receiving an extension         of credit. And this is our secondary argument,         Justice Alito.              Even if you think that an applicant is only         Alderson Reporting Company Official someone who seeks something for themselves, we think a         guarantor is reasonably regarded as seeking an extension        of credit for themselves. As we explain on page of            our brief, for purposes of the Fair Credit Reporting         Act, lenders and other banks rely every day on reading          the Fair Credit Reporting Act to mean that the same          definition of credit ­­ of credit, which refers to the          extension of credit, includes a guaranty.                   The authority in the Fair Credit Reporting       Act that allows a lender, who has a prospective           guarantor before him, to look at that guarantor's credit         report is a provision of the Fair Credit Reporting Act           that says you can pull the credit report of someone          who's going to receive an extension of credit in         connection with the transaction.                And we cite there a letter from all of           the banking regulators that explains in detail why it is          reasonable to regard guarantors and other secondary       obligors as receiving an extension of credit, and why,         in fact, that's essential to the effective       administration of the Fair Credit Reporting Act.                   Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. McAllister.           ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN R. McALLISTER      Alderson Reporting Company Official                 ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                MR. McALLISTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                This is a Chevron step one case. The FRB           gets to be the sorcerer's apprentice, but not the         sorcerer. It's trying to rewrite the statute here, not          define ambiguous terms. The government takes the view         that the statute has to unambiguously exclude       guarantors. That's the wrong starting point.                   The question is simply: Is the statute        ambiguous with respect to whom it covers? Under the          government's view, every statutory definition would have       to have two parts; the part that defines who is an           applicant, and part two that says who's not an         applicant.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McAllister, I take it if          there were two borrowers, you would include both of         them, both would have a cause of action?                     MR. McALLISTER: Absolutely. They're ­­ if        they're ­­ if they're joint applicants, the statute ­­                                            JUSTICE KAGAN: They're joint applicants.      MR. McALLISTER: ­­ covers them.      JUSTICE KAGAN: How about if they're       cosigners? I take it that ­­ is ­­ a co­signer is              somebody who's jointly and severally liable, but is        Alderson Reporting Company Official not himself ­­                                                  that out.              MR. McALLISTER: Is not an applicant.       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ receiving the money.       MR. McALLISTER: Exactly. So ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: You would ­­ you would count         MR. McALLISTER: Count that out. They ­­        they are not an applicant. So the statute refers to           applicants, and certainly, the regs and the statute        contemplate the joint applicants who go in together.        They want the credit together, and they have an         obligation to make the repayments, either or both. But          a cosigner is different.                JUSTICE KAGAN: And this is so even if the          cosigner had to file the exact same kind of papers and           do everything else that the borrower himself had to do?                      MR. McALLISTER: Exactly. And ­­ and part         of that is because of the statute's definition of         credit, which no one has talked about. But the          statute's definition of credit, that is defined       explicitly just like applicant. And it's part of the          applicant definition. And credit means a right to defer           payment of debt. A cosigner and a guarantor never have             a right to defer payment of debt. If they become           responsible, they were responsible then. So what that         Alderson Reporting Company Official is contemplating, in our view, is the borrower. It's          the person who's making the regular payments. That's         what's encompassed in the statutory definition.                      I would refer the Court also to comparable     civil rights statutes of this era. In particular, the          Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Housing Act, the AIDS          Discrimination and Employment Act. All of them use the          word "person" to describe who can bring a claim. In the             ECOA, Congress very deliberately chose something      narrower, and not only did it choose it, but it          expressly defined it in the statute.                  And we describe this as a gateway provision.         We don't argue that the Fed doesn't have broad authority          in many respects in implementing the ECOA. But what it           does not have the authority to do is to rewrite the           statutory definition that Congress very deliberately and       precisely put in the statute.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: So suppose ­­ suppose that I         have a credit card, and now I get married, and I'd like              a secondary credit card for my spouse, and I apply to            the credit card company for a secondary credit card.          Who's ­­ who's the applicant there?                  MR. McALLISTER: Well, I think you are still          the applicant there.               JUSTICE KAGAN: So even though I receive no          Alderson Reporting Company Official direct benefit, the credit is actually given to my         spouse now?              MR. McALLISTER: Well, if they have the        ability to charge on the account same as you, then I           guess they would, in effect, become a joint applicant at           that point in time.                JUSTICE KAGAN: They would effectively      become a joint applicant, even though I'm the only one           who's filling out the ­­ the ­­ all the papers.                      MR. McALLISTER: But the statute      contemplates that there can be situations in which a         third­party requests credit on behalf of another, and        that's another reason why we think guarantors are not         included because it is contemplating, for example, the        parent who goes in, says I want to arrange a loan for my               son or daughter to buy their first car. The son or            daughter is actually ultimately going to be the        applicant. The parent may well be a cosigner. The            parent may initiate the transaction, but the ­­ the         recipient of the credit, the right to defer payment of          the debt, is an applicant.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess ­­ I guess ­­ you            know ­­ and this is a ­­ a functional point for sure.              But it doesn't seem to make a whole lot of sense that             suppose a lender doesn't want to provide credit to a           Alderson Reporting Company Official married woman because it has all these sex, gender         stereotypes in the lender's head or ­­ and the lender          couldn't require that the ­­ that the husband be listed          as a ­­ a joint applicant, but could require that the             husband be listed as a cosigner, even though the effect           of those two things are exactly the same, which is that           it's a requirement that the spouse essentially become         joint and severally liable for the loan.                   MR. McALLISTER: Well, I ­­ I don't think           there is a difference. I think the cosigner is in the              same category as the guarantor. But here's ­­ here's my           fundamental answer to your question, Justice Kagan, is        the purpose of this statute is abundantly evident. The          language we think, but if you look at the legislative          history, the point was to get the credit in the hands of            people who were being denied, in particular, women.        That is the applicant. So the way the statute is           intended to work, and works just fine with the         definition of applicant we use, is to say when that          person shows up, and the bank says, oh, no credit for           you unless a spouse signs, the violation has occurred          then. And the discrimination is against the person who          wanted to borrow the money. The government may wish          that the discriminatory provisions were broader than       that, but that's the way the statute works.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             So the applicant has a claim, the borrower         who is told you need more signatures ­­ otherwise, you          could imagine scenarios ­­ I think one of the amicus           briefs spins out one where, say, the person comes in and           the bank says, I need ­­ because you're of a certain             religion or a certain race, I need guarantors for            your ­­ well, all guarantors can simply say no, but           under their view, all guarantors actually have a         claim under the ECOA. And that just makes no sense.           That's far beyond what Congress ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's not ­­ that's not        quite accurate, because the only person who's given a         right not to be discriminated against is the        applicant ­­ an applicant on the basis of marital         status.             MR. McALLISTER: No, Your Honor. No, that's         not true. I mean, the statute covers ­­ covers marital            status, sex, religion, race, age even. So there are a           number of prohibited bases. The original statute was         sex and marital status, but then in , it was          expanded to cover other ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Mr. McAllister, why ­­ why        does it matter? A person sitting at the table says,            please lend me $,. Now, the ­­ the lender says, I            want you to have someone from a forbidden category as a            Alderson Reporting Company Official guarantor. So he's outside, he walks in and he says,           I'll guaranty this loan. I want you to lend him $,             and I'll guaranty it.                Well, why hasn't that guarantor applied for       a loan to another person?                             MR. McALLISTER: It is ­­ it ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: What is it ­­ because who         are the ones you said do fall within applicants? It's           not just ­­                          MR. McALLISTER: So it's ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: It's the person sitting at        the table, then others come up, and they have to get ­­           there's like sureties, they're like guarantors, there       are a bunch of different things.                               MR. McALLISTER: None of them ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: It seemed to me some of         them you thought might.                MR. McALLISTER: None of them actually       should be included. And if I suggested that ­­ ours is             a straightforward definition adhering to the statute.       You can certainly have joint applicants, joint       borrowers, but that means they are receiving the benefit         of the credit directly. Credit is flowing to them.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Why? I mean, the thing I           don't get is why can't you apply? An applicant means a            Alderson Reporting Company Official person who applies for something. So why can't you          apply for the thing being, give some money to this other           person?             MR. McALLISTER: Because, again, I come back         to the statutory definition, Justice Breyer, which says        you are applying for credit. And the statute defines          credit. So it says credit is the right to defer payment            of a debt.                            And the person who has asked for ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. And you say, I am           applying for just that. And I am applying for just            that. My application, here it is, in writing, is that I            want you to do just that for Smith, who's sitting at the            table.             MR. McALLISTER: And in our view, the        statute means Smith is the applicant.                              ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: Because?    MR. McALLISTER: Because, again, the ­­ the        JUSTICE BREYER: The person who filled ­­ I         don't want you to repeat yourself. You don't have to.                                   MR. McALLISTER: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: But I mean, you see where          I'm having the problem, that Jones, who came in, he          fills out the papers and he signs the signature, he puts           Alderson Reporting Company Official in all the things and he says, please, please, please          give that credit to Smith.                 that ­­             MR. McALLISTER: Well, again, I don't think         JUSTICE BREYER: Why hasn't ­­ he's applied.        He's applied for the credit to go to Smith. I mean, in              English, hasn't he? Why not?                  MR. McALLISTER: Well, I ­­ I think that's           in a sense contrary, really, to the ­­ the most ordinary            understandings of the word "applicant." Of course,        we've got a statutory definition.                  process ­­             If I go back to the university admissions         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. The ­­ the         definition, the common definition, the Chief has defined        it that way, but the only dictionary that uses it in the            way you want is Webster's Third. Every other         dictionary ­­ and Webster's Third has been criticized by         at least one of my colleagues, if not more. All right?                                    MR. McALLISTER: I'm aware of that.       JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a terrible dictionary.                    (Laughter.)                         MR. McALLISTER: I'm aware of that.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All the others don't use        a direct benefit language. They all say you're just          Alderson Reporting Company Official asking for an extension of credit. And they don't          suggest it has to be for yourself, it could be ­­ you're            asking for an extension of credit for anyone.                    So I ­­ I mean, I'm ­­ I'm quarreling with            the ­­ with your reliance on some common understanding         of a word.                            MR. McALLISTER: Well, I come back ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've got cosigners,      you've got parents who ­­ who sign as cosigners rental          agreements for their kids. They're not getting the         benefit of the apartment. Nobody believes that they are          using the apartment. They're doing it to bolster up the           credit of their child.                So I don't know why applicant can't mean, in          common parlance, that you're asking for credit to be         extended to anyone, whether it's you or ­­ or another          person.             MR. McALLISTER: Perhaps that's the key,       Justice Sotomayor, is that you're talking common       parlance. In my view, common parlance is the definition          that ­­ that we assert and that the statute asserts.          Judge ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why did ­­ why did         the Federal Reserve Board initially ­­ specifically       exclude guarantors? If it was so clear that applicant          Alderson Reporting Company Official excludes guarantors, why did the Federal Reserve Board        do something so unnecessary to specifically exclude       them?             MR. McALLISTER: Because I think they        created confusion, Justice Ginsburg. So I agree with my           colleague, Mr. Fletcher, that there was a reg for a           short period of time that suggested in one particular         setting, multiple applicants, who do you give notice to?                     The Fed put in a ­­ some language that said,           well, don't give to ­­ notice to applicants such as          secondary obligors, such as guarantors.                 The Fed then, a couple minutes later,        proposed maybe we should just make this a general rule           that guarantors are included. They took in notice and          comment, and a few months later they said, oh, we've           really sort of stirred up the pot here. Let's just make            clear that guarantors and secondary obligors are not        included. And that's why we got the version.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. ­­ Mr. McAllister, in        Corbin on Contracts, when they talk about guaranties,        they say, in most cases of guaranty contracts, the offer          comes from the guarantor requesting the giving of credit         to a principal debtor.                 So Corbin on Contracts is ­­ clearly thinks        that the guarantor is a requestor, is an applicant for           Alderson Reporting Company Official credit, and just to a third­party, to the principal          debtor.             But why ­­ why ­­ I mean, that's a pretty,            you know, credit­specific definition of what it means to         apply for credit. And including, pretty clearly,        guarantors.             MR. McALLISTER: Well, that's ­­ that ­­       that is a ­­ what Corbin says. But again, I would come               back to guarantors do not sign the same document as the           borrower. They are not liable in the same way. They            have a separate contract with the lender, which the          borrower is not even party to the guarantor's contract.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, do you think that it's         really contingent on that, on exactly which contract you         signed? I mean, these folks give you a lot of             information, they sign their names to a lot of          information, and ­­ I mean, unlike the usual guarantor          case where the guarantor is only liable if there's a          default, here the guarantor is jointly and severally        liable, much like a cosigner is.                   severally ­­             Or at any rate, cosigners are jointly and        MR. McALLISTER: That's ­­ cosigners are       jointly and severally liable.                JUSTICE KAGAN: And you want to put them in          Alderson Reporting Company Official the same box, too. So it doesn't really matter ­­                      MR. McALLISTER: Right. But that is a         mischaracterization. These are guaranties ­­                             JUSTICE KAGAN: It doesn't matter.      MR. McALLISTER: ­­ that are not joint and         severally liable.              JUSTICE BREYER: I bet we could find like           that. This is the collegiate dictionary. Maybe that          makes it too simpleminded.                (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: But the ­­ the ­­ it says,          an applicant ­­ this is very helpful ­­ an applicant is           a person who applies for something, all right? We're          not making too much progress.                 But then when we go to apply, the second         definition down here, is to make an appeal or request.          Does the guarantor make an appeal or request? Yes.          Especially in the form of written application. Even         writes it, e.g., for a job. No, doesn't apply for a             job, doesn't have to be a job.                    Do you see, it's a general kind of thing,          and we're at step one of Chevron, and we're only talking           about what ­­              MR. McALLISTER: And we're talking ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the meaning.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: I assume that that        definition would ­­ would cover my letter to somebody         urging that person to hire somebody else.                   MR. McALLISTER: I think that's       exactly right. Yep.                JUSTICE SCALIA: I would be ­­ I would be an             applicant under ­­ under that definition, which is, of         course, absurd.              MR. McALLISTER: And two ­­ two things about         that absurdity, Justice Scalia. One absurdity is this         ­­            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, he's not asking       for money.              MR. McALLISTER: Pardon?                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He's recommending     someone, but this is about an extension of credit.                     MR. McALLISTER: Right. But still, you'd be         asking for the same result that the applicant is         seeking. So I mean, I take the question in that             fashion.             But, two ­­ two things about that ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it would be a        different thing if the statute said, don't discriminate        on the basis of someone being a Justice. That ­­ that's             what you ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. McALLISTER: It should say that, but ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The analogy would work                               only if you did that, right?                  MR. McALLISTER: But ­­ but what I was going           to say is the government concedes that the statute uses          ­­ well, in fact, they didn't say this, but I believe            the statute uses the word "applicant" something like         times, and only for one purpose do they say this          definition should apply. That runs counter to        presumptions this Court has long stated. The statute is          used repeatedly ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought that the        government answered that question differently. I ­­ I          thought their position was that if they prevail, their         definition of the word "applicant" to include guarantor        apply ­­ A, applies across the board times, and B,           makes the Act perfectly workable.                 Did ­­ did ­­               MR. McALLISTER: Neither one is ­­ I don't          think either one is true ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: You may disagree ­­                  MR. McALLISTER: ­­ Justice Kennedy.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Maybe I misunderstood       their answer.              MR. McALLISTER: Oh, I don't think they say          Alderson Reporting Company Official that it would apply across all uses. They said we            could change it ­­ and actually, they're suggesting they         could have other definitions of applicant. Every         time it's used somewhere else in the statute, they could          define it differently for that purpose.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: And can you give me an         example of where it would be really contrary to a          sensible interpretation of the Act to use the term         "guarantor" and ­­                          MR. McALLISTER: For example ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ "applicant" as      synonymous, other than for what we're talking about        here?             MR. McALLISTER: Well, for example, giving       notice of adverse action. I mean, the Agency itself has            said a guarantor cannot be subject to adverse action,          and yet you would have ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I frankly ­­ I frankly          don't believe why that makes the statute unworkable. If          I'm a guarantor of someone's debt, I want to know when             they're in default because I'm going to call them up and           start ­­ if it's my child, I'm going to start          browbeating them, meaning ­­ I don't know what the          rationale for that was, whether I agree with it or not.            But why does it make it unworkable?       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. McALLISTER: Well, it would ­­ it is not          just that, Justice Sotomayor. It's not just at some          point down the road. Usually, this is focused on the           application itself. So again, if you have the case of           multiple guarantors, the bank turns down the borrower,        then they're under obligation, if you take that view of          the statute, to notify everyone who had any connection         to the transaction. But the Agency has long said that           is not required. The Agency's commenter ­­ if you look           at ­­ if you look at supplement one, the interpretations          of the regs and other commentary by the agencies, except          for this purpose, the Agency always talks about        guarantors as different than joint applicants,      co­borrowers. No one in the industry would think of          these two things as the same.                  To come back to the Chief ­­ Mr. Chief         Justice's point, a bank would not say a borrower is            equivalent to a guarantor. Not even close. They're two            very different things.               JUSTICE KAGAN: No. They certainly wouldn't        say a borrower is equivalent to a guarantor. But the             question is whether an applicant is equivalent to ­­                    MR. McALLISTER: They would say the person        who wants the credit, the applicant, is not the same as           a guarantor.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what ­­ what ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: The entire idea of a        guaranty contract, right, why is a guaranty agreement         even enforceable? Is it there is consideration, and the          consideration has to do with the fact that credit is          going to a third­party, right? And so the guarantor is            stepping in and saying, I'm asking for something and I'm          getting something when I enter into this contract, and          that's the credit will go not to me, but to a third             party.             So the question I think is, like, why should          that be, you know ­­ just because it's to a third party,             the appeal, the request to the application is as to a           third party rather than to yourself, why that should         make any difference if the question is just what does          applicant mean? Applicant doesn't have to be for         yourself.             MR. McALLISTER: Well, I ­­ I agree that's           the consideration for the guaranty. But what that opens          the door to, Your Honor, is there have been or            reported ECOA decisions since the change in . More          than half of those are within the last five years.          After the crash, massive defaults, this is coming         up more and more for banks as a defense.                      And if I can just have one minute, I'll tell           Alderson Reporting Company Official you where this leads for banks. So if the rule is a             spousal guaranty can be voided ­­ and that's what ­­ the           relief sought. They're not asking for damages. They          want to invalidate, void the entire guaranty. That was          Judge Posner's point. So if that is the rule, what is a             bank to do when a married person comes in and seeks            credit?             Well, one thing the bank may do is say only          secured credit because I cannot rely on any guaranty. I            can't even rely on a spousal guaranty if the spouse says            I want to give the guaranty, because when this goes in a            bad direction and it's time to collect, then years         later, that spouse may do what these spouses have done          and say I was required to do this, this was a violation              of the statute. And at a minimum, the lender is then             engaged, as this lender has been, in extensive        litigation costs just to even try to resolve the         situation.             All of that leads to lenders are going to be          less likely to want to ­­ to lend to married couples           except if they are secure in their loans. And that may            mean you have to put up assets, a guaranty no longer            suffices, and it may mean you have to get more          guarantors because they can't rely on the spouse. None          of that furthers the purpose of the ECOA, which was to           Alderson Reporting Company Official get the credit in the hands of people who were at that            time being discriminated against.                So the fundamental problem with Reg B is it          opens the door. And now that the lawyers have          discovered this provision and are bringing it up        regularly, it will have a dramatic impact on the credit           industry.             JUSTICE SCALIA: On the ­­ on the question         of the guarantor entering a contract just as the          borrower enters a contract, the two contracts are quite          different. The borrower enters a bilateral contract, I          promise to pay back the money if you ­­ with interest if            you promise to lend me the money. The guarantor          is ­­ is asking for a unilateral contract. The           guarantor is just saying, I make no promises, but if you            lend money to this person that I'm guarantying and that          person defaults, I'll make good. That's ­­ that's a          unilateral contract, which doesn't bind the ­­ the        lender at all. It's if the lender chooses to do that,            I'll stand good for the ­­ for the default.                     The two contracts are quite different. And        in that respect, you can't call both ­­ both of them           applicants just because they both ­­ they both have         contracts. Of course they both have contracts.                    MR. McALLISTER: I agree with that,        Alderson Reporting Company Official Justice Scalia.              And unless the Court has further questions,       I would ask that you affirm the decision of the Eighth           Circuit.                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       Mr. Duggan, you have four minutes.                 REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN M. DUGGAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. DUGGAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                    I think the primary answer to talk about, to        start with, is these guaranties are not simply        guaranties of the performance of the borrower. They are          separate, independent performance required by the      guarantor under the guaranty. The guarantor must pay         its creditors on time. The guarantor must provide         financial statements to the lender. The guarantor must         fulfill all other obligations and any other agreement        that the guarantor has with the lender. If the          guarantor fails to perform any one of those single,         independent requirements of performance under the      guaranty, the guarantor agrees to repay the debt in         full. There is separate performance under the guaranty.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Could you ask ­­ could you         respond to counsel's last point? Why would a bank ever            Alderson Reporting Company Official decide to give a loan with a spousal guaranty?                                   MR. DUGGAN: I'm not sure I ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: Why would ­­ why would a         bank do that?               MR. DUGGAN: There's several circumstances.      Number one, husbands and wives can come under the         regulation safe harbors as joint applicants      contemporaneously and say we want joint credit. It's         only a violation of the Act if the lender, once an            independent spouse comes forward and says I want credit,          says as a condition to me extending you the credit you            want, you must bring your spouse along.                   The second thing is I think this regulation         has got to be the easiest regulation to comply with. A,            B, C, , , . There's safe harbors under the           regulation. If a lender is relying upon jointly owned           assets of a husband and wife, the regulation and the           statute, (d), create a specific safe harbor that         says get a security interest in the asset and don't get            a guaranty, or simply ask the spouse to waive her          marital interest in the jointly­owned property so that        if in fact you have to execute on that jointly­owned          property to collect the debt, you're permitted to do         that. Two very simple safe harbors to comply with.                      What they don't want you to do is to strap          Alderson Reporting Company Official the spouse with the potential adverse credit in the         future where she has to use her income or her earnings           or her ability to get future credit to pay off either a            divorced or deceased spouse. One of the rationales.         Makes a ton of sense.                     Back to the other points that were made.     The application here, the dictionary definitions run the        gamut, but they all have two specific statements.        Appeal or request. And the statute here says they          repeal ­­ applies for an extension renewal of credit.         Doesn't say of credit to the borrower. Doesn't say of a            loan to the borrower. It says of credit generically.                      And back to Justice Breyer's comments, in       fact, why in the world that somebody who becomes         contractually, jointly and severally liable to repay the        debt in full and says, I have my independent obligations           under my guaranty, and if I don't perform, you can           collect the entire debt from me, how is that person in           that context not saying to the lender, I am appealing to            you and requesting an extension of credit? I'll go so           far as to say I'll stand behind the loan, and I have my              independent obligations to perform under the guaranty.       And if I don't perform, I'll pay. That, to me, can be              nothing but an applicant.                Thank you so much for your time. I'm happy          Alderson Reporting Company Official to answer any questions if there are any.                                            submitted.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       MR. DUGGAN: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is       (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company : : : APPEARANCES : : A a.m : : : ability : : able : : above­entitled : agency's :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, aggrieved : Absolutely : abstract : absurd : absurdity :, agree : : abundantly : accept : : account : accurate : act : : Agreed : agreeing : : : : : : : : : : : :, agreement : :,, : :, : : agreements : agrees : : : : Act's : action : : : :, actual : added : additional : : : : : AIDS : aligned : Alito : : :, :, :, : allow : address : : allowing : allows : adhering : altogether : adjustments : ambiguous :, administration amended : : Official Officialappeal : : applied : : : : : :, appealing : applied­for : Page  available : aware :, B : appear : : : applies :,, B :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : apply : : bank : : : :, : : :,, apprentice : appropriate : approval :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : back : : : : : : : :, : applicant : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : :, :,,,, :,,, :, applying : : bad : :,,, : :, : : :, : : : :,,,, :,,, :,,,, : :,, argue : :, :, :, :, :,,, : :, :, : : : arrange : : :, : :, :, :, :, :, :, : basis : : behalf :,, :,,, : : : : : : : believe : : :,, :, : : : bases : : bank's : banking : banks : : argument : : based : : articulating : asked : : approve : : : : : : : : believed : believes : : benefit : : : : : best : : admissions : admits : admitted : : : : adopted : : adverse : :, : :, : adversely : affect : affirm : age : agencies : : agency : : : amicus : : : analogy : answer : : :, :, : : : : answered : : asking :, :,, : : : : : assert : : applicants :, : :, :, :, :, : aspect : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, :, :, :, : : : : anybody : : application : : apartment : : apologies : : :, :,, : : : : : : asserted : asserts : asset : assets : : Assistant : assume : : authority : : bit : : bet : beyond : bilateral : bill : bind : : : : :, availability : black : board : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company carry : case : : :, class : : bolster : books : borrow : borrower : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : :, borrowers : : borrowing :, : business : : : : businesses : buy : C C : : : call : : :, : : : capacity : car : card :,, : :,, : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, box : breach : Breyer :,, :, :, :,, : : :,, :,,, : cases : :, :,, : :, : :,,, :,,,, : :,, : : : : cause : : category : : Breyer's : BRIAN : : : brief : : : : : : : briefs : bring : :, : caused : : causes : certain : : : certainly : : : : : Official Page  : : contractually : contrary : : convince : common : : :,, : child :,,, : : : : : choose : Community : : Corbin :, chooses : company :, chose : : : : Circuit : circumstances : comparable : comply :, concedes : cite : : concern : : civil : claim : :,, condition : : correct :, : cosigner : corporation : : : :, : : : :, : : :, claims :, conduct : confers : confusion : classifications : Congress : clear : : : : :, : : : : clearly : : connection : : clients : close : co­borrowers : co­signer : collateral :, : colleague : colleagues : collect : : : college : : collegiate : Colloton : : consequences : consideration : :, construe : contain : contemplate : contemplates : contemplating : : contemporaneou... : contention : context : : :,,, : : : : : :,, : :, : cosigner's : cosigners : : : : :, :, costs : counsel : : : : counsel's : count :, counter : couple : couples : course : : : court :, : : : : : : : : : : : courts :, cover : : covers :, :, crafted : crash : create : : :,, : change : : come : :, : : : : : : : : : charge : Chevron : : : : bringing : broad : : : : : broader : broadly : brought : browbeating : bunch : bureau : contingent : continuation : created : contract : creates : creating : credit : :, : Chief :, : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, comes : : :,, : : :,, :, : : coming : comment : commentary : contracts :, : :,, commenter : comments :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company : : declare : deemed : : :,,,, :,,,, :,, : declared :, :,, : :,, : :,, : default : : : :, :,, :, :,,, : :, defense : : : : defer :, : :, :, :,, :, define : : :,,, defined : : defaults : : : : Official difference : : : different :, : : : : :, :, : differently : : : direct : : direction : directly : : Duke : duty : E E : :, e.g : earlier : : earnings : easiest : ECOA :,, :, : : : economic : : : : : differentiation credit­specific : creditor :, : creditors : : criticized : curiae : : curiosity : D D : D.C :, damage : damages : :, : edge : effect : : effective : discovered : discretion :, effectively : discriminate : : : : discriminated : Eighth : either : : : : : : : : : disagree : : : : : defines : : defining : definition : : : : : : : :,, : : : : discrimination : :,, : : : :, :, definitions : discriminatory : : : : : : : : eliminate : Employment : encompassed : Energy : enforceable : enforcing : engaged : : : : deliberately : Department : demand : demanded : denied :, daughter :, day : : deal : death : debt : : : enjoy : ensure : enter : entering : enters :, entire : : distinction : divorce : : English : : divorced : : Doc : document : : documents : doing : : :, : door : : : : : depends : : dramatic : :, : : : : describe : : : :, debtor : : debts : : deceased : decide : decided : decision : decisions : : : Duggan : :, entities : :,, :, : entitled : :,,,, : entity : :, Equal : : :, :,, : :,, : equivalent : : :,, :, :, : : : Especially : :,, :, : described : detail : developed : : Development : dictionary :, : : : :,, :, era : : : : ESQ :,, : Page  essential : essentially : event : everybody : evident : exact : exactly : :, : : : examinations : example : : :, : : :,, : :,, examples : exceptions : exclude : : : excluded : :, excludes : : : execute : exempt : exempted : exercise : exist : expanded : expected : explain : : : : explained : : explains : explicitly : : expressly :, :, : extend : extended : : : extending : extension : : : : :,, :, : :, extensive : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : husband :,, :,,,, hurt :,, :,, : : :, :, : : : :, husband's : : : : husbands : :,,, :, :, : husbands' : : : : : :, : guaranty : : hypothesis :, extent : : F fact : : : : : : : : : fail : fails : Fair :,,,, : fall : fancy : far : : : : farther : fashion : favorable : FDIC : : Fed : :, Federal : : : : : :,,, : glad : :,, : glum : :,, : flowing : focused : folks : foots : forbidden : : form : formed : : forward : : : four : frankly :, FRB : fulfill : full : : : : go : : : : : : : goes : : : going :, : :,,, :, : : : : :, : : good : :, gotten : : government : : :, government's : grant : : functional : fundamental : guaranties : : : : : :, : guarantor : : : : :,, : :, : : :, :,, :,, : :, :, :, guarantying : guess :,, gun : H H : : : half : hand : I idea : : ignore : illegal : illegally : imagine : immediately : : impact : implementing : important : : : : : :, : improper : improperly : : : include : : : : : :,, : : included : : : : : includes : including : income : incorporated : : independent : : : : :, : :, industry : : : :,, file : fill : filled : : filling : fills : finance : financial :, : G : further : : furthers : future : :, G : : : : find : : : fine : first : : :, : : five :, : fix : : fixed : fixing : Fletcher : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : gamut : gateway : gender : general : : : generically : getting : : Ginsburg : : : give : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : : : : given : : gives : : giving : : :, :, : :,,,, hands : : happened : :, : happens : :, :, happy : : :,, : : :, harbor : : : : harbors :,, : : : hard : : harm : : :, :, :,, : : :,, Hawkins : : :,, : :,, : :,,,, helpful : higher : : hire : history : : head : : hear : : : guarantor's : guarantors :, : :,,, :, Honor :,, :, : :,,, : :, honoring : Housing : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official K Page  : :,, : : jointly­owned :, Jones : Judge : : : : : judgment : Justice : :, : : : M : :, : : : : magazine : : :, :, :, :, : making : : : man : marital : : Kagan : : : : : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : Lending : let's :,, : lender's : lenders : : L : kindergarten : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, Kan :, :,, :, Kennedy : :,, : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,,, :, :,,,,, key : :,, : kids : :,, : kind : : : :,, :, :, : :,, : :, : know : : :, : :,, : : :,, :,,, : :,,,, :,,, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : :, : :, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :,, : : :, :,,, : :,,,, : :,, :, :, : :, :, : :, :, : : :, Justice's : Lawrence : laws : lawyers : leads :, left : legislative : lend : : Laughter : law : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : language : : : : : : lender : : :, : mark : marriage : married : : : : : : : : letter :, : : liability : : massive : : : liable : : : : : : :,,, : : liked : limited : : : : : line : :, : listed :, litigation : little : loan :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : loans : long : : longer : : longstanding : : look : : : : :, looking : lot : : :, lottery : M matter : :, : : : : : matters :,, McALLISTER : : : : :,, : :,,, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, :,,, : : :, :, :,, :,,, : :,,, :, :, : : mean : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : meaning :, : : : meanings : means :,, : :, : : : : : information : : initially : initiate : injured : injury : instance : : instrument : insurance : intend : intended : : intent : interest : :, interested : interests :,, internal : interpretation : : : : : interpretations : interpreted : invalid : invalidate : : invested : investor : involved : issue : J J : JANICE : job :,, JOHN : :, : join : joint :, : :, : : :, : : :, jointly :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  obligated : : Pardon : obligation : meant :, millionaire : minimum : minor :, minute : minutes : : mischaracterizat... obligor : : parlance :, :,, :, :,, : : : parents : : : : : obligations : parent :,, Park : : prescribe : presumptions :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, : : :,,, prevail : : : : : previous : : : : primary : : : : personal : : : : personally : :, :, persons :, principal : pretty :, : : : : part : : particular : : : : : Pete's : : : Petitioner : : misinterpreted : mistaken : misunderstood : obligors : :, obvious : Obviously : occurred : : modification : October : modify : Monday : money : : offer : oftentimes : oh : : : : : : : :,, months : mortgage : multiple : : ones : : okay : : old : once : : N N :, : names : narrower : natural : : need : : : :,, Neither : never : : opens : : operating : operational : operator : Opportunity : : opposite : oral : :,, : : : ordinary :, : : :, : : organizations : : nonapplicable : : normal :, notice :, : :,, : :, : original : originally : outside : Overland : owned : P notify : number : : page : : : P : O O : : : : papers : : : prior :, private : problem : : :,,,, :,, : : : : : Petitioners :, : :,, : process : : profile : progress : prohibit : PHC : : place : placed :, : prohibited : places : plain : playing : please : : projections : promise :, promises : proper : :, : : :, property :, : : pluck : point : :, proposed : prospective : : : : protection : : : :, protects : prove : : :, : : proved : provide : : pointing : points : policy : position :, : : : : provided : : provides : providing : Posner : Posner's : : provision :, : : : pot : potential : : : : particularly : parties :, :, parts : party : : :, party's : pass : passed :, PATTERSON : pay : : :, : : : :, paying : payment :, : : payments : pays : people :, : : perfectly : : perform :, : : : :, performance : :,,, period : permitted : : : : precise : person : :, precisely : : :, : provisions : :, : public : pull : Alderson Reporting Company punitive : purpose : : : : : : : purposes : :, : : : pushing : put : : : : : : : puts : putting : : Q qualifies : qualify : quarreling : quasi­admissions : questions : : : : quickly : quite : : : R R : : : : race :, raised : rate : rationale : rationales : Raymore : : reach :, read : : reading : : : real : : : receiving : : : : recipient : question : : recommend : recommendation : : : : :,, : : : recommending : : : : : :, : record : refer :, : : reference : references : referred : refers : : : reflects : reg : : regard : : : regarded : : : : Official reality : really : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,,,, :,,,, :, : : requesting : :, :, :,, : : reason : : regulations : : : reasonable : : : : : : reasonably : :, regulators : : :, : : : rejected :,, : : : : reasons : related : rebuttal : : release : relevant : receive : : reliance : : requestor : requests : require : : :, required : : :,,,,, : : : : : : : : : requirement : : : Page  road : ROBERTS : : :, : : : :, rule : : : : : : ruled : : rulemaking : : run : : runs : S relied : relief : religion :, rely : :, : relying : : : remainder : remedies : remedy : : : : renewal : : rental : repay :, : : : : :, : : repaying : repayments : repeal : repeat : repeatedly : report : : requirements : S : : : safe :,,, requiring : : sake : reserve : : : : : : : : : : saying : : resolve : resolved : respect : : : : respects : respond : Respondent : : : : responding : : response : : responsible : : result : : :, : rewrite : : rewriting : right : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, : : : : :, :, : :, rights : says : : :, : : :, :,, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : scale : Scalia :, :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : scenarios : school :, : :, : scores : regs : : regular : regularly : regulation :, Reporting :,, reported : : :,, : : :, :,,,, :, reputation : : request : : Alderson Reporting Company Official spouse : :, stirred : straightforward : :, : : : : : : :,, strap : :,, : : spouses :,, : spouses' : stand : : : standing : : start : : :, : starting : State :, stated : statements : : : strapped : strength : subchapter : subject : submit : submitted :, subsection : subsections : substantive : sue : : : :, :, : suffer : suffered : : : : second : : secondary : : similar : : : : : simple : :, :, simpleminded : Section : : secure : secured : security : see : : : simply : : : : : single : : sitting : : : situation : seeking : : : : seeks : : sense : :, : : : : sensible : : separate : situations : small : Smith :, :, Solicitor : solve : solvency : : : : somebody : : : set : setting : seven : seven­year­old : : : : :, : : severally :, :, : : : : : :, : : sex : :, share : shaving : short : show : shows : side : sign : :,,, :,, : : : :, signature : : : : signatures : : signed : : signs : : :, : : States :,, : suffers : suffices : status : : suggest : : suggested : suggesting : suit : : supplement : support : supporting : statute : : : :,, : : : : :,,, : :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :, Supreme :, sure : : : : : sureties : : surety : : synonymous : statute's :, statutes : statutory : suppose : : : : : : : : : : : : T :, T someone's : son :, sorcerer : sorcerer's : sorry : : sort : : : Sotomayor : : : : : :, :,, : : : : sought : : speak : specific : : : : : specifically : : speech :, step : : : spins : spousal : : : : : : : : STEPHEN : : : stepping : stereotypes : table : : : take : : : :, : : taken : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  takes : talk : : : : talked : talking : : :, : talks : : tarnish : tell : telling : term :, : :,, :,, : : terms : : :, : : terrible : Thank : :, : :, :, : : : theory : thing : : : : : : : : things : : : : : : :, :, think : :,, : : : : :, : :,,,, :,, :, :,, : : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : thinks : third :, : Official : : violations : virtue : void : : voided : : : : :, words : work : : : : :, third­party : : : thought : : :, underlying : understand :, : : understanding :, : understandings : : ticket : time : : : workable : worked : : : : understood : wait :,, : works :, : : : : : : undertake : unenforceable :,, times :, to­be : : today : :, unfortunately : want : : wouldn't : :, : : : : : : :,, : world : : waive : walks : wall : W Page  (b) : (d) : : : :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : : told : ton : totality : train : transaction : : : : : : : : transactions : : : : treat : trial : true : : : : : Truth : try : trying : tuition : : turns : two : : : :,, : :,,, :, :, : : typifies : U ultimately : : unambiguously : : : uncertain : unilateral :, unique : United :,, : university : unlawful : : unnecessary : unreasonable : unworkable : : upset : urging : use : : : :, : : : : : : uses : :, : usual : Usually : V v : : VALERIE : version : : view : :, :, : : : : : viewed : violation : : : : : write : : :, : : : write­up : : : : writes : : :,, writing : : : : :,,, wanted : : written : : : : : : : : : wants : : Washington :, wasn't : : way : : : :, : :, :, :, : ways : We'll : we're : : : :,, : : we've : : : : Webster's :, weren't : wherewithal : wife : : wish : wives : : woman : : women : wonder : word : : : : : : :, wrong : : wrote : X x :, XYZ : Y yeah : : : year : years : : : : : Yep : young : : Z : : , : : : : : : : : ­ : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : ­ : Alderson Reporting Company 