Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  FRANCHISE TAX BOARD OF                CALIFORNIA,                        : :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          GILBERT P. HYATT.                    : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, December ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   H. BARTOW FARR, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Franchise Tax Board of California         v. Hyatt.              Mr. Clement.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. CLEMENT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The States entered the Union saddled with       substantial war debts. As a result, critics of the           Constitution were quick to point out any possibility        that the States could be haled into court by individual          citizens without their consent in order to secure        potentially bankrupting judgments.               When this Court opened up the possibility of        just such a judgment by allowing Chisholm, a         South Carolina citizen, to sue the sovereign State of         Georgia in this Court, the nation quickly and        emphatically reacted with the Eleventh Amendment that       eliminated the possibility of such a suit even in this           most neutral of Federal forums.                 Regardless of all that, Respondent's     position is that, if Chisolm has turned around and sued          Alderson Reporting Company Official Georgia in South Carolina State court, and       South Carolina in its unreviewable discretion decided to        exercise jurisdiction over the sovereign State of       Georgia ­­                         law ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: There is one ­­      MR. CLEMENT: ­­ there is nothing in Federal         JUSTICE KAGAN: There's one ­­ there's one        significant difference there, Mr. Clement, which is that        States are on a par with each other. So there's a kind               of mutuality. So if one State does something to you           that you don't like, you can turn it around and do it to             them. And that mutuality also makes it less likely that           the State will do that thing to you in the first place            because they know that.                So ­­ so I think what Mr. Farr says is the            fact that there was this outrage with respect to a          Federal court might not have registered in quite the         same way when States were aware that they were on a par             with each other and that they had many weapons that they           could use against each other.                 MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, here's       why I disagree. And because most of the weapons that            independent nations would use vis­à­vis each other to        ensure that sovereign immunity as a comity did not          Alderson Reporting Company Official become sovereign immunity in name only are precisely the         tools that the States surrendered to the national        government in the plan of the convention.                               So if South Carolina had ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, for sure, Mr. ­­       Mr. Clement, you know, you couldn't go to war with the           neighboring State anymore, and that's a difference. But          you could say, if you're going to treat me like that,           I'm going to treat you like that.                   And ­­ and you have other ways of dealing         with ­­ with a State that you wouldn't have with the            Federal government.              MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Kagan, two       points. First, it's not just the act of war. It's the             ability to impose trade sanctions; it's the ability to         withdraw your ambassadors. All of that is taken away          from the States.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there anything in       our ­­ in ­­ in our jurisprudence or our constitutional          tradition that say States can protect each other by         retaliating against each other?                MR. CLEMENT: Well, that's the second point        I was going to make, Justice Kennedy, which is it's an           odd thing to think that the framers, who had just          experienced the Articles of Confederation where they had        Alderson Reporting Company Official unsatisfied judgments and the potential that, if the        State of New York went after the State of Georgia          because Georgia hadn't complied with the requisition for        funds, that there would be civil war. The idea that the            way they would want sovereign immunity, which no one         doubted exists, enforced was that kind of race to the          bottom. As opposed to ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I mean, I ­­ I             thought that ­­ I thought that it's illegal for a State             to ban Washington apples.                MR. CLEMENT: Well, there is that. It's         something that's implicit in the Constitution. And I         think ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, to take you        down to the practical level, and we're not getting         involved with war, take Nevada v. Hall. But Justice          Kagan's point is, if California says that a Nevada truck           coming on its California roads, injuring a California         resident, so then Nevada is liable to the courts and the           law of California, Nevada can say fine. If a California            truck comes into our State and injures Nevada people, we          will do the same thing.                 mind.             That's what I think Justice Kagan had in         MR. CLEMENT: Absolutely. And I think         Alderson Reporting Company Official that's the exact opposite of what the framers were         trying to do. They weren't trying to adopt a union            where there would be signs on State borders that say, if           you come in here, you thereby waive any sovereign         immunity and we will hale you into court and allow our           citizens to do it. Instead, they were adopting a union            where the States came in with substantial war debts and          their sovereign immunity.               And there is no way they would have        sacrificed their sovereign immunity, which was the key        protection for those war debts not being used against         them to bankrupt them.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. The system        that you're advocating ­­ just so I get it right ­­           you're saying constitutionally any ­­ every State is        immune from any acts that they commit ­­ this is the           point that Justice Ginsburg is making ­­ from any acts          they commit against a noncitizen even if they've waived          sovereign immunity within their own State.                  MR. CLEMENT: Well, their ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All ­­ all ­­ all I have           to do is what? There's no noncitizen of ­­ of a State              who can ever be held ­­ who could ever sue a State for              whatever bad acts they've had.                 MR. CLEMENT: Two points, Justice Sotomayor.       Alderson Reporting Company Official First of all, let's take a Nevada resident, and let's           say California comes in. The Nevada resident can         certainly sue the State of California in California        court if there's a waiver of sovereign immunity. And           the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV would         protect the Nevada citizen from California saying, well,        we're going to waive our sovereign immunity as to         California citizens but not Nevada residents.                              So that's one protection that they have.       The other point is what we're really talking        about is, as to the starting point, is the default rule.           Do you start with sovereign immunity?                                          It's always possible ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What ­­ what's the ­­       MR. CLEMENT: ­­ for States to agree to         waive their sovereign immunity.                                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why would they do that?        MR. CLEMENT: Well, for ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I ­­ I could            understand them getting together, which they haven't       done, to agree upon limits to each other's or waivers of           sovereign immunity. But what would induce them to come          together to do that?                MR. CLEMENT: I suppose consideration ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If they ­­ if they don't         Alderson Reporting Company Official think that they're forced to?                 MR. CLEMENT: Well, considerations of      convenience. I mean, Nevada and California could decide          that they have sufficient comity and respect for each         other that it's perfectly fine for California to be sued          in Nevada court.               But conversely, they could come and make a        contrary decision because of their sovereign immunity       and say, no, if you want to sue us, come into our            courts. And I think a case like ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And we have here        states tell us that they didn't like this rule.                                             MR. CLEMENT: .    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: .    How come they haven't gotten together and       done an agreement among all of them?                   MR. CLEMENT: Because it would be very        burdensome to do that. And I think, with all due            respect, they think there already was an agreement among         the States through their people that solved this        problem. And that's the Constitution. It preserved the          sovereign immunity they would have.                 If I could ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's no question that       they gave ­­ this is why the Eleventh Amendment ­­ they           Alderson Reporting Company Official gave up a lot of things to the Federal government. And             I can understand why they thought they needed the         Eleventh Amendment.               But what makes you think that they gave up        their sovereignty with each other with respect to these         kinds of issues?                           MR. CLEMENT: Two things ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not in the       Constitution.             MR. CLEMENT: Two things principally, Your       Honor. First is, I don't think they actually gave           anything up. What my friend on the other side suggests           they gave up is the right of one sovereign court system           to hale another sovereign into that court system. And          that is a right that didn't exist at the founding.                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that's what Hall said        didn't exist. Hall said the States, vis­à­vis each         other, don't agree to respect the other's sovereign        immunity. Hall distinguished sovereign immunity where       you are the king, where you are sovereign, a State's           immunity. And then said, but when another State is in           the ­­ in the picture, equally sovereign, then both of          them are sovereign, and neither has to respect the         sovereign immunity of the other, that it's just ­­ well,          when the ­­ when the nation was new, you will admit that            Alderson Reporting Company Official there was no full faith and credit obligation. If one           State was going to respect the sovereignty of the other,          it would be a matter of comity, right?                     MR. CLEMENT: You say "comity." I would          say, as a starting point, law of nations. But           absolutely, it is true that whenever you're talking        about sovereign immunity in any court other than the         sovereign's own, you are talking about sovereign       immunity as of comity.                                        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Okay. So ­­      MR. CLEMENT: So ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So when did it change        from comity to an obligation?                 MR. CLEMENT: Upon the framing of the        Constitution, just as it did with respect to every other          sovereign immunity principle. The principle that       emerges from this Court's cases is that if the ­­ the           States had preexisting sovereign immunity from a suit         and they did not sacrifice it in the plan of convention,           then they continue to enjoy it as a matter of           constitutional right.              JUSTICE SCALIA: I would have thought you         would answer that the obligation was an obligation of         international law, that comity was an obligation of        international law insofar as it extended to sovereign        Alderson Reporting Company Official immunity of each State not being haled into the courts          of another State. That was international law.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yeah. The very concept        of comity is a matter of grace, that's international          law. That's what this Court said in Hilton against          Guyot. Comity is not a kind of a full faith and credit.                           MR. CLEMENT: But two points are important,        Justice Ginsburg. First of all, although the law of          nations as the framing between independent nations was a         matter of comity, that didn't mean that there weren't         certain principles that were so well established that        any nation that didn't respect them would be committing         an act of war. And first on that list would be the idea              that you could not have an in personam suit against a           foreign sovereign. It was unheard of.                   And my friend doesn't disagree with that. I         think his response to the possibility ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, haven't we now       recognized that there is no automatic immunity for a         sovereign nation, another nation? That ­­ the Foreign         Sovereign Immunities Act said, yeah, sometimes,      sometimes we respect the sovereignty of that foreign        nation, but sometimes we don't, like in commercial        deals.             MR. CLEMENT: Right, Justice Ginsburg, and I        Alderson Reporting Company Official don't think that you want to resolve this case on the           law of nations' immunity principles, either in or         today. But if you were to do that, we would still win,             because despite the relative laxity of waivers of        sovereign immunity in the current age, you still don't         have an in personam suit for something that's of course          sovereign function, like tax collection. Even to this         day, we couldn't sue France over the exact same         situation today.              But I don't think the way that this Court's          cases apply the law of nations is the right way of           thinking about this. Rather, the right way to think          about it is that sovereign immunity at the framing         becomes a constitutional principle. And I think ­­                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: There is ­­ there is a         certain irony, isn't there, that California is the State         that gave us a Nevada against California, right? And           California then was saying, oh, yes, we can sue the          sovereign in Nevada in our courts if they come into our           State and hurt our people. It was California.                     So is California now saying they were wrong        in the argument that they made?                  MR. CLEMENT: Well, I ­­ I think the FTB is             asking you ­­ which is an arm of California ­­ is asking            you to overrule Hall. So I think it is fair to say that               Alderson Reporting Company Official there is some buyer's remorse on the principle of Nevada          against Hall by the sovereign State of California.                                But we're not estopped from making ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, California has      joined the amicus brief, has it not?                   MR. CLEMENT: They didn't, but I think         that's because they felt that an arm of State was ­­                                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what's that ­­      MR. CLEMENT: ­­ already here, so I think,          you know, that ­­ that that explains that.                    But I want to make one point very clear,          which is this Court has a whole host of State sovereign            immunity cases dealing with the Federal courts. Every         one of those cases with the ­­ every one of the Federal            court cases and indeed every State sovereign immunity        case, with the exception of ­­ of ­­ of Alden against           Maine is a case that's applying sovereign immunity as of           comity. Because the new Federal court system is a          foreign court system. The sovereigns did not have         sovereign immunity as of right in any distinct court         system of a superior sovereign or of an independent          nation.             So when this Court says, well, the States        had sovereign immunity and they didn't sacrifice it in         the Constitution, they're not talking in those cases        Alderson Reporting Company Official about sovereign immunity as of right; they're talking        about sovereign immunity as of comity.                                                      So, too, in the tribal immunity cases.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what do you ­­       MR. CLEMENT: Everybody on this Court ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Clement, what do you        do with ­­ I mean, one time we had ­­ had this issue,              and the argument that you're making was ­­ was made          in ­­ in Alden, and the Court spent over two pages           distinguishing Nevada v. Hall on that very point, that         there ­­ when there are two sovereigns involved, then         it's different.              MR. CLEMENT: Oh, absolutely, and that's       because Alden is the only case that involves sovereign         immunity in the State sovereign immunity context. There         are also Federal sovereign immunity cases, but in the         State sovereign immunity context, Alden is the only one         that's dealing with sovereign immunity in the       sovereign's own court system. Every other one deals         with sovereign immunity in a different court system,         either the Federal court system or the tribal court         system. That's ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in ­­ in ­­ in Hall          it does say, we determine the Constitution did not         reflect an agreement between States to respect the        Alderson Reporting Company Official sovereign immunity of one another.                 MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think that's        because ­­ I assume that comes from the part of Alden            where Alden is dealing with Hall as a given, and it's            saying that the result in Alden does not require the          overruling of Hall. I would take that. That's fine.            That's true, they are different issues.                    I do think they create one anomaly after       another. I mean, Chisholm can't sue Georgia in a           perfectly neutral Federal court; Chisholm can't sue       Georgia in Georgia court; but Chisholm can sue Georgia         in the least neutral court available, the State of South          Carolina. That doesn't make any sense.                   There is also the anomaly that apparently,       Alden's mistake was suing Maine in Maine court. If          Alden would have sued Maine in New Hampshire court,         probably for Federal law or maybe for State law, then          that suit could have gone forward.                  It is also anomalous that the tribes       apparently have greater immunity than the States, even        though they're inferior sovereigns, because you apply       these same principles to recognize tribal sovereign       immunity. And the dissenters in Footnote of those           cases, even they recognize, well, States are different        because they are a superior sovereign.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they are not totally        bizarre. It flows from the principle in Nevada that the           State maintained the sovereign power to define the        jurisdiction of its own courts, which is also an         important sovereign power. So if you look at that          power, then you have to say, well, what is it in the            Federal Constitution that limits or takes away that        sovereign power?              So that's, I think, where I'm left after         Nevada. And now you have a whole set of arguments, but             they require us, for the most part, to overrule several          cases.             MR. CLEMENT: Well, I don't think so,         Justice Breyer. Let me make two points, one of which           may not be particularly responsive to you, which is to          say that I think all of this Court's post­Hall          decisions, some of which you have enjoined, actually        suggest that the burden's not on me to show where in the            Constitution it was taken away, but that the burden is          on my friend to show where the Constitution specifically         took away the States' sovereign immunity, where they        surrendered it.              But I still think, Justice Breyer, I'm        not ­­ I'm not trying to not get your vote, because I            think even if the burden is on me to show where the            Alderson Reporting Company Official Constitution took it away, I think I can. I think it's               implicit, but it is implicit in three places: Article          III, the Eleventh Amendment, and all the provisions that         took the diplomatic and war tools away from the States.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I'd like to get your         response to the second part of this. Because your ­­ I            mean, I ­­ I do ­­ that's ­­ I'm finding that rather              hard, and it seems to me intuitively at some level          correct that a State like Nevada should not be able to            give less sovereign immunity to California than it gives         its own officials.               So I thought, well, where in heaven's name         does that come from? And that's what's bothering me,          and I'd like a theory. I have ­­ all I have so far is                  this: Full faith and credit, two statutes, sometimes         exist. And there is also, when you're giving full faith           and credit, the competing principle that, if you have a          policy of your own State that cuts the other way and           it's reasonable and so forth, you don't give full faith          and credit.              And here, if you're following that kind of        principle, the same kind of principles in the Congress         clause too, you would say, fine. Nevada, since it          doesn't give its own people the sovereign immunity,        doesn't have to recognize California's because of the        Alderson Reporting Company Official public policy it's following. But as soon as they run           out of sovereign immunity, which is at $,, I think,           now they have no reason, and therefore they have to          follow California's law.               Now, I raise that because it's in the back          of my mind. I've been thinking about it. And I don't              find in the briefs either that theory or a competing           theory about why you can't ­­ you ­­ you see where I'm            going?                                     MR. CLEMENT: I think, Justice Breyer ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: I'd love your view on that.         MR. CLEMENT: ­­ and I'm going to give you          my best answer on that, which is ultimately loop back to           Hall.             So my best answer on that is the way to          think about this is Nevada has said, we're going to          apply Nevada law, not California law, and Hyatt I says           that they can do that. But then they ­­ when they start             to apply Nevada's law of sovereign immunity, they get to          the point where there's a , damage cap and they           say ­­ unbelievably in my view ­­ but they say, oh,           well, this statute only applies to Nevada's government        agencies. And you're not a Nevada government agency, so           you don't get the benefit of it.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Right.    Alderson Reporting Company Official               MR. CLEMENT: Now, if ­­ rather, if Nevada       did the exact same thing to a citizen of California in a             damage cap that applied not to sovereigns but to         citizens, I read my friend on page of his brief to             say that that would violate the Privileges and        Immunities Clause of Article IV, that you couldn't just         say, well, no, that's a benefit only for Nevada          residents.             So his position ultimately is the sovereign       is worse off than the citizen, which can't be right.                      Now, I think there are two ways to respond          to that complete anomaly. One is to say that, although           maybe it's not right there in the text of it, that the            principles of Article IV's Full Faith and Credit Clause         provide the same principle, the same protection that the         Privileges and Immunities Clause applies to a citizen.                     But I think ultimately the better way to         look at it is to say the reason the framers put the            Privileges and Immunities Clause in Article IV of the         unamended Constitution is they realized States could be        sued in other States' courts. So there was a          vulnerability they needed to address.                 They simultaneously implicitly recognized    that there was no way on earth that a sovereign could be             sued in another State's court because of age­old        Alderson Reporting Company Official sovereign immunity principles. So they didn't feel they         needed to give express protection to the sovereign the         way they did to the citizen.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Clement, I ­­ I assume,           but maybe I'm wrong, that it ­­ it follows from your           argument that a ­­ a State could not adopt the            equivalent of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act and        make ­­ make other States suable in ­­ in their State           courts for commercial activities.                MR. CLEMENT: Not ­­ not of its own force.          I mean, I think one way of thinking about this is I             don't think ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you mean:          Not of its own force.                 MR. CLEMENT: Well, they ­­ they might be         able to agree to that mutually as a waiver of their            sovereign ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no. I'm talking         about a State just enacting ­­                              MR. CLEMENT: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ a State legislature        enacting a statute that is the equivalent of the Foreign           Sovereign Immunities Act.                           MR. CLEMENT: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Any foreign State that is        Alderson Reporting Company Official doing business, not just foreign country, foreign State        that is doing business in this ­­ in this State can be            sued if it's ­­ if it's ­­                  MR. CLEMENT: Right. I think that's a power            they yielded to the Federal government in the plan ­­                     raise ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but that does        JUSTICE SCALIA: So that ­­ that creates        something of an ­­ of an anomaly which is that foreign           States can be sued, but ­­ but your sister State can't.           That's a little strange, isn't it?                   MR. CLEMENT: No. No, I don't think it is            strange, Your Honor. But, I mean, I think coming at it              from a different angle ­­ and maybe you get to a            different place. I don't know. But I think it would be               plain as day that, the day after the plan of the           Convention passes, the State of South Carolina can't        entertain a suit against His Majesty, the King of          England, in their ­­ in ­­ in South Carolina court          because of law of nation principles first or the fact          that they yielded the opportunity to do that to the          Federal government.                I think in the same way, the States yielded        their ability to make determinations, make treaties with        foreign governments over foreign sovereign immunity.      Alderson Reporting Company Official They yielded that to the Federal government.                   But vis­à­vis each other, what they      preserved as a constitutional matter is an immunity from          being haled into each other's courts.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: But, Mr. Clement,      Justice Scalia's question does suggest that there are        sovereign interests on both sides of this. Right?         There's ­­ one is I want to have sovereign immunity. I             want to avail myself of sovereign immunity. And the          other is I want to subject another State to my court            system when I feel like it, and I want the choice of              doing that or reaching an agreement with another State         that we should all treat each other nicely.                    So on your view, the States are giving up         some significant sovereignty interest. They're keeping       one, but they're also giving up one. And the question           that you have to answer is why ­­ why is it so obvious             that the States would have made that choice rather than          the other choice? Which is, hey, it's been working out           for us just fine to have the choice and to deal with our             States on a going­forward basis on principles of         mutuality.             MR. CLEMENT: Justice Kagan, I think there's         two reasons that it is glaringly obvious that the States          would have made exactly the choice I'm suggesting. One          Alderson Reporting Company Official is they weren't giving up anything they actually thought         existed. They did not think, because the law of nations           categorically forbid it, that they had the power to         assert in personam jurisdiction over a foreign        sovereign. They absolutely ­­ yes, it was law of          nations that laid down that principle.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it ­­ wasn't it ­­        didn't ­­ didn't Chief Justice John Marshall explain        that, as to a foreign country, yes, there was a rule of              comity, but it was not ­­ it was not binding. We ­­            we ­­ we were not bound by ­­ comity, yes, because           nations should be ­­ treat each other with respect. But           obligation, no.                I thought that was the whole distinction      made in Schooner.               MR. CLEMENT: Well, Justice Ginsburg, two       points about that.               First of all, here is what Chief Justice        Marshall says about the amenability of the sovereign to         sue. He says, quote, "One sovereign being in no respect           amenable to another."               He lays it down that ­­ as the bedrock         principle of international law.                Now, it is true that, when you're talking        about international law, every nation has the raw power         Alderson Reporting Company Official to disregard international law. So the United States ­­                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: He didn't put it in terms       of raw power, did he?                 MR. CLEMENT: I ­­ I ­­ I think if you read               the whole opinion, that's exactly what he's saying. You          would have had to have ­­ I mean, think about it.            Schooner Exchange arises in . We're already at war          with Britain. So he did have ­­ the Federal courts           would have the raw power to exercise jurisdiction over a          ship of France, but there's a very good reason they           didn't do it: Because they recognized that asserting         that kind of authority would be equivalent to an act of           war.             And that's why I think it's so obvious that          the ­­ that the States did give this up. Because the            authority to bring in a foreign sovereign into your          court was unthinkable to that generation as a flat          violation of the law of nations. And if they did it, it             would be committing an act of war. And that's exactly           like the other things that they gave up.                    The second reason I think it's glaringly        obvious, though, is that, on the one hand they give up           something that's inchoate and a violation of the law of           nations. Sovereign immunity, on the other hand, is the          single most important issue they're dealing with because        Alderson Reporting Company Official of those war debts. And that's why they're not going           to ­­ if they had to make a ­­ a choice, a conscious                choice, they would gladly give up some inchoate right         they've never exercised in exchange for preserving       themselves from the possibility of an individual citizen        suing them and procuring a possibly bankrupting        judgment.                         If I could reserve the balance of my time.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Farr.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. BARTOW FARR                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. FARR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Since much of the discussion this morning       has turned on the possible overruling of Nevada v. Hall,          I'd like to start, if I might, by setting out what I             think are the two main reasons why Nevada v. Hall          shouldn't be overruled.               First of all, the Court in Nevada v. Hall,         unlike the Board in its argument, took account of the          fact that, after the formation of the Union, the States          retained a great deal of their essential sovereign         attributes, and that it was fundamentally inconsistent       with those sovereign attributes for another State to        Alderson Reporting Company Official declare itself immune as of right from its jurisdiction.                     The second reason is that the Board has        failed to show that the ordinary political processes ­­        in particular an agreement among the States, which         are now represented before the Court, saying they all         agree there should be absolute immunity in each other's         courts ­­ why they can't reach that agreement and ­­ and           have that effectively be the law going forward without         the intervention of this Court and without the need for          this Court ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: They would need the       intervention of Congress, I assume, right?                               MR. FARR: I'm sorry, Justice Scalia?       JUSTICE SCALIA: They would need the       intervention of Congress.               need ­­                                                 MR. FARR: I do not believe they would          JUSTICE SCALIA: Why wouldn't they?      MR. FARR: ­­ the intervention of Congress.        Because this is not ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought compacts between        States always required approval by the Congress.                   MR. FARR: I ­­ I beg to differ,           Justice Scalia. Under this Court's cases ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Cuyler case.      Alderson Reporting Company Official              MR. FARR: That's correct, that ­­ that the        question is whether an agreement among the States is an          aggregation of State power at the expense of the Federal          government. If that's true, then Congress's approval is         needed. But there are agreements among the States, some          of which are actually called compacts, which do not         require the consent of Congress, and I have no belief           that this one would.                  I mean, this is not ­­ if the States got         together and mutually agreed we're going to honor each         other's idea of sovereign immunity in our own courts, I          don't see any reason that Congress would need to be ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that seems to me quite         disruptive of the union that the Constitution       contemplates in that States would make different       arrangements with each other. Maybe they would freeze         other States out. You would have have States bargaining          with each other. It seems to me that that causes great            dissension.             always ­­             MR. FARR: Well, Justice Kennedy, there's       JUSTICE KENNEDY: For instance, California      Franchise Tax Board has ­­ collects tax from people all          over the ­­ all over the United States. And I could see              some States saying, well, let's leave California out of         Alderson Reporting Company Official this agreement, but we'll agree with ourselves. That         seems to me highly disruptive.                 MR. FARR: Well, you do have the States          supporting California in this case, making the total of         . So in this particular case, there really are not           very many States that are outside the circle.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if you say we're just         going to throw the States back on themselves; all the          States negotiate with each other? That's not part of          our constitutional tradition at all.                 MR. FARR: Well, Justice Kennedy, I ­­ I          guess I do disagree with that. I mean, there is ­­             there is something that's been set up by the Council of           State Governments called the National Center for       Interstate Compacts, and its job is to help the State          facilitate agreements among themselves on matters of       common interest. And there are hundreds of these         agreements.             So the idea that ­­ that the States should         not be able to get together and formulate policies that          are mutually beneficial to them, and reach them by         agreement rather than approaching the Federal courts and        saying overrule one of your prior cases or invent a          novel principle of Federal law to ­­ to limit the          damages, seems to me exactly what the States, as         Alderson Reporting Company Official sovereigns, ought to be doing.                             JUSTICE ALITO: If this ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What is your first reason        for saying keep ­­ keep Nevada?                  MR. FARR: The first reason, Justice       Ginsburg, is that Nevada v. Hall recognized, in a way           that the Board never does, that there are two sovereign          interests at stake here. And one can read the Board's           briefs and listen to the terrific argument this morning,         and one will not ever hear one word about Nevada's          sovereign interest here in protecting and      compensating ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think Mr. Clement         says that there are two answers to that.                    One is that they actually never exercised       that sovereign interest, so it didn't mean very much to          them.             And the other is that in exercising that        sovereign interest, they would be violating norms of        international law, so that they wouldn't have really        thought that that was a significant and exercisable         interest.             that.             But those are his two arguments against       MR. FARR: Right. And I don't think,          Alderson Reporting Company Official frankly, either one really carries much weight. I mean           the ­­ the first one is a ­­ is a chicken­or­egg             problem, in a sense. It is true that they were not ­­             the States had not exercised their power, if we're         talking about the late s. They ­­ they'd only had           the power for ten years, but they ­­ they hadn't          exercised the power to subject other States to their         jurisdiction.             Nathan v. Virginia is an example where, with        the intervention of the Pennsylvania executive      officials, the Pennsylvania courts said, no, we're not        going to exercise jurisdiction over Virginia. But the         other side of that, of course, is that they always had           immunity as a ­­ as a matter of comity from the other              States.             So if one is looking at the question of how          do we think about this, looking back in time, several          hundred years, what decision would the States have made?         The answer is we really don't know. They weren't faced           with that.              JUSTICE ALITO: So if the ­­ if the States          thought that they had retained this power, why have you          not cited any cases in which this was exercised before          Nevada v. Hall?               MR. FARR: Because there basically are no        Alderson Reporting Company Official cases where the power was exercised. Up to that point,           the courts ­­ I mean, the courts of the various States            ­­ were treating the other States as immune. There          weren't very many suits filed, but immune as a matter of            comity. But that, of course, is exactly what the          relationships between these sovereigns are all about.                     If one goes back and starts with a      foundational decision, which is Schooner Exchange,      Schooner Exchange is a very important decision about         sovereign immunity, but it's also, and principally, a        decision about sovereignty.               And what Schooner Exchange says is that each        sovereign within its own territory has exclusive and        absolute authority. And therefore, if another sovereign        is going to come into that territory and act contrary to           the laws of the sovereign, it can only do that with the            consent of the home sovereign. That's the principle on          which all of this is based.                  So this ­­ although there are obviously two        sovereigns involved, and a sovereign interest in each         case, an interest in immunity on the part of the          visiting sovereign, an interest in having its exclusive        authority over its territory over the home sovereign,        Schooner Exchange actually tells you the answer if they         come in conflict, because the requirement of consent of         Alderson Reporting Company Official the home sovereign is what is ultimately predominant.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Farr, I'm concerned       about ­­ about the Eleventh Amendment, which, of course,         does not prevent a ­­ its words do not prevent a State              from being sued in Federal court. They only prevent the           State being sued by citizens of another State in Federal          court. Okay?                Nonetheless, in Chisholm, we ­­ we ­­ we       held it it goes beyond that, Chisholm, which prompted ­­                                 Amendment.                         JUSTICE GINSBURG: Hans ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ the ­­ the Eleventh        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Hans against Louisiana.      JUSTICE SCALIA: We ­­ we have held ­­ it          was Hans which held that it's also citizens of the same           State that cannot sue in Federal court, but that's not          in the Eleventh Amendment.                That rested upon ­­ this is what Justice        Hughes said it rested upon, "Manifestly, we cannot rest,         we cannot assume that the letter of the Eleventh         Amendment exhausts the restrictions upon suits against       nonconsenting States.              "Behind the words of the constitutional      provisions are postulates which limit and control.       There is the essential postulate that" ­­ "that the         Alderson Reporting Company Official controversies as contemplated shall be found to be of a          justiciable character. There is also the postulate that         States of the union, still possessing attributes of        sovereignty, shall be immune from suits without their        consent, save where there has been a surrender of this           immunity in the plan of the convention."                   In other words, Hans says there's an       assumption behind the Eleventh Amendment that the States        cannot be sued without their consent.                  Now, why ­­ why should that apply only to         suit in ­­ in Federal courts, and not to suits in the            State ­­ in ­­ in the courts of other States?                      MR. FARR: I think the answer to that,          Justice Scalia, is because the situations are very        different. I think, in fact ­­ I mean, the notion that              the Board, I think, presents, generally ­­ and I want to             get very specifically to the question, but I want ­­ I            want to just preface with this one observation, if I          may.             The Board's suggestion, I think, is what the         Court really just needs to do now is put the third leg            on the immunity triangle. It's already made clear that          States have immunity in their own courts, which is the          English tradition, and that States have immunity in        Federal courts. That's the Eleventh Amendment. So all,          Alderson Reporting Company Official really, the Court should be doing now is to draw the           last part of that and say they have immunity in the           courts of other States. But those are all different          situations.             They ­­ the States have immunity in their        own courts, just as nations do, because they are the          sole sovereign involved there. There aren't two        sovereigns when you're talking about immunity in your        own courts. So that's one separate thing.                    Now, to get specifically to the question       you're raising, Justice Scalia: Immunity in the Federal         courts, which is broader than the language of the         Eleventh Amendment. And of course, the Federal courts         are courts of a different sovereign, in a sense, than            the State courts.               But at the time that the Constitution was        being drafted and the question of ratification came up,         this was an issue that was specifically discussed. And          therefore, when the States were concerned about       ratifying the Constitution because of their war debts,        they raised questions, and the Framers, like Madison and         Hamilton, so on and so forth, gave them assurances. And           that was the deal.                JUSTICE SCALIA: The ­­ the assurances were        based upon the postulate, the assumption, that no State,         Alderson Reporting Company Official of course, can be haled into the ­­ into the courts of            another sovereign without its consent. That was the         answer. And that answer applies, not just to being          haled into ­­ into the Federal courts, but being haled          into the courts of other ­­ of other states.                     MR. FARR: But, Justice Scalia, to be blunt         about it, there is no such postulate. I mean, if ­­ if              sovereign immunity is what the Board says it was or is,           that a sovereign can never be sued without its consent           in the courts of another State, then the entire         international world is operating on an incorrect       premise.             State ­­ nations can be sued in the        United States under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act        for commercial torts ­­ I mean ­­ excuse me ­­ for            commercial activities, for certain torts, without their       consent.             They can ­­ take the ­­ the Republic of         Austria case, the Altmann case where the Republic of         Austria objects to the United States' jurisdiction.       They say it's outside the FSIA. They say, you don't           have jurisdiction over us.                But the ­­ the Court doesn't say, you're        right. You're ­­ you're a sovereign. You have ­­ it's             unthinkable you would be subjected to suit in our         Alderson Reporting Company Official courts.             The Court resolves the case against the       Republic of Austria and finds no sovereign immunity.                    So there isn't such a postulate as broadly         worded as you suggest.                Louisiana?             JUSTICE SCALIA: How do you explain Hans v.         MR. FARR: Hans v. Louisiana is the second         part of the triangle. That's the question of ­­ of a            State being sued in Federal court.                  And Hans v. Louisiana makes perfect sense.       I mean, if one says, at the time of the convention, the            States were concerned about being sued in Federal courts         and the deal that was made, essentially, was they were          given assurances: If you ratify the Constitution, you         will not be subject to suit at the behest of individuals           in Federal court.               If you accept that deal and then you look at          the language of the Eleventh Amendment, well, the        Eleventh Amendment does ­­ the language doesn't capture        that deal because it leaves aside suits by citizens of          your own State.               JUSTICE KAGAN: So Mr. Farr, Mr. Clement        suggests that it's unthinkable that a State would be so           concerned about being haled into Federal court but not         Alderson Reporting Company Official just as concerned or even more so about being haled into           suit of another State.                            What is the response to that?      MR. FARR: The response to that is that ­­         that that argument just doesn't give proper weight to         the balance of power and the difference in the balance          of power between the Federal government and State        governments and between the State governments      horizontally.             When you're ­­ to go back again to the         formation, Justice Kagan, if ­­ if one is looking at the           situation that the States were facing at that time,         they're forming a new union. So they get a say in this               because they have to ratify it before it actually         exists.             So when they're looking at this, what do        they see? They see a sovereign that is going to be a              superior sovereign. What does that mean for sovereign         immunity purposes? It means that, if that sovereign is          sued in the States ­­ in the State courts, the States           have to dismiss the suit. There is no principle that is            any clearer than the fact that a superior sovereign          cannot be brought to answer in the courts of inferior          sovereigns. So that's ­­ that's the state of play.                      With respect to the other States, however,       Alderson Reporting Company Official there is inequality. They could subject other States to          suit in their courts, but if they did, then they might           be subject to suit because comity breaks down.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Why ­­ why do you say it          was so ­­ so clearly established that a superior          sovereign could not be sued in the courts of a lesser            sovereign?                         MR. FARR: Because that would ­­ I'm sorry.         JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I thought we invented           that system of ­­ of two sovereigns, a superior          sovereign and a ­­ and a lesser sovereign. What ­­            what ­­ what examples of ­­ of the absolutely clear rule           that you ­­ you can't be ­­                              MR. FARR: As I ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ as a superior sovereign         you can't be sued in a State court?                     MR. FARR: I think if one looks at English           common law, you have stratifications in English common        law. You have ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: There are no sovereigns in        England except the King.                MR. FARR: Well, the King was not answerable         in lesser courts. Maybe I used the word "sovereign"           improperly there, but ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different point.        Alderson Reporting Company Official                                     MR. FARR: Okay. If ­­ if ­­ if the fact ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: If ­­ if ­­ I don't want ­­           MR. FARR: Pardon me. I'm sorry,        Justice Breyer.              JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I just want              you at some point to give three minutes ­­ I mean, I             will accept for argument's sake that the great issue in          Philadelphia in was a division of power between the           Federal government and the States, not questions of what         States could do in respect to each other. And they           wrote what they wrote, but that's what they're thinking         of. And you're saying the second is what's at issue           here.                         therefore ­­                         MR. FARR: That's correct. And ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: And therefore ­­     MR. FARR: Excuse me.     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ we have two cases on it.          We went through the whole thing. At the very least,           don't open it. All right. I'll accept ­­ or don't go             back because it's at least not that clear. And          therefore, I'll accept that.                Now, I would like just two minutes on what's          bothering me. And what is bothering me is I really            don't see how Nevada can say, we're going to give          Alderson Reporting Company Official immunity to our own State but we won't accept         California's similar immunity.               Now, that doesn't seem intuitively right,      but if I look at the Constitution, I see it says this.              It says: "Full faith and credit shall be given in each            State to the public acts of other States."                    California has a public act which gives        immunity. Nevada is not giving full faith and credit to           that. I think those acts can sometimes include statutes           or common law rules or decisions of courts.                    So I say, how does Nevada get away with          that? Answer: Because they have a strong public policy            in not doing it; namely, the policy of they don't give           anybody, including their own officials, that kind of        immunity.             If that's the answer, that answer runs out        of steam at the very point that they try to give           officials more immunity than California is giving.                   Now, you see how I've lined up that legal         reasoning with what seems intuitive. But I have no           idea, to tell you the truth, about whether there is          precedent for that; about what that might, in fact, get          us into trouble on; or et cetera.                   So I would ­­ you must have thought through          this. If I look in the briefs, the answer to this             Alderson Reporting Company Official question of equal treatment ­­ I can't find much.                      MR. FARR: Well, I think that ­­ that the           important part there is that the only Federal basis that          they have really identified that conceivably could       support this claim is the Full Faith and Credit Clause,          because it is a Federal law. It's part of the            Constitution.             JUSTICE BREYER: But the Full Faith and        Credit Clause reinforced by it is the same policy         there ­­                         MR. FARR: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ that exists under the        Commerce Clause too ­­                           MR. FARR: That's ­­ that's part of it.         JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ and the Privileges and        Immunities Clause.              MR. FARR: That's ­­ that's the part I want           to get to because, if one applies the Full Faith and           Credit Clause ­­ remember, of course, the Court did this          in Hyatt I and ­­ and rejected California's argument          that its immunity law, giving absolute immunity, has to         apply, and Nevada did not ­­ Nevada has to apply that.           So the Court has already crossed that bridge, at least          to some extent.               Now, I agree with you at that point there          Alderson Reporting Company Official was not a judgment, so there was no comparison of ­­ of             the damages. But then the question is: What is the            full faith and credit standard that this Court applies?         And that is the same standard that the Court applied in           Hyatt I, and that is, if Nevada is competent to          legislate, it can apply its own law. It doesn't have to            apply California law at all.                 And in Nevada's own law, unless you try to         rewrite it on some basis, which I'll also get to,          California's law does not give immunity to other States         in the ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Nevada's law is great.       Nevada's law says if you're a Nevada worker ­­ State,           you get ­­ you don't have to pay a dime. In fact, you               have to pay ,.                            MR. FARR: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: But if you're California or        some other State, you have to pay million.                     MR. FARR: No ­­ no. But let me go to your             point here. No, I understand that, but ­­ but I ­­ I'm               just ­­ what ­­ I want to be precise about this, because             I want to just walk through it step by step, all I'm            saying is Nevada law does not provide a cap for           officials from other States.                JUSTICE BREYER: I understand that. And         Alderson Reporting Company Official what trouble will I get into with precedents ­­                                 MR. FARR: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ in the Constitution or        something else if I were to write the words that I            suggested?                         MR. FARR: Because ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: That once they go beyond        their own immunities, they run out of steam and they          have no reason for not following California's law.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: You don't think that's       right. Because your argument ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I know he doesn't think         it's right, and I want to have the reason.                      MR. FARR: No, I don't think that's right.          And ­­ and Justice Ginsburg, thank you, because I'd like          to point out ­­ I think maybe by going step by step, I              didn't get to the step I want to get to quickly enough.                         But the step that I want to get to is there            is no requirement in the Full Faith and Credit Clause          that goes on top of are you competent to legislate with           respect to the torts at issue?                  In other words, when ­­ when a State says,          we're going to apply our own law to a lawsuit that it is              competent to legislate about, has legislative      jurisdiction, it doesn't have to answer a second         Alderson Reporting Company Official question that says, well, you ­­ if we're going to allow           you to do that, can you show us a public policy of yours              that would be offended by applying the law? But ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, but in marriages and        in all kinds of things, I've seen the public policy          language when ­­ when there is a ­­ a right for a State                to ignore the public act of another State where there is           some kind of ­­ it's a ­­ some kind of policy            orientation.             MR. FARR: But ­­ but I ­­ I want to draw a               distinction between the constitutional test, which is       are you competent to legislate. That's the ­­ the sum           total of the constitutional test.                 Now, of course, just because you haven't       violated the Constitution when you're applying your own        laws doesn't mean that the way that your decision to          apply your own laws is not challengeable as a matter of            State law.              JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not following ­­ I        guess I'm not ­­ the ­­ the California law that is being            given or that is argued to be given full faith and           credit here is what? The California law on ­­                     MR. FARR: No.                JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ sovereign immunity?                  MR. FARR: I ­­ I ­­ you ­­ you're ­­ you're              Alderson Reporting Company Official well right to be confused, Justice Scalia, because ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: All California says about       sovereign immunity is you can't be ­­ we can't be sued           in our courts. I don't think California has a law that              says we can't be sued anywhere, do they?                                MR. FARR: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: And if they did, would they         have the jurisdiction to say that? I don't know.                       MR. FARR: I don't think ­­ well, because of           what ­­ what the Court said in Hyatt I, they don't have            the power to enforce their own immunity and their laws          on another State if that ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: What's ­­ what's being       given full faith and credit, then, under the argument         here? What ­­               MR. FARR: The original argument ­­ the fact         is that the Board has changed its argument about full          faith and credit, and that's why it's confusing.                    In its brief, originally, the Board said       we're asking that Nevada apply California's law of        immunity. Now, they can't ask them to ­­ ask that it be             applied totally, because that was already rejected in        Hyatt I. So they say above the $,. That's what            we're saying, apply California's law of immunity above        the $, mark.   Alderson Reporting Company Official              In their reply brief, however, at pages       and , they're emphatic that they're not asking the         Court to apply California law at all. They say we're           asking that ­­ that Nevada's law of immunity be applied.          Well, that, in its literal term, simply doesn't work.         California's law of immunity doesn't apply to       California.             So what ­­ what the Board is groping for is          some sort of loose principle that the Court could apply          to override a State's judgment about how to apply its           own laws of immunity, all in the interest, I might note,            of promoting State sovereignty. But leaving that aside,         the question is where would that come from.                    If ­­ let's ­­ let's assume, hypothetically,       that ­­ that California brought an original action in         this Court, and it said we want an injunction         ordering ­­ ordering Nevada to apply its damages cap to          all suits against California in Nevada courts. This is          assuming the Court doesn't overrule Nevada v. Hall, as I          certainly hope it doesn't.                What would the basis in Federal law be for         that lawsuit? The only basis that I see in their brief             in Federal law is the Full Faith and Credit Clause. And            for the reasons I've explained, if you apply the         standard Full Faith and Credit constitutional provision,       Alderson Reporting Company Official that does not help them. Comity is a voluntary doctrine            among States. And their equal­footing doctrine seems        miles away from anything we're talking about.                   Secondly, even if the Court had the power,        some Federal law, generally ­­ maybe Federal common law,         which is always something the Court, I guess, can create           if necessary ­­ why would they particularly choose this         rule? Because, although it sounds perfectly logical,        and it is a benchmark. I mean Nevada uses it not              without this one exception, but Nevada uses it to knock          down punitive damages claims against negligence, all of        that. As a benchmark, it's a perfectly fine rule for             States to choose. But as a mandatory Federal rule to            impose on the States, it's not quite so good.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: It's a little odd that         the Nevada courts say comity as far as punitive damages          is going ­­ we're not going to slap California with          punitive damages, but no comity before ­­ above ,.                     MR. FARR: Well, I think that ­­ its          explanation of that actually makes quite good sense.        They say, you know, when we're compensating our people,         we're not just compensating.                Compensation serves two purposes. It serves       ­­ the compensation, it helps the person, obviously,        cope with their injuries. And I should, by the way,            Alderson Reporting Company Official point out that under the overruling of Nevada v. Hall,          anybody injured by a State gets nothing. It's just ­­           but that's a digression.                    But back to the main point, when ­­ when      you're talking, however, about a situation with the         officials of another State, we also want ­­ we have an           element of protection, trying to protect our citizens.        We don't need the same protection from our own         government. We hire these people, we train them, we          supervise them. We can keep things from getting out of           hand like they did here where somebody just sets out on           a vendetta against a particular taxpayer. We can stop           that, but not when it's another State. So the idea of            having more compensatory damages in order to discourage        that kind of behavior, it actually seems to me quite          reasonable.             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you seem to be arguing         that no matter how hostile one State is to another,          there would be no requirement ­­ there would be no          requirement for equal treatment. I mean, you're         making ­­ that argument seems to point to the need to           overrule Nevada v. Hall.                If that's the case, suppose Nevada really       were completely hostile, uniformly, consistently hostile      to California on issues of collection of taxes ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official                         MR. FARR: Well, first of all ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ there would be no ­­        there would be no remedy for that. And you could say,            well, the States could enter into an agreement. But if           it's not in the interest of both States, they wouldn't          enter into the agreement.                MR. FARR: Well, I don't see why it isn't in            the interest of both States. I mean, it is always true             you can have an outlier State. But just let me take the             ­­ the example, though, of California and Nevada,        because again, if we're looking at equality here, which         is supposedly what the equal treatment principle is all         about ­­ and I put "equal treatment principle" in          quotes. If we're looking at that, another possible way          of looking at things which States and nations have done          for years is reciprocity.                Now, if you look at this case from the         standpoint of reciprocity, what do you look at? Well,          you ­­ that brings in Nevada v. Hall. And in Nevada v.             Hall there was no cap on damages. Nevada was subjected           to unlimited damages in California.                 That's exactly the same thing that happened       here. California was subjected to unlimited       compensatory damages.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Except California has      Alderson Reporting Company Official unlimited damages for its own people.                  MR. FARR: But ­­ that's correct,       Justice Ginsburg.              But if you're looking at the relationships       between the two States, which is what we're looking at          here, and the question of how States treat each other,          reciprocity actually is more important.                 It's no solace to Nevada to say, well, you         had to pay unlimited damages in California, but they         only have to pay $, to your citizens because they          have a different rule. That doesn't help. Nevada is            being treated unequally, whether ­­ whether the       California rule is different or not.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: If ­­ if Nevada didn't        want to give that California tax people the benefit of          no punitive damages, that ­­ it could do that, right?          It would be a matter of comity?                    MR. FARR: To be honest with you, I have my            doubts about that. I ­­ I suspect the subject would             never come up.               But in talking about this idea that there        could be something that ­­ that this Court could impose          on the States, there are things, for example, that could          be drawn from international law that might, in fact,         provide some sort of check, if they were truly universal          Alderson Reporting Company Official values.             Equal treatment is not a universal value.        For example, United States is exempt in its own courts          for torts based on battery and assault, and false         arrest. Foreign sovereigns are not. Under the Foreign          Sovereign Immunities Act, the foreign sovereigns do not        have immunity for those same torts.                  So if there is an equal treatment principle        at large in the world and is universal, then that seems           to me to be something that the United States cannot do.           But nobody suggests that that's inappropriate because       these are all comity based. Ultimately, sovereigns can         serve their own interests if they're willing to accept         the possibility that other sovereigns will do that as         well.             So when ­­ when I go back to this idea is            there something out there, I don't think one can ever           completely rule that out when you're talking about        arrangements among States and among sovereigns, because       there is Federal common law. But there is no          principle ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And don't you think the        ­­  before your time is up, to answer the argument based          on Kiowa Tribe, that is, that Indian tribes are immune          from suit by individuals in State courts. So the          Alderson Reporting Company Official argument that your colleague gave is how can the States          have less dignity than the Indian tribes?                   MR. FARR: Well, let me just answer. I          don't want to take much my time ­­ extra time, but the            fact is they obviously have dignity. They are         sovereigns, and that's one of the reasons they ­­ that          they are treated so much ­­ with so much comity.                        But the reason that they don't have the      exact same immunity is the historical basis is        different. The Indians, and their particular realized        relationship with the Federal government, is an       explanation for why they essentially partake of the same         kinds of ­­ of immunity that the Federal government         does.                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. FARR: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Clement, four       minutes.           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  Three basic points in rebuttal. First of        all, my friend on the other side quite rightly points          out that the States, burdened with their war debts, were          Alderson Reporting Company Official very, very concerned that they would be haled in front          of the new Federal courts, so they sought an assurance.                      And the clearest place to see the assurance        that they got is Federalist No. , where Alexander         Hamilton makes clear that there's nothing to worry about         here because they have sovereign immunity. And they         have sovereign immunity as an inherent aspect of their         sovereignty.             And that assurance then becomes the      postulate that this Court applies in Hans against        Louisiana, and applies in Monaco against Mississippi,       and all of these other cases where the immunity that's          provided by the Constitution is actually greater than        the text of the Eleventh Amendment. The assurance and           the postulate are one and the same.                   Now, it may be that in the world of         international relations, we've wandered away from the       Hamilton Federalist No. understanding. But I don't          think that matters. If it's constitutionalized, as it         is in every other context, then the understanding in          is what controls.                Now, as to the all­important point of this        balance that you referred to, Justice Kagan, I do want           to be as emphatic as I can that the States were not             giving up anything they thought they possessed. And I          Alderson Reporting Company Official came upon a quote from Edmund Pendleton. It          explained ­­ talking about sovereignty. And he said the          following in ­­ and if you want to find this, this            is Volume of the Documentary History of the Supreme           Court.             He said: "I have been taught by all writers          on the subject that there is no earthly tribunal before          whom sovereign and independent nations can be called and         compelled to do justice."                Now, I think that's pretty emphatic, and I         think pretty emphatically suggests that on the one hand,         they weren't giving up anything that they could really         exercise. On the other hand, they were desperately         afraid of these war debts, and they were desperately ­­         wanted to ensure that they would preserve their        sovereign immunity. I don't think the balance is even           close.             And what I think is so problematic about         Respondent's position is that he seems to say at the          precise moment that the States were going to give up all           of the tools that nations used to make comity a reality,            that they unilaterally disarmed. They gave up all those          tools, and all they got was sovereign immunity as of          comity, and which my friend's position makes clear, is         as voluntary as can be and is just a matter of grace.             Alderson Reporting Company Official There's nothing that supports it.                             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. ­­    MR. CLEMENT: So I just wanted to finish          with some anomalies here because we've talked about a         couple of them. We've talked about this idea that the           Privileges and Immunities Clause prevent Nevada from       doing this to a citizen.                  Here's another anomaly. Now, my friend       suggested briefly as a parenthetical that there's        nothing that these ­­ these poor Nevada citizens are         going to be able to do. One thing they can do is go to               California and sue consistent with California's waiver       of sovereign immunity. As we point out in the reply           brief, there are some remedies there.                  But the other thing they can do, as Justice         Kennedy pointed out for the Court in Alden, is there is           still the possibility of an individual capacity suit        against one of the California officers.                  Now, here's something anomalous: If you       sued the California officer, who's presumably a       California resident, they would have the protection of        removal to Federal court, so they'd at least be given a           neutral Federal forum. When my client tried to remove          here, they were confronted with Mr. Hyatt's quite        correct objection that the Eleventh Amendment prevented       Alderson Reporting Company Official removal to Federal court.                But, my goodness. You have now converted        the Eleventh Amendment, clearly designed to enhance the        sovereignty into the States ­­ of the States, into what          Chief Justice Rehnquist called in Hall an albatross        around their neck, that they are the one party that is           least favored, even compared to an ordinary litigant.        That can't be right.                And of course, the granddaddy of all of the         anomalies here is that the idea that Chisholm could have          sued Georgia in South Carolina State Court.                   This Court doesn't lightly overrule its      precedents, but when it's faced with an anomaly that         dramatic and that inconsistent with the founders'       understanding, it's time to overrule.                 to ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: You know, can I just ask you           MR. CLEMENT: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: On that last point ­­ I         think this is a very hard case straight up. But it's             not straight up, right? You need a special          justification on your side. So what is your special          justification?             MR. CLEMENT: My special justification is       workability, consistency with precedent. Those are all        Alderson Reporting Company Official of the same ­­ and lack of reliance interest. I mean,             the special justification is there, but then this Court         elaborates a variety of principles that govern when it          overrules precedents and I think all of them point in           our favor.                                                  Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : ability :, : able : : : : above­entitled : : absolute : : : absolutely : : : : : accept : : :, : : account : act : :, :, :, : : : : : action : activities : : acts :,, :, address : admit : adopt : : adopting : advocating : afraid : age : age­old : agencies : agency : aggregation : agree :, : : : : : agreed : agreement :, : : : : : :, :, agreements : Official OfficialPage  :, : : : : behavior :albatross : Alden : : apples : applied : : assuming : assumption : behest :belief :believe :: : :, :,, : : Alden's : Alexander : ALITO : : apply : : : : : :, : : assurances : : : beneficial :benefit : ::applies : : assurance :,, benchmark :,:, : :, :, : : : Austria :, : :,,, :, attributes :, best :,better :beyond : :binding :authority :, bizarre :: : applying : :, :, automatic : approaching : avail : approval : : : all­important : allow : : allowing : Altmann : ambassadors : amenability : amenable : Amendment : : : : :,,, :, : :, : : : amicus : angle : anomalies : : anomalous : : : argued : arguing : argument : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, argument's : arguments : : blunt :Board : :: : :: : ::, :Board's : :borders :bothering ::,bottom :bound :breaks :Breyer :,,: :,,:,,,,:,, ::, :,: :bridge :brief : :: :,:briefly :briefs : ::bring :brings :Britain :broader :broadly :brought ::burden :,available : aware : Bback :, :: : :: : :bad :balance : :,: :ban :bankrupt :bankrupting ::bargaining :BARTOW : ::based : ::,,basic :basically :basis : :: :,:battery :bedrock :beg :behalf :, ::, : ::anomaly :, : : : : arises : arm : : answer : : arrangements : : : : : : : : : : : Article : : :,, : : : arrest : answerable : answers : anybody : : anymore : apparently : : APPEARANCES :,, Articles : aside : : asking :, : :, aspect : assault : assert : asserting : assume : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official clearer : clearest : clearly : : Clement : :, :, : : : compacts : : : burden's : burdened : burdensome : business :, buyer's : : : : : categorically : causes : Center : certain : : C : : compared : certainly : : cetera : challengeable :,, :,, :,, :, comparison : : :, : compelled : C : : :, :,, compensating California : : :, :, :,,,, : :, :,,,, :, : :, : :,,,, change : :, : : :, : :, changed : : : : : :,, character : :, : :, :, check : :, :, :, : chicken­or­egg :, :, : : : :,,, :,, : : : : :, :,, : client : :, :, Chisholm : : close : :, Chief :, :, :, :, : : : competent : :, : competing : complete : completely : compensatory : : : :, compensation :, : : :, :, : colleague : collection : Chisolm : choice :,, :, :, : collects : come : : :, : complied : conceivably : concept : concerned : : :, : : California's : : : : : : : : : : called : : : : cap : : choose :, circle : cited : : : : citizen : : capacity : capture : Carolina : :, citizens : : :,, : : : : : : : : carries : case : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, cases : : :,,, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : civil : claim : claims : clause : : :,,, :,,,, : : : clear : : : : : : : : : Confederation :, : : conflict : : confused : confusing : Congress : :,,, :, comes : : : confronted : coming : : comity : : :,,,, :,, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : Congress's : conscious : consent : : :, :, :,, Commerce : commercial : : :, commit :, committing : : common : consideration : considerations : consistency : consistent : consistently : Constitution : Page  : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : constitutional : : : : : : : : : constitutionalized : constitutionally : contemplated : contemplates : context :, : continue : contrary : : control : controls : controversies : convenience : convention : : : : : conversely : converted : cope : correct : : : : : Council : counsel : : : country : : couple : course : : : : : : : : : court :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : disagree : : : discourage : D.C :,, damages : : : : discretion : :, : :,, : :, :,,,, : :,, :,, : damage : : disarmed : :,,, : : : : :, :,, :, : : : : :,, day : :, : : : deal : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : deals : : : :, debts : :, :,, : discussed : discussion : dismiss : disregard : disruptive : dealing : : dissension : : : : dissenters : distinct : distinction : : :,, : : : : : : Court's : : : : December : courts : : decide : : decision : : :,, : : : : decided : : : : : : : : : : decisions : :, :, :, :,, declare : :,,, default : define : :,,, : designed : : :, :,, : desperately : : : : :, : : create : : creates : credit : : despite : determinations : determine : distinguished : distinguishing : division : doctrine :, Documentary : doing :, : : : : : doubted : doubts : drafted : dramatic : draw : : drawn : due : E E : :, earth : earthly : Page  :, :, : :, : : : eliminated : emerges : emphatic : : : : example : : : : examples : exception : : exchange : : emphatically : :,,, : enacting :, enforce : enforced : England : : English : :, enhance : enjoined : enjoy : ensure : : enter :, entered : entertain : entire : equal : : :, :, equal­footing : equality : equally : equivalent :, : ESQ :, :, : essential : : essentially : : established : : estopped : et : Everybody : exact : : : : exactly : : : : : exclusive :, excuse : : executive : exempt : exercisable : exercise : : : : exercised : : :,, : exercising : exhausts : exist :, : existed : exists : : : expense : experienced : explain : : explained : : explains : explanation : : express : extended : extent : extra : F faced : : facilitate : facing : fact : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : differ : :, :,, : : : :, :, different :, difference : : : critics : crossed : current : cuts : Cuyler : D D : :, :, :, :, Edmund : effectively : : : : : : : either : : : : dignity :, digression : dime : diplomatic : elaborates : element : Eleventh : : : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company failed : fair : faith : : finds : fine : : : : : : :,, : finish : :, :,, : : : :, :, first : : : false : far : : Farr : : : follows : : : : : flat : :,, : flows : follow : :,, : : :, following : :, : : : : :, : : :,, : Footnote : :,, : :,, : force :, : :,, :,, : :, : :, :, :, favor : favored : Federal : :, : :,, :,,,, :, : : :,, formation : forbid : : Official freeze : friend : : : : : : friend's : front : :, : :, :,, : : : :, :, function : fundamentally : funds : G : generation : Georgia : :, :, :,, : : getting : : : GILBERT : forming : : : : :, :, formulate : :, : :, : : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, : : : :, :, :,, : :, : :, : forth : : Ginsburg : : forum : forums : forward : : found : foundational : founders' : founding : four : framers : : : :, :,,, : :,, :, : : : :, :, : : :, : give :,, : : Page  hale : : : : : : : : : gives : : giving : : haled : : : :,, : : : Hall : :, : : : :, :, : :,, : : : :, :, : goes : : Hamilton : : :, going :,, : Hampshire : hand :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : Hans :,, : : : : : : : : : happened : hard : : hear : : heaven's : held : :, : :,, : : : good : : going­forward : goodness : gotten : govern : government :, helps : : help : : hey : : :, :, : : highly : Hilton : : : : :, hire : governments : historical : : :, grace : : granddaddy : great : : History : home :, : honest : honor : : : : : : greater : : hope : groping : guess : : : :, : : : FSIA : FTB : :, : : full : : : go : : : : : : : : gladly : glaringly : : forced : foreign :,, generally : G : Federalist :, feel : : felt : filed : find : : : finding : framing : : : France : : Franchise : : : frankly : : : : : : : :, :, : : : Guyot : : given : : : :, : : H H : : : horizontally : host : hostile :,, Hughes : hundred : hundreds : hurt : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  :, :, : implicit : :, implicitly : important : : : : : : impose : : :, : : : : : Interstate : intervention : :,, : intuitive : intuitively : Hyatt : : : : : : : Hyatt's : hypothetically : I idea : : : : : : : : : : identified : ignore : III : illegal : immune : : :, : : immunities : : :,, :, : : : : : immunity : : : :,,, :,,,, : : :,, : :,, : :, :,, : :,,, :,,,,, :,, : :, : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : :,,, : : : :,,,, :, : : :,, : :,, : :, : : improperly : inappropriate : inchoate : : include : including : inconsistent : : incorrect : independent : : : : Indian : : Indians : individual : : : individuals : : induce : inequality : inferior : : inherent : injunction : injured : injures : injuries : injuring : insofar : instance : interest : : :,, : :,, : :, : interests : : : international : : :, : invent : invented : involved : : : : involves : irony : issue : : : :, : issues : : : IV : :, IV's : J job : John : joined : judgment : : : : justiciable : justification : :, : K judgments : : Kagan :,, : jurisdiction : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, Kagan's : jurisprudence : keep :, : justice :, :, keeping : : :,,, Kennedy :, : :, : :,,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : key : kind : : : kinds : : king : : know : : : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : :,,, :, :,, :,,, : :, :, Kiowa : :,,,, knock : :,, : : :,,, : :,, :,, : :, : :, : :,,,, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :,, : :, :,, : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : :,, : lack : laid : language : :, : large : late : law : : : L :, :,, :, :, :,,, : :,, : :,, : : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, :, :, :, : :,,, : :, : : laws : : : : : lawsuit : : laxity : lays : leave : leaves : leaving : left : leg : legal : legislate : : : : Alderson Reporting Company legislative : legislature : lesser :,, let's :, : :, letter : level : : liable : lightly : limit : : limits : : lined : list : listen : literal : litigant : little : : logical : look : : : :, :, looking :, looks : loop : loose : lot : Louisiana : love : M means : miles : million : mind : : minutes :, : mistake : moment : Monaco : Monday : morning : : : mutually : : : :, :, Mississippi : : :, :,, : mutuality :, need :,,, O : : Official matter : :, :, nations' : :, : : : : necessary : : : : neck : : matters : : : :, : mean : : : needed : : : : needs : negligence : negotiate : neighboring : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : neither : : : : neutral : : : : : : notion : novel : O Page  outrage : outside : : override : overrule : objection : objects : obligation :, : : : : :, overruled : overrules : :,, : overruling : observation : obvious :, :, obviously : : : odd : : offended : officer : officers : officials : : : P P : : p.m : page : : pages : : par :, Pardon : parenthetical : part : : : oh : : Okay : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, Nevada :,, :, :,,, :, :, : : : : :, :,, : : :,, :, : : :, once : :, :, : : : open : opened : :, :, operating : : :,, opinion : :,,, opportunity : PAUL : :, :,, : opposed : : opposite : oral : :, : partake : particular : : : : particularly : party : passes : pay :,, : : :, : : Nevada's :, : :,, : never : :, : Pendleton : Pennsylvania order : : ordering :, ordinary : : people : : :, : : : orientation : : original : : originally : other's : : : : : ought : outlier : : : : : : : : perfect : perfectly : : :, person : personam : Madison : N main : : Maine : : N :, : :, maintained : Majesty : making : : : : : mandatory : Manifestly : mark : marriages : Marshall :, : : name : : Nathan : nation : : :,,, : : : nicely : new : : national : : nations : : noncitizen :, nonconsenting :, : : :, :, : : : note : norms : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  relationships : : problem : : problematic : processes : procuring : race : raise : : raised : raising : ratification : ratify : : ratifying : raw : :, reach : : reaching : relative : reliance : remedies : remedy : remember : remorse : removal : : remove : reply : : : : :, read : : : represented : : Republic :, protecting : protection : : reacted : : : :, : promoting : : : :,, prompted : : : :, proper : : : : protect : : precise : : provide : precisely : : : provided : provision : provisions : : public : :, : :,, punitive :, : : purposes : : put : : : : Q question : : : : : : :, : : : : : : questions : : quick : quickly : : reality : realized : : really : : : :, : : : : : : reason : : : require : : : required : requirement : : :, requisition : reserve : :, : : :, : resident : :, : : : reasonable : : reasoning : reasons : : : : rebuttal : : : reciprocity : : : residents : : resolve : resolves : respect : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : respond : recognize :, Respondent : : recognized : : : : referred : reflect : Regardless : registered : Rehnquist : reinforced : rejected : : relations : relationship : : : Respondent's : : response : : :, responsive : rest : rested :, restrictions : result : : retained : : retaliating : postulates : potential : potentially : power :,,, : : Petitioner :, :, : : Philadelphia : picture : place : : : places : plain : plan : : : precedent : practical : : : play : please : : : point : : : precedents : : : : : :, predominant : : : : preexisting : : : : preface : : : : premise : : : : presents : :, : preserve : : : : preserved : pointed : points : : : preserving : : : : presumably : :, pretty :, prevent :,, : prevented : principally : : principle :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, principles : policies : policy : : :, : :,, political : poor : position : : :, possessed : possessing : possibility :, : : : : : possible : : : possibly : post­Hall : postulate : : : : : :, : : : quite : : :, : : : : : : : : prior : Privileges : : quotes : quote : : :, : : probably : R R : Alderson Reporting Company rewrite : right : :, : :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : :,,, : : : : :, : : : :,,, : : :, : : : Scalia's : : : : Schooner : :, : : : : : : :,,, second : : : : : : : Secondly : secure : see : :, :, : :, : : : seen : sense : : : : : separate : serve : serves :, set : : sets : setting : ship : show :,, : : side : : : : sides : significant : : : rightly : roads : ROBERTS : : :, : rule : : : : :,, :, : rules : run : : runs : S S : : sacrifice : : sacrificed : saddled : sake : sanctions : save : saying : : :, : : : : : : : : : says : : signs : similar : simply : : : : simultaneously : : : : : : :, : : : :, single : sister : situation : : Scalia : : :,,, : : situations : Page  : :, : :, : sovereign's : : : : : :,, : : : State's : : sovereigns : : Official : slap : solace : sole : solved : somebody : soon : sorry : : : : sort : : Sotomayor :, : :,, : :,, : sought : sounds : South : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, :,,,, : sovereignty : : : : : : : : : : special :,, : specifically : : :, spent : stake : standard :, states :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : :, :,,,,, :, :,, :,, :, :,, : : : :, :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, : :,, :, : : :, : : sovereign : : : : : :, :, :,, :, :, standpoint : :,,,, start : : :,, : :,,, :,, : :,, : :,,,, : :,, :,,,, :,, :, :, :, :, :, :,,,, : :,, :,, : : :, : :,, : :,, :,,,, : :, : :,,, : :,,,, :,,,, : : : starting : : starts : state : :,, : :, :, :, :,, :, : : States' : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : :, :,, :, :, :, :, stop : : : : : :,,, : :, :, :, : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, statute : : statutes : : steam : : step :, : strong : suable : subject : : straight :, strange :, stratifications : :, :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : total : : : Official things :,, : : : : : think : : :,, :, :, :, : :,, :,, : : :, : :,,, :, :,, :, :, :,,,, : : :, :, : :, : :,,, : : : :,,, :, : :, : :,,, : : Page  : unamended : unbelievably : understand : : :, understanding :, : unequally : unheard : uniformly : unilaterally : union : :, : : : : totally : : trade : tradition : : : train : treat :, : : : treated : : treaties : treating : treatment : : :, :, triangle : : United :, : tribal :, : :, :, : Tribe : tribes : : universal : :, : unlimited :, :, tribunal : tried : trouble : : unsatisfied : truck :, true : : : : unreviewable : unthinkable : : : subjected : :, submitted :, substantial : : sure : : surrender : surrendered : : : sue : : : : :, : :, : : : suspect : system : : : :,, :,,, : : sued : : : :, :, :, : : : :, : :, :, : : T T :, take :, : : : : : : sufficient : suggest : : taken : : takes : talked :, talking : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : taught : suggested : : suggesting : suggestion : suggests : suing : : suit : : tax : : : :, : taxes : : : : : : : taxpayer : tell : : : :, tells : :, : ten : : term : terms : terrific : territory :, suits : : :, : : sum : superior : : :, :,, supervise : support : supporting : supports : suppose : : supposedly : Supreme :, : test :, text : : thank : : :,, : : theory : :, they'd : : thing : : : : : thinking : : : : : : : : use :, uses :, truly : truth : try : : third : thought :, : : : : : : : trying :, : : : : : : V v : : : : :,, : :, :,, : :, turn : :, turned : : value : two : : : values : : : : : : : variety : : : : various : : :,, : : : :, : : vendetta : view :, : U ultimately : :, : violate : violated : violating : violation :, Virginia :, three : : : throw : time : : : : : : : : : : today :, tools : : : : top : torts :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company Page  Official : : : : : : ­ : : s : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : , :, : :, : : : : : :, vis­à­vis : : : visiting : Volume : voluntary : : vote : vulnerability : W waive : :, waived : waiver : : : waivers : : walk : wandered : want : : : : :,, : :,, :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : wanted : : war : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : Washington :, : : wasn't : way : : : :,, : : :, :, : : : : : ways : : we'll : : we're : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, : we've : :, weapons :, weight : : went : : weren't : : : : : : willing : win : withdraw : word : : worded : words :, : :, work : workability : worker : working : world : : : worry : worse : wouldn't : : : : write : writers : wrong : : wrote :, x :, X Y yeah :, years :, : yielded :,, : York : Z Alderson Reporting Company 