 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  STEPHEN M. SHAPIRO,ET AL.,            :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          DAVID J. McMANUS, JR.,                CHAIRMAN, MARYLAND STATE             BOARD OF ELECTIONS, ET AL.             : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MICHAEL B. KIMBERLY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.;          of Petitioners.  STEVEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ., Assistant Attorney       on behalf  General,    Baltimore, Md.; on behalf of Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MICHAEL B. KIMBERLY, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioners                         ORAL ARGUMENT OF   STEVEN M. SULLIVAN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL B. KIMBERLY, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Shapiro v. McManus.                     Mr. Kimberly.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL B. KIMBERLY                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS               MR. KIMBERLY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Section (a) states in plain terms that a        district court of three judges shall be convened when an          action is filed challenging the constitutionality of the        apportionment of congressional districts.    Section (b) lays out the procedure for calling a         three­judge court when the circumstances identified in        are satisfied.               It ­­ it reads, quote, "Upon the filing of a          request for three judges, the judge to whom the request          is presented shall, unless he determines that three        judges are not required, immediately notify the chief        judge of the circuit, who shall designate two other         judges."             Now, although that language did not appear       in the statute until the amendments, it was no more           than a congressional recognition and codification of        Alderson Reporting Company Official what was then by settled ­­ what was by then settled           practice, that a complaint covered by (a) would         have, initially, to be referred to a single judge, that           the litigants then would have to file a request for a            three­judge district court, and in turn that the single         judge would have to determine whether three judges were,         in fact, required.               Now, at the time that Congress enacted that        long­standing practice in the amendments to the        Act, this Court's precedents had made clear that one         basis upon which three judges are, quote, "not required"         is when the claim is constitutionally insubstantial.                   Congress is presumed to have been aware       of ­­ of this Court's precedents so holding, and in the           absence of a contrary indication ­­ and here there is           none ­­ to have intended that interpretation of the         words "not required" to be incorporated into the        statute.             JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's perfectly clear        that the plaintiffs are entitled to judgment? Let's say          the State legislature goes back to its pre Reynolds v.          Sims method of constituting the State legislature. Does         that have to be referred to a three­judge court?                      MR. KIMBERLY: If it is ­­ if the claim is           obviously foreclosed by this Court's precedents, then       Alderson Reporting Company Official no, it doesn't. The ­­ the upshot of this Court's           insubstantiality doctrine is that when a claim is so          obviously foreclosed it doesn't present a bona fide         controversy within the meaning of Article III and,        therefore, isn't the kind of case that has to be          referred to a three­judge court.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, what ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: How do you square that ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Go ahead.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Okay.                How do you square that with the statutory        language?             MR. KIMBERLY: Well, we think that's       embodied in the words "not required." In ­­ in the two            and three years before Congress inserted the key        language in Section (b), this Court had said in         Goosby that three ­­ that a three­judge district court          is, quote, "not required" when the claim is        insubstantial.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Maybe Goosby was wrong.       You don't think Goosby was wrong?                  MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ Goosby represents         what had been, by then, nearly years of practice          beginning with this Court's decision in Poresky.                   For what it's worth, I will say I ­­ I think              Alderson Reporting Company Official if Goosby is wrong, we still end up winning because ­­                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh, I know that. Yes.                      (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well ­­ I'm sorry.        Well ­­ I'm sorry, why don't you ­­                   MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I would just              say, I think the path of least resistance here in           reversing the Fourth Circuit is not to overturn that         precedent. But we certainly would be happy if the Court           were inclined to do that.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you do if         your argument in ­­ in a case that might go before a             three­judge court is that the Court's precedents should        be overruled? It's clearly foreclosed by the Court's         precedents, but maybe there's a very good argument that          the ­­ those precedents are ­­ haven't withstood the         test of time or whatever.                                                     What happens then?   JUSTICE KENNEDY: This Court's precedents?      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, yes.      MR. KIMBERLY: This Court's precedents.                    I think ­­             Justice.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand the Chief        MR. KIMBERLY: So I think in that         Alderson Reporting Company Official circumstance, at least according to the Goosby rule, is         that the case would proper ­­ properly be dismissed         for ­­ for lack of jurisdiction as not stating ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: By the ­­ by the ­­ by the           single­judge court?                                      MR. KIMBERLY: By the single­judge court.       And ­­ and if ­­ if, then, this Court ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I have ­­ I have some           problems with that. Suppose the ­­ the case has been on            the books from this Court for , years, has all           sorts of academic commentary; certain circuits have       questioned whether the reasoning is still valid.                     A single­judge court can dismiss in that      case?             MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I think according           to the substantiality rule, yes. Again, if the Court          were inclined to ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I'm surprised ­­ you        think they do need to take that position?                    MR. KIMBERLY: No. And again, I don't think           we do. And if the Court were inclined to narrow the            rules that it didn't apply in that circumstance, again I          think we'd still win.                  I don't think this case necessarily presents      that question. And, you know, I think all ­­ all the             Alderson Reporting Company Official Court has to recognize for the purposes of this case is           that the insubstantiality rule is not one and the same          as the (b)() standard.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I take it Goosby is            not parallel to Rule . Rule is a class of cases              which are more frivolous even than what Goosby would         have ­­             MR. KIMBERLY: No. I think Goosby is even           more frivolous than Rule . What the Goosby ­­                                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, really?     MR. KIMBERLY: ­­ standard provides is that        the claim must be obviously frivolous. And what the          Court said in Goosby is ­­ obviously is doing work in ­­           in that formulation. It can't just be that a judge            ultimately concludes that the claim is frivolous. It's         got to be that there couldn't possibly be any debate          about whether it is, in fact, foreclosed by this Court.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Am I right that Goosby         thought of that as part of the jurisdictional question?                                 MR. KIMBERLY: That's correct.     JUSTICE KAGAN: In other words, it's an        application of Bell v. Hood ­­                             MR. KIMBERLY: That's correct.     JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ which suggests that if        something is so obviously frivolous, then the Court has         Alderson Reporting Company Official no jurisdiction on it at all?                  MR. KIMBERLY: That is not a bona fide case           and controversy within the meaning of Article III.        That's exactly right.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's a very         difficult line you're drawing, and ­­ and I understand          Bell v. Hood. But you're saying he can't do it. He             can't determine that the three­judge court is not        required just because the plaintiffs are wrong, but he         can make that determination if they are really wrong.                     And ­­ and your brief in the analysis and         all this, it ­­ it is always ­­ it's ­­ it's like a             thesaurus. It's just a collection of adjectives that          all mean "frivolous," "insubstantial," you know. And        I'm not sure it gives a great deal of guidance to ­­ to              a court.              MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I think I'd say            two things about that.                The first ­­ I mean, that ­­ that catalog of           adjectives appears in Goosby. This is a rule that has            been on the books since Poresky in the s. It ­­ it             isn't, in our view, a rule that has been causing a whole              lot of trouble since amendments. But again, if ­­          if the Court is dissatisfied with the ruling, we're         inclined to hold that it is not a basis for finding            Alderson Reporting Company Official three judges not required. We still ­­ I think it still             would require a reversal of the Fourth Circuit's rule          and of the district court's judgment in this case.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you call it ­­        I guess my concern ­­ you call it a rule, but it's             really not much of a rule. It's just kind of a ­­ I                don't know, a sense that something is ­­ is really bad,            as I guess I said earlier, as opposed to just bad. And               I think that's an awfully fuzzy line to ­­ to draw, but            fuzzy in ­­ in when you're talking about jurisdiction         where you like to have very precise and clear rules.                      MR. KIMBERLY: I ­­ I agree entirely, and           I ­­ and I guess what I ­­ what I would say on top of                  that is that if ­­ if the Court is concerned to avoid            fuzzy and difficult rules, that certainly is a reason          not to adopt Respondents' position.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could the Respondents      argue that, in the light of Iqbal and Twombly, Goosby          should be reconsidered, and the Federal court should        have some ­­ district court, single judge should have         some more authority? Or does that work the other way,           do you think?               MR. KIMBERLY: I ­­ I think it works the            other way. I would be surprised to see Respondents make            that argument, because again we're dealing here with a         Alderson Reporting Company Official statute, with statutory language that says when a        complaint is filed challenging the constitutionality of       congressional districts, that a three­judge court shall        be convened.              And then in (b), using the word "required,"        it ­­ essentially Respondents' view is that the words         "shall appearing" in (a), actually means "may," and        that the rule "required appearing" in (b) actually        means "permitted," and that a single district judge, in          their view, can elect whether or not to convene a          three­judge court if he or she would, in his or her           discretion, prefer to keep the case for him or herself.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does it depend ­­ does        your argument depend on categorization of what is        frivolous in the Goosby language as being       jurisdictional?             MR. KIMBERLY: I think if the Court were to           continue that line of cases here and to hold that that           is a basis for declining the convening of a three­judge            court, yes. It depends on it being a jurisdictional           question.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: So what happens under the        current statute that calls for a three­judge court on          request of a party?                 Suppose nobody requests the three­judge     Alderson Reporting Company Official court. Would ­­ could the single judge proceed with the           case?             MR. KIMBERLY: Well, our ­­ our view, in         light of this Court's precedence, is no, that it isn't          waivable and it's ­­ it's a jurisdictional statute         that ­­ that the ­­ the judge would be without ­­ that a             single judge would be without power to consider the         merits in the case covered by the statute.                    But I should say that that also isn't         necessarily a question that's presented here because,        even if it's just a claims­processing rule, it's still a           mandatory claims­processing rule. And nothing in what        the Respondents had said indicates that when a request          is filed, the district judge would be empowered        nevertheless to disregard the request and ­­ and        nevertheless keep the case for himself.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you ­­ you don't         think ­­ and let's assume that ­­ that Goosby is          jurisdictional.             Does that mean that we must let the single         judge determine it?                           MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: Why is it that the single         judge must determine the jurisdictional question? Why        can't that be left to the three­judge court just as          Alderson Reporting Company Official everything else is?               MR. KIMBERLY: To be clear, I don't think a           single judge does have to decide the jurisdictional        question. I think ­­ again, the key point is that the             merits have to go to a three­judge district court. I            don't think the Court has to say anything more about the           statute than that in this case because, on the face of           it, what the district court here did was enter judgment          under Rule (b)().               JUSTICE SCALIA: Perhaps the jurisdiction      has to go to that court as well.                    MR. KIMBERLY: I ­­ I think that's right,           yes. Perhaps, yes.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does ­­ does the waiver        argument, the argument that this can be waived by the          consent of all parties, does that rest on decisions of          this Court?              MR. KIMBERLY: Not so far as I'm aware. I           mean, nothing in this Court's precedents indicate that        the statute is jurisdictional. And in fact ­­ excuse          me, that it's waivable. And in fact, the Court's          decision in Idlewild, and before that in Stratton, say         precisely the opposite. They say that it's a         jurisdictional statute and, moreover, when the ­­ the        conditions for convening a three­judge court are met,         Alderson Reporting Company Official that a single judge loses jurisdiction over the merits          of the case, either to grant or to deny relief.          Idlewild says that very ­­                            JUSTICE GINSBURG: In my ­­ what ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Has the waiver rule been        adopted by some of the circuits?                  MR. KIMBERLY: Not ­­ in fact, no. It ­­          it's been rejected by every court that's considered it,         the Second and D.C. circuits.                             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why do you ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there was a ­­ there          was a change in ', and that's when they put in "upon             the filing of a request." And that language suggests           that it isn't a jurisdictional question, because if a          party has to request it, it normally follows if a party            doesn't request it, it's waived.                 MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I wouldn't             disagree that that is one possible way to read the          statute. I ­­ I think it's inconsistent with what this             Court's precedents said beforehand. And our view again         is that really that language is best understood as         Congress's codification of what was by then well­settled        practice, that when any complaint is filed in a district           court, it necessarily first goes to a single­district         judge. That single­district judge then has to make a          Alderson Reporting Company Official determination whether three judges are required, and       that's typically done in response to a request.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: In reality, on the ground,        what percentage of cases is there a request for a           three­judge court?              and ­­                                     MR. KIMBERLY: Oh, all of them. And ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: Litigants want this?      MR. KIMBERLY: Ah ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: Are there any litigants that        say to themselves, I'd rather have a one­judge court,          thanks?             MR. KIMBERLY: Not so far as I'm aware. I           think in ­­ in most cases ­­ now, I ­­ I think under the                Respondents' reading of the statute is a one­way ratchet          permitting only dismissals, but I ­­ I gather not           grants, although it's not clear where, in the statute,         the Respondents ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: It ­­ wasn't it a        practice in the old days that if you didn't want the           three­judge court, you simply didn't ask for injunctive        relief? You filed a complaint for declaratory relief          and then you didn't ­­ you could get your one judge?                       MR. KIMBERLY: That may be so. To be clear,           though ­­ so first of all, that would just mean that           Alderson Reporting Company Official the ­­ the preconditions for invoking the statutory ­­        the jurisdictional nature of the statute weren't       satisfied, and that certainly is something that       litigants could choose.               JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know why it's         contrary to a jurisdictional status that it has to be           requested. I mean, can't a request be one of the             conditions to confer jurisdiction just as a plaintiff is          one of the conditions to satisfy Article III and thereby          confer jurisdiction?              MR. KIMBERLY: That's exactly right. And        our example is, for instance, filing a notice of appeal           in the court of appeals. The Court doesn't have          jurisdiction without a request for the ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Let me get back to         the question Justice Kagan asked. It was certainly the          case when the law was enacted that the three­judge court          was viewed as an anti­plaintiff provision.                  The idea was that single judges were too        quickly issuing injunctions, you know, blocking the       State enactments, and they thought that would be less         likely if you had three judges. I'm not sure if that's            still true today, but it certainly was when the law was           passed.             MR. KIMBERLY: It was true in when the          Alderson Reporting Company Official first version of this statute was enacted. It was not           true by when the ­­ when the amendments at issue           here were enacted.               That much is made clear by the legislative        history of the Voting Rights Act, which is one of those           other statutes that provides ­­ statutes that provides        for three­judge­court review beyond .                 The legislative history in that ­­ in that,        with respect to that statute, was clear, that indeed,         three­judge district courts were more likely to grant        relief to plaintiffs than were single judges, which is         in part what explained why Congress, in that Act,         provided for three­judge­court review.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: And plaintiffs liked it       because you could skip over the court of appeals and go           right to this Court, and on appeal rather than         certiorari.             MR. KIMBERLY: That's right. And so I think           in that respect, Respondents reading the statute is also         quite inconsistent with the well­understood purposes of       the statute. Among them, key among them, to ensure that           merits judgments and cases covered by the Act, which         after the amendments are quite narrow and cover         only particularly politically sensitive and important      cases, receive as quick a final decision before this          Alderson Reporting Company Official Court as possible.               On Respondent's reading of the statute, a       single judge can keep the merits for him or herself and           interpose the court of appeals in the process.                    What's more, their reading of the statute       also creates really difficult jurisdictional problems on       appellate review.              If ­­ if a single­judge district court can         grant a motion to dismiss under (b)() and it goes           before the court of appeals and the court of appeals          reverses, the upshot is that, well, three judges were in          fact required after all.                The case then has to get referred to a         three­judge district court. But it's not clear, then,         whether the three­judge district court would be bound by         law of the case on the (b)() question by the decision           of the court of appeals.                                                     If ­­ if it is bound, that's ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure it is. Come on.         MR. KIMBERLY: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Really think that's      questionable?             MR. KIMBERLY: I actually don't think it's         questionable. I think it's quite inconsistent with what          the statute says in (b)(), though, and it's an         Alderson Reporting Company Official indication why Respondent's reading of the statute can't        be the right one, because what it means is the (b)()           question then goes to the court of appeals precisely in          the circumstances when Congress has meant ­­ Congress        meant only the single­judge district courts decide that.                    JUSTICE ALITO: How do you think the ­­ the          Goosby Rule applies to political gerrymandering claims       in general? This Court has never seen one that it           thought was justiciable.                   Do you think there are any that ­­ but     assuming that the possibility that there might be one is          enough to take the case to the three­judge court? And           if that's so, are there any that would not go to a            three­judge court?              MR. KIMBERLY: I ­­ I think there are some            that wouldn't go. A political gerrymandering claim that          was predicated exclusively on a purported rights        proportional representation in Congress would be wholly       foreclosed by Bandemer itself.                            But the fact ­­   JUSTICE ALITO: But so long as it favors         who ­­ the party that controlled the legislature when         the plan was drawn up, which is almost always the case,           couldn't a political gerrymandering claim be made that         that's why it was done?     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KIMBERLY: I ­­ I think that's right,           and I think that's why we see most of these claims            rightly being sent to three­judge district courts, just        as Congress intended.               JUSTICE BREYER: We might get to this        question, but at some point somebody is going to have to           say whether you do have a substantial claim.                     MR. KIMBERLY: That's right. And our view,         against the backdrop of this Court's precedence, is        that's a sufficiently easy question that ­­                                                       JUSTICE BREYER: Is it?     MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I think so ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Because?    MR. KIMBERLY: There is no ­­ no decision of          this Court ­­ binding decision of this Court holding         that our claim is wholly foreclosed.                                          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Vieth?    MR. KIMBERLY: No. I think Vieth ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: Because?                (Laughter.)             MR. KIMBERLY: Well, Vieth ­­ Vieth has ­­ I          think the threshold question is what is the controlling         opinion in Vieth. There's a plurality opinion. The           courts ­­ the lower courts have all generally agreed         that it's Justice Kennedy's concurrence in Vieth that        Alderson Reporting Company Official controls. And it's Justice Kennedy's concurrence in        Vieth that provides the basis for the complaint in this          case.             It would be quite strange to say that a         claim that is embodied in the controlling opinion of         this Court from less than a decade ago is wholly           foreclosed by this Court's precedence. That's why we         think it's a sufficiently easy question for this Court          to remand with instruction simply to convene a        three­judge court, but if the Court were not inclined to          go that far, we're perfectly comfortable briefing that        question before the single judge.                 reserve ­­             If there are no further questions, I'll       JUSTICE KENNEDY: I didn't understand. If         you're not going to go that far, you want to brief what            question before the district?                MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I think ­­ I think the            single judge below Judge Breyer would have to address         the question whether three judges are required under        proper standards. In this case he said three judges are           not required because I dismiss under Rule ()(). I ­­            I don't think it necessarily follows ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you'd want to brief it         under Goosby or something?    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KIMBERLY: Yeah, that's right, under the        proper insubstantiality standard.               Now, as I say, I think that issue has been            briefed before this Court, and it's a sufficiently easy          question to answer ­­                           JUSTICE KENNEDY: Oh, I see.       MR. KIMBERLY: ­­ that it's something this        Court can reach. But if it's not so inclined, then ­­           then we'll do so before the single judge.                    Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Sullivan.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN M. SULLIVAN                      ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS               MR. SULLIVAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               In , Congress considerably narrowed the      circumstances that would call for the procedural device        of a three­judge court. And as part of that pairing            down of the three­judge statute, Congress, for the first         time, authorized a single­district judge to, quote,        "determine that three judges are not required."                   For three reasons, this Court should affirm       that that authorization permits the single district       judge to dismiss a complaint that, on its face, fails to            Alderson Reporting Company Official satisfy Rule and Rule (b)() as required in all           civil actions.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I go back to         something you just said? Because I thought that the           word "required" was in the statute. It wasn't         introduced in '; it was there before.                               MR. SULLIVAN: Well ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Required to be heard by a         three­judge court.              MR. SULLIVAN: But it wasn't for an        authorization for a single judge. In the prior statute,           upon the filing of the request for injunctive relief,         the three­judge court was required to be convened, and         so the express language of the statute did not have a           provision for the single judge to make that call.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On what basis are ­­ it         sounds to me that you're giving a meaning to not           required that was different to the meaning we gave to it           pre­. Am I correct?                  MR. SULLIVAN: I ­­ I don't think that's           necessarily the case. I think not required meant that           it didn't have a set meaning as plaintiffs ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ he took out the          adjectives, descriptors from our case law:      "Insubstantial," "wholly insubstantial," "frivolous,"    Alderson Reporting Company Official "obviously or essentially frivolous." I mean ­­                                MR. SULLIVAN: But that ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that's very different       than a (b)() motion.                 MR. SULLIVAN: Yes, Justice Sotomayor,      that ­­ those words appear, but in the prior case law           before , this Court had, in two important cases,         permitted a district judge to adjudicate the entire case          notwithstanding the presence of a substantial claim        raised by the plaintiff. And those cases are Bailey and           the Hagans v Lavine case cited by Petitioners.                     There, Hagans v. Lavine, there was no       question there was a substantial equal protection claim.         The district judge perceived that there's this       preemption claim, and I think I can get rid of the case              by ruling on the preemption claim, which is exactly what          the district judge did.                And this Court affirmed that that was the        correct procedure; that there was no reason to trouble         the three­judge court if there was a statutory claim          that could be resolved and rendered unnecessary to        address the equal protection clause.                 So the idea that there was this set        understanding that any time there's a substantial claim         it's off limits to a single district judge is simply not            Alderson Reporting Company Official borne out by this Court's pre­ precedent. So         there's more at work in that precedent.                   Indeed, for those who will consult      legislative history, the Senate Report has a        heading under uncertainties in the prior law, and the         first item is A, whether or not a three­judge court           should be convened was the first of the several         uncertainties that the Senate noted in its report.                    So the idea that Petitioners want to say        that by saying "not required" in the statute, Congress         intended to adopt a certain subset of this Court's prior           jurisprudence is not borne out by ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Well, they ­­ they want to         raise about as important a question as you can imagine.           They want to say, reading Vieth, that the State         legislators are forbidden to draw district boundaries       the way that has been done here. I take it that's their              basic claim. And if they are right, that would affect           congressional districts and legislative districts     throughout the nation.               So what reason could Congress have had for        saying, although we want three­judge courts to decide        these kind of cases generally, where the single­most        important issue that could possibly be raised ­­ I         exaggerate only slightly ­­ is raised, that kind of         Alderson Reporting Company Official issue is for a single judge?                   MR. SULLIVAN: Well, Congress, if it had        looked back at this Court's case law, would have seen          that this Court regularly denied three­judge courts even        where there was an important issue such as when the          preemption was the issue. Preemption cases ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you want to give me a          list of those cases with ­­ I'm going to continue it.                       Company ­­                         MR. SULLIVAN: Yes. Swift ­­ Swift and         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Answer Justice Breyer.      MR. SULLIVAN: So the ­­ the Court's        concern, it was always a narrow interpretation of the          statute for very important reasons. And that is to          minimize the dislocation of the lower Federal courts'        functioning and structure, which always happens when you        have to bring in two extra judges. And secondly, to           control this Court's mandatory appellate docket.                  So those are always at work when the Court         was reading the statute. And Congress knew this. And           on page , the Senate report acknowledges this narrow         reading without disavowing it or instructing this Court        to do otherwise.               So the statute always was read not in the         most embracing terms, as it said in Swift & Company v.            Alderson Reporting Company Official Wickham at page , not in the most embracing terms,          but in restrictive ­­ in a restrictive way because of           the important concerns of judicial administration that       were at stake, but also to best serve the historical          purpose, which is to protect States from the improvident         injunction by a single judge.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, haven't they      strayed from that ­­ or Congress has, because Congress         said you also get a three­judge court if you're          attacking a Federal statute, right? It started out with           the concern about enjoining State statutes. But if you          were trying to enjoin a Federal statute, you could also           get a three­judge court, right? And there was no           State­protective interest involved in that.                 MR. SULLIVAN: That was probably to protect        an analogous Federal interest in having its ­­ its laws          not improvidently enjoined. That statute is no longer         there, as you know. But that obviously wouldn't have          had the same State sovereignty concerns, but the ­­        there was impetus for that adoption from the Federal         Government because they saw the benefits that the States         reached from having the procedure adopted.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I make sure I understand           what you're saying, because what you're saying now is         different from what I had thought that your briefs were           Alderson Reporting Company Official saying? I had thought in your briefs that you were            relying on changes in the law that ­­ that Congress made           in ­­ I think it's ; is that right?                                  MR. SULLIVAN: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: But now you're suggesting       that you're not relying on that, that you're saying that          before that, we ­­ we viewed as acceptable a ­­ a            one­judge court dismissing a case. Is that now what           you're saying, historic practice favors you as opposed        to the ­­ the amendments favor you?                    MR. SULLIVAN: I think the important thing         is the amendments that we pointed out in our brief          are ­­ were significant changes in ­­ in the structure          and meaning of the statute. But I was responding to            Petitioners' argument that this Court can simply look at         the words "not required" and know immediately what they         mean from reading the prior case law. And I don't think             that will be an effective process for this Court if it           gives full ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a winner for you ­­         it's a winner for you if those prior cases say what you             say they say.               MR. SULLIVAN: I hope so, Your Honor. And I            hope you'll remember that.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it should have been        Alderson Reporting Company Official in your brief. I mean, you should have made that point             in your brief.               MR. SULLIVAN: Well, you know, I'm trying to         provide value now in addition to what we had in the           brief.             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For my edification, what       are the cases ­­ I know Bailey is one. What are the              other ones you're relying on?                 MR. SULLIVAN: Well, in Swift v. Wickham is         the best exposition of what this narrow construction or         restrictive construction is about. The words clearly        said in the prior statute, "On grounds of        unconstitutionality."             And this Court read that phrase not to        include a very important clause of the Constitution, the          supremacy clause, because it was important to keep it         narrow and not to open the floodgates to every         preemption challenge that would come down, even though        those challenges are very important and often much more         devastating to the State than a constitutional claim         could be. That's an example.                  In Gonzalez, this Court read the phrase in         U.S. , which is the direct appeal provision ­­         "orders granting or denying an injunction," this Court        Alderson Reporting Company Official read to not include any denial of an injunction that          would have been a sound basis for not convening a           three­judge court in the first place.                   And the Court phrased it that broadly to       include whatever basis there might be to not convene a          three­judge court. That means you don't get the direct          appeal, which is a very important part of this whole           statutory scheme.              It became more important with the rise of        the reapportionment cases, which, by the way, the reason         you don't see any old reapportionment cases in the case          law is they would have been foreclosed by this Court's          precedent until Baker v. Carr.                 But with the rise of those, the part of the          structure ­­ not the three­judge so much, but it was the           direct appeal that became more important to the States         to protect them, as ­­ as was spoken to by the assistant            U.S. attorney general Robert Dickson who testified. And         we quote his testimony at page , talking about, but          for that direct appeal and the ability to get an          immediate stay from this Court, entire elections would        have had to be conducted under plans that were adopted          by district courts, contrary to what the legislature had         provided, and it was very important to have access to          this Court to get that stay and not to have the entire            Alderson Reporting Company Official election disrupted by that order.                 The idea that Petitioner insists on that the        insubstantiality rule is not a merits­based test is just          obviously can't be true, because you have got to know          what the merits are before you know it's insubstantial.         I know this Court's precedent has treated it as a          jurisdictional matter. But I would submit that it ­­ it            really doesn't meet the set of tests that Justice         Ginsburg laid out for the Court in Arbaugh of what's          jurisdictional and what is not.                 And the idea that there's a clear division         between insubstantially and failure to state a claim is          not borne out. And in one of the cases cited by the             Petitioner in their brief at page , Kalson v.         Paterson, the Second Circuit case illustrates that,        because there a single­district judge is deemed able to          decide it because it's insubstantial, even though the        court acknowledges that the theory is not foreclosed by         precedent.             It just comes around to saying, yes, it is         insubstantial. And it rules, it affirms the grant of a           motion on the pleadings under Rule (c), which in the          Second Circuit, as in most other circuits, is analyzed         exactly like a Rule (b)() failure to state a claim            motion. Alderson Reporting Company Official              The claim there was that the State should       have used voting age population, which, interesting       enough, is the issue that this Court has noted probable          jurisdiction on in Evenwell. And there a three­judge          court in Evenwell dismissed under (b)().                  So you have a court in the Second Circuit          saying that's insubstantial. Whether or not they were         right or they analyzed it right under Goosby, they         reached that conclusion. And they ­­ they did it on an            analysis that it's hard for me to distinguish from a          (b)() analysis. And then the three­judge court in         Evenwell, which this Court will be visiting, did the         whole matter under a (b)() analysis, which is maybe a           little more detailed than the Second Circuit in        insubstantially analysis, but really hard to tell the        difference. How did you reach that conclusion?                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Sullivan, I ­­ I ­­ I            guess I'm ­­ I'm not so inclined to think that. We            always have had this very narrow category of cases which          we say we're dismissing on jurisdictional grounds that        sound kind of merits­y. But ­­ but we've cabined that.           You know, we've basically said that's only when it's         completely ridiculous. And so there's no case at all.          It's just a laughing stock of a case, given our            precedents. And that's a very different kind of inquiry           Alderson Reporting Company Official than the typical (b)() inquiry.                 MR. SULLIVAN: Well, it's easy when it's the         little green men and the extraterrestrials, but that's        not the cases that have arisen and been addressed by          this Court. Goosby v. Osser, the court of appeals in           that case ruled that it was insubstantial, the claim         there that prisoners had to have access to absentee         ballots, because this Court had a prior case, McDonald,          which had said the prison system there and the election          system was ­­ it was fine not to allow the prisoners to            have absentee ballots.               And when it came to this Court, Justice        Brennan for the Court said, you've misread our        president; McDonald doesn't foreclose this case. So it         involved extraterrestrials and no little green men. But         a panel ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't know what you mean          by "extraterrestrials." What are these ­­                  to ­­                         MR. SULLIVAN: Some of the case law refers         JUSTICE SCALIA: Aliens? No?      MR. SULLIVAN: Aliens ­­ aliens. Some of         the case law seems to ­­ to categorize only the ­­ the            only cases that would come under Bell v. Hood, some          judges will say are the ones so outlandish that involves          Alderson Reporting Company Official something that on its face you could say that could          never be true.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. And that ­­ that's         what you mean by "extraterrestrial"?                                                                 MR. SULLIVAN: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Outlandish. Okay.      MR. SULLIVAN: Outlandish.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: Bailey is ­­ I mean, Bailey          was the mirror­image case. I mean, it was a case where              some African­American plaintiffs were saying they have a        constitutional right to travel without discrimination in       interstate commerce, as I read it. And they convened a            three­judge court because they wanted to set aside        Mississippi law to the contrary, in . And the court           said, but it's absolutely clear that a statute that          requires segregation is unconstitutional. So this       shouldn't have even been heard by a three­judge court          because there has to be some kind of an issue. And the             words it uses are it doesn't require a three­judge court           when the claim that a statute is unconstitutional is          wholly insubstantial.              MR. SULLIVAN: But there's ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: He's speaking nonexistent.      And they said it's nonexistent because it's clear what         Alderson Reporting Company Official the Federal law was. I mean, that was the nature.                                    So ­­ so I don't see how that helps you.           MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I don't know if it          helps, but I think it doesn't help Petitioners the idea           that that's a significant expansion, if not a complete           departure from Bell v. Hood, which addressed when a         complaint could be dismissed for lack of subject matter         jurisdiction because it's insubstantial. There the       claim is granted, relief is granted in ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: That's true, but I mean,         they put down a standard as to whether or not a            three­judge court is necessary. And they say a         three­judge court is not necessary when the reason for         giving the three­judge court ­­ you know, if it's ­­ if           it's insubstantial. In that case you have to have a           three­judge court, I guess, when there's some        constitutional issue. They said there is no        constitutional issue, not because it was frivolous or        from Mars, but for the opposite reason: The law was           clear.                                     MR. SULLIVAN: The law was clear, and ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MR. SULLIVAN: ­­ the single­district judge       should have been allowed to address that in argument ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So here his ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official I guess you're going to think certainly, he's not         clearly right, and the question is, is he clearly wrong.                      MR. SULLIVAN: But I would submit that,         under this ­­ the Court's prevailing rule, the Court ­­         the Court adopts the Federal rules, and all ­­ all          district judges are bound for them.                  If a district judge is entitled to grant         relief, as under the Bailey case, it seems reasonable to          allow that judge to determine that a complaint on its           face is legally sufficient, as the court would in any          other case.              These ­­ these rules are binding, unless you        can find in the statute a reason that compels the           district judge not to comply with the civil ­­ the rules           of civil procedure, then the district judge is in his or           her rights?              JUSTICE SCALIA: So you say "required in the         statute" means "states a claim"?                  MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I think that it         could ­­ it incorporates that understanding as much as         it would incorporate the insubstantiality, because both       are presumptions that courts rely on. A case is not            going to proceed, pass a motion to dismiss, certainly          not under Iqbal and Twombly, unless it satisfies Rule .          That's just a basic understanding of every district         Alderson Reporting Company Official court in the land. And it seems strange that, if ­­ if             the cases are that important and they're going to         require two extra judges and a direct appeal to this           Court, that a legally insufficient complaint that        otherwise could not get past the threshold of the         courthouse is going to get an automatic direct appeal to          this Court.              JUSTICE SCALIA: So let ­­ let's assume you         have a district judge who says it fails to state a            claim. And ­­ what does the plaintiff do? Where does            the appeal go?               MR. SULLIVAN: To the court of appeals, as         in every other case.                JUSTICE SCALIA: So it goes all the way up,          and if ­­ if he loses in the court of appeals, he tries             to come up here, right? And we finally decide it did            state a claim. Then what happens? It goes back down             and you begin all over again with a three­judge court,           right?                         MR. SULLIVAN: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Wow. Wow, that's ­­ I         mean, that's my comment.                (Laughter.) JUSTICE SCALIA: It's extraterrestrial, as                  he said.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             MR. SULLIVAN: But ­­ but I ­­ I understand            your reaction, but I think that comes ­­ when you have a             departure from the norm, as the three­judge statute        creates, you're going to have some situations that may         be a little bit stickier than otherwise that you have           had in a normal functioning of the content. But that's            happened.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, the other         alternative is it's a three­judge district court, and         then we have to take it on the merits. I mean, that's a               serious problem because there are a lot of cases that           come up in three­judge district courts that would be the          kind of case ­­ I speak for myself, anyway ­­ that we             might deny cert in, to let the issue percolate. And now            with the three­judge district court, no, we have to         decide it on the merits.                 MR. SULLIVAN: Well, you had seven more        direct appeals from Maryland, as we cite in our ­­ in           our brief, that ­­ the cases we've had in recent years           that were dismissed by a single judge, they would have           all come here. And we're one State times ­­ more             direct appeals, perhaps? I don't know how frequently          these cases are filed in other States.                   But that was a concern that ­­ that was          Alderson Reporting Company Official always lurking in all the cases prior that this Court          decided before and was acknowledged in the report         that there is this concern to control this Court's         mandatory docket, which Congress cares deeply about,       because they took away the direct appeal of        constitutional claims that would come up from the        courts.             JUSTICE SCALIA: We care even more than        Congress. Trust me.                MR. SULLIVAN: I hope you care deeply and ­­          and deeply enough to ­­ to affirm this reasonable         interpretation. And I think it will serve the interest           of ­­ of this Court and also all the other litigants as            well.             And if ­­ unless there are further       questions, we submit.                           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Kimberly, you have minutes left.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL B. KIMBERLY                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                             MR. KIMBERLY: Just a few quick points.         First, a comment about Swift v. Wickham.        This is a case that we addressed on page in footnote               in our reply brief.                The holding in that case was simply that a         Alderson Reporting Company Official preemption claim is not a constitutional claim within         the meaning of the statute. There's nothing        inconsistent about that holding with our position before        this Court.                          Second, with respect to the ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Explain why that's so. Why         is ­­ why is that so clear that ­­ that it's frivolous,            you know?              MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I don't ­­ that's            not the holding in the case. I'm sorry. I just ­­             the ­­ the ­­ in order to have a three­judge court, you             have to bring a constitutional claim, and the Court's          holding in that case was that a preemption claim,          although it involves a question under the supremacy         clause, is ultimately really a statutory claim. And so           it just isn't of the sort that Congress meant to ­­ to            go before a three­judge court, as a matter of           interpretation of the statute.                JUSTICE SCALIA: And it doesn't matter       whether that's frivolous or not?                 MR. KIMBERLY: That's right. Yes. It ­­         it's a completely different holding. It has nothing          whatever to do with the question whether a substantial          claim has to go before the three­judge court.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Does it happen often that        Alderson Reporting Company Official a single judge will say there are three issues here; one           would definitely involve a three­judge court, but the         previous are ones that I can reach, and so I will reach              those first.                          Does that happen very often?     MR. KIMBERLY: Not so far we're aware of.         We ­­ we are aware that it has happened. It doesn't            seem to be a frequent occurrence.                   The Third Circuit in Page indicated that       when that happens, because the statute applies to the         action, that the entire action must go.                   Now, if I could say something briefly about         purpose. My friend on the other side of the podium           suggested that the sole purpose here for the statute was          to protect States from improvident grants of       injunctions. If that were the case, you would expect,          in Section , to see ­­ which is the ­­ the provision            that provides for appellate review over judgments of        three­judge district courts ­­ you'd expect to see        mandatory and direct review before this Court only from         final judgments of courts granting injunctions. But in         fact, what says in express terms is that there's a           right of immediate appeal before this Court from both         grants and denials of relief in cases heard by the two           district courts.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: To ­­ to ­­ to say         otherwise, we ­­ we would have to say that you get ­­           you get no appeal in one category of case. I ­­ I ­­               I ­­ you know, I'm ­­ I'm not sure it ­­ it would comply              with due process to ­­ to have a judgment from which            there is no appeal.                            MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's what you're       saying, that ­­ that Congress would have provided for no          appeal whatever if you ­­ if you ­­ if ­­ if ­­ if the              State wins. No appeal for the plaintiffs.                    MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think             Respondents' position is if relief can be denied, it may          be granted. That ­­ an order of that sort may be            entered by a single district judge and you'd get           review before a court of appeals.                   Our ­­ our ­­ our point is only that, if the           statutory purpose were only to protect States from        grants of injunctions, you would see ­­ and that single          judges in turn could decide everything else, you would         not see in , which provides for immediate appeal to          this Court from judgments of three­district court ­­       three­judge district courts, the right of appeal from a         denial of relief.               JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ as far ­­ as far as I             Alderson Reporting Company Official understand it, his strongest argument on the other side         would roughly go ­­ he didn't put it this way ­­ like            this:             On your side is the fact, well, why wouldn't         a three­judge court decide a very important question of          law in this area?                On the other side of it is that, well, you          just have left, in three­judge courts primarily, almost        exclusively, reapportionment issues, which are specially      political.             And to put these all, you know, they are         very ­­ because of the opinions you point out in Vieth,           there's a huge variation of all kinds of different legal           claims that might be made. And if there is a set of              cases where this Court should be careful as to when and           how and which it enters in which order, i.e.,         discretion, if we accept your view, that set of cases          where we should be particularly careful as to how we          proceed will be the set of cases where we have no choice            and we have to take immediately whatever variations on         the theme of disproportionate gerrymandering, da da da,        whatever order they happen to arise and whenever they         happen to arise, because we have no choice.                    MR. KIMBERLY: So I have two responses to          that. The first is it's reflected in the congressional          Alderson Reporting Company Official record and the testimony before Congress that, indeed,        Congress was quite concerned with the political       sensitivity of these cases.                The way that Congress decided to deal with        that political sensitivity was to ensure that, in the         first instance, these cases are decided by a panel of           three judges, as ­­ as Judge Henry Friendly, in his          testimony before the nd Congress, indicated there.                   The concern was to ensure that adherents of        more than one political party were deciding these cases         because, not only to ensure greater deliberation and        accuracy and decision making, but also because it might         be unseemly to allow a single judge to decide such a            politically­sensitive case where it might appear ­­      whether or not it actually is true ­­ where it might           appear to the public that his or her own political          ideologies and predilections ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So now you have ­­        now you have cases quite often, particularly in the most          sensitive ones, decided by a vote of two to one. So I              don't know how that ­­ how that particular answer is          very responsive to the concern that Justice Breyer has         pointed out, which ­­ which is one I share.                      MR. KIMBERLY: Well, so that leads to me to          the second half of my response, and that is that in the            Alderson Reporting Company Official majority of these cases that make it before this Court          on mandatory review, the Court generally enters a        summary affirmance and doesn't note probable      jurisdiction and take full briefing.                  When the Court affirms on the basis ­­      affirms on the ­­ without taking full argument and         briefing, there's a limited presidential effect to those         decisions. It is not binding the same way that a full             decision ­­ that they're binding in the same way as a           decision following full briefing ­­                            JUSTICE ALITO: Well, to go back to your ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to follow up:        In ­­ in recent years, is it true that in          reapportionment cases, the majority of the way we've        handled direct appeals has been summarily?                  MR. KIMBERLY: With all due respect, I think          you'd probably be in a better position to answer that.                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I'm just         talking statistically.              MR. KIMBERLY: I mean, certainly the Court         has been taking a large number of these cases recently.           It's been two or three each term. I ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say       "taking" them, I mean, they're being presented to us.          We have no choice, but taking ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             MR. KIMBERLY: Right. And I'm sorry. What          I mean is noting probable jurisdiction and taking full         briefing and arguments in two or three such cases each          term.             But that, at least as I understand how the          Court operates, is ­­ is a question of ­­ of discretion,            whether it notes probable jurisdiction and takes that        additional step.              JUSTICE ALITO: On the issue of political        sensitivity, if it goes to a single judge, you will have            a decision by a judge who has presumably been selected           by the spin of the wheel, or by ­­ at random, and then             you'll have an appeal to a court of appeals panel that            is presumably chosen at random. Whereas if it goes to a            three­judge court, there will be a decision, and it may           involve some very sensitive findings of fact by a panel           that is hand­picked by the chief judge, who is in a           position to appoint himself or herself to the        three­judge court and select a third district judge who          the chief judge believes is likely to agree with or          defer to the chief judge.                 So I don't see how that ­­ how that creates           an insulation against the appearance of political       favoritism. Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KIMBERLY: Well, I ­­ it may be so that            in those cases, if ­­ if a litigant or a member of the               public dug down behind how the panel is appointed, that          there might be a basis for raising a concern. But it's              certainly reflected in the congressional record that it        was Congress's judgment that the best protection against        that concern ­­ and ­­ and indeed, this goes back to the            original version of the Act back in , that         Congress's concern was that the public could rest more         easy when decisions of such political importance and        sensitivity are decided by three judges rather than one.                                 If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: : Bailey : : application : :, : applies : : Baker : apply : appoint : appointed : apportionment ballots :, Baltimore : Bandemer : basic : : basically : basis : : Ah : ahead : AL :, aliens :,, Arbaugh : ALITO : :, area : : Page  :, : briefly : briefs : : bring : : broadly : C C : : cabined : call :, : : : : : :, : : argue : argument : : beginning : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : believes : : : behalf :, : :, : : : calling : calls : care :, careful :, cares : Bell : : : Carr : arguments : arisen : benefits : Article : : : best : : : analogous : analysis : : aside : asked : assistant : analyzed : :,, : : : : answer : : assume : : assuming : anti­plaintiff : attacking : anyway : appeal : : authority : : :,, :,, : : :,, :,, : automatic : authorization : : authorized : attorney : : BOARD : bona : : books : : borne :, : : better : beyond : binding : : :, bit : blocking : : bound :, : boundaries : Brennan : Breyer :,, : : : : :, :,, : : brief : :, : :,, : : : case : : : :,,, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, :, :,,, : :, : : :, :,,,, :, : :,, : : :, :, : : : : : cases : : :, :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :,, : : : :, :, :, :, : : : briefed : briefing : : catalog : A a.m : : : ability : able : above­entitled : agreed : : age : ago : agree : : : absence : absentee :, absolutely : academic : accept : acceptable : access : : accuracy : acknowledged : allowed : acknowledges : : :, : : : allow : : alternative : amendments : : : :, :, Act : :,, : action : : : actions : addition : additional : address : : : addressed : : : adherents : adjectives :, : adjudicate : administration : adopt : : adopted : : : appeals : avoid : aware : : : :,, : : : :, :, awfully : : : : : :, :, appear : : adoption : adopts : affect : affirm : : appearance : APPEARANCES affirmance : affirmed : affirms : : appearing :, appears : African­American appellate : : : B b : :, : : : : back : : : : : : :, backdrop : bad :, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  categorization : categorize : category : : causing : cert : certain : : certainly : : :,, : : : : certiorari : CHAIRMAN : challenge : challenges : challenging : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :,, :,, : concerns :, concludes : conclusion :, concurrence : : claims : : conditions : : : claims­processing :, class : clause : : : : clear :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, conducted : confer :, Congress :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : :,,, Congress's : :, congressional : : : : : : consent : consider : :, clearly : : change : changes :, chief :,, : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, come : : :,, : codification : collection : : Circuit's : circuits : :, compels : choice :, : choose : chosen : circuit : : :, :, : : circumstance : : circumstances : : : cite : cited : : civil : :, claim :, : : :, :, :, : :,, : : : considerably : : : considered : constituting : comes : : comfortable : Constitution : comment : constitutional : commentary : commerce : Company :, constitutionality : : : : : : : complaint : : : : : : : : : complete : completely : : : : constitutionally : construction : : consult : content : continue : comply : : concern : : contrary : : : : : : :, :,, concerned : : : control : : controlled : controlling : : :, :,, : :,, : : controls : controversy : : court's :,, :, :,, convene : : : : : :, : : : :, :,, : : : : : convened : : : : : convening : correct :, : : : : counsel : : : courthouse : courts : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : D : : creates : : D : D.C :, : da :,, courts' : cover : covered : : court :, :, : :, :, : :, :, :,,,, :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,,,, :, :, : :,, current : :, :,, :,,,, :,,, :, :, :, :, :,, : DAVID : days : : :,, deal : : : :,, dealing : :, :, : :,, debate : decade : :,,,, decide : : :, :,, :, :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, : : : :,,, :, :, deciding : :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : decided : :, decision : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, decisions : : : : dislocation : dismiss : : effective : either : elect : : : : election : : elections : : embodied : dismissals : dismissed : : : extra : : extraterrestrial : : extraterrestrials :,, : : dismissing : declaratory : declining : deemed : deeply :,, defer : definitely : deliberation : disproportionate denial : : denials : denied : : deny : : denying : departure : disregard : disrupted : dissatisfied : distinguish : district : : : : : embracing : : empowered : enacted : : :, enactments : enjoin : enjoined : enjoining : F : : face : : formulation : Fourth : : frequent : fact : : : frequently : : : : friend : : : : Friendly : : frivolous :,, Page  footnote : forbidden : foreclose : foreclosed : : : : : : : : : : depend :, depends : descriptors : designate : detailed : determination : : determine : : :, : : determines : devastating : device : Dickson : difference : different : difficult : : : direct : : :, :, :, : : : disagree : disavowing : discretion : : : discrimination : fails : : failure :, : :, : ensure : :, far : : :, : : :, :, : : : favor : :, : favoritism : : : : favors : : :,,, Federal : : : : :,,, : :,, :, :, equal :, : enter : entered : enters : : entire : : : : entirely : entitled : : ESQ :, :, fide : : file : filed : : districts : : : :, : : : : : :, full : :,, : : functioning : : further : : : G G : gather : : :,, fuzzy :,, : : : :, division : docket : : doctrine : doing : drawing : drawn : due : : dug : E E : :, earlier : easy : : : : : edification : effect : essentially : : ET : Evenwell :,, exactly : : : : exaggerate : example : : exclusively : : excuse : expansion : expect :, Explain : explained : exposition : express : : : : general : : : : filing : : generally : : : : : final : : finally : find : finding : findings : fine : first : : : give : gerrymandering :,, : Ginsburg :, :, : : :, : : given : : : : :, : : gives : : : : : floodgates : follow : following : follows : : : :, :, : : :, giving : : go : : :, : : : draw : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : happy : goes : : : : : : :, : hard :, heading : hear : heard : : going : : : : :, : help : : : Gonzalez : good : Goosby :,, historical : helps :, Henry : historic : : : : :, history :, : :,,, : : : : holding : : : : : : :,, : : hold : : Government : Honor : : grant : : : : : Hood : : : : granted :, hope :, : granting : : grants : : : : great : greater : green :, ground : grounds : : guess :,, : : : guidance : H Hagans :, half : hand­picked : handled : happen : : :, happened : : happens : : : : : : huge : I i.e : idea : : : :, : identified : ideologies : Idlewild : : III : : : illustrates : imagine : immediate : : : immediately : : : impetus : importance : important : : :, :, : : :,, :,,, : : improvident : Official : improvidently : inclined : : : : : : : include : : : inconsistent : : : : incorporate : incorporated : incorporates : indicate : indicated : : indicates : indication : : initially : injunction : : : injunctions : :, : injunctive : : inquiry : : inserted : insists : instance : : instructing : instruction : insubstantial : : : : : :,, : : : :, insubstantiality : : : : : insubstantially : : insufficient : insulation : intended : : : interest :, interstate : introduced : invoking : involve : : involved : : involves : : Iqbal : : issue : : : :,, : : : : : : issues : : issuing : item : J J : JR : judge :, :, : : : :,,,,, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, :,,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :,, :,, jurisdiction : : : : : :,, : : : :, jurisdictional : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : jurisprudence : Justice :, : :,,,, : :,,,, : :,, : :,,, : :, :, :, :, :,,, : :,, : :, : :, :, :,,,, : :,, :,, :, :, :, : :,, :, :, : : : : :,, :,,,, :,, : :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, :,,, : : Page  : judgment : : interesting : interpose : interpretation : : : : judgments : :, : : : : judicial : judges :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : justiciable : : : : : : : K Alderson Reporting Company Kagan :,, : :,, : : : : Kalson : keep : : : : KENNEDY : L lack : : laid : land : language : : : :, :, : Official met : longer : method : look : MICHAEL : looked : :, : : loses : : lot : : minimize : lower : : minutes : lurking : mirror­image : :,, : : : : Laughter : : M :, : : Mississippi : : : : : : : large : laughing : : : : majority :, making : : mandatory : : : : : Lavine :, law :, : morning : motion : : :, : misread : M : Mars : : : : : :, : :, Maryland : : :,, : : matter : : N N :, : narrow : : :, :, : Kennedy's : : key : : : Kimberly : : : :,, : :, :,, :,, :, :, :, :, : :, :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : :,,,, : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : kind : : : : :, : : kinds : knew : know : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : laws : lays : leads : left : : : legal : legally : : legislative :, :, legislators : legislature :, : : let's : : : : : : narrowed : : : nation : necessarily : McDonald :, nature : : McMANUS : : nearly : Md : mean :, : : : : : : : : :,, :, : :, :, : necessary :, need : never : : nevertheless : : : : : : meaning : : nonexistent : meant :, : note : :,, : : : means :, : : : light : : liked : limited : limits : line : : : list : litigant : litigants : : : : : merits : : : : : little : :, : :, meet : member : men :, : long : long­standing : merits­y : : norm : normal : normally : noted : : notes : notice : notify : noting : notwithstanding : merits­based : November : number : Alderson Reporting Company Page  O O : : obviously : : :,, : : : occurrence : Oh : : : : Okay : :,, old : : one­judge : : one­way : ones : : : : open : operates : opinion :, : opinions : opposed : : opposite : : oral : :, : : order : : : :, orders : original : Osser : outlandish : :, overruled : overturn : P P : page : : : : : : : pairing : panel : : :, : parallel : part : : : :, : : : population : : Official : :, : politically : politically­sensiti... : presumed : presumptions : prevailing : previous : primarily : Poresky : : position : : prior : : : : : : :, :, : : : prison : possibility : possible : : prisoners :, possibly : : probable : : power : practice :, : probably : :, : : : : put : : :, Q question : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :, : : questionable : reasoning : reasons : : Page  reality : really : : :, : : : : : : reapportionment :, : : reason : : : : : : : reasonable : : : REBUTTAL : : receive : recognition : recognize : reconsidered : record : : referred :, : : refers : reflected : : regularly : rejected : relief : :, : : : : : : : rely : relying :, : remember : rendered : reply : report :, : : particular : particularly : : : parties : party : : pass : passed : Paterson : path : perceived : percentage : percolate : perfectly : : permits : permitted : : : plaintiffs : : :, : : : plan : plans : pleadings : please : : plurality : podium : point : : pointed : : pre : pre­ : : : : precedence : permitting : Petitioner :, Petitioners :, :, : : : : : Petitioners' : phrase :, : :,, phrased : :, : place : plain : : : plaintiff : : precise : : : : : precedents :, questioned : questions : : : problem : problems : : procedural : procedure : quick : : quickly : : : : quite :, : : : : : process : : quote : : : : : : proper : : R : properly : proportional : raise : protect :, R : raised : : precedent : : proceed : : : : : precisely : : preconditions : protection :, raising : random :, predicated : ratchet : predilections : provide : reach : : preemption : provided : : : : :, : :, prefer : presence : present : : : presents : president : : : provides : : : : : : :, reached : : remand : reaction : read : : :, : : provision : : : : public : :, reading : purported : purpose : : : : purposes : : reads : : :, : representation : :, : : represents : request :, : : : : presented : points : political :,, presidential : presumably : : :,, Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : : : : :, scheme : second : : : :, :,, : : :, : requested : requests : require : : : ridiculous : right : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : rightly : rights : : required : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,,,, : : : ROBERTS : : :, : : : : : : : : seen : : :, : rise :, Robert : see : : : : : : : :, : secondly : Section :, requires : reserve : resistance : resolved : respect :, : : segregation : select : selected : roughly : rule :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : single­district :, : : : single­judge :, : : : single­most : situations : skip : slightly : sole : somebody : sorry :, : : Page  states :, : :, : : : : : stating : statistically : status : statute : : :, :, :,, : :, : :,,, : :, : : :,, : :,, :,, : : :, :, : :, :, statutes :, sort : : : : : Respondent's : : Respondents : : :, : : : : Respondents' : : : : responding : response : : responses : responsive : rest : : restrictive :, : reversal : reverses : reversing : review :, : :, : : Reynolds : rid : : :, :, Senate :, : sorts : : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : sense : sensitive : : : sensitivity :, : : Sotomayor : : :, : : : ruled : rules : :, : :,, ruling : : sent : serious : serve : : set : : S : : : :, S : : satisfied : : satisfies : satisfy : : saw : saying : :, side : :,, settled :, seven : Shapiro : SHAPIRO,ET : share : :, :,, : : : : says : : significant : : simply : : : : : : : : Sims : statutory : : : : : : : stay :, step : STEPHEN : STEVEN : : : stickier : stock : strange : : Stratton : strayed : strongest : structure : : : subject : submit : : : sound : : sounds : sovereignty : speak : speaking : specially : spin : spoken : square :, stake : standard :, : : standards : started : state : :, : : : submitted :, : : : subset : : : : : : : substantial : :,, : substantiality : sufficient : SCALIA :,, : :, single :, : State­protective : :,,, : Alderson Reporting Company tests : Thank :, : : thanks : theme : theory : thesaurus : thing : things : think :,, :,, :, :,,, : : :,,, : : : :,, : :, : :,, : :, :, :,, : :,, : :, : :,, : : :, : : :, : third : : thought : : : : : : three :,, :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : three­district : three­judge : sufficiently : : : suggested : suggesting : suggests : : Sullivan : : :,, : :, :, :,, : :,, : : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, : : summarily : summary : Suppose : : supremacy : : Supreme :, sure : : : : : surprised : : Swift :,, : : system :, T T :, take : : : : : : : takes : talking : : : tell : term : : terms : : : : test : : testified : testimony : :, Official : : :, : :, : understand : :, :, : : : :,, : : : : :,, : understanding :,,, :,, : : : : United :, : :, : :, unnecessary : unseemly : upshot : : uses : Page  wasn't : : : way :, : : : : : : : :,, we're : : : : : : we've :, : : understood : we'll : : three­judge­court :, threshold : : time : : : : times : today : top : travel : treated : tries : trouble : : true :, : : : : : : Wednesday : well­settled : v : : : : well­understood V : : :, : : : weren't : : :, wheel : : : wholly : : : : : Wickham : valid : value : variation : variations : version : : Vieth :,, winning : :,, : wins : : : : : win : winner :, Trust : trying : : turn : : two : : : : : : : : : viewed : : : : view : :, : : : : visiting : vote : voting : : Twombly : : typical : typically : U withstood : word : : words : : : : : : : : work : : : : works : worth : wouldn't : W waivable : Wow :, : : : : waived : : wrong :, : waiver : : want :, : : :,, : : wanted : Washington : :, : x :, X Y Yeah : : : :, :, : U.S : : : :,,, ultimately : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, :, unconstitutional uncertainties : unconstitutionality : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  years :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : nd : : Z : : : : : : :,, : : (b)() : (b)() : : :, : : : :,, : (c) : : : : : ­ : : : : : s : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :, : : (a) : : : (b) : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 