 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  STEPHEN L. VOISINE AND                WILLIAM E. ARMSTRONG, III,            : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, February ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: VIRGINIA G. VILLA, ESQ., St. Croix Falls, Wis.; on            behalf of Petitioners. Appointed by this Court.        ILANA H. EISENSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE VIRGINIA G. VILLA, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ILANA H. EISENSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   VIRGINIA G. VILLA, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Voisine and        Armstrong v. United States.                Ms. Villa.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF VIRGINIA G. VILLA                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS,                      APPOINTED BY THIS COURT                MS. VILLA: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               There are three reasons to exclude reckless       misdemeanors from the phrase "use... of physical force"        as occurs in (a)().                The first is that it's consistent with the        definition of use that this Court has implemented in         other cases. Second, it is consistent with the         common­law definition of battery. And, third, it is         consistent with the intentionality inherent in domestic       violence.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's inconsistent      with the treatment of bodily injury. I mean, I think             you agree, because the Court so held, that either bodily          injury or offensive touching is the act ­­ satisfies the          act requirement. And you say if there's bodily injury,          Alderson Reporting Company Official then reckless is enough, but if it's only offensive         touching, then you need a higher mental state,         intentional or knowing? Why ­­ if ­­ if both acts           qualify equally, why shouldn't the same state of mind         attach to each?               MS. VILLA: The same state of mind should         attach to each, and that is why intentionality is the          state of mind that under the common law can attach to           each. Because intentional battery covered both the        offensive physical contact as well as the physical        injury, whereas recklessness covers only bodily injury.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.     Intentionality, in my mind, is misperceived, because you        think ­­ you're talking about intentionality as the act         of causing the injury. But I understood common­law          battery to be the intentional act that causes the         injury; i.e., if a husband threw a bottle at a wife,              doesn't intend to hit her, but the bottle smashes         against the wall and the glass embeds itself in her          face, under the common law that would have been a          battery because the act, the intentional act, was to         throw the bottle. It wasn't ­­ it wasn't to cause the            injury, but the act caused the injury.                   MS. VILLA: I respectfully disagree, Your        Honor. Under ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know. If we end up           disagreeing because the government points to many       examples where this is the case, how do you win?                      MS. VILLA: That's only on injury cases, and         so you don't have that same confirmation or that same          organization of the law with respect to offensive        physical contact. And so my clients were convicted of          offensive physical contact under a ­­ under the         categorical approach. And so at that point, you can't          say that they were convicted of anything that caused         physical injury.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But ­­ but the point is         that the contact was in ­­ was ­­ some contact had to            have occurred.              MS. VILLA: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The question is whether       there was an act that caused that contact regardless of          whether it was intentional or reckless.                  MS. VILLA: The problem under the common law         is that not all touches were considered to be illegal.          And so that is why in Johnson, this Court stated the           common law as being the intentional application of        unlawful force.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we were talking       about common­law battery as it applied to ­­ definition         Alderson Reporting Company Official as it applied in a domestic setting. So I'm talking            only about a domestic setting ­­                                          MS. VILLA: This ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ which this is.       MS. VILLA: This is serious but the problem         is, is that the government's formulation of any reckless         conduct satisfying use of physical force is that it's         not limited to batteries.                JUSTICE ALITO: But the mens rea of        recklessness could apply to the act of touching or to          whether the act is offensive. Now, under Maine law, to           which of those does it apply? It doesn't necessarily          have to apply to both.                 MS. VILLA: Statutorily it does apply to        both.             JUSTICE ALITO: So if someone recklessly       touches another person and that is offensive, that's a         battery under Maine law?                MS. VILLA: Yes, Your Honor. And the         government cites a case exactly for that ­­ proposition,          and that's the Gantnier case.                 JUSTICE ALITO: And what happened in that        case?             MS. VILLA: It was whether the defendant got         a ­­ an instruction on the simple battery rather than          Alderson Reporting Company Official the sexual offensive contact, and so that the Court         reversed it because it said that it was a proper           instruction.             JUSTICE ALITO: No, I mean what were the          facts? What did this person do that was ­­ involved a            reckless touching?              MS. VILLA: He went to wake in ­­ his          stepdaughter, I believe, who was asleep on a couch,           reached underneath a blanket and ­­ to shake her awake,           and touched her naked body.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, that ­­ that seems        like the recklessness there goes to the ­­ the offensive          nature of the touching, not to the touching itself.                     MS. VILLA: No.                JUSTICE ALITO: In other words, there's the        act of touching, so he ­­ he went to shake her but he             didn't intend to touch her?                 MS. VILLA: It was ­­ there can be         recklessness as to result or recklessness as to        circumstance. And so that is an example of recklessness          as to circumstance by reaching underneath. If he had          touched her on top of clothing, it would not have been           the same offense that could have been charged. And so           it was the fact that he touched her naked body and could            not see that she was naked.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: I don't really understand        the ­­ the answer. He didn't intend to touch her at            all? That was his intent?                              MS. VILLA: No, he did intend to touch her.          JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. Well, that's what I'm         saying. They are two different things. Did the ­­ does            the person intend to touch ­­ does the person intend to           touch in an offensive way?                             MS. VILLA: Correct.    JUSTICE ALITO: And so then it seems like         your answer to my question is that it is in the latter            that has the mens rea of recklessness.                   MS. VILLA: Under the Maine statute, it is         the latter that has the mens rea of recklessness. Under           the common law, it is the intent to have unlawful          contact. And so that is why not all touches qualify,           which is why you can't just have an intent to touch.           You also have to have an intent to touch unlawfully.                                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is it that indicates        that the Federal statute tracks the common law? The          Federal statute gives its own definition.                  MS. VILLA: Your Honor, the Federal statute        is the use of physical force, and so it is only because            of Castleman having adopted the common law for purposes         Alderson Reporting Company Official of force. But Your Honor is absolutely correct, that we           are not construing the common law here. We are          construing the phrase "use... of physical force." And         the problem with the government's case is that that use          of physical force can occur in reckless driving context.         If I am driving a car and I have a family member that                 qualifies under ­­ (a)() in with me and I get            into an accident due to reckless conduct, that would         qualify as a predicate under this statute according to          the government's construction.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Villa, can I understand         what you said? You said you're relying primarily, then,          not on the common­law history but on the ­­ the ­­ just            the language, "use... of physical force" and what that         means, the ordinary meaning of those words, is that         correct?             MS. VILLA: The Court has to deal with the          ordinary meaning of those words. The Court can take ­­          from the common law, it can take from many places, but           the ordinary mean of use is to carry out an action or            purpose by means of. In Castleman itself ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But why isn't ­­ any of         these examples that people give about the reckless        behavior? Why ­­ why couldn't that be a use of force?             I mean, Justice Sotomayor said throwing a plate against          Alderson Reporting Company Official a wall. You say, well, I have a better example. It's               driving a car really fast in a way that will endanger             all the inhabitants. But, of course, we've said a          number of times ­­ I mean, we said it most recently in             the Sykes case that a car is ­­ is an instrument of             force when used recklessly in that way. So why aren't           all of these kinds of examples consistent with the         ordinary meaning of use of force?                  MS. VILLA: There's a substantive       difference, though, between driving recklessly and not       intending to harm the person that is with you in the car            and throwing an object at a person. And so, really, the             example of throwing an object at a person is that           intentional use of force against that other person.        That defendant can testify all day and all night that I           didn't intend to ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Of course, you're ­­ you're        adding language to the statute now because you said         against another person, and that is indeed the language         in Leocal. But in Leocal, we said we're not going to            decide the question here, which is just the phrase "use          of physical force," not against another person, just the         phrase, "use... of physical force."                 And tell me ­­ I mean, I guess your car            example doesn't move me very much, so see if you can           Alderson Reporting Company Official give me an example which would be reckless behavior         under a battery statute but which you think would not           involve the use of force.                 MS. VILLA: I had a client once who pled            guilty to a misdemeanor where he was actually running          away from a guy who was trying to beat him up. And he               closed the door very forcefully behind him and caught         the guy's fingers in the ­­ in the door.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: You just said it. He closed          the door very forcefully behind him.                              MS. VILLA: He did.     JUSTICE KAGAN: That's the ­­ that's the use         of physical force.               MS. VILLA: It was the use of physical         force. But what he explained is that, I closed the            door. The door hit the guy. I didn't mean to hit the               guy. I knew he was behind me.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: I know. And that's why it's           reckless and not knowing or whatever the other term is.          But ­­ but you're still using physical force. And          that's the ­­ that's the term that has to be interpreted           here, is the "use... of physical force."                   MS. VILLA: But the Court has said, with all          due respect, that it is to ­­ carrying out an action or            purpose by means of force. The ­­ my client closing the            Alderson Reporting Company Official door, he didn't mean to hurt the other guy. He meant to             close the door. And so he was using force to close the             door, but he wasn't using force to hurt the other guy.                       JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, quite right. But the         language ­­ I feel like I'm repeating myself a little,            so I'll just try it one more time. The language is just             the use of force. And what we are trying to decide is             whether that includes use of force that indeed is         carried out without an intent to harm, but is carried          out with an understanding that there is a risk of harm.            That's what recklessness is. And ­­ and, you know,          doing something like driving a car miles an hour, or            throwing a plate, or slamming a door when somebody's           hand is in the vicinity, all of those things involve the           requisite risk and all of those things involve the use          of physical force.               MS. VILLA: But not in the sense that the          Court has construed "use" in the past. And so they have            in ­­ for instance, in Smith, which was decided in ,           that case was where it was "to carry out an action or            purpose by means of." And so it's not to carry out an             action, to close a door, by means of hurting somebody.           And so there is this disconnect, and that is inherent          because in the ­­ in recklessness, because what you're         doing is that you aren't looking to hurt it. There may            Alderson Reporting Company Official be a risk, but that's not your purpose.                     And so the ­­ the whole difference between        purposeful, knowing behavior as opposed to reckless       behavior is ­­ is that you have a purpose that is            pointed someplace else with a risk that there might be a            collateral consequence, rather than actually seeking to       accomplish that collateral consequence.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Don't you have to look        at this in the domestic violence context? Because the          definition, "use of force" as put in terms of a          misdemeanor under Federal or State triable law, means ­­        so it means a domestic violence. And isn't it           prototypical in many of these domestic violence cases        where much of the violence employed is not direct         violence, not hitting some ­­ there's a lot of that, but            there's an awful lot of the examples I raised of           reckless conduct that leads to violence, either from        drunkenness or from other conditions.                 You're using "use of force" as it's being        defined in other areas. Why does it fit into this           domestic violence case?               MS. VILLA: Because domestic violence,      according to the Castleman opinion was violence or        nonviolent conduct that's offensive, and is offensive ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the offensive      Alderson Reporting Company Official touching prong. That has nothing ­­                              MS. VILLA: Excuse me?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was the offensive       touching prong. I'm talking about, here, the use of          physical force prong ­­               MS. VILLA: Except for ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that causes injury in        some way.              MS. VILLA: But it's a singular definition.         It's "use... of physical force." Whether it is touching          or not, it is something that is intended to control          one's partner. And so if you have to use force to            control one's partner, or you do something that is         offensive to control one's partner, it is still the idea          that you are implementing any level of force in order to           achieve an end, and that end is the control inherent in           domestic violence.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: The government tells us       that this is ­­ heavy consequences ride on this, that          is, that many domestic violence situations would not be         subject to prosecution under this statute on your read,         if you require knowing or intentional, rather than        reckless, state of mind.                MS. VILLA: Yes, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you agree with that?        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. VILLA: I don't necessarily agree with         that. The reason I don't is because, as was noted in             footnote , courts have generally construed "use... of        physical force" to exclude reckless conduct.                  And so there are ­­ for instance, in        Castleman itself, it falls in the Sixth Circuit. The          Sixth Circuit in Portela held "use of physical force         excludes reckless conduct." It was not construing        (g), but I would note that the State prosecutor in           Castleman had a statute much like that in Maine that           disallowed knowing, purposeful, or reckless conduct.      And rather than charging all of them, that prosecutor         restricted it to "knowing purposeful conduct."                  JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that       prosecutors, when they are State prosecutors, when they        are charging these domestic violence offenses, are going        to be looking ahead to the consequences of the         particular charge for Federal firearms laws?                              realistic?             MS. VILLA: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's       MS. VILLA: Yes, Your Honor. And that is          because there is a large part of the budget of ­­ for             domestic violence within the Federal government that       goes towards training and joint task force so that there          Alderson Reporting Company Official is an awareness on the part of State prosecutors exactly          for this purpose.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me ask you this,         which is somewhat unrelated. So Congress passes this         statute, and they do not want a person who has been            convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence to          have a firearm. Okay? What was the year when that was              passed?             MS. VILLA: , Your Honor.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. .                  That's what they want to do. And you agree          that a ­­ that the offense of battery falls within that            definition; am I right?                 MS. VILLA: The offensive contact battery,       yes, Your Honor.               JUSTICE ALITO: All right. What reason is         there to think that when Congress did this, they wanted          common law battery only? They didn't want battery as it           is defined in general by a great many States.                                  MS. VILLA: Because of the ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: At ­­ at that time, am I          not ­­ is it not correct that by that time a majority of              the States had battery offenses that reached reckless        conduct?             MS. VILLA: You are correct that many States         Alderson Reporting Company Official did. But the problem with that scenario as to what           Congress intended is that it did not adopt battery as          the definition of a misdemeanor crime of domestic         violence for purposes of ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I under ­­ I         understand that, but I thought you agree that "battery"          in some sense falls within the definite ­­ falls within          the category of a misdemeanor crime of domestic         violence.             MS. VILLA: I have to, because of the          Castleman so ruled.               JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. Okay. Well, if you          agree with that ­­ and then your argument is that they           just ­­ all they think about across the street is the           common law. So battery ­­ common law battery, they          don't care what the actual statutes are around the         country. They are just interested in the offense of          common law battery.               MS. VILLA: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: I mean, is that realistic?                     MS. VILLA: Your Honor, that is not my         position. My position is, is that common law battery,          offensive physical contact could only be accomplished       through intentional conduct.               The term "use" had been construed already by        Alderson Reporting Company Official this Court prior to as being an affirmative,         purposeful conduct that you're taking an item and making         it your instrument, that you're accomplishing something       with that. And in this case, it would have been force.                        And so then if you accompany that with the         idea of domestic violence as the intentional controlling        of a domestic partner, all of those ideas, each one of            them has intentionality at its core.                  And so that when Congress used this phrase        as an element, not as a ­­ a generic crime of battery,              but as an element of any misdemeanor crime, it is the           intentional use of physical force, because      intentionality use, as well as physical force and        domestic violence, all share that.                 JUSTICE ALITO: I think you're losing me. I           thought you were argue ­­ I thought you were          acknowledging that reckless conduct would be sufficient       when it is ­­ when physical injury as opposed to          offensive touching is involved; is that right or not?                     MS. VILLA: Under the common law in about         the mid s, there was a subset of batteries that did            adopt a negligent ­­ not a negligence, but a           recklessness factor. But that is not the definition         given in Johnson, and it is not the definition ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What was that ­­ what was         Alderson Reporting Company Official that category? That was the category where bodily         injury resulted; is that right?                 MS. VILLA: Yes, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: So the answer to Justice        Alito's question is, yes, that bodily injury does        trigger this statute.               It's the question I opened with. If the ­­          if the conduct is covered, whether it is touching or          bodily injury, why shouldn't the state of mind match?         Why shouldn't the same state of mind do for both bodily           injury and offensive touching?                MS. VILLA: Because it would be inconsistent        with the idea that when you adopt a common law term,            that you adopt all of the soil that went with that           common ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what's the common       law term?              MS. VILLA: The common law term is the         "battery" term as informing force. And so in         Castleman ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Excuse me. Let me get the          statute. The statute talks about "use."                   MS. VILLA: It is "use."                  And so force was at issue in Castleman, and         that's where this Court identified the common law        Alderson Reporting Company Official battery ­­ the level of force involved in a common law            battery as being the level of force for purposes of the           statute.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But we wouldn't think that        the common law has some great definition of the word          "use," would we?               MS. VILLA: No, Your Honor. Which is why          that normal usage for use of physical force is the          intent ­­ also intentional, and ­­                                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Yeah.    MS. VILLA: ­­ so I'm just saying that ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, I hear you today as            basically making an ordinary meaning argument, which I        think is a good thing because all the briefing on both            sides of this has been talking about the common law          until it's coming out of your ears, and it's not clear           to me why the common law makes any difference at all           here.               I mean, you know, Congress was operating      against a backdrop. It was not the backdrop of the            common law; it was the backdrop of States having          battery statutes. There's no word in this statute which          is a defined ­­ you know, which is a ­­ a settled               common­law term.              So the question is, what was Congress doing?        Alderson Reporting Company Official Congress, we said in Castleman, wanted to basically        capture the set of battery statutes in which ­­ which          were used for people engaged in domestic violence.        Almost all of those statutes use "recklessness" within        them. Why isn't that the proper place to look rather           than the common law?                MS. VILLA: Because Congress used a narrower         definition than many battery statutes. And so it         couldn't have wholesale been adopting those battery       statutes as ­­ as meaning use of physical force.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But Congress doesn't ­­      the ­­ the statute doesn't talk ­­ say ­­ say the word            "battery." It doesn't use it.                              MS. VILLA: Does not use the word "battery."         JUSTICE KENNEDY: It defines it in ­­ in         this special way.               MS. VILLA: It defines it in a very special           way. And all of the parts, you have use of physical            force which this Court had defined as ­­ as having been           made the user's instrument which is that intentionality        part prior to Congress adopting this.                  It had consisted of use of physical force in         other statutes where recklessness was excluded, and       it's ­­ it did not adopt ­­ again, it doesn't say           battery anywhere in the statute. And so saying that          Alderson Reporting Company Official they adopted "battery" may be a way of trying to think            about it, but it's not what they wrote.                    And they also narrowed the idea of what does         constitute a ­­ an appropriate misdemeanor, because        again, as in Castleman, the court recognized that not         everything under the Tennessee statute would qualify       because there were threats but not threats of a deadly           weapon.             All of the ­­ the use of physical force, the          attempt, attempts are specific intent crimes, and so        that's also an intentional crime. And then threats are          usually very intentional. And so ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you please go back        to the question Justice Kagan asked you and not using          the shaking somebody, because I don't understand how         shaking someone doesn't constitute the use of physical        force. It may not be great force, but it's ­­ it's            touching.             What other example do you have of a reckless          act that wouldn't involve the use of physical force?         You're ­­ you're sort of saying ­­                  MS. VILLA: It's ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ it has to be        intentionally offensive.              MS. VILLA: Correct.    Alderson Reporting Company Official                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ as opposed to ­­       MS. VILLA: And so if the government's        formulation were adopted, and I came up to somebody who           I thought was my husband and I patted him on the back             and say, hi, honey, and he turns around and it's like,           oh, my gosh, that isn't him.                    I had ­­ I touched him. I intended to touch            him. I was mistaken as to who it was. And so that               person could take offense; that could be a reckless          touching that does not involve ­­ it involves touching         minimally. That could be an offense.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It always involves,      however, the touching.                           MS. VILLA: It is ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And the use of force to         constitute the touching.               MS. VILLA: It could be by poisoning; it         could be by taking a pen out of somebody's hands.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what difference does       it make whether it's intentional or reckless ­­                   MS. VILLA: It ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ in terms of the        culpability involved?              MS. VILLA: In terms of the culpability,        it's because it's not your intent to actually harm         Alderson Reporting Company Official somebody in closing a door.                                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the ­­     MS. VILLA: And so ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ use of force ­­ and         ­­ and we're giving examples that are not domestic         violence examples, but that has caused a sufficiently         offensive touching to constitute a crime. So that's          going to be prosecuted.                MS. VILLA: And it could be prosecuted for         many reasons, including must arrest. Some neighbor        hears a disturbance and so calls the police. The police            comes and say, well, did he touch you? She says, yeah,            he touched me, but it wasn't a big deal. Okay. You              have to be arrested. You go in. You go through the             process. You plead guilty because you get out and you           need to go to work the next day. Those are not the             types of scenarios that Congress had in mind ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: The example that you       gave, though, would never come under this statute,        because there isn't a relationship. You come up to a            stranger, walking behind the stranger, and you think the         stranger is your spouse. Doesn't ­­ that stranger is          not related to you in the way that the statute requires.                       MS. VILLA: That is true. There are other          reasons, though, where interactions between people who       Alderson Reporting Company Official are related may not be ­­ that the touching may occur,           but it may either not be wanting to be offensive such as            just wanting to touch somebody to wake them up instead          of wanting to offend them. And so that's the          difference.               I would like to reserve the rest of my time         for rebuttal, please.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Eisenstein.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ILANA H. EISENSTEIN                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                This Court has twice interpreted     Section (g)() in Hazen and Castleman, and each time         concluded that Congress intended to keep guns away from         those convicted of assault and battery under generally        applicable State and Federal and Tribal law.                   Petitioner attempts to distinguish between     offenses that cause bodily injury and those that involve         offensive touching. But as this Court already decided         in Castleman, that is a fallacy; that distinction is          elusive. And that's because States, including those        that prohibit the causation of bodily injury, even those         offenses may include offenses that are similar in terms         Alderson Reporting Company Official of degree to offensive touching. In fact, that was what           was at issue at Castleman itself. It was the bodily           injury prong of the Tennessee statute, not the offensive         touching prong.                And ­­ and in that case, the bodily injury       could be committed in a way that involved only slight           injury. And yet, this Court refused to distinguish, by          degree of force, batteries that qualify Section       (g)() predicates.              Keep in mind that States overwhelmingly      define battery as ­­ only as to the resulting injury.          Petitioners' role, which would limit misdemeanor crimes       of domestic violence to intentional conduct, would       require a prosecutor in those jurisdictions to prove in          the underlying offense not only that the contact and the          push, the hit, the grab was intentional, but that         prosecutor would also have to show that the abuser         intended the resulting injury in order to prove the         battery offense under the vast majority of State and         under Federal law.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's so bad about        that? I mean, given her door example, for example, why            should the accidental or perhaps you would say she ­­         you know, he or she knew that the person was close, why            should that constitute misdemeanor crime of domestic       Alderson Reporting Company Official violence?             MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, in part because       Congress intended to cover batteries. And the way ­­         not only at common law, but also in modern ­­ under the            common and generic understanding of battery, define a        battery offense as ­­ only as to the causation of the           resulting harm.                And keep in mind, reckless conduct ­­ and      petitioner avoids the fact of what reckless conduct is.         A reckless conduct is not an involuntary or a negligent,           or even an accidental act. Reckless conduct is         voluntary conduct. It's conduct where an individual        chooses to act in conscious disregard of a substantial          and known risk of harm.                 So if the ­­ if the person in your example,          Mr. Chief Justice, slammed the door not realizing the         fingers were there, that's not going to be reckless         conduct at all. That would be negligence at best.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I mean, you         don't know; you're running away. What if it's a close            call? You don't pause to think, well, gosh, maybe he's           close enough or she's close enough that this will, you          know, hurt his fingers or something. I mean, is ­­ is             that recklessness?              MS. EISENSTEIN: I think to the degree to          Alderson Reporting Company Official which the ­­ the individual consciously disregards the        substantial ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. You don't        want to turn around and see how close the person chasing           you is, if you slam the door, oh, gosh, that's going to            pinch the fingers or something.                 MS. EISENSTEIN: But ­­ but I think that          the ­­ what feels wrong about the hypothetical is not          the ­­ the degree of intent of the act or ­­ it's the             extent to which that person may be justified in the door           slamming, which was that this was an act, perhaps, of          self­defense.               I think the more prototypical examples are      situations where ­­ that this Court highlighted in        Castleman, where an individual takes intentional action       to make contact with their loved one and does so in a            way that is reckless as to whether, for example, if          there's a push, reckless as to whether his wife simply           stumbles backwards or falls down and injures herself.        And that's the way States overwhelmingly frame their        assault and battery statutes.                            And that's what ­­   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Justice Ginsburg's example      of operating an automobile: A husband is arguing with           his wife and speeds through a stop sign and the wife is             Alderson Reporting Company Official injured. What results under the statute?                   MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, I think         that under an assault, a general assault and battery          statute, it's theoretically possible that a person could         be convicted of battering his or her spouse under those          circumstances. I don't think that's problematic for two          reasons. One is I think it's an extremely narrow           category of offenses, and Petitioner has pointed to no         actual examples.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the ­­ the main        statute says "recklessly causes bodily injury."                  MS. EISENSTEIN: So there ­­ and I agree          with Your Honor that in theory, that type of offense          could constitute a battery. But to the degree to which            that's prosecuted where ­­ in the real world that's         prosecuted where the ­­ a domestic family member is the           sole victim and that that is only a misdemeanor, that           there's not sufficiently severe injury or other factors        that rise to the level of a felony offense, which would            be disqualifying under its own right, I don't think that           that level of overbreadth is problematic under the        statute.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm not talking about       overbreadth. I'm talking about interpretation of the        statute. The statute includes a misdemeanor, so that          Alderson Reporting Company Official disposes of that part of your answer. The statute          covers a misdemeanor.                MS. EISENSTEIN: Correct, Your Honor. But        what I'm ­­ but my point is that the type of scenario            that ­­ that is posited where both there would be a           reckless, sort of a generally reckless conduct, that the          victim happens to be, by ­­ by chance the family member,           as opposed to another member of the public, and thus          qualifying as a Section (g)() predicate is narrow         indeed.             And the converse of that is striking. While         the ­­ while the overbreadth of the hypothetical ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's narrow, but it seems        to qualify under the statute. I don't quite understand           your answer. You said, oh, well, it's narrow. But it's            still a violation under the meaning of the statute.                      MS. EISENSTEIN: I think it's a violation          under the meaning of general assault and battery, but I          also think that there's nothing wrong with ­­ as Justice          Kagan suggested, with treating that type of offense as         disqualifying.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you're saying that the        example is covered by the statute.                              MS. EISENSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor.      And I think, though, that to the extent to          Alderson Reporting Company Official which that raises a concern in terms of overbreadth, I           don't think this Court should be concerned about that,         because what Congress was worried about wasn't an        overbreadth of these prosecutions against family      members. Instead, they went to a real underreporting,          under prosecution and the low conviction rates of these         offenses. This was the problem that Congress addressed.         And the whole reason why they extended the firearms ban          from felony offenses ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which of our ­­       which of our cases say that you don't have to worry if            the categorical approach covers conduct of the sort        Justice Kennedy was talking about because Congress meant        to cover other things?                MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, I think         that you're right that the categorical approach and its         strictures can cause real problems if there's any degree         of overbreadth in the statute. But that's exactly why,          in interpreting Section (g)() and what Congress's       purpose was is extremely important here. Because to the          extent to which Petitioner's view is adopted, which        would require only intentional conduct to qualify, any        degree of overbreadth such as Justice Kennedy's one        example in a State, of California of a driving offense            would exclude the entire statute, because ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure       "overbreadth" ­­ I'm not sure overbreadth is the right         legal term.              So you think it's an appropriate defense       under a prosecution here that the type of conduct I was             charged with is really not what Congress had in mind?          Yes, it fits under the terms of the statute, but it's           not what Congress had in mind. And there's going to be            argument about that.               MS. EISENSTEIN: No, Your Honor. The ­­ my          argument is the opposite, which is that this Court         should effectuate Congress's purpose by giving      Section (g)() the meaning that Congress intended,       which is to cover generally applicable assault and        battery statutes regardless of whether, on a rare         instance, they may end up covering an individual who was          recklessly driving and injured a family member.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: I feel like your answer         was that the statute does cover it, but it's most          unlikely that a prosecutor would bring such a case. I             think that's what you started to say about it.                     MS. EISENSTEIN: That's correct, Your Honor.       I think it's unlikely that those prosecutions would be         brought in the State offense on those ­­ under those          circumstances and that there's no reason to drastically        Alderson Reporting Company Official constrain the interpretation of Section (g)().                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do we have precedent from        this Court saying it's okay, we can trust the         prosecutors to do the right thing? Can you cite me a            case that says that?                MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I ­­ I ­­ I do              not ­­ I do not represent that. But what I do suggest               is what we're looking at here is not what prosecutors          might do under the ­­ in the State ­­ the underlying           State prosecution, but what Congress intended to cover        under Section (g)(). So in order to avoid a          hypothetical scenario where a family member may be         injured in a nondomestic context, the result of         requiring intentionality as to both the harm and the ­­         the touching would be to eliminate all of the statutes          that Congress, in fact, intended to cover.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know how ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the ­­ what        about the ­­ the rule of lenity? We are reviewing a            decision of a court that divided, and both judges wrote           very strong opinions. And we also have U.S.C.          Section , where a crime of violence doesn't include          reckless ­­ a reckless state of mind. So putting those            together, the other statute, plus that this was a split           decision, why doesn't the rule of lenity apply?        Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, the rule of        lenity only applies where there is grievous ambiguity in         the statute. And I respectfully submit that there is no            such grievous ambiguity. Congress's intent was clear,        and this Court already found as much, in Castleman and          in Hayes, which is that there was a class of offenses            that Congress intended to cover by the statute which         were generally applicable assault and battery statutes.                   And the rule that Petitioner suggests would       exclude all of those offenses and would frustrate that         clear purpose of Congress, so lenity doesn't apply for         that reason. And there's no ambiguity, not only as to           the purpose, but as to ­­ as to what battery itself           encompasses. Petitioners have tried to argue that        battery, either at common law or in contemporary        practice, that there was some requirement of an intent         to do harm. And the overwhelming weight and universal          weight of authority points the opposite direction. Even         the sources cited by Petitioner establish that at common         law, there was no requirement for the intent to do harm.           And certainly States, in adopting their assault and        battery provisions, have modeled that ­­ that       formulation.             Another way to look at this is ­­ outside of          the common law, is the way that Taylor examined the          Alderson Reporting Company Official statute of burglary under the ACCA offense, which is         to ­­ rather than turning just to the common law, as to            view this as covering generic battery. And ­­ and when           looked at that way under the contemporary practice, the         Model Penal Code and the uniform opinion of the courts          of appeals and commentators all have concluded that        battery was not limited to a purpose to cause a           resulting harm, but included contact that could be        reckless.             In the face of Petitioner's hypotheticals,      Petitioner struggles to even conceive of a hypothetical         example of where there is a reckless battery that          would ­­ against a family member that would not          constitute a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.                    The converse is that Congress enacted      Section ­­ (g)() to address a vital ­­ vital           public safety problem. It identified those who had been          convicted of battering their family members as posing a         dramatically increased risk of perpetrating future gun       violence against their family.                This Court should continue to interpret      Section (g)() in light of that compelling purpose.                    If there are no further questions.                  JUSTICE THOMAS: Ms. Eisenstein, one      question. Alderson Reporting Company Official             Can you give me ­­ this is a           misdemeanor violation. It suspends a constitutional        right. Can you    give me another area where a misdemeanor         violation suspends a constitutional right?                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor,     I ­­ I'm     thinking about that, but I think that the ­­ the           question is not ­­ as I understand Your Honor's          question, the culpability necessarily of the act or in         terms of the offense ­­                JUSTICE THOMAS: Well, I'm ­­ I'm looking at         the ­­ you're saying that recklessness is sufficient to         trigger a violation ­­ misdemeanor violation of domestic         conduct that results in a lifetime ban on possession of           a gun, which, at least as of now, is still a           constitutional right.              MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, to address ­­                   JUSTICE THOMAS: Can you think of another        constitutional right that can be suspended based upon a         misdemeanor violation of a State law?                   MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, while I can't         think of specifically triggered by a misdemeanor        violation, other examples, for example, in the First        Amendment context, have allowed for suspension or       limitation of a right to free speech or even free           association in contexts where there is a compelling         Alderson Reporting Company Official interest and risks associated in some cases less than a          compelling interest under intermediate scrutiny.                 JUSTICE THOMAS: I'm ­­ this is a ­­ how           long is this suspension of the right to own a firearm?                        MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, the right is        suspended indefinitely.              JUSTICE THOMAS: Okay. So can you think of          a First Amendment suspension or a suspension of a First            Amendment right that is permanent?                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, it's not       necessarily permanent as to the individual, but it may         be permanent as to a particular harm. And here Congress            decided to intervene at the first instance that an         individual is convicted of battering their family       members because it ­­ it relied on substantial and         well­documented evidence that those individuals pose      a ­­ a long­term and substantial ­­                    JUSTICE THOMAS: So in each of these cases        had ­­ did any of the defendants, or in this case           Petitioners, use a weapon against a family member?                      MS. EISENSTEIN: In neither case did they,        but these Petitioners ­­               JUSTICE THOMAS: So that the ­­ again, the         suspension is not directly related to the use of the          weapon. It is a suspension that is actually indirectly           Alderson Reporting Company Official related or actually unrelated. It's just a family          member's involved in a misdemeanor violation; therefore,        a constitutional right is suspended.                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor, but I        believe that in terms of the ­­ the relationship between          Congress's decision to try to prevent domestic gun        violence and its means of doing so ­­                   JUSTICE THOMAS: Even if that ­­ if even if          that violence is unrelated to the use ­­ the possession          of a gun?                MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, I think         the studies that Congress relied upon in formulating        the ­­ the misdemeanor crime of domestic violence ban         didn't ­­ were directly about the use of a gun because            what they showed is that individuals who have previously         been ­­ battered their spouses, pose up to a six­fold           greater risk of killing, by a gun, their family member.                       JUSTICE THOMAS: Well, let's ­­ let's say        that a publisher is reckless about the use of children,           and what could be considered indecent displays and that         that triggers a violation of, say, a hypothetical law           against the use of children in these ads, and let's say           it's a misdemeanor violation. Could you suspend that          publisher's right to ever publish again?                  MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I don't think         Alderson Reporting Company Official you could suspend the right to ever publish again, but I           think that you could limit, for example, the manner and          means by which publisher ­­                JUSTICE THOMAS: So how is that different        from suspending your Second Amendment right?                  MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I think that in          terms of a ­­ the compelling purpose that was identified           here, which was the prevention of gun violence and the          individual nature of the ­­ of the underlying offense,         so here this isn't a misdemeanor crime directed at any           person at large. These are misdemeanor batteries        directed at members ­­ specified members of the ­­ of          that individual's family. Congress ­­                 JUSTICE THOMAS: Would you have a better         case if this were a gun crime?                    MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I think it         would be perhaps a better case, except that the evidence           that Congress relied on and ­­ and that the courts below           that have addressed the Second Amendment concerns that        Your Honor is highlighting have even gone into a more           robust analysis of the ­­ the evidence that ties initial          crimes of battery to future gun violence. That evidence          is extremely strong. And Congress recognized that this         was a recurring escalating offense.                  Petitioners are good examples of this.      Alderson Reporting Company Official While they didn't reach, thankfully, the point where        they were able to reach for a firearm and were           prohibited from having a firearm under Federal law, they          have each been convicted multiple times of domestic        violence offenses and possess the firearms in close        proximity. So these aren't individuals who had long­ago         convictions and are suffering from that ban.                   Congress also contemplated exactly the     lifetime nature of the ban that Your Honor suggested and          left it in States' hands to resolve that by allowing          States to expunge or pardon convictions in cases where         an individual either petitions to do so or in some          States as a matter of course.                   So ­­ so I understand Your Honor's concern         that ­­ that this is a potential infringement of          individual's Second Amendment rights, but I believe that         Congress has identified a compelling purpose and has         found a reasonable means of achieving that purpose.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I suppose one answer           is ­­ just a partial answer to Justice Thomas's question           is SORNA, a violation of sexual offenders have to          register before they can travel in interstate commerce.        But that's not a prevention from traveling at all. It's            just a ­­ it's a restriction.                    MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, it's a        Alderson Reporting Company Official prevention in requiring prophylactic measures in order       to prevent a substantial ­­ because Congress has         identified a substantial risk of harm from people         identified as committing those types of offenses.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Do it ­­ what is it we          have ­­ they raised this in their brief. They say,           let's focus on the cases in which there is a misdemeanor            battery conducted without an intentional or knowing       state of mind.               Now, they say if this, in fact, triggers ­­        this is the question Justice Thomas asked ­­ if this, in           fact, triggers a lifetime ban on the use of a gun, then              do we not have to decide something we haven't decided?          And I think it would be a major question.                       What constitutes a reasonable regulation of       guns under the Second Amendment given Heller and the         other cases with which I disagreed? But ­­                     (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ the point is, she's        raised a question, and she wants us to answer that           question. Is this a reasonable regulation given ­­ you           just heard the argument, in part ­­ given the distance          and so forth? So what am I supposed to say, in your              opinion, in respect to that rather important question?                    MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, two answers to        Alderson Reporting Company Official that. First is this comes up only in the nature of            constitutional avoidance, not as a direct Second        Amendment challenge.                As we've already argued, this statute, in     the government's view, is clear that misdemeanor crimes        of domestic violence include batteries, whether they be        committed ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Stop you at the first        point. Your argument on the first point is that she did            not raise the constitutional question. She said in         order to avoid a constitutional question, we should         decide it in thus such and such a way.                      So one answer would be, well, maybe so. We          aren't facing the constitutional question. We are        simply facing the question of what Congress intended.        And if this does raise a constitutional question, so be           it. And then there will, in a future case, come up with              that question. So we ­­ or our point is, we don't have             to decide that here.                MS. EISENSTEIN: That's correct, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.                 MS. EISENSTEIN: If there are no further        questions.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Two minutes, Ms. Villa.    Alderson Reporting Company Official          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF VIRGINIA G. VILLA                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS,                     APPOINTED BY THIS COURT                MS. VILLA: Your Honor, Congress did not use         the word "battery" in (a)(). And so the question          is, is whether, under the rule of lenity, the Court can           then say battery is the standard that we are going to           use in order to construe this. And it's a push me, pull              you because it is the use of force, but that doesn't           have to be a prior battery conviction. It could be any             misdemeanor conviction that has a state of recklessness         for the state of mind and results in any ­­ any           involvement of a domestic partner.                  And I think that there is enough play within          the statute ­­ statute itself, as well as the extent of           the common law, so ­­ to say that that is a reason for              applying the rule of lenity.                 There is also the underlying constitutional      questions. And this Court, as in being able to abrogate           a constitutional right indefinitely based on reckless       conduct, I believe also presents extreme due process         concerns. And for those reasons, I believe that the           Court should conclude that under these circumstances, it        is best to avoid that question and to construe the          statute the way that is consistent with the words.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialahead : ALITO :,, : Armstrong : : :,, :,, arrest : :, :, :, :, : : arrested : asked : : asleep : assault : : Alito's : allowed : allowing : ambiguity :, : :, : : :, Assistant : associated : Amendment : association : :, :, : : : analysis : answer :, : attach :,, attempt : attempts : : :, : :, : : answers : appeals : : applicable : : : authority : automobile : avoid : : : avoidance : avoids : awake : awareness : awful : application : applied : : applies : apply :,,, backdrop :, back : : B : : : applying : Appointed : : bad : backwards : : approach : : : appropriate : : ban : : : :, : based : : basically : A a.m : : : able : : above­entitled : : abrogate : absolutely : abuser : ACCA : accident : accidental : : accompany : accomplish : accomplished : accomplishing : achieve : achieving : acknowledging : :,, : :, : : :, :, : action : : :, : acts : actual : : adding : address : : addressed : : adopt : : :, : adopted : : : : adopting :, : ads : affirmative : agree : : : : : : : act :, :, APPEARANCES Page  : :,, :, :, :,,, : : : :, :,, :,, : : :, :, : : : : : :,,, :,, : : :,, beat : behalf :, : :, : : : car : :,, : : care : carried :, carry : :, carrying : case : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, cases : : : : : : : : : behavior : : Castleman : :, believe : : : :, best : : better : : : big : blanket : bodily :,, : :,,, :, :, : body :, bottle :,, BREYER :, :, brief : briefing : bring : brought : budget : burglary : C : : : : : : : : : :, : : : categorical : :, category : : : : caught : causation : : cause : : : : caused : : : : causes : : : causing : certainly : challenge : chance : charge : charged : : charging :, chasing : Chief :, : : : : : : : : battered : batteries : : area : areas : argue : : argued : arguing : argument : : battering : : : : : : : C : : California : call : :, :, : : : : battery : :, calls : : : : : : :, capture : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : : : children :, chooses : Circuit :, circumstance : : compelling : : : : : conceive : concern : : concerned : concerns : circumstances : : Official : : : : : constitutes : constitutional : :,, : :,,,, :, constrain : construction : construe :, construed : : : construing :, : contact : :, :,, : : : : : : : contemplated : contemporary conclude : concluded : : conditions : conduct : : :, :, :, : : :, : : :, :,,,, : :, : : : : : context : : : : contexts : continue : conducted : confirmation : Congress :, : : : : :,, : : : control :,, : :,, :,, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : convicted :, : : : : : : controlling : converse : : : : : cite : cited : cites : class : clear : :, : client :, clients : close :,, : :,, : : closed :,, closing : : clothing : Code : collateral :, come :, : comes : : coming : commentators : commerce : committed : : Page  : : court :,, : defendants : : : : defense : :,, : : :, : define : : : : : defined : : : : :, : : : : definite : :, : : :,, : defines :, definition :, : : : : : : :, : : courts : : : cover : : :, :, : covered : : : covering : : covers : : : degree :, : : : : : Department : difference : : : : : different : : direct : : directed :, direction : crime : :, :, : : : : directly : : : : : disagree : : : : Croix : culpability : crimes : : disagreed : disagreeing : disallowed : disconnect : displays : disposes : disqualifying : : : DD :D.C :, day : : deadly :deal : : decide : : : :, decided :: : : decision :, :defendant :: disregard : disregards : distance : distinction : distinguish : : disturbance : divided : doing :, : : domestic : :, committing : common :, Congress's : : : : conviction : :, consequence :, correct : : : :, :, conscious : : :, : consciously : :,,, : :,, consequences :, :, : : :,, : :, :, : : : common­law : considered : : consisted : consistent :, : : : constitute :, : : : : convictions :, core : : :, : : : : couch : counsel : : : country : course :, Alderson Reporting Company Official : Page  :,,,, entire : :, :, equally : : :, :, escalating : : : : :, : : : : : : : : establish : evidence : :,, : ESQ :, :, door :,,, exactly : : : :,,, : : : : :, : : examined : example : : grievous :, guess : free :, frustrate : further : : guilty : : gun : : :,,, :,, : family : : : : : : :,, future : : :, :, : fast : February : Federal :,, G : :, :, : : G : :, : : : feel : : feels : Gantnier : general : : : : generally : guns : : guy :,, : : guy's : H H : : : : : : : dramatically : drastically : driving :, : :, : : : : felony : : : : : fingers : : : : : : : : drunkenness : examples : : : : :, due : : : : : : : firearm : : first :, : firearms : : : : : :, E : : : hand : : hands : : generic : : happened : : GINSBURG : :, : : : : : happens : harm : :, : :, : :, : : : exclude : : E : : :, ears : effectuate : Eisenstein : : excludes : : : excluded : :,, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : either : : : : : element :, eliminate : elusive : embeds : employed : enacted : encompasses : endanger : engaged : Excuse : : explained : expunge : extended : extent : : : : extreme : extremely : : : F face : : facing :, fact : : : : :, factor : factors : facts : fallacy : falls : : : :, :,, :,, Ginsburg's : Hayes : give : : : Hazen : fit : fits : focus : footnote : force : : : : given : : :,, gives : : glass : go : :, : :,,,, giving : : :,,,, :,,,, : :,,, : :, :,,, :,, :, : :, :,, :, good : : gosh : : : :,, : : : : : goes : : going : : : : : : : government : : forcefully :, formulating : formulation : : : forth : found : : frame : : : : government's : :, : : grab : great : : : greater : hear : : heard : hears : heavy : held : : Heller : hi : higher : highlighted : highlighting : history : hit : :, : hitting : honey : Honor : : : : : :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company : :,, :,, : : : : : Honor's : : hour : hurt :,, indicates : indirectly : individual : :, : :, : : individual's : : hurting : husband : : : hypothetical : : : : : hypotheticals : I i.e : idea : : : : ideas : identified : : : : :, III : ILANA : : : illegal : implemented : implementing : important : : include : : : included : includes : : including : : inconsistent : : increased : indecent : indefinitely : : : individuals : : : informing : infringement : inhabitants : inherent : : : initial : injured : : : injures : injury :,, :,,,, : :, : : :,,, :, :,, :, :, instance : : : : instruction : : instrument : : : intend : : :,,, : intended : : : : : : : :, : : intending : intent :,,, : : : : : : :, intentional :,, : :, : : : Official :, : :, : :, : : : intentionality : :,, :, : : intentionally : interactions : interest :, interested : intermediate : interpret : interpretation : : interpreted : : interpreting : interstate : intervene : involuntary : involve : : Page  L language : :,,, :,, : L : : :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, large : : : :,, Laughter : :, :, law :, :, : :, : :, :,, : : :,, :,, : : :,, : :, :,,, : : :, :, :, : :,, : : :, : :, :, : : : :,, : :,,, :,,,, : : : : :,, : : : : : justified : K : : : Kagan : :, : :,, : : :,, : : involved : : : : : : keep : : : involvement : involves :, Kennedy : issue : : item : :, :, : :, :, : : : J killing : kinds : Johnson : : Kennedy's : joint : judges : jurisdictions : knew : : Justice : :, know : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, :,, : :,, : :,,, : knowing : : : : : :, : :,, : : : :, :,, known : : :, laws : leads : left : legal : lenity :, :, :, Leocal :, let's :,, : level : :, :, lifetime : : : light : limit : : limitation : limited : : little : long : long­ago : long­term : look : : : looked : looking : : : : losing : lot :, loved : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  ordinary :, : : : organization : outside : overbreadth : : Petitioners :, :, : : :, : : : : : Petitioners' : :,, :, petitions : phrase : : :, : overwhelming : low : M main : Maine :, : : major : majority : : O minutes : misdemeanor : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, occurs : :,, : offend : :, :, offenders : : : : O : : object :, occur : : occurred : making : : misdemeanors : manner : misperceived : match : mistaken : matter : : Model : modeled : : mean : : : modern : : :, Monday : : : : morning : :, : move : :, multiple : meaning :, : : : :, : means :, : :, :, : : : meant : : measures : member : : :, : : : : : member's : members : N N :, : naked :,, narrow : : :, narrowed : narrower : nature : : : : necessarily : : : : need : : negligence : : offense : : P overwhelmingly : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, offenses : : :,, pardon : part : : : :, : : : : offensive : : P : PAGE : : : : : : :, :, :, : : :, :, : : : partner :, : : : parts : :, :, oh : : : passed : passes : okay : :, : : : patted : pause : : pen : Penal : people : : once : one's :,, opened : operating : partial : particular : pinch : place : places : plate : : play : : : : plead : : physical : : : :,, : : :,, :, :, :, : :, :, : :,, : :,, :,, please : : :, pled : plus : point :, : : : :, : : : : negligent : : : neighbor : neither : never : night : nondomestic : nonviolent : mens : :, mental : mid : miles : mind :,,, : :, : : : normal : :, : : note : : noted : number : minimally : : opinion : : : opinions : opposed : : : : opposite : : oral : :, : : order : : : : : : : : pointed : : points : : permanent :, poisoning : police :, : perpetrating : Portela : person : : : pose : : posing : posited : : :,, :,, : : : : position :, :, : : possess : possession : petitioner : : : : :, possible : : Petitioner's : potential : practice : : Alderson Reporting Company problem : : : precedent : predicate : : predicates : presents : prevent : : prevention : : : previously : primarily : prior : : : : : : : problematic : : problems : process : : : proper : : prophylactic : proposition : prosecuted :, :, prosecution : : : : prosecutions : : prosecutor :, prohibit : prohibited : prong :,, : question : : qualifying : R : raise :, :, : prosecutors : : : :, raised : : prototypical : : : prove :, provisions : proximity : public : : publish : : publisher : : publisher's : raises : rare : rates : rea : :, reach :, reached : : reaching : read : real : :, Official realistic : relied : : pull : purpose : : : : :, : realizing : : : : really : :, : :, : :, purposeful : :, : reason : : : : : : : : relying : repeating : represent : require : : : requirement : purposes : : reasonable : :, : push : : put : putting : Q qualifies : qualify : : : : : : : :, reasons : : : : : rebuttal : : : reckless : : requires : requiring : : requisite : reserve : resolve : : : respectfully : : : : :, respect : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : Respondent : : :,, :, :, rest : :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :, : :,,,, recklessly : :,,,, :, : : :, : questions : : : quite : : R recklessness : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : recognized : : recurring : refused : regardless : : restricted : restriction : result : : resulted : resulting :, : : results : : : reversed : reviewing : ride : right : :, : : : : : : :,,,, :,, :, :, : rights : rise : register : regulation :, risk :, : : : : related : : : : : : relationship : : risks : ROBERTS : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : : : : : : : : : robust : role : rule :, : : :, ruled : running : : S S : : safety : satisfies : satisfying : saying : : : : : : : says : : : scenario : : : scenarios : scrutiny : Second : : : : : : Section : : : : : :,, : : see : : : seeking : self­defense : sense : : serious : set : setting :, settled : severe : sexual : : shake :, shaking :, share : show : showed : Official Page  sides : sign : similar : simple : simply : : singular : situations : : six­fold : Sixth :, slam : slammed : slamming : : slight : smashes : Smith : soil : sole : Solicitor : somebody : : : : : somebody's : : someplace : somewhat : SORNA : sorry : sort : : : Sotomayor : spouses : St : standard : started : state :,,, subject : submit : submitted :, subset : substantial : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : substantive : : : : :, : : :, suffering : sufficient : : stated : States :,, : sufficiently : : :,, : suggest : : : : suggested : : :, : sure :, suspend : : suspended : States' : statute :,, suggests : suppose : : : : supposed : : : : Supreme :, : :,, :, :, : :, : :,,, :, :, suspending : :, :, suspends :, suspension : :, : :, : : :,,,, :,, statutes : Sykes : : : : :,,, : : : T :, : : T :,,, : : :, : Statutorily : stepdaughter : : :, STEPHEN : :,,,, :, stop : : stranger :, sources : special :, specific : specifically : specified : speech : speeds : split : spouse : : :, street : strictures : striking : strong : : struggles : studies : stumbles : take :, : takes : talk : talking : : : : : :, : talks : task : Taylor : tell : tells : Tennessee : : term :, : :,, today : : : : terms : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : top : touch : :,, touched :,, testify : Thank : : : :, thankfully : theoretically : theory : thing : : things : :, : : : touches : : : touching : : : :,,, :,, : :, : :,,, : :, : : : tracks : think : : : :, : : : training : travel : :, : traveling : : :, :, :,, treating : : :,, treatment : :, :, triable : : :,, Tribal : : :, :,, : : tried : trigger : : triggered : triggers : thinking : third : Thomas : :, :, :, :, :, : Thomas's : thought : : : : threats :,, three : threw : throw : throwing : :, : ties : time : :, :, times : : :, true : trust : try : : trying : : : turn : turning : turns : twice : two : : : : type : :, : types : : U U.S.C : Alderson Reporting Company wholesale : wife : :, : underlying : : : : underneath :, underreporting : understand : : : : : : : understanding : : understood : uniform : United :,, : universal : unlawful : : unlawfully : unrelated : : : usage : use :, : : :,,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : :, :,, :, : :, :, :, :,,,, : :,, : : : : :,, : : : :, user's : usually : V v : : vast : vicinity : victim : : view : : : Villa : :, : :, :, : :, :,, :, :,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : :,,, :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :, :, : :, :,,,, :,, : :, violation :, :,,,, : :,, : violence : : :,,,, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : VIRGINIA : :, : : vital :, Voisine : : voluntary : W wake : : walking : wall : : want :,, : wanted : : wanting :,, wants : Washington :, wasn't :, : Official : : way : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : We'll : we're : : : we've : : weapon : : : weight :, well­documented : went :, : : : WILLIAM : win : Wis : word :, : : : words : :, : work : world : worried : worry : wouldn't : : wrong : : wrote : : x :, X Y yeah : : : : year : Z Page  : : : : : ­ : : : : s : : : :, : : : : : : : : (a)() : : : : (g) : (g)() : : : : : :, :, Alderson Reporting Company 