 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ABIGAIL NOEL FISHER,                 :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT                AUSTIN, ET AL.                       : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, December ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: BERT REIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioner. GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,              Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     BERT REIN, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GREGORY G. GARRE, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.         For United States, as amicus curiae,          supporting Respondents                              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   BERT REIN, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, Fisher v. The University of          Texas at Austin.               Before we get started, I'll advise the       lawyers that this is our only case this morning, so we           intend to grant the parties ten minutes or so of extra           time and the amicus five minutes.                  So Mr. Rein, no need to rush.                   (Laughter.)                               ORAL ARGUMENT OF BERT REIN     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. REIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:                 I appreciate the extra time, and I didn't        rush up here to start before you invited me this time.                       In reviewing the Fifth Circuit's initial      decision in what we call Fisher I, seven members of this           Court reaffirmed that a clear precondition to the use of           race as an admissions factor was the ability to satisfy          what was called the "demanding burden of strict        scrutiny" articulated in Grutter and Bakke.                  By establishing that she was considered for       admission to UT under a system that discriminated         Alderson Reporting Company Official against her on the basis of her race, Ms. Fisher placed           upon UT the burden of ­­ of proving, by evidence of           record, that its use of race was, first, in pursuit of a            compelling, constitutionally legitimate interest    expressed with sufficient clarity and concreteness to       allow a reviewing court to determine, first, that the          use of race was a necessary last resort in pursuing the            interest defined, taking into account reasonably      available nonracial alternatives.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, may I ask, if          we didn't have the percent plan, if that were out of            this case, and all that were left were the Grutter­like          plan, would you then recognize that you had no claim?                      We have the ­­ what ­­ what the University         of Texas has added on to the percent plan. But now             we wipe out the percent, and we have only the           Grutter­like plan.              MR. REIN: Well, I ­­ with respect, I ­­ I             would question the premise of the question because it's         not the Grutter­like plan in its entirety.                               different ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I know it's not ­­        MR. REIN: That would be a totally         JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ but ­­ but I'm asking         the hypothetical.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. REIN: No. And I'm saying even in the           AI/PAI system it's not a Grutter­like plan. It's not a            plan of shaping a class by individualized one­to­one         comparisons. It's not aimed at a critical mass. It's            not a Grutter plan in that sense.                    But I think the ­­ the other part of this is            that's, of course, not the case before us. When you           look at the satisfaction of a compelling interest, you          look and ask: Does my preexisting system satisfy that          interest? Do I have a need to do something else? And               if I have a need to do something, is that something ­­                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume need was proven.       I know. You're ­­ you're ­­ you're ­­ we're putting           aside need. What's wrong with this plan if need is put            aside?             MR. REIN: Well, let's put it this way: We           do not oppose the use of the various PAI factors that           were in place before race was added. What's wrong with           this plan, apart ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no, no.                   MR. REIN: And ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know you're saying        they don't need to do it. I said put it aside and              answer Justice Ginsburg's question.                MR. REIN: And I ­­ yes, and ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If they had to use race,         how are they using it improperly?                  MR. REIN: If you have to use race and you           want to use the model that was created in Bakke and           Grutter, you would need to build profiles of individuals         that would allow you to judge them one against another          in the context of the class and the educational         experience you are trying to create.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My God, that sounds like        it's using race more rather than less than this plan          does.             MR. REIN: I ­­ I'm sorry if it sounds that            way. It is not. It simply says, in a situation of the               Bakke situation where you're looking at every aspect of         an individual and you're trying to judge whether one or          another of individuals for the ­­ for places, the last          places would most benefit the class, the class as a          whole as a learning entity, then you can, as Bakke           indicates, take account of the fact that they may have          different backgrounds, which would contribute different      ideas.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How does that ­­                  MR. REIN: Those are whole­person      comparisons. This is not the system that ­­ this system           doesn't do anything like Bakke.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             So if ­­ it's very different. Even if you          separate it from the necessity issue ­­ which is, of          course, a major issue in this case, but I'm assuming           your question ­­ that they've shown that they needed to          use race, there was no other way to do whatever they           were trying to do ­­ which isn't clear to me either ­­           so you have both the question of whether they've defined          a legitimate compelling interest; you have the question        of whether they've shown any necessity to use race. But           if I ­­ even I put those aside, whether this is the              narrowly tailored vision that came out of Bakke is a          very serious question. It isn't. It's quite different.          And I can ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You still haven't      answered why this is worse than Bakke. I mean ­­                       MR. REIN: Because it ­­ it's not used to          build a class. It's just used to create a racial plus              and to increase the number of minority admissions.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is race given ­­                   MR. REIN: It's race as such.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How is race given a        plus?               I ­­ I thought that what they're looking for         is leaders in diversity, not just of race, but of          experiences generally.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                                     MR. REIN: Those factors ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how ­­     MR. REIN: I'm sorry. But those factors         were in the PAI before they added race. Leadership;          demonstrated awards and success out of school;       overcoming obstacles, like a single­parent family.       Those were all part of the PAI before race was added.           Race was just tacked on, as they said, as a factor of a              factor of a factor.                 They've shifted position as to how it's       used. In the ­­ in the district court, it was sort of             minimized, a factor of a factor of a factor. It's a               minor plus; don't worry about it. It's now become,          well, it's a contextualized part of the PAS, which is           part of the PAI, and we can discretionarily jack that up           any way we want.                claim ­­             But all those other factors that they       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think your brief        admitted that this isn't in favor of any particular         race, that white people in some situations can show         leadership, as ­­ as well as black or Hispanic or Asian           or Native American. Any race could benefit from this          plus factor. So how is this ­­                   MR. REIN: I ­­ I ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ worse than Bakke?       MR. REIN: With respect, we did not concede                                 that, and we would not concede it because the other PAI           factors might benefit anybody of any race. People's         circumstances, their leadership, their community     efforts ­­ those are universal, and they can benefit any          candidate. But they don't benefit from the race factor.          The race factor was designed to benefit ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in Grutter ­­ in both         Grutter and what Justice Powell said would be proper in          Bakke, race was a factor. Race, itself, was a factor.             And that's why I'm finding it very hard to distinguish          what the university is doing, apart from the percent          plan.             But let ­­ let me ask you about the          percent plan itself, because it seems to me that that is           so obviously driven by one thing only, and that thing is           race. It's totally dependent upon having racially        segregated neighborhoods, racially segregated schools,     and it operates as a disincentive for a minority student            to step out of that segregated community and attempt to          get an integrated education.                MR. REIN: Justice Ginsburg, let ­­ let me         respond to this, with respect, this ­­ this way. The           Top Plan does not classify anybody by race. It           Alderson Reporting Company Official addresses only standing within the Texas educational       system.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it could work only in         the background.              MR. REIN: When you say "work," it works on          a number of fronts. It creates geographic diversity.         It looks all over Texas. It doesn't distinguish between          high schools. It creates socioeconomic diversity. It         does have an effect, a demonstrated effect on race          because a number of minorities, the type they care          about, are admitted under the top program. But it's           not based on race. It's based on the degree of effort            you make relative to the other people with whom you're          being integrated ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: It is created because of        race.             MR. REIN: I ­­ I'm not in a position to             tell you why it was created. It ­­ it was created ­­                        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there any doubt that        it was created to increase the number of minority         students? Was there any other reason for the percent           plan?             MR. REIN: Well, I've given you other        reasons, which are it's a ­­ it's kind of a democratic             recognition that you want to invite people from all over          Alderson Reporting Company Official Texas, regardless of the school they went to. You're          looking for those who are trying the hardest, who are          doing the best, who excel in their environment.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: It was recreated in the        wake of Hopwood.                           MR. REIN: That ­­ that timing, yes.        JUSTICE KENNEDY: So I think that was the          purpose, to define a neutral framework within which to          satisfy the States and the universities' objectives.                   MR. REIN: And certainly one in the        legislature might have looked at the predictable effect,        but that purpose and effect are different. But yes, it           was created, and in part, because certain schools do         have minorities, the idea was, well, that would benefit         those schools just as it would benefit a rural high           school in a white community, which ordinarily would have          very great difficulty placing its students in the        University of Texas. This system ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: You argue that the       University of Texas' goals and ­­ or announced goals are          insufficiently concrete.              Can you give an example of what, in your         view, would be a sufficiently concrete criterion or set          of criteria to achieve diversity?                 MR. REIN: Well, and ­­ and certainly, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official Solicitor General's attempted to do so by breaking down         the abstract goals into concrete objectives. One goal         that certainly Grutter respects is, if you have studied         your campus and you believe there's an inadequate        exchange of views, and the minorities feel so isolated         they cannot properly bring to bear their perspective on         the campus, you can look at measures of how successful          are we in this kind of dialogue and try to investigate           that, and try to say, okay, is there a level ­­ you             know, when do we reach a level of critical mass, which            is the term in Grutter, where that exchange is vibrant          and is taking place on our campus. That's one measure.                       understand.                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I don't         How do you do that?     MR. REIN: It's not easy to do, and it's not           our job to do it. I mean, we're not here to tell them               how to do it, but your ­­ if one wanted to endeavor to             try to find this kind of concrete level, we're not          saying quota, but we are saying you have to ­­ you, the            university, if you want to use this forbidden tool, this          odious classification, you've got to find a way to do           it. You've got to be able to explain what your concrete            objective is. Why ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: Are there any critical mass        Alderson Reporting Company Official studies that you can refer to? I mean, are there ­­                                    MR. REIN: None that I know about.         JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ scientific studies where       you know at what point you suddenly have enough of a           mass?                         base it on?   MR. REIN: No. And ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: So what did the university                    MR. REIN: The university based it on two         things. It was short of the demographics of the high           school graduating class, which is measurable but not        legitimate, and it claimed that it was basing it on this           classroom, small­class study which they had conducted       previously, which indicated that minorities were not       present to the ­­ their satisfaction in a lot of small            classes. That ­­                                       JUSTICE BREYER: Seven year ­­ sorry.       JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me.     To their satisfaction. I'm asking: On what         do they base their satisfaction? On what do they base?           Like, percent, percent?                 MR. REIN: They premised it on good faith,         and that was accepted in the Fifth Circuit on the first           iteration of this case, and this Court said good faith          does not suffice. So ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I thought         that the study they did showed that in , they had           more participation in these smaller classes. I don't          know if they're really small when they're somewhere        between eight and people. That was a ­­ but there             were more of those classes in than in or '            when they were looking at that study.                   It would seem to me that that suggests that         there's less ­­ what they took from it, that there's          less exchange of ideas in a classroom rather than more,           based on this race­neutral policy.                             MR. REIN: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's wrong ­­ since       you have to infer these things, you can't use a quota.                        MR. REIN: Let me ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're saying we      can't ­­ they can't use demographics. So they use a           study that shows there's less classes. There's less         people in classes. They talk to administrators,        faculty, and students. They're having racial incidents        on campus where students of color are complaining that         they feel isolated, that stereotyping is going on, on         campus.             What more do they need?                 MR. REIN: Let me start with your first         Alderson Reporting Company Official concern, which is this classroom study.                    First thing I would observe about that if I        were in their position, and I'm not, is that the second           study was done at a time when there were more minorities            admitted than the first study, and they claimed it went          backwards. So that might tell me right away that the           problem ­­ the necessity for using race could not be          demonstrated for that, because when you ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. Because the ­­ the         necessity is not the necessity you're talking about.        It's the ­­ as I read it. I mean, you use words like                "critical mass" and so forth. It sounds like a cloud of             sort of you don't know what they're talking, but as I           read further into it, it becomes quite specific, that         is, percent of the students are at this university          because they were in the top percent of their class.           And it doesn't take long before students and faculty in          particular situations know who is who. percent of          the students in that class are admitted; they're good         students, not in the top percent on the basis of           leadership, activities, awards, work experience,     community service, family's economic status, school      status, family responsibilities, single­parent home,     languages other than English spoken at home, SAT score         relative to school's average and race occasionally, too.        Alderson Reporting Company Official Okay? We're talking about that percent. And it           won't take long before students in a class see that in            that percent, which means you aren't just in the top            percent of your class, in that percent there is           hardly anybody who is African­American or Hispanic. And         the ­­ and seven years of experience with that kind of           thing led the faculty at meetings, administrators, and        others to say, we should do more to see that that            percent has occasionally somebody who is a minority.                     faculty ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Does anybody but the       JUSTICE BREYER: That's what their program       is. It isn't something like critical mass, et cetera.          And ­­ and ­­ and if you have to say, it seems to me,              why is that not a diversity­related judgment of what is           necessary?             that.             MR. REIN: So, Justice Breyer, let me answer         First of all, one thing your question       establishes quite clearly is if one assumes premises        from evidence that doesn't exist, you can draw        conclusions that are perhaps invalid.                 So let me go back to ­­ to where you          started. You say these people are admitted on the basis           of the various PAI factors, which you read. That's not           Alderson Reporting Company Official how they're admitted. That PAI is only part of the           admissions criteria.                          JUSTICE BREYER: Well ­­    MR. REIN: And it's not truly holistic        because in the holistic systems, you look at the person          as a whole. Here you could have the most wonderful PAI             and never come close to admission, because they use the          AI independently. So they're not admitted ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Every school is like that.        Every school in the country that's a college that I've           ever experienced is a combination of grades, class         position, and a lot of other things.                                MR. REIN: But ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: So I'm talking about people        who aren't admitted; percent are, solely on the basis          of class ranking.               MR. REIN: Yeah. And ­­ and then you assume           that people could identify them one from another.        They're ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: I was going to ask that.          Does anybody, except the faculty, know who       this elite percent is?                             MR. REIN: No.    JUSTICE SCALIA: And all of the percent         people identified themselves?   Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. REIN: No. They do not.        JUSTICE SCALIA: They go around in bunches,                                hey, I'm one of the percent?                               MR. REIN: They don't, and ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: They don't know who the         percent are, do they?                MR. REIN: ­­ and the level of admission to          the faculty at the university subgroup in which they         study, whether it's business or communications, there       it's all done by AI/PAI. They're all ­­                                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ­­      MR. REIN: They're all done equally.       JUSTICE ALITO: Could I come back to the          issue of classroom diversity? Because that does seem to          me to be something that could be measured. And maybe           there's evidence in the record that measures it. I          don't know. So that's what I want to ask you. But the               University knows which students, even if ­­ assuming        that the students don't know, this University knows        which students were admitted because they were in the         top percent and which were not.                   And presumably they have a record of all of          the classes and which students enrolled in which        classes. And so it would seem to me to be possible to             determine whether the students who were admitted under        Alderson Reporting Company Official the percent plan were less likely to choose to enroll           in the classes in which minorities are underrepresented        than the students who were admitted under holistic        review. Now, maybe that's in the record. I haven't            found it. Is there anything in the record to show that?                        MR. REIN: The best of the record, because         they didn't study that specifically. When they did the          classroom study, they ­­ they did not try to distinguish          who was in the class. It was just a number count by ­­              by classification, how many minorities of this kind, how         many of that kind. They counted African­Americans.        They counted Hispanic students, or ­­ and they counted         Asians in that study, but they counted them by race.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't want ­­ I don't           want to pre­demit this line of questioning because I         think it's important and we're well into the substantive         issues.             May I begin with almost a procedural point:          Did you object to the University's request that this         case be remanded to the district court?                   Circuit.                         MR. REIN: We did in ­­ in the Fifth          JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the Fifth Circuit.       It does seem to me, as Justice Alito's        question, and frankly some of the other questions have         Alderson Reporting Company Official indicated, that the litigants, and frankly this Court,        have been denied the advantage and the perspective that         would be gained if there would be additional        fact­finding under the instructions that Fisher sought       to give. And that just ­­ we're just arguing the same            case.                         happened.                         MR. REIN: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's as if nothing had        MR. REIN: And ­­ and the reason for that ­­          JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I ­­ it seems to me           that Justice Alito's question indicates that this is the         kind of thing that we should know but we don't know.                       MR. REIN: Well, let ­­ let me point out          that the ­­ the purpose of strict scrutiny is not just           to adjudicate. It is to instruct the University that          before you use the odious classification, before you        employ race, you ought to know these things. If you're           going to depend on them, you ought to study them and           know them. So the failure to do that so there is no             evidence is not just because they didn't put it in ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they weren't given the        chance to add additional evidence in order to meet that          standard.             MR. REIN: Well, they can't go back and         Alderson Reporting Company Official recreate the past. They can't ­­ they have put in all            the evidence available to them about ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they could answer some        of the questions as ­­ like the ones Justice Alito          added. And I think it's a very important point.                        MR. REIN: They could ­­ I mean, but they'd           have to go back and study the conditions at the time           they made the decision. And I think that the failure to             do that kind of thing indicates that the retreat to race           was reflexive; was done on the day Grutter came down.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: Not only that. Also the         failure to put it in. It was their burden to put it in,              wasn't it?                          MR. REIN: Yes. And they knew that ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: So we're going to say, oh,         they failed to put it in. Let's give them another           chance.                                                 MR. REIN: Well, procedurally ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Let's do a do­over.        MR. REIN: They ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: Send it back down so they         can now put in what they should have put in in order to             prevail the first time around.                 MR. REIN: And that I ­­ I entirely agree            with that. And in ­­ in fairness, they knew that the            Alderson Reporting Company Official standard was strict scrutiny. Grutter had said strict         scrutiny. Bakke said strict scrutiny. It was no          surprise.             And Justice Alito, more directly, the      evidence we did find in the record indicated that where          the most selective schools were concerned, which would        then lead you to the smaller classes, more of the top           ten minorities enrolled in that than the added        minorities that they derived ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the issue in this case         is not whether the University can have holistic review.                                 MR. REIN: Correct.    JUSTICE ALITO: The issue is whether they        can have as a component of holistic review after they           have taken into account other characteristics that are        not dependent on race; they can add race as an          additional characteristic.              And so if it were ­­ is there ­­ would there           be any way of determining, if there were a remand, which            of the non­top admittees were admitted solely because         of race? In other words, these students would not have           been admitted taking into account leadership and family,        education and socioeconomic background and hardship and       everything else.              MR. REIN: According to the University of        Alderson Reporting Company Official Texas, the answer to that is no. They cannot make that            determination because, in their view, race is       contextual. You cannot sort out those who could have          made it without race from those who didn't.                    And ­­ and just in response to Justice        Breyer, as fact of record, prior to the invocation of          race, percent of the non­top admits were ­­ were           the minorities who later benefitted from race.                   So it was not devoid of admits who were         Hispanic or ­­ or African­American. It was producing          percent, a marginal increase out of race was, if you try            to measure it, very small. And ­­ and I could think of              reasons for that, but ­­ so they couldn't put that in.           They denied that you could ever identify those students.         So that would be a fruitless pursuit unless they          completely change everything they said before.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: May I ask ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Could you associate       a number with "the very small"? I guess it would be the              number of students who were admitted with the        consideration of race who were not also ­­                                           MR. REIN: Correct.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah.     MR. REIN: That would be the measurement.        And ­­ and there's no perfect answer to that when the           Alderson Reporting Company Official University says they can't identify them. But what we          did is we looked at the historic period in which they           were using the PAI, without reference to race, and         compared that to the percentage admitted of the total         student body of those admits in the period when they          were using race, and they compare ­­ this is about a two             and a half percent difference, so it's very small. And            you would ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Two and a half         percent difference in entering class numbers or number        of minorities admitted?               MR. REIN: Number of minorities. You can         measure it either way by enrollment or admission. It's          still going to be a very small number. It doesn't            make ­­ it's statistically lost. So it's a very small            increment. And of course, you ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The number is       important to me. Is it ­­ is what any ­­                                  MR. REIN: It's under ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I can ask your         friend on the other side, but ­­                              ­­            MR. REIN: It's under percent.        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Of what? Of numbers         MR. REIN: Of total admits or the ­­ and the           Alderson Reporting Company Official total enrollees both. And Judge Garza actually premised         it.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Of the minority students.       Of blacks in that ­­                MR. REIN: Of the class itself. So what          percentage of ­­ yes. Let me be very clear. What            you're trying to measure is to what extent did the use           of race boost over the use of the PAI on a nonracial             basis.             you said ­­  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I thought                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But in Parents ­­ in         Parents Involved, you indicated that at some point the         actual benefit of the program turns out to be not really           worth the very difficult decision to allow race to be          considered if at the end of the day it generates a           certain number. And I'm trying to figure out what that           number is.              MR. REIN: And ­­ and I am saying that, as            we said in our briefs, and we tried to ­­ there's no            perfect measurement because you don't have them running        simultaneously.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. Right.                   MR. REIN: But if you tried to do it by           looking at the results when using the PAI, but not race,           Alderson Reporting Company Official versus the results both at the admission and enrollment         stage of using the PAI affected by race, it's a ­­ it's             under percent. And it's again ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm not sure         where you get that number. As I look at it, between              and ­­ ', it nearly doubled from . of the            holistic class to .. For Hispanic students ­­ that's          for blacks ­­ it went from . to .. I don't think              that's ­­ that small a change.                   In , two ­­ percent of all black         students and percent of all Hispanic students were         offered admission through holistic review. Black and        Hispanic admission and enrollment rates have increased       since . This is on ­­ on holistic review. The only             exception was , and that was because percent of          the class came in under the percent plan.                     MR. REIN: Well, you know ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When your number ­­                  MR. REIN: ­­ when you ­­ when you use          numbers about ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that's not small.                   MR. REIN: ­­ admission on holistic review,        that incorporates the ones who would have made it         without race, so it's not a valid comparative number.                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The ones who would        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­­ the ones who would have made it ­­                    MR. REIN: ­­ without race are incorporated        in, quote, "holistic review." So those numbers really         don't tell you anything about the effect of race. They           don't ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, wait a minute. I          don't understand how that can be. If the number           was that much lower than the number, race has to           have some input in that fact ­­ in that ­­                     MR. REIN: It ­­ it has some effect. That's           what UT says. They haven't measured, and say they can't           measure the effect. You're dealing with different        classes.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you a         different question now? I fear something. I know there             is an educational debate on the benefits and costs of a            percent plan. I don't want to get into that debate,             but I do have a worry, which is: If you're reading              proof of a compelling need, or proof of a compelling            need, will any holistic review ever survive?                   Because as I'm reading your answer, to       narrowly tailor, schools have to use nonracial means of         doing it. And if the percent plan is the only thing             that achieves a greater number in minorities, won't         every school have to use a percent plan?          Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. REIN: We're not, certainly, trying to        dictate that every school use a percent plan, nor is            it the only way in which you can encourage and increase           minority enrollment. So I ­­ I don't accept that            premise.             Strict scrutiny is a ­­ a heavy burden. And            the purpose of strict scrutiny as to recognize that the          base ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your answer is yes.        If there's no other ­­                            MR. REIN: No. I ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ way of doing it, then         the only other race­neutral way ­­ if offering        scholarships, which this university did, increasing      outreach to minority neighborhoods, they did and       continue to do ­­ there's a list of about six or eight             other things they did that didn't increase the admission         of minorities.              MR. REIN: There are many other things they         could do. We're not trying to tell them how to run it.             I mean, clearly one of the things they could do is ­­           even in the PAI, they recognize that by emphasizing, as          they did at first, the two essay scores, which are          strictly composition, grammar, that ­­ that is as        culturally biased as you can get it. It ­­ it makes it             Alderson Reporting Company Official difficult for those who have gone through an inferior         secondary program to excel.                So they cut that score to three. They could          cut it to two. They could ­­ they could take measures            which were aimed at looking at potential deficiencies in         initial education because you come from a home where          there isn't a college­educated person and say, we're         going to take those further into account because they         apply equally without regard to race.                  with ­­             So there are many things they could do        JUSTICE BREYER: No, but that's exactly the        question, I think. I would ­­ I can put the same               question ­­ or suppose we do send it back to the           district court and, put in more evidence, we tell them.          Suppose we did that. And suppose they start with the           basic plan where we want to use race is in the            percent of the holistic area. We want to do that.                        Now, they're using the chart ­­ and I've        seen the chart ­­ of the factors that are one, two,           three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven,         twelve. You know, using that chart. I've seen the           chart. And at the bottom of the chart in my list is the              word "race." It says "race," r­a­c­e.                   Okay? Alderson Reporting Company Official             What kind of evidence, in your opinion,       could they or anyone else with any roughly similar plan          put in that would show, in your view, that this is           constitutional?             MR. REIN: Well, I mean, you have the          example of Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke. And that          says that if you're looking at the whole person and          you're comparing individuals one to another to say who         will best suit the educational need of the class, then          you take account of a person's race. It's part of            the ­­ the exercise.                You don't isolate it, because if you look at         Justice Bakke's example, he's got A and B, two minority           African­American students, and C. And he says,        depending where the class stands in the overall        composition of this learning entity, you might choose A         under one circumstance; vice versa, you might choose B;         and sometimes you'll choose C without regard to race.          So he's looking at it as a way of looking at the             totality of a person, all of their achievements,         academic and otherwise.               So you ­­ so Bakke's systems are not at         issue here, nor is the top at issue. That's ­­ that             was accepted in this case. No one challenged it.                      So I'm saying you don't have to do the top          Alderson Reporting Company Official . You can ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So we have one.          But I'm looking ­­               MR. REIN: Justice Breyer, you can achieve        this small increment of under percent, in our view, by            a number of alternatives that would ­­ would ­­ would          give this same boost. These are the race ­­ racially           alternative neutral alternatives.                                       JUSTICE BREYER: I have one. I have one.            MR. REIN: But not ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: What you're saying is you        should look at the two folders, and as a kind of            tiebreaker, use race. That, to you, is okay.                     Now, is there ­­ you said there is several         others? It would be helpful if you ­­ if you can            summarize them in a sentence, so I get an idea of what              the others are.               MR. REIN: You could ­­ you could give more          emphasis to the socioeconomic factors in the school.                    JUSTICE BREYER: That's not to use race.        I'm saying r­a­c­e, race. I want to know which are the             things they could do that, in your view, would be okay.           Because I'm really trying to find out. Not fatal in           fact, we've said. Okay? Not fatal in fact. Fine.                        What are the things, in your view, that they         Alderson Reporting Company Official could do so it is not fatal in fact?                     MR. REIN: And what I've said first is they          could shape their system more toward the Bakke system,         and move toward individualized consideration. That's       one thing. That's not fatal in fact, because this Court           endorsed the ­­ the view that Justice Powell took of the           Harvard system in Bakke. So that's one.                    They could expand the top . That's        another alternative. That's ­­ that's available.                   They could ­­ as I said, they could rescore          some of this ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the top , you said         it doesn't use race. Justice Breyer is asking, you say           yes, race can be a factor. It was a factor in Bakke.               It was a factor in Grutter. And so far, you're saying             that now it can be a factor only if what?                         I mean, we're not talking about so­called      neutral factors. We're talking about ­­                  MR. REIN: Well, I mean, the first question          is, you know, why are you using it? The why.           Therefore, it can be a factor. You have to clarify the             objective, you have to show the necessity, and you have          to show that, if you, as ­­ as they do, live with and             accept, over time, a very small increment in a very            small segment of the class, that you can't get it done           Alderson Reporting Company Official any other way.                           JUSTICE GINSBURG: I ­­     MR. REIN: Because race is not the baseline.         It's an odious classification. That's where we differ.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: As I understand what you're         saying, the Bakke approach ­­ comparing two individuals        and ­­ and ­­ and, where they're tied, giving a ­­ a             benefit to one for race ­­ that's okay. Regardless of           whether there are any other means ­­                              MR. REIN: No ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ of achieving the ­­ the         racial balance that you're looking for. Right?                    MR. REIN: Well, Justice Powell indicated in        Bakke that that approach could be used where it's part          of a greater function form in the class.                     But ­­                                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Understand. Understand.      MR. REIN: And that ­­ and the Court has ­­          JUSTICE SCALIA: But you ­­ you don't ­­        MR. REIN: ­­ apparently accepted. We're        not challenging it here.                JUSTICE SCALIA: You don't have to apply the         question whether it could possibly be done in any other          way. But you're saying anything beyond that, anything         else, you have to establish first that it couldn't be          Alderson Reporting Company Official done another way that doesn't take into account race,         such as expanding the ­­ top percent to the top             percent.                                      MR. REIN: That is correct.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Right?    MR. REIN: And it's not just me,        Justice Scalia. That's what this Court said in the          prior opinion.                          JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what I thought.        MR. REIN: They had ­­ it has to be shown to            be necessary.              And of course, that's true of all strict        scrutiny. And the Court said in the prior opinion that           it's other strict scrutiny opinions, such as Adarand,        were applicable here. This is not detached. It's not           different.             Strict scrutiny is a heavy burden. There's         no question about it. That's why it's strict scrutiny.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there any evidence that        the holistic review being used by UT operates as a          quota?             MR. REIN: I ­­ you know, I'm ­­ we have not             claimed that, but since so much of it is masked and           hidden ­­ but ­­ but if ­­ certainly if you're          motivated, as they said, by demographics, they want to         Alderson Reporting Company Official get the number up, it's certainly number­driven.                   And if you look at ­­ one thing this Court          said in Grutter, you have to have a basis to review            this, because you would like to make it end. There has            to be an end point. So in ­­ if you can't find your              objectives, you have no endpoint.                 But more important, you look at what are        they looking at. What are they measuring each year?          And they're measuring numbers. They want those numbers         to go up. That's what they care about. That's what            this system does.               So whether it's a quota in the strict sense,          to wit, we have a ­­ a definite target, their target may              be equating with the population ­­ the high school         population. I mean, today they're a majority­minority          campus, the real world. They've ­­ they've        gone because ­­ just because of the ­­ the ­­ the           demographics of high school.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, because your       time is running out, there is one preliminary question         I'd like you to address, and that is: What is the            relief you're seeking? I take it not injunctive,          because Ms. Fisher has graduated.                             MR. REIN: Correct.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: And you have no class.        Alderson Reporting Company Official So what ­­ what specific relief are you seeking in this           case?             MR. REIN: This case started with a plea for           damages. The damages plea is live. It has never been            challenged.             consist of?              JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what do the damages        MR. REIN: They were ­­ the damages        consisted of a ­­ a refund of the unjustly­committed fee            for application. That was the direct ­­ one specified          application. We also asked for other just and further          relief, because at that point of the case, we didn't          know anything for certain; to wit, if she was admitted,          it would be one thing. If she wasn't ­­ weren't           admitted, there would be other damages arising from her         failure to be admitted. And we realized that was a           separate issue. We reserved on it. We ­­ we've ­­                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: If the ­­ if the        university should say, okay, the application fee and        whatever else we add to that, we ­­ we offer that so            that this contest will be over; if they offered you the           damages that you are seeking, would the case become         moot?             MR. REIN: No. And the reason is the          damages we are seeking were broader than that. That was           Alderson Reporting Company Official the specific item of damage that was pleaded. They          didn't challenge it under (b)().                                         JUSTICE GINSBURG: What are ­­     MR. REIN: They answered ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ what are the broad ­­        what are the broader? You gave me the application fee.                        MR. REIN: Well, now, Ms. Fisher has not        been admitted, and that she has suffered the        consequences of nonadmission, which include she went to        an alternative university; she had to travel as opposed         to being in her home State. There is certainly good           information that within the State of Texas, a degree          from the University of Texas has consequences and        earnings down the road, and that's measurable. And she          doesn't have that benefit.                All of those elements, which were not part        of the case originally, because we were trying to enjoin          in a way that would have her admitted, now she's not            admitted. That changes the complexion of the case.                     That's why we bifurcated ­­ that's why we        reserved the right to amend within our broader plea for          all other just and relief.                 So in terms of just standing, we have an         existing claim. They haven't paid us. They threatened          to do that on the first Petition for Cert. They never            Alderson Reporting Company Official did it. They didn't tender it. We have an existing            claim. We have broader claims that are inchoate,         because we haven't yet reached the stage of litigating         remedy and damages. So the case continues. There is           standing ­­ unquestioned standing in this case.                               Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose ­­ I         suppose if they tender it, you don't have to accept it           either, right?                                                              MR. REIN: Correct.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.       MR. REIN: I'll reserve the rest of my time.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Garre.      ORAL ARGUMENT OF GREGORY G. GARRE                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. GARRE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  To pick up on the questions this morning,        I'd like to focus on three things. One, why the record            supports the Texas legislature's conclusion in that        the holistic plan at issue was a necessary complement to           the State's Top Percent Law; two, why the record          shows that Texas's holistic policy has had a meaningful          impact on diversity at the University of Texas; and,         three, why the record absolutely forecloses any claim        Alderson Reporting Company Official that University of Texas has adopted a quota.                     With respect to the first question of       necessity, there are three principle ways in which the         record shows that the plan at issue was a necessary           complement. First, as Justice Breyer mentioned, there        is a significant portion of the admissions pool, all          out­of­State students, all students from Texas high       schools that don't rank, some of the best high schools          in the State, and all students just below the top           percent who are nevertheless great students who aren't        eligible for admission under the top percent at all.          And the Fifth Circuit found that without the        consideration of race in the mix for those students,         admissions  would approach an all white enterprise.                  Secondly, the record in this case shows ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Just the        admissions  of people beyond the top percent?                   MR. GARRE: That's right, which is an        important component of the class, Your Honor.                   Justice ­­             Second, and I think this goes to your point,          JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on that point, can you         determine which of the holistic admittees would not have         been admitted if race was not added to the ­­ to the            determination? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GARRE: Okay. This goes to the         meaningful impact point, and I think there are several          ways to address it, Justice Alito.                  First, what you can do is you can look in          the increase in African­American and Hispanic holistic       admissions after the consideration of race was added.        And what you find is, is that in each year, , ,            , the percentage of African­American and Hispanics       admitted and enrolled under the holistic plan grew. In          fact, there was a percent ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: That's not really my       question. My question was if you look at an individual           person, can you tell whether that person was admitted         because ­­ solely because of race? Whether that person          would not have been admitted were it not for the fact           that the person was an African­American or Hispanic?                    MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I think, given the          contextualized and individualized nature of that      inquiry, that's going to be difficult. But I think the            record nevertheless answers your question because you       can show a marked increase in diversity under the plan           at issue. I just ­­ I've just explained to you how the              record confirms that holistic admissions of      African­Americans and Hispanics increased markedly in      each year.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             If you look at student body diversity       overall, African­American enrollment increased by two,      doubled from to from about percent to about             percent.              JUSTICE ALITO: What ­­ one of the things I          find troubling about your argument is the suggestion        that there is something deficient about the       African­American students and the Hispanic students who       are admitted under the top percent plan. They're not           dynamic. They're not leaders. They're not change         agents. And I don't know what the basis for that is.                                     MR. GARRE: Okay.    JUSTICE ALITO: It's ­­ really it's based on         a terrible stereotyping that ­­                            that ­­             MR. GARRE: Your Honor, it's ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: What is the basis for        MR. GARRE: It's exactly the opposite. This         Court has said time and again that you can't assume that           minorities think alike just because they have the same         skin color. What the University of Texas does is it           considers ­­ it takes into account the fact that people          who come from different experiences, different      backgrounds are going to have different contributions to        the class. If you had the situation where all the           Alderson Reporting Company Official out­of­State admits or most of the out­of­State admits        were coming predominantly from western States, then the        University of Texas and any university would try to get          out­of­State admits from other parts of the country        because it would want the ­­ both perspectives.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ maybe I       misapprehended either the question or the answer. But         you're the one that says race can be relevant. And then            in answer to Justice Alito's question, you say, oh,         that's stereotyping. It seems to me that you're         inconsistent.             MR. GARRE: No. What stereotyping, Your        Honor, is saying, that just because you get a sufficient           number of blacks or Hispanics under the percent plan          means that you can't look at the class holistically and          say, we're not getting a variety of perspectives among          African­Americans or Hispanics.               JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. But what is the basis          for saying that? That's what I don't understand. It's            kind of the assumption that if the ­­ if a student ­­ if              a black student or a Hispanic student is admitted as           part of the top percent plan, it has to be because            that student didn't have to compete against very many         whites and ­­ and Asians. In ­­ in the high school            class, it's a really pernicious stereotype.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GARRE: It's ­­ it's not a stereotype at           all, Your Honor. It's based on the undeniable fact          about the manner in which the top percent plan          operates. The Top Percent Law was enacted in          response to Hopwood, and there's nothing ­­ there's no         challenge to the law in this case that admits many          well­deserving students. But the fact is, is that ­­         that the way that the Top Percent Law admits minority           students is by admitting those students from the        lower­performing, racially identifiable schools.                And the way ­­ the reason we know that is          because if you look at the bill analysis decided by          Justice Ginsburg in her dissent the last time we were          here, that analysis specifically says on page ,        "Because of the persistence of segregation in this        State, minority students will be admitted under the top          percent plan."               JUSTICE ALITO: I don't doubt that that is          one of the things that it does, and I would have thought             that that would be something that you would regard as          beneficial.                         MR. GARRE: We ­­    JUSTICE ALITO: Wasn't that the ­­ the        reason for adopting affirmative action in the first        place because there are people who have been severely         Alderson Reporting Company Official disadvantaged through discrimination and ­­ and lack of        wealth, and they should be given a benefit in          admission ­­                         MR. GARRE: And the University ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ but that's one ­­ one of          the things that it does, but it's not the only thing           that it does.               MR. GARRE: Your Honor, the University of        Texas applauds those students. It wants those students.         Those students are admitted through holistic review as        well. Nevertheless, the University can look at an         incoming class and determine that not all the        perspectives among a particular class of students is         being represented. This is straight out of the Harvard          plan in Bakke ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: This is a statistic that         jumped out at me, which it seems to me contrary to the            stereotype on which the Fifth Circuit panel proceeds and         on which you proceed. Of the African­American and         Hispanic students who were admitted under the top         percent plan, percent had parents who had either a          bachelor's degree or a four­year degree. And for the           holistic admittees, African­Americans and Hispanics,     it's percent. This is from a Class of .                        So there isn't ­­ it seems to me it refutes          Alderson Reporting Company Official the idea that all of these minority students who were          admitted under ­­ or most of them admitted under the           percent plan come just from these predominantly        overwhelmingly black and Hispanic schools with poor       students. It's just ­­ it doesn't seem to be true.                       MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we've never claimed        that all of them do. That's a straw man argument. But              if you look at the data, what you would find, in           particular look at the profile that we cited in our           last brief on page , you do find that on balance,           there is a difference in background of the students,          African­American, Hispanic students, coming in through      the holistic plan versus the top percent plan. And           that's no surprise, given the obvious purpose of the top           percent plan. The purpose of the holistic review          plan is to take into account all considerations.                    JUSTICE BREYER: We know that ­­ can you ­­         can you say this? Let me read you two phrases from            Fisher I. The first phrase says this: "The decision to            pursue" ­­ and Fisher I, obviously, put together a court           of people who don't agree necessarily on affirmative        action. Generally we agreed on those words.                    Words : "The decision to pursue the        educational benefits that flow from student diversity is        in substantial measure an academic judgment to which        Alderson Reporting Company Official some, but not complete, judicial deference is proper."                    Okay?             Now, words No. : The University must        provide a, quote, "reasoned, principled explanation for       the academic decision to pursue diversity." Your plan         is pursuing diversity among the percent who are not          admitted under the Top Plan.                  Your principled, reasoned explanation for     that academic decision is?                MR. GARRE: Your Honor, it's set forth in         the proposal which is in the supplemental joint         appendix. It's elaborated by the deposition testimony.        Let me give you some ­­ a few pieces of that.                        Number one is, is the University made clear        it was pursuing the educational benefits of diversity in         the broad sense specifically recognized by this Court.        This is on pages through of the Supplemental Joint             Appendix.             Number two, the University made clear that       in its judgment the top percent plan, in particular          as it grew to crowd out the class, was compromising its           educational objectives. That's on page a and a of          the Supplemental Joint Appendix.                Number three, the University made clear that       because of the decrease in student body diversity under         Alderson Reporting Company Official the very race­neutral policies that our opponents are        asking this Court to impose, that additional measures        were necessary to make sure that it was achieving its          educational objectives.              All of that is laid out in far more detail,          frankly, than it was in Grutter or that it was in the            Harvard plan. It's amplified by the deposition        testimony. In particular, look at the testimony of         Ms. Iship and Mr. Walker. And I can elaborate that ­­                                                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And ­­     MR. GARRE: ­­ on that, if you would like.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And you're talking       about the plan?                            MR. GARRE: Yes, Your Honor.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Excuse me. One of         the things that it said is that you would review the           plan every five years. Has that happened?                    MR. GARRE: It absolutely has. We ­­ in the           record, Your Honor, it's established that we have        reviewed it on an annual basis. We reviewed it on a            five­year basis. I was personally involved in part of           that.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How did you       measure ­­ how did you measure whether or not the plan           was working ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GARRE: Your Honor ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ under the review                                that you undertook?               different ­­             MR. GARRE: We would look to a number of           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. What did you ­­         what did you look to?                 MR. GARRE: And ­­ and I'll answer that         question. We looked ­­ we looked both to student body           enrollment. We do look to classroom diversity. We look           at feedback from students; from faculty ­­ after all,         this is an academic judgment, as this Court said in the           Fisher case, and certainly said in the Grutter and the          Bakke case ­­ we look to ­­ to the racial climate,           including incidents. There's briefs before you in the         Black Students Association brief, Latino Organization      briefs ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. It's ­­ it's an          academic judgment, but the facts are not an academic         judgment.                         MR. GARRE: It's ­­ well ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: To say that, you know, if         the faculty thinks we're doing great, we must be doing          great. I mean, the facts are the facts. I don't think               we give the faculty a leg up on ­­ on what the facts              Alderson Reporting Company Official are.             MR. GARRE: And look at the facts, Your         Honor. In , you had African­American enrollees         out of a class of ,. Even Judge Garza recognized in             note of his decision that the University of Texas had           not achieved its critical mass or educational benefits        in . So I don't think that that seriously is            debatable. If it is, then we should have a remand and             an opportunity to put in more evidence ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're talking       about the time ­­ Grutter said that we did not expect           these sorts of programs to be around in years, and           that was ­­ years ago. Are ­­ are we going to hit               the deadline? Is this going to be done on ­­ in your             view in years?                MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I'm not here to give          you a date, but what I would say is this: There are               systematic problems that these problems ­­ that these        policies are attempting to address, including the test        score gap between ­­ between African­Americans and       Hispanics. And ­­ and the record in this case          overwhelmingly shows that without the addition of race,        student body diversity suffered, particularly among      African­Americans.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand. I         Alderson Reporting Company Official don't know whether that's a yes or no. But it was             important in the Grutter court that these were a         temporary ­­ as necessary, temporary expedience because       we're talking about giving you the extraordinary power        to consider race in making important decisions. And we          don't do that as a matter of ­­ matter of ­­                        MR. GARRE: And we ­­ we appreciate the ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ course.                  And so it was important in Grutter to say,         look, this can't go on forever, years. And when do            you think your program will be done?                   MR. GARRE: Your Honor, as soon as we ­­ we           can achieve the same ­­ sufficient numbers for the         educational benefits of diversity without taking race       into account, we will no longer take race into account.                      The strict­scrutiny inquiry focuses on     whether or not there are race­neutral alternatives,       which I think really is the way to police this. And in              this case, because it's backward­looking, you look to        whether or not the University policies in place for         seven years ­­ this is a distinct case. You have a             record of seven years of trying the race­neutral        alternatives that they're proposing, top percent,       plus race­blind holistic review. And the record tells         you what happened.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how ­­ what        percentage of the class is ­­ what legacy is that a           consideration for?              MR. GARRE: University of Texas does not do         legacy, Your Honor.                 But if you look at what happened ­­ and this        is the second reason why it's necessary ­­ it's ­­ it's           ­­ I don't think it's debatable that student body          diversity suffered at the University of Texas under the         policies that they're asking this Court to impose. And          in particular under African­Americans where you had       evidence of glaring racial isolation, certainly in the        classroom where percent of the classes, the most         common size, are zero or one African­American ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, on that subject, I        don't know of any ­­ you haven't mentioned in your          briefs anything that the University of Texas has done to          increase racial diversity at the classroom level, other        than this admissions program.                And I mentioned during your ­­ your friend's         argument a way in which you could determine whether the           top admittees are any more or less likely to enroll           in classes ­­ small classes where there is a lack of            racial diversity than the holistic admittees. And I         don't see ­­ and you haven't made any effort, as far as            Alderson Reporting Company Official I can tell, to measure that.                  MR. GARRE: Let me answer that in two ways.          One, doubling the enrollment of African­American      students, which happened from to , is going to          increase diversity in the classroom. And we've looked         at that, and it has.                 Secondly, with respect to diversity among      particular majors, University does take holistic      consideration of where ­­ which schools students are        admitted to as well. So its policy addresses that          concern as well.               But what the record does show, Your Honor,        conclusively, I think, is that diversity languished at         the University of Texas in the period where we had          race­blind holistic admissions plus the top percent,        and that the plan at issue here was necessary to          supplement that. The Texas legislature found that.                    JUSTICE ALITO: But I don't ­­ you could          have determined whether this is ­­ whether the        admission ­­ the addition of race to the holistic         equation has done anything to increase classroom       diversity.             MR. GARRE: It has.                 JUSTICE ALITO: And you haven't done that.                    MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we've looked at        Alderson Reporting Company Official that, in part, in the five­year analysis ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: No. As ­­ as comparing,         this goes back to your ­­ your underlying claim is          there's something deficient about the top admittees,        and I ­­ maybe ­­ if you have ­­ do you have evidence              that they are less likely to ­­ to enroll in the classes            where there's a lack of classroom diversity ­­                    MR. GARRE: There's a different breakdown        there, Your Honor. But I think there's two dimensions           to this diversity issue. One is just the glaring racial           isolation that existed, particularly among     African­Americans.             And then two is an effort, through the        addition of holistic review, to admit minorities from        different viewpoints, experiences, and perspectives.     That gets back right to the core of the essence of the            diversity embraced by this Court in Bakke.                   If you look at the Harvard brief in the         Bakke case, page , it specifically says, "Our        interests in the educational benefits of diversity would        not be met if all of minority students were ­­ were           coming from depressed socioeconomic backgrounds."                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I ­­ but that's where          I'm looking for evidence that that's true.                   MR. GARRE: And I would ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: What is it ­­ what is it ­­          have you looked at the top percent admittees, for          example, to see how many of them are leaders, which is           certainly ­­ and certainly a legitimate factor to look          for, students who are leaders.                 At ­­ do you say, well, there are ­­ there          are just not very many leaders here; these are students          who all they do is study. There's no evidence of that            as far as I can tell.                   MR. GARRE: I don't think it's ­­ it's          seriously debatable, but if we need evidence on this,         let us put it into the record that a class selected by             the holistic consideration of numerous factors is going        to be more diverse in a way that promotes the           University's educational interests than a class selected        by a single factor.                             And let me give you the deposition ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. That's        not ­­ that's not the question. It's whether students          selected under the holistic process without giving extra        points because of race.                MR. GARRE: And there's two problems with        that. One, they're not ­­ minority students are not          going to be selected. It's going to become, as the           Fifth Circuit found, essentially an all­white      Alderson Reporting Company Official enterprise. That's the first problem.                              And then the second ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait. What are you         telling me? The holistic process, if race is not          expressly considered, will not result in any minority        students?             MR. GARRE: No. It's not zero, Your Honor.          But take for example. African­Americans out of          a class of ,. That's glaring racial isolation.         University of Texas concluded that was unacceptable.       And I don't think that that's seriously debatable.                     But again, if we need more evidence on why         having percent of our classrooms of the most common          size was zero or one African­American doesn't achieve        our educational objectives ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what unique        ­­ what unique perspective does a minority student bring          to a physics class?                             MR. GARRE: Your Honor ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're counting      those among the classes in which there are no minority          students. And I'm just wondering what the benefits of          diversity are in that situation?                 MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we can talk about         different classes, but ­­ but this Court has ­­ has          Alderson Reporting Company Official accepted in Bakke and Grutter, and I think it accepted           again in Fisher I, that student body diversity is a          compelling interest.              Our friends do not ask this Court to rule ­­         overrule any aspect of Grutter or of Fisher or of          Bakke ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure we said it's         class by class.                           MR. GARRE: And we're not asking ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not sure we said it's         the case class by class.                 MR. GARRE: Your Honor, that's a caricature         of the University's interests here. We made clear in          the proposal and throughout ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: It's a caricature of the         argument you're making.               MR. GARRE: Student body ­­ classroom       diversity, Your Honor, if that's what you're focused on,         was one aspect that the University looked to. I mean,            the University is being hit by both sides here. Maybe           that's fair because of the nature of strict scrutiny.                     But on the one hand, we're going to look to          prove the way in which diversity was lacking with         diversity. And then on the other hand, every time we           point to something, our opponent seizes on it say,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ah­ha, that's your objective.                Our objective is the educational benefits of       diversity in the very way that this Court has recognized          for decades.                                      to ­­             Now, the other ­­   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: One of the ­­      MR. GARRE: Justice Kennedy, I didn't want         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I was going to ask:            What evidence would you have put in if you had been           successful in your motion to remand?                  And preliminary to that, I assume that        district court would have had authority to remand to ­­         to allow the summary judgment record to be expanded or          reopened?             MR. GARRE: Well, the court of appeals would         have had authority in our view. The district court ­­          again, this case is on ­­ here on summary judgment. I            mean, the first question is whether the ­­                                           JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand ­­      MR. GARRE: ­­ the triable issues at fact ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand. But ­­ but          I ­­ I ­­ but ­­ but why did you want a remand? Because                 you wanted to expand the summary judgment record? And          if so, what additional evidence would you have put in?          Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GARRE: Sure. If there are any         shortcomings that this Court sees, certainly what ­­ if         they ­­ if you feel that there are deficiencies in          looking on a more granular basis between the nature of           the holistic admits that are admitted, the unique        skills, qualities, talents that those admits bring as        change agents and bridge builders, we can put that         evidence in. We can put in additional evidence.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you ­­ but you asked         for the remand ­­                           MR. GARRE: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ and my question was:        What evidence did you propose to put in if your motion           had been granted?               MR. GARRE: Your Honor, we didn't ­­ we ­­         we ­­ we specifically pointed to evidence on standing,         and we talked about that, if the Court would like to           supplement the evidence in other respects. And I ­­ and            I think, frankly, we would be entitled to a remand.                       If you look at the Grutter case, for        example, this Court rejected the argument that the        percentage plan was an adequate substitute for the        holistic consideration of race. It didn't require        evidentiary findings on that. But if the Court thinks          these findings are necessary, then the University of        Alderson Reporting Company Official Texas can put in ­­ certainly put in additional evidence          in the record showing why these holistic students,        selected across the broad diversity recognized by Bakke,        contribute meaningfully to the class in this issue.                                            JUSTICE ALITO: I don't know what that ­­         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let me ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: I don't know what that         proves. Sure. I ­­ I'm sure that there are holistic             admittees who were great students. They made a         wonderful contribution to the university.                 I'll ­­ I don't know whether you're going to          be able to determine that they would have not ­­ they           would not have been admitted if race hadn't been taken          into account. They probably ­­ they would have ­­ many           of them would have been. Maybe all of them. But beyond             that, what is to say that there are not comparable          students who were among the top percent admittees? I           bet there are.               MR. GARRE: I ­­ I think certainly you can            conclude, Your Honor, that, where you have all        out­of­State students, all students from the best       schools in Texas that don't rank, students who fall just          below that percent but nevertheless are great        students, if we're not getting adequate diversity out of         the ­­ that class, special class of students, we're not          Alderson Reporting Company Official meeting our educational objectives.                If you have ­­ if you have doubts about         whether or not the record ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Garre, this is the        fundamental problem that I think Justice Alito is         pointing to, and you're sort of talking past each other.          So maybe I'll explain his view.                  (Laughter.)                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Strange, isn't that?      JUSTICE ALITO: I ­­ I could use ­­ I can              use the help.               (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think I'll explain        what his view is.                He seems to think that you didn't study the          percent admittees enough before ­­ to make ­­ to see           whether that group was diverse in and of itself, whether          you had enough people within that group that were change          agents, that were ­­ had ­­ were not just poor people,           but people with college­educated parents, whatever other       diverse view factors. He's ­­ I think he's saying, you            didn't look to see if the percent plan did enough for            you.             MR. GARRE: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And with deficits that       Alderson Reporting Company Official plan created, that you should have filled in the         holistic­looking. So he thinks it's fatally flawed.                                MR. GARRE: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right? Because of        that. So that's his view, I think.                                 So assuming that view, what's your answer?       JUSTICE ALITO: Well ­­ well, that's my        question. But ­­               (Laughter.)             MR. GARRE: Well, let me ­­ let me answer          that question.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know. He said it          wasn't, right?              MR. GARRE: First, we did look at that. We           had seven years of experience under the race­blind        holistic admissions policy. And what the university        found ­­ this is at page and a of the Supplemental            Joint Appendix ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That was with the ten ­­        so seven years ­­               MR. GARRE: Race­blind ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Race­blind ­­                MR. GARRE: ­­ race­blind holistic, and up        to ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ and a certain number         Alderson Reporting Company Official of them were with the percent ­­                   MR. GARRE: Absolutely. And what we found         was that, particularly as the top percent plan began          to grow and crowd out more of the admissions pool, the           university was not meeting its educational objectives.       That ­­ that's what it found specifically. It stated          that on page a of the Supplemental Joint Appendix.                     We also knew ­­ and it's interesting: The         Texas legislature found that the holistic plan was a         necessary complement. The Texas district court judge        did. The Texas Court of Appeals judge and his colleague           did. And all ­­ what all of them recognized is the            obvious way in which the top percent plan operates          with respect to ­­                           there's ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And if you did not have ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: That's right. But       JUSTICE KENNEDY: If ­­ if you did not have          the top percent plan, but you did have the program           that you're advocating for here, the holistic review,        would you have a better or worse chance of achieving the            diversity you seek?               MR. GARRE: Your Honor, I ­­ I think the            first thing I would like to say is that it's a different              way. And I don't mean to dodge the question by that.             Alderson Reporting Company Official             But what I would say is, if ­­ if that's a            meaningful difference, then this plan is ­­ is in an          even stronger light than the plan in Bakke and the          Harvard plan. Because the University of Texas has         heeded this Court's message. It's taken three­quarters        of the class that it selects through a facially          race­neutral system, the Top Percent Law. And what          we're here debating is whether or not it can complement          that policy by taking race into account for a quarter.                       Now, it may actually be that the university        could achieve more diversity through the pure       Grutter­Bakke­style plan, but we think, working with the        Texas legislature, we've come up with a hydrid ­­ hybrid           plan that works together to both ­­ to both address this           Court's concerns about using race too much in the         process, and addressing University of Texas's      legitimate, core academic concerns about compiling a       class that's diverse in all the ways that are         appreciated by Bakke.               If I could read one aspect of the deposition          testimony here. This is from Ms. Ishop on page a of            the Joint Appendix, and she explains why top percent          alone is not sufficient.                What she says is, quote, "Considering an       applicant on the basis of just their test score and          Alderson Reporting Company Official class rank leaves out all of that life experience and          circumstantial experience that an applicant faces. It's        also important not ­­ not only to how they developed and           the type of student they are, but also to what they           contribute to our campus." That's what the holistic         policy adds.              If you exclude race from that mix, you not         only aren't looking at the individual in all its         respects ­­ and race still does matter in Austin and          across this country ­­ but you're ­­ you're preventing         the university from rounding out its class from        complementing the single­minded way that the Top        Percent Law to achieve its diversity objectives in a way           that is narrowly tailored to its interests, which this         Court has found compelling.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, all of the colloquy        so far indicates to me that, if you had a remand, you             would not have put in much different or much more          evidence than we have in the record right now. Is           that ­­             MR. GARRE: Well ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ is that correct?                   MR. GARRE: No, it's not, Your Honor. I          mean, look, we think that the record is sufficient. We           think that the Fifth Circuit got it right.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             But ­­ but to be clear, we can certainly put          in plenty of additional evidence. I mean, there was a            trial in Grutter, as Your Honor pointed out in your          decision in Fisher I. There's been no trial here.                      There is, at a minimum ­­ if ­­ if ­­ if our             evidence doesn't cross the bar on strict scrutiny, at a          minimum, we put in triable issues of fact on whether or           not the holistic plan was a necessary offset, whether or           not the university was achieving its educational       objectives in an environment in which you had         African­American students enroll out of an incoming       class of ,, an environment in which percent of          the classrooms had ­­ the most common side had zero to           one.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why can't we make        those inferences from the record? I mean, if ­­ if you             had a trial, you'd have credibility. You'd have experts           and so forth ­­               MR. GARRE: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think you can               make those going in the university's favor. And one          aspect of that, frankly, is the two­court rule that this          Court usually applies. Both the district court and the          court of appeals looked at this and made findings ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: What you're saying, we ­­       we have a ­­ a remand only if we lose. I mean, that's                 Alderson Reporting Company Official what you're saying.               (Laughter.)             MR. GARRE: Well, I mean, I don't want to            be result­oriented about this, Your Honor. But ­­ but I           do think that ­­ that it's one thing to say in this            record there are no triable facts, where the ­­ the          courts below have gone that way. It's another thing to           second­guess. And ­­ and the Court can. It's a summary             judgment issue. But it's another thing, I think, to           overstep the conclusions of the district court and the         court of appeals here.                And ­­ and I think it's particularly        relevant here when it comes to the operation of the Top            Percent Law. Our friends have challenged the fact          that the Fifth Circuit discussed the way in which it          operated, saying that that's outside the record. If it          is, let us put all that evidence directly into the          record. But they've never disputed the way in which the           Top Percent Law operates.                 What ­­ what I'd like to say too is, if this           Court rules that University of Texas can't consider        race, or if it rules that universities that consider         race have to die a death of a thousand cuts for doing              so, we know exactly what's going to happen. Experience          tells us that.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             University ­­ this happened at the      University of Texas after the Hopwood case: Diversity         plummeted, especially among African­Americans.    Diversity plummeted at selective institutions in      California, Berkeley, and UCLA, after Prop . And         that is exactly what's taking place today at the         University of Michigan.               Now is not the time, and this is certainly         not the case ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: There are ­­ there are        those who contend that it does not benefit        African­Americans to ­­ to get them into the University         of Texas where they do not do well, as opposed to having            them go to a less­advanced school, a less ­­ a            slower­track school where they do well. One of ­­ one           of the briefs pointed out that ­­ that most of the ­­           most of the black scientists in this country don't come          from schools like the University of Texas.                               MR. GARRE: So this Court ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: They come from lesser       schools where they do not feel that they're ­­ that          they're being pushed ahead in ­­ in classes that are          too ­­ too fast for them.                              MR. GARRE: This Court ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm just not impressed by        Alderson Reporting Company Official the fact that ­­ that the University of Texas may have           fewer. Maybe it ought to have fewer. And maybe some ­­            you know, when you take more, the number of blacks,          really competent blacks admitted to lesser schools,       turns out to be less. And ­­ and I ­­ I don't think                it ­­ it ­­ it stands to reason that it's a good thing              for the University of Texas to admit as many blacks as           possible. I just don't think ­­                   MR. GARRE: This Court heard and rejected        that argument, with respect, Justice Scalia, in the        Grutter case, a case that our opponents haven't asked          this Court to overrule. If you look at the academic           performance of holistic minority admits versus the top         percent admits, over time, they ­­ they fare better.                      And, frankly, I don't think the solution to         the problems with student body diversity can be to set          up a system in which not only are minorities going to            separate schools, they're going to inferior schools. I         think what experience shows, at Texas, California, and        Michigan, is that now is not the time and this is not            the case to roll back student body diversity in America.                      Thank you, Your Honors.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.                   General Verrilli.          ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.       Alderson Reporting Company Official           FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:                   I'd like to make a point about the       compelling­interest inquiry in light of what this Court        said previously in Fisher, and then I'd like to make          point about the process aspect of the narrow­tailoring        inquiry in light of what this Court said in Fisher,          which I believe Justice Kennedy will address your         concerns about whether race is determinative here. And         then I'd like to move on to what I think this case comes              down to, which is whether the University has made a          sufficient showing of need to consider race in ­­ in its           process.             But before I make any of those points, Mr.          Chief Justice, I ­­ I can provide some specific detail            in response to the question you asked earlier related to          the parents­involved point.               Here are the numbers. With respect to        African­American students admitted through the holistic      part of the program, in , which was the last year           before race was expressly considered, that number was         admitted through that number. And that was the          high­water mark, really, of the period of ­­ of holistic          Alderson Reporting Company Official review without race.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In addition to       the ­­ this is in addition to the percent?                      GENERAL VERRILLI: Correct. This is just        the holistic numbers.               That number then moves up to the        following year, to the year after, and to in           . So the number of holistic admissions almost         doubles, and that results in ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But the problem, I        guess, which is one issue that we haven't looked at is           how do you tell how many of those ­­                                GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ would have been        admitted if their race were not ­­                  GENERAL VERRILLI: You're right ­­ you're       right that you can't tell for sure, but you do have a            pretty good benchmark, I think, given that you have a           number of years without considering race where was         the high­water mark. And so I do ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, wait a minute. The          next two years you recited it was going up, even when           race was considered.                           GENERAL VERRILLI: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: So you could have said        Alderson Reporting Company Official there ­­ there is a fluctuation before then, when race           wasn't considered. That might have gone up, too.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it went ­­ before        they started considering race, it went up and down,         frankly. But was the high­water mark. There wasn't           a consistent trajectory in those numbers.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there's an aspect of        the holistic review process done at the University of         Texas which may militate against the admission of        African­American and Hispanic students for a ­­ an         ostensibly race­neutral reason, and that is, that as I         understand it, standardized test scores count pretty       heavily in that process.                One of the things the University says it's        looking for is students with high SAT scores who are not           in the top percent of their class. And there are            many who think that SAT scores and ACT scores are          culturally biased. So if you put less emphasis on that,           you might not have the numbers that you just recited.                      Well, it's rather strange that we ­­ we        construct the process that may disadvantage      African­American and Hispanic students for an ostensibly       race­neutral reason. So then we have to add race in as            a special factor to counteract that.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: It's ­­ or I guess what          Alderson Reporting Company Official I'd say about that, Your Honor, is that in Grutter, what           the Court specifically held was that the University is         allowed to make those kinds of judgments in seeking to          advance multiple objectives to maintain an academic       environment of excellence, and to diversify the student        body, both.              JUSTICE ALITO: I thought the ­­ I thought           the record showed the top ten admittees have a higher           grade point average than the holistic African­American       and Hispanic admittees.               GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, the ­­ the SAT        scores are about the same. I'm not sure ­­                     to ­­                         JUSTICE ALITO: But, I mean, once they get          GENERAL VERRILLI: But I guess ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Once they get to ­­ the SAT          is supposed to predict how you are going to do in           college. And I thought the record showed that the           students who have lower SAT scores but did better as          a ­­ by measure by high school rank did better at the            University of Texas; isn't that ­­ isn't that the case?                      GENERAL VERRILLI: So I ­­ I'm not sure what           the answer to that is, Your Honor, but this all goes to            the compelling­interest inquiry, and let me focus on        that. Alderson Reporting Company Official             What the ­­ what the Court said last time         around is to satisfy the compelling­interest inquiry,       the University has got to articulate a reasoned,         principled explanation for its decision to consider the        educational benefits of diversity in a matter that this          Court has found to be constitutional and substantial.                    The University of Texas has met that       standard, has articulated exactly the same educational       benefits of diversity at exactly the same level of         specificity that this Court held constituted a       compelling interest in the Grutter case at page .         It's exactly the same.                And the ­­ the principal argument that my        friend Mr. Rein makes in challenging that is, well,         actually a lot of that is post hoc rationalization, in           particular, the effort to find whether you call it         qualitative diversity, diversity within diversity is all       post hoc rationalization, that is simply not so.                    If you look at page of the Supplemental          Joint Appendix, the first page of the Proposal, the          University specifically says that what it's trying to        accomplish is to create a diversity of perspectives         among minority students. It says it again at page in            that proposal. The Director of Admissions Declaration,        page of the Joint Appendix, says it ­­ it says it            Alderson Reporting Company Official throughout. So that there's no ­­ there's just no          argument that it's a post hoc rationalization.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Verrilli, do you ­­ you         think all of this won't be necessary in another          years ­­                         GENERAL VERRILLI: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ where we stop       disadvantaging some applicants because of their race.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: What I think about that         is that the ­­ the Court, I think, made a prediction             in ­­ in Grutter that that would hopefully be the case.                       JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's a ­­ that's           too short term. What do you think ­­                                            always ­­             GENERAL VERRILLI: I think ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ years?      GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the University's        JUSTICE SCALIA: What is it about this        program that is going to change things, so that ­­ so           that we can stop classifying people by race?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I ­­ I ­­ I think              the universities do make progress on this, and I think           you do get to a point where you create a virtuous cycle.              And ­­ and I think it does work, and I think that              there's ­­ there's ­­ and ­­ and I think there's ample            Alderson Reporting Company Official reason to ­­ to believe that it does work. And I think              the key point here with respect to compelling interests         is that this really is ­­ in ­­ in terms of having the             educational benefits diversity, that's in the heartland       of what the Court has said, is the area in which the            University's expertise and experience deserves     deference.             Now, if I could go to the process point,          with respect to ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Just before, you ­­ you        said ­­ I agreed with you, of course, that is what the             Court said, the reasoned explanation. And it also said          that this is a matter to which this Court will give            some, but not complete, deference to what the University         decides. What you're talking about is the need for the           program.             In addition to that ­­ and this is what I'd          like you to focus on, because there could be a question            of whether to send it back for more evidence or not. So             in looking through the record so far, on this specific          point, I found an affidavit by a person named Walker,            and that person named Walker described seven years of         efforts to measure this stuff; described meetings of the         faculties; described all kinds of discussions; described       conclusions of the faculty members, and the admissions        Alderson Reporting Company Official officers, and others, that you did need ­­ you did need           affirmative action in the percent of the not ­­ of ­­           of the holistic part.                Now, given that that's there, and I found         nothing to the contrary, is there a need for another ­­           I mean, this is a loaded question, but I am curious. If               you say "yes," because ­­ I mean, you know, there may be             something that you should put in as well. You may think            it would help to put something in. You may think it's            not necessary. But just to be safe, what do you think?                                    GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Is that affidavit the       relevant one? Are there others?                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah. I think ­­ I          believe that's the affidavit from the director of        admissions. And it is highly relevant, and there is          other information. In the latter part of our brief, we           documented it.              We think ­­ you know, our view, we argued         for affirmance. We think it's sufficient. But if there           is doubt, I do think the additional kind of information           that might be developed in this case would be to look at            the kinds of questions that the Chief Justice was         actually asking about, how did the ­­ how has the          program worked in practice over the period of time in          Alderson Reporting Company Official which it's been implemented. And I think that would be            additional relevant information that might help make the        judgment.             If I could go to the process point, and then           I will return to the need point.                   Process ­­ what the Court said last time        around in this case was that the Court had to ensure           itself without deference that the process provided for        individualized consideration and that race did not       predominate.             Again, the University of Texas' plan has       every one of what the Court in Grutter at page said            were the hallmarks of a narrowly tailored plan. No           quota. Everybody competes against everybody else. No         automatic award of points. Modest factor.                   And in addition ­­ and this goes to your         question, Justice Kennedy, about whether there is an        argument here that race is determinative ­­ Texas is         different from the University of Michigan's law school        plan in every one of the four ways that Your Honor           identified as ­­ as being potentially troublesome and        making race determinative.               Unlike in Michigan, in Texas the percentage       of African­American and Hispanics admitted does not       mirror the percentage who applied. It's different.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             Unlike Texas, the number ­­ excuse me.       Unlike Michigan, the number in Texas of ­­ of admissions          fluctuates year over year. It's not the same every          year.             Unlike in Michigan, the bulk of Hispanic and        African­American students admitted don't come from a       small subset of the pool that's admitted after most are          admitted based on grades.                And unlike in Michigan, the ­­ there ­­ the         admissions officers don't monitor the process all the        way along, which would, as Your Honor suggested, perhaps         create the risk that race would become determinative in         latter States' admissions. None of that is true here.                                  So ­­ so I think with respect to ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If none of that is         true, how does the University know when it has achieved          its objective?                          GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At what point does        it say, okay, the plan has worked?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: So I think ­­ I was           trying to address process, and I ­­ and I'll go right            now to need, which I think is ­­ is ­­ I really do think                that you're right, Mr. Chief Justice. That's what the          case comes down to.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I will answer your question directly,        but I first want to make a point about how you don't ­­              how you shouldn't do it. And you shouldn't do it the            way the Petitioner has suggested you should do it.                     What the Petitioner has said is that the ­­        in order to ­­ in order to assess need, and the ­­ and             the only way to meet ­­ meet the need portion of the            strict­scrutiny analysis, is for the University to set        a, quote, "demographic goal." That's the Petitioner's        language. And then test whether or not they've made          that goal.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So how ­­                    GENERAL VERRILLI: And so ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ how should they        do it?              GENERAL VERRILLI: So the ­­ the ­­ and the          reason, of course, that that's no good is that that's          just a Catch­.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. I        understand you disagree with their proposal.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­ so here's how you         should do it, and we've ­­ we've laid it out in our            brief: We think that the approach ­­ we think that           approach is always going to be fatal in fact because, if           they don't ­­ they ­­ they fail strict scrutiny if          Alderson Reporting Company Official they ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know you don't         agree with their approach.                (Laughter.)             GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­ I promise you I'm           going to answer it. I just think these points are            important.             Then ­­ and so the ­­ with respect, we think          our approach is faithful to Fisher because it's not         always fatal in fact. What we say is that it's not            an ­­ a critical mass, numerical kind of analysis. We            say that what you do is you start with the University's           articulation of the educational benefits it's trying to        achieve. You require the University to state in         concrete terms what success will look like. You then          evaluate the evidence and analysis that the University        relied on in order to make the judgment that it isn't           where it needs to be and there ­­ and needs to consider            race ­­             the ­­             of ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm trying to get at         GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And so in the kinds          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ at a ­­ at a more             concrete ­­ and so to look at what they say they want            Alderson Reporting Company Official and see if they've done it, but how do you see it?                        GENERAL VERRILLI: And ­­ and you ­­ and so          the kind ­­ you would look for concrete evidence. You           know, well ­­ well­done classroom studies.      Well­designed surveys of student attitudes and faculty       attitudes. Graduation and retention rates. Are racial         incidents going up and down ­­ up or down on ­­ on            campus in frequency?               You ­­ you know, there could be a whole list           of them. But you would look at those. You would look             at ­­ you would look at those. You would look at the             University's analysis of those, and then you'd make a         judgment whether the University has substantiated its       case.             And the burden, of course, is on the        University. They've got to come in and convince you          that they've substantiated their case that they need to         consider race ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: And they ­­ they can do         that with evidence that ­­ and ­­ and of events that           occurred after the suit was brought?                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I ­­ I think          what ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I'm not quite sure          how that works.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure. I think that they          can ­­ and ­­ and as happened in Grutter, I think they             have ­­ the ­­ the interests that they rely on have to            be the interests that they contemporaneously identified       when they adopted the program. I don't think there's an            issue here on that.                But I think the evidence can include        evidence of how things are working in practice. For          example, if they adopt a system and it does result in            improvement, that does seem highly relevant and ­­ and         consistent with what the Court held in Grutter was         appropriate evidence.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The reason I ­­ I          think it's a matter of concern is ­­ what I heard from              Mr. Garre were a lot of numbers. He said, look, this is              why it's needed, and ­­ and, you know, we will know           we're doing better when the numbers look better.                    And I just wonder whether the idea of         surveys ­­ I looked at one of these surveys ­­ I don't              remember this record or the ­­ the prior one ­­ and I            have to say it was kind of sophomoric. I mean, do you              feel that you've had enough interactions ­­                              GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ with ­­ I mean,          that was ­­ this is consideration of race. It's a very             Alderson Reporting Company Official serious matter.                          GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And to pass out some         survey and see, I don't think is an adequate ­­                      GENERAL VERRILLI: It certainly wouldn't be       adequate by itself. It might be probative evidence in          combination with other probative evidence. But ­­ you         know, but the ­­ the question of classroom composition         is hard evidence.               And at some level, demographics are hard       evidence too, Mr. Chief Justice. When you're talking         about the African­American population at the University       of Texas in ­­ in Austin, you're talking about a          population of or kids in a class of ,, I think                the ­­ the idea that there is a material risk of racial             isolation in that situation is quite strong. The idea          that there is a material chance that lots and lots of            students are going to go ­­                 difference?                                                 with ?  JUSTICE SCALIA: is going to make the         GENERAL VERRILLI: It ­­ it ­­ it ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: ?    GENERAL VERRILLI: It might well ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: They wouldn't feel isolated       Alderson Reporting Company Official             GENERAL VERRILLI: It might well make a        significant difference.              And if I could, in the time I have           remaining, I'd like to just try to refocus the Court on           the importance of what's at stake here.                   As we told you in our brief, our military         leaders believe that it is imperative that we have         officer corps that are not only diverse but capable of          leading a diverse military, not only for effectiveness         but for the very legitimacy of sending our troops into          harm's way.              JUSTICE ALITO: But do you think that the         African­American and Hispanic students who were admitted       under the top percent plan make inferior officers         when compared to those who were admitted under holistic         review?             But I ­­               GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I don't. Not at all.           JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that the ­­        that the ROTC graduates from the University of Texas         make superior officers to those who ­­ who graduate         from, let's say, Texas A&M or Texas Tech?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: Here's what I think about         that, Justice Alito: I think that we want to make            sure ­­ and this military example is only one of the           Alderson Reporting Company Official important interests here. But with respect to that, we          want to make sure, not just that there are strong          African­American and Hispanic candidates in that ROTC       program, but that everybody who graduates from the ROTC         program, University of Texas ­­ white, black, Asian,        Hispanic ­­ everybody knows how to lead effectively in         a ­­ in a diverse environment in which they're going to            be leading diverse troops. That's the interest.                                And you can't achieve that ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Now, that's certainly      important, but to come back to my first question, is          there anything to suggest that the top percent         students are less likely to enroll in ROTC or, when they           do, they're not as good as the ­­ as the holistic           admittees?             GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I ­­ I think with            respect to the University of Texas in particular. But          I ­­ I'm also ­­ you know, what the Court is going to             say in this case obviously is going to apply to ­­          eventually to every university in the country.                   And this is an important interest for the        United States generally, that when you think about        what's at stake here, that the ­­ the interest in          ensuring that we have military officers who can lead a          diverse military force is critical.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             The interest in having law enforcement      officers who are not just diverse but who can operate          effectively within every racial and ethnic community in        highly charged situations is critically important.                  Corporate America has told you that having       a ­­ a ­­ a workforce that is able to function             effectively in diverse ­­ in diverse situations is        critical.             And what I would just say in conclusion is          that these are the considered judgments of people who         actually have the responsibility to ensure that the        vital functions of the government protecting the country        with the military and with law enforcement and the vital          functions of commerce ­­ these are the people who         actually have to make sure that those functions are         carried out. And this is their considered judgment, and          I submit it's ­­ it's worth considerable weight in your          analysis.             Thank you.              question.                         JUSTICE BREYER: If ­­ if I can ask a           GENERAL VERRILLI: Oh, I'm sorry.      JUSTICE BREYER: No. I'm glad you said         that. And ­­ and I ­­ this question will sound very             nitpicky and detailed and ­­ compared to what you were          Alderson Reporting Company Official talking about.              And I agree. I notice that the briefs in            this case are like the briefs in Grutter. And to me            that does suggest that people in the universities and         elsewhere are worried that we will, to use your         colleague's expression, kill affirmative action through      a death by a thousand cuts.                   We promised in Fisher I that we wouldn't.         That opinion by seven people reflected no one's views         perfectly. But that's what it says: Not fatal in fact.                        Okay. That's what I'm focusing on. It         seems to me there are two parts to that, whether we have            to send it back for another hearing or not.                     Part one you've dealt with. That's is there         a need? A matter which Fisher I says we will give some               but not complete deference to the University, and as you          say, we have ­­ you went through that.                    There is a second part which I want you to            address. The second part in Fisher, we said, there is           no deference due the University. On this part it's          called narrow tailoring.               You heard your friend on the other side        admit, he said, again. Maybe he believes it firmly.          Why use the word "admit"? He said that, in the plans of             Grutter and the plans of Bakke, those were okay in          Alderson Reporting Company Official respect to narrow tailoring because they did compare the         students one after another and use race as a plus           factor.             Now, what is there in this record that will         support the view that what Texas has done in respect to           narrow tailoring is no worse than, perhaps even better         than, what happened in Grutter or Bakke?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: So I ­­ I would point           Your Honor specifically to the declaration at pages a         and ­­ and a of the Joint Appendix of the           admissions director, in which he explains the way race         is considered in the University of Texas system. And          that explanation says expressly, at page , that race         is considered in exactly the same manner, and given         exactly the same consideration as every other special        circumstance's factor that the university considers as       part of its holistic review.                 That ­­ I think that shows you that actually          you know more about the way this program works than you           did about the program that you affirmed in Grutter, and          you have assurance based on that, and nothing in the          record contradicts it that that's the way it operates.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you. Thank        you, General.              Five minutes, Mr. Rein.    Alderson Reporting Company Official              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BERT REIN                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. REIN: Thank you, Chief Justice.       Let me first indicate that one of the        questions that's been asked repeatedly, as ­­ well, what         impact did the use of race actually have?                    Judge Garza ­­ and this is at Appendix         ­­ tried to make an estimate, because you can only           make an estimate, because UT didn't know, and they don't          know now. His estimate was that a very small number,            and it ­­ it's in his opinion. It's ­­ it's not only by              percentage, but it's by number, and that number is         insignificant relative ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think ­­ do you         think that change has to happen overnight? And do you           think it's ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me. Can I ­­ can I            hear what you were about to say? What are those           numbers? I was really curious to hear those numbers.                       MR. REIN: He assumed, at the outside, that         any of the admits that were actually African­American or         Hispanic outside the Top Ten, he said let me take that           assumption and see what it would add. And he said it            would constitute less than percent and . percent,          respectively, in ­­ of the entire ,­person case ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE GINSBURG: What are you reading       MR. REIN: But he did not ­­ can I finish?            JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you just tell me                    from?                         where you're reading from?                MR. REIN: This is Appendix to a. It           is Judge Garza's original dissent. This is ­­ this is           when ­­ and he repeated, essentially, the same point.         But he calculated, and he made different assumptions,        depending on how many of the admissions in the holistic          program one would assume would be different because of         race. Because no one knows, and that ­­ and that's part            of this.              And clearly, one ­­ and ­­ and ­­ I can read            you these numbers, but you can read them yourselves.         It's a very small number. And his most realistic           estimate was that it would yield only        African­Americans and Hispanic students in a class of          ,. So we're talking about a very small effect, even            with assumptions that ­­ that actually exist.                   You know, one point is it's small. The         second point, equally important, is no one knew because         they didn't study it.                And then ­­ then we get the same point on          this complementary, which was the big theme of the Fifth          Alderson Reporting Company Official Circuit, oh, it's a necessary complement. What does          that mean? One sense, you've got to have some plan if            you're going to cap the Top Ten at percent, so it's            necessary to do something. But that doesn't make it a           necessary complement.              When you really look what the Fifth Circuit        said, they said it's based on two assumptions: One, the           Top Ten are drawn from these minority high schools.         Where did they come up with that? They never studied           the pattern of the Top Ten admits.                   How do you know that a Hispanic or an          African­American student can't be in the Top Ten at what          they call an integrated, high­performing high school?       That's a stereotypical assumption.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I ­­ I ­­ what             you're saying, basically, is, is this is what the Fifth          Circuit concluded and which the school basically agrees,        okay? If you don't consider race, then holistic         percentage, whatever it is, is going to be virtually all          white.                                                             MR. REIN: And that is incorrect.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All white.     MR. REIN: And that is an assumption ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And to say ­­ no ­­        MR. REIN: ­­ that has no basis in this          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, but there is ­­       MR. REIN: It's a stereotypical ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it's not ­­      MR. REIN: ­­ assumption. That is what it          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not, because the       MR. REIN: With all deference ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that Justice ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Rein ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ Alito wants to rely        Let me finish my point.     He's right. For their educational needs,       record.                                                 is.             reality ­­                                                 on.                         there are competing criteria. They need to keep a          certain SAT, or whatever that's called, AI index, that         has to be high because of the quality they want to keep            the school at. That does discriminate against blacks on          some levels, because the difference in numbers are high.                     So if you have something like this,       you're ­­ what you're saying, basically, is, and what         he's proposing, is change your educational needs across        the board, and focus in only on race, and make sure that            your school is black, Hispanic, or whatever on numbers         Alderson Reporting Company Official that are going to reduce its educational quality.                    it?             That's basically what you're arguing, isn't      MR. REIN: No. And ­­ and to be fair, I            mean, the first thing I was just pointing out is that to             get to the conclusion of the Fifth Circuit, you have to           first assume the pattern of admits in the Top Ten, where           they come from, which was never established in the         record, never studied.               And the second is that you have to assume         that those coming from ­­ all students coming from these          integrated, high­performing high schools don't include,      in their Top percent, any minority.                                           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? What we know is ­­         MR. REIN: That's what he assumes.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the school doesn't       have enough ­­                          MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ no matter what it        does, it doesn't have enough numbers of black people.                     MR. REIN: That ­­ that comes back to the          fundamental point.              If we're just talking numbers, then you have        to show the compelling need for more numbers, so that ­­          one of the reasons for defining your compelling need is          Alderson Reporting Company Official that you have to then look at necessity in terms of the            need.             So as in Grutter, what they said was we have          insufficient numbers of minorities to provoke the       appropriate dialogue. When we look at the class as a           whole, we think we can do better if we introduce          different points of view. It's very individualized;        it's a small class.                 So you can then say, increasing numbers ­­       which they were certainly after, you know, from three to           ­­ will meet that compelling need.                   Since they never bothered to administer, you       know, to define the needs, it's really hard to say what           they were after and why numbers would or would not          satisfy, and whether the numbers they were generating,        which included percent of the so­called holistic        admits so it wasn't all white enterprise, why that         wouldn't work.              The key point is, you have to come to the          Court with the record. You can't make it up later,           because that would say do what you want, and when the           time comes, make it up. That's not ­­ no way to            litigate.             And in this case they said, we're ready for         summary judgment; we've put in everything we need. If          Alderson Reporting Company Official you look at their specific proffers ­­ and the court of           appeals, they said they wanted to take discovery. And          even Judge Higginbotham, their best friend, said, from        who? What does Ms. Fisher know about this? What are            you going to take discovery about? And he found no need            in this Court, all they say is, we'd like to reiterate           the benefits of diversity, but those were accepted, and         we'd like a few testimonials about students admitted         holistically without knowing whether they were the       beneficiaries of the race or not. You can't ­­ can't           litigate that way.                           Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A A&M : a.m : : : ABIGAIL : ability : able : : : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : abstract : academic : :, : : : : addition : : : : : : : additional :, : : : : : : : : address : : : : : : : addresses : : :, :,, : addressing : : : : adds : adequate : : :, adjudicate : administer : administrators : : admission : : : : :,,, : : : : : admissions : accept : : : accepted : : : : : : accomplish : account : : :, : : : : : :, : : achieve : : : : : : : : achieved : : achievements : achieves : achieving : : : : ACT : action : : : : activities : actual : Adarand : add : : : : : added : : Official Official: : ago : agree : : :, : :, :, : :,, : :,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : AI : : : : : AI/PAI : : :,, :, aimed : : : agreed : : agrees : ah­ha : ahead : AL : alike : admittees : Page  answer : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : answered : : answers : anybody :, :, : apart : : apparently : appeals : : APPEARANCES : : : : : : : Alito : : : : : :, : :, : admitting : adopt : adopted : : adopting : advance : advantage : advise : advocating : affidavit : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, :,, : applicable : applicant : : appendix :, : : : : :, : : : Alito's : : applauds : : :, affirmance : affirmative : : : : all­white : allow : : : : : : affirmed : allowed : alternative : : : :, : :, : : : African­American : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : America : : : : : : : : American : : : : : : : alternatives : amend : :, : : amicus : : :, :, : admit : : : applicants : application : :, : applied : applies : apply : : : appreciate : : appreciated : approach :, : :, :, appropriate : : admits :, : : :,, :, :, :, : : : : admitted : : :, : :,, :, : African­America... ample : : : : amplified : : :, : : : :, : area : : argue : argued : analysis :, : : : arguing : : : : : argument : : agents : : : announced : annual : :,, :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : : :, : : : : arising : articulate : articulated : : : average : : award : awards : : B B : : :, : articulation : bachelor's : Asian : : Asians : : back : : aside :,, believe : : : : : : :, : :, : : : beneficial : : : believes : benchmark : background : : : backgrounds : : : beneficiaries : benefit : : :,,, :, : : : : : : asked : : : : : asking : : : : : : : aspect : :, : : : backward­looking benefits : : : assess : associate : Association : assume : : : : : :, assumed : assumes : : : : : : : : : :, : : : backwards : Bakke : :, :, :, :, : : benefitted : :,, :, Berkeley : : : : BERT : :, : :, : :, : : best : : : : : : : : Page  : called : : : campus :,, :, : : : bottom : breakdown : breaking : Breyer : : :, :, : : : :,,,, : : : : : : :, bridge : brief : : candidate : candidates : cap : capable : care : : caricature :, carried : case :, : : : : : : : : :,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, broader : : Catch­ : : : : : : : : : :, briefs : : broad : : bring : : : : Official : :, : :, : : : board : body : : bear : began : behalf :, : : : : : :, :, : boost : : :, : : bothered : : assuming : : Bakke's :, : assumption : : :, : assumptions : : : balance : : bar : base :,, : based :, assurance : attempt : attempted : attempting : attitudes :, Austin : : : basically :, baseline : basic : : : : authority :, basing : automatic : available : : basis : : : : : : : bet : better : : brought : :, :, build : : : : builders : beyond : : bulk : : bunches : biased : : burden : : : : : : business : big : bill : black : :, : : : : : : C : : :, : C calculated : California : blacks : : : :,, : : call : : Cert : certain : : : : : certainly :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : cetera : challenge : : challenged : : : challenging : : chance : : : : : : : bifurcated : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  complementary considerations : : complementing considered : : : : compromising : concede :, concern : : constituted : constitute : : complete : : : completely : complexion : component : : composition : : : : concerned : concerns :, : conclude : concluded : : conclusion : : : conclusions : : : conclusively : concrete :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, considering : : : considers : : consist : consisted : consistent : : constitutional : : constitutionally : construct : contemporaneou... : contend : contest : context : contextual : contextualized : : continue : continues : contradicts : contrary : : contribute : : : contribution : contributions : : : : : characteristics college­educated clarify : clarity : changes : characteristic colloquy : color : : combination : change : : : : : : : : class : :,, : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, :,,, : coming : : :, :, :, : : : : common : :, : : come : : : : : : :, : : : : : : comes : : charged : chart :,, : :, commerce : :, classes : :, communications : :, :, : : : :,, : :, : community :, : : : comparable : classification : comparative : compare : : compared : : : : Chief :, : :, :, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, : : : : choose : : :, Circuit : : : : : : : : :,, : Circuit's : circumstance : circumstance's : classify : classifying : classroom : : : : : : : : :, : : : : classrooms : : clear : : : :,, : : : : comparing : : : comparisons : : compelling : : concreteness : : :, : conditions : conducted : : : : confirms : :, : consequences : compelling­inter... : : : : circumstances : compete : circumstantial : clearly : : competent : cited : competes : competing : claim : : compiling : : :, complaining : : complement : climate : close : cloud : : claimed : : colleague : colleague's : college : : : : claims : : : : :, : consider : : : : : : : : core : : considerable : Corporate : consideration convince : : : : : : : : : : : : corps : correct : : : : : : : costs : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : : : deficiencies : : : : : Page  determining : distinct : developed : distinguish : : deficient : : devoid : deficits : define : : defined : : defining : definite : degree : : dialogue : : dictate : die : differ : difference :, : : : : : :, : : district : : : :, : : : diverse : : : : : : :,, :,, diversify : counsel : : : count : : counted :, :, counteract : counting : country : : critically : cross : crowd : : culturally : : : : : curiae : : : : course : : : : : : : : cuts : : curious : : cut :, court :, : cycle : : : : determined : Alderson Reporting Company demanding : democratic : demographic : demographics : : : : : D : : D.C :,,, demonstrated : data : date : depend : dependent : : : : : : : : : : D : :, : : : : damage : : : : damages :,,, denied : : :,, : Department : : : : : : : :,, : :,, : day : : : : : deadline : dealing : :, :, :, :, dealt : :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : : : : debating : decades : :, December : decided : decides : : : : derived : death : : debatable : depending : deposition : depressed : debate :, :, : : : : : described :, Court's :, courts : create : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : different : : diversity : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, :,,, : :,, : :,,, : :, : : : :, :, :,,,, : : : diversity­related difficulty : dimensions : direct : directly : : difficult : : : : director : : : : do­over : disadvantage : documented : disadvantaged : disadvantaging dodge : doing : : : : : : : : DONALD : : created : : : : : decision : : : :, :, : : : :,, : : creates :, credibility : criteria : : : criterion : critical : : decisions : declaration : : decrease : deference : : : deserves : designed : detached : detail : : doubled : : detailed : doubles : determination : discriminate : doubling : disagree : discovery :, discretionarily : : : determinative discriminated : doubt : : discrimination : : : :, : determine : discussed : discussions : : : : disincentive : : : disputed : dissent : : doubts : draw : drawn : driven : due : dynamic : E E : :, earlier : earnings : easy : economic : education : : : educational : enforcement : : English : enjoin : enroll : : : : : enrolled : : : enrollees : : enrollment : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : ensure : : : : : : :, : : :, : ensuring : entering : enterprise : effect :, : : :,, : effectively : :, effectiveness : effort : : : : efforts : : eight : : : either : : : : : elaborate : elaborated : elements : eleven : eligible : elite : embraced : emphasis : : emphasizing : employ : enacted : encourage : endeavor : endorsed : endpoint : : : entire : entirely : entirety : entitled : entity : : environment : :, : : equally : : : equating : equation : especially : ESQ :,, : :,, essay : essence : essentially : : establish : established : : establishes : establishing : estimate :,, : et : : ethnic : evaluate : Official events : eventually : everybody : : :, evidence : : experiences : : : expertise : experts : explain : : : : explained : explains : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, :, :,, : : :, : : : expressly : :, :,, : : :,,, expressed : expression : explanation :, : : : extent : evidentiary : extra :, : exactly : : extraordinary : : : :, : :, F example : : faces : facially : fact : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : fact­finding : factor : :,, :,,, : :,, : :,,, :, : : :, factors : :, : : : : : : : : facts :,, : : : : : : : : : excel : : excellence : exception : exchange :, : exclude : excuse : : : : : : exercise : exist : : existed : existing : : expand : : expanded : expanding : expect : expedience : experience : : : : :, : : : experienced : Page  fail : failed : failure : : : : fair : : fairness : faith :, faithful : fall : family : : : family's : far : : : : : : fare : fast : fatal :, : : : : : fatally : favor : : fear : fee :, : feedback : feel : : : : : : fewer :, Fifth : : :, : : : : : : : : : figure : filled : find :, : : : : : :, : finding : findings :, faculties : faculty : : Fine : : :, : : :,, : : finish : : firmly : first :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : friend : : : :, : : : frequency : :, : : :, : : : : : : : friends : : : : : : :, friend's : : : :,, : :,,, :, :, :,, : : :, :, :,, : :,, : : : : fronts : fruitless : function : : functions :, General's : generally : : : fundamental : : : further : : five : : : : generates : generating : geographic : getting : : grade : Ginsburg :, : :, : :, : : :, :, :, : :, : grades : : graduate : graduated : graduates : G G : : : : gained : gap : Garre : : : :, : : : : : : : Grutter­like : :, : :,, : guess : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : H half :, hallmarks : hand :, happen : : : good :, : : : : happened : : : : government : : : : : : : : hard : :, : hardest : hardship : harm's : graduating : Harvard : Graduation : grammar : grant : : : : : hear : :, heard : : : hearing : heartland : greater : : heavily : GREGORY : heavy : : heeded : held : : : help : : : hidden : : :, :, helpful : : : : hey : : : : : :, : Higginbotham : : : : : : high : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : :, : given :, : great : : :, :, :,, : Ginsburg's : :, :, give : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : granted : : :,, : : : granular : :,,, : : :, : :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, :,,,, :, :, : : : : : : glad : glaring : : grow : : : : : : : : giving : : go : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : grew : : group :, Grutter : : Garza : : : Garza's : GEN : : General : : goes : : goal : :, goals :, : God : : :,, : :, : : : going : : Grutter­Bakke­s... Alderson Reporting Company Fisher : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : : five­year : : flawed : flow : fluctuates : fluctuation : focus : : : : focused : focuses : focusing : folders : following : forbidden : force : forecloses : forever : form : forth : : : found : : : : : :,, : : : : : four : : four­year : framework : frankly : : : : : : high­performing : : high­water : : : higher : highly : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : Hispanic : : : : : :, :, : : : Honors : :, :, hopefully : : : : Hopwood : :, : : : : hybrid : hydrid : hypothetical : Hispanics :, : : :, : : : historic : hit : : hoc :, : holistic :, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : holistic­looking : holistically : : home :, : : Honor : : I idea : : : : : : ideas : : identifiable : identified : : : identify : : : impact : : : imperative : implemented : importance : important : : : : : :,, : : :, : : : impose : : impressed : improperly : improvement : inadequate : inchoate : Official incidents : : : include : : : included : including : : incoming : : inconsistent : incorporated : incorporates : incorrect : increase : : : :, :, : :, increased : : : increasing : : increment : : : independently : index : indicate : indicated : : : : : indicates : : : : individual : : : individualized : : : : : individuals :, : : infer : inferences : inferior : : : information : :, : initial : : injunctive : Page  iteration : input : inquiry : : :, : : J jack : job : joint :,, insignificant : institutions : : : : instruct : :, : instructions : JR : : : insufficient : insufficiently : judge :, : integrated : : : : judicial : jumped : : :, : Justice : :, : : : intend : interactions : interest :, : : : : : :,, : interesting : interests : introduce : invalid : investigate : invite : invited : invocation : involved : : Iship : Ishop : isolate : isolated : : : isolation : : : : issue :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : issues : : : item : : :, : : : judgment : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : judgments : : :,, : :,, :, : :,, :, :,,, :,, :, : :, :,,, : :, : :,, : :,,, :,,, :,, : :,, : :,,,, :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : : :, : :, :,,,, :,, :, Alderson Reporting Company Official : :,,, Latino : :, :, Laughter : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : key : : kinds : : kind : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :,,,, :,,, : : :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :, kids : : :,, kill : :, : :,,, :,,, :, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :, :,, knew :, : :, :, :,, :,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : : :, :,, : : :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,,, : :, : :,, :,, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :, : :, : :,, :, knows :, :,, : :,,,, : :,, : : know : :, : :, : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : : lack : : knowing : : : L : law : :,, : : : : : : : lawyers : lead : :, leaders : : :,, : leadership :, : : : leading : : learning : : leaves : led : left : leg : legacy :, legislature : : : : legislature's : legitimacy : legitimate : : : : : less­advanced : lesser : : let's : :, : level :,, : : : : levels : life : light : :, line : list : : Page  long : : longer : look :, : : marginal : mark : : : markedly : : : : marked : :, :, : : : masked : : :, : mass : :, : : : :,,,, : :, : : : : : material :, : : : matter : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, :, mean : : : : : : :, : : : : looked : : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, :, : : looking : : : : : : :,, : : : meaningful : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : looks : lose : lost : lot : : : : lots :, lower : : lower­performing : M meaningfully : means : : : : measurable : : measure : : : : : : : : : : : measured : : maintain : measurement major : : : majority­minority measures : K keep :, Kennedy :,, :, :, : : : lacking : laid : : language : languages : languished : : : majors : : : : litigants : measuring :, litigate : : making : : meet : :, litigating : live : : loaded : man : manner : : meetings : meeting : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official move : : moves : multiple : : : :, : nevertheless : observe : : : : obstacles : obvious : N N :, : named :, narrow : : nonadmission : occasionally : nine : nitpicky : NOEL : non­top : : obviously : : : : Page  oppose : opposed : : opposite : oral : :,, : : : order : : :, : ordinarily : Organization : original : originally : ought :, : out­of­State : :,, : outreach : outside : : : nonracial : : : : note : notice : occurred : odious : : : :, : :, :, offering : :, :, officer : :,, :, officers : : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : :, :,, : okay : : :, : : offset : oh : : : : : number­driven : numbers :, : : :, : : : :, :, :, : :, :, one­to­one : : :,, : once :, one's : : overall : : overcoming : : :,, overnight : : : : : : : : :, : overrule : : overstep : overwhelmingly : : P P : ones : :, page : : operate : operated : operates : : : : : : : : :,,,, : : : : : pages : : PAI : :,, : : : :, : :, : : operation : opinion :, : : : : opinions : opponent : opponents : : opportunity : paid : panel : parents :, : : parents­involved : : : number : : offer : offered : : ostensibly :, : narrow­tailoring : narrowly : Native : nature : : : nearly : necessarily : : : : necessary : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : minority : : necessity :, : :, : : : need : :, : members : : mentioned : :, message : met : : Michigan : : : : :, Michigan's : military :,, :, : militate : minimized : minimum :, minor : minorities : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : minute : : minutes :, : mirror : misapprehended : mix : : model : Modest : monitor : moot : morning :, : :,,, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : numerical : : : : numerous : : :,, : O needed : : needs :, :, : neighborhoods : : neutral : : : O : : object : objective : : :, : objectives : : : : : : : : : : motion : : never : : motivated : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  pool : : : probative :, problem : : : : problems :, : : procedurally : position : : procedural : possible : : proceed : proceeds : possibly : post :, : process : : : :,, : : : poor : : :,, : population : : : : : :, : :, : portion : : :, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, :, : : : : potential : :,,, : potentially : :,,, : Powell : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : :,, :, period :, : plans :, plea :, : pleaded : please : : : :, :, :, :, plummeted :, plus :, : plenty : : : : : point : : program : producing : proffers : Powell's : power : profile : practice : : profiles : pre­demit : precondition : predict : predictable : prediction : predominantly : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : programs : predominate : progress : preexisting : : : : part : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : participation : particular : :, :, :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : percentage : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : perfect : : particularly : perfectly : : : : performance : : : parties : parts : : pernicious : PAS : pass : persistence : pattern : : person : : people : : : :, : :,, person's : : : : personally : : :,, perspective : : :, :, : perspectives : : : People's : percent :,, : : : : Petition : Petitioner's : :, : :, : :, : :, :, Petitioner :, :, :,, :, :, : :,, : :, : phrase : :, :, phrases : :,, : physics : :, : : : :, pieces : : :,, place : : : :,, :, :,, placed : : :,, places :, :,, : placing : : : : plan :,,, : : : : :,,,, pick : : : : : preliminary : : : : : : : premise : : :,, : : :,, :, : : premises : : :,, : : : presumably : : pretty : : premised : present : : pointed : : prevail : : pointing : : points : : : : : preventing : previously : : principal : principle : policies : : principled :, : : policy : : : : : : : prior : :, : probably : promise : promised : promotes : proof :, Prop : proper : : properly : proposal : : :, : propose : proposing : : protecting : prove : proven : proves : provide : : provided : proving : provoke : : : : police : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : :, : : : : : racially :, : : rank : : : : ranking : rates : : rationalization :, : R R : r­a­c­e : : race : :,, :, reading :, : : : :, reach : reached : read :, ready : reaffirmed : real : : :,, : :,,,, :,,,, : :,,,,, :,, : : : : : :,, :,,,,, :, :,, :, :,, :,,, :, :, :, :, realistic : :, : : reality : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :, :,, : : : : :,, : : : : reasonably : : reasoned :, realized : really : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reason : : race­blind : : : : :,, reasons : : : : race­neutral : REBUTTAL : : recognized : : : : : record : :, :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : recreate : recreated : reduce : refer : reference : reflected : reflexive : refocus : refund : refutes : regard : : : regardless : Page  : :,, :, :, : : : :, :, :,,,, :,,, :, :, : :, :, : : :,, :, :, : :,,, :,,, reiterate : rejected : : related : relative : : : relevant : : :, : : relied : relief : :, : rely : : remaining : remand : : :,, : : : : : repeated : repeatedly : remanded : remedy : Rein : :, :,, : remember : :, :,, reopened : : :,, :, :,, :, :,, represented : :,, : request : :,,, : require : :, : :,,, :,,, : : :,, : :,, :, :, resort : :, :, respect : :, :, :, rescore : reserve : reserved : : : : : : pure : purpose :, : : : : pursue :, quota : : : : : : quote : : : : : pursuing : : : pursuit : : pushed : put :,, : : :,, :,, : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : : putting : Q qualitative : qualities : quality : : quarter : question :, : :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : questioning : questions : : : : : quite : : : : : : : : : : recited : : recognition : recognize : : : : : racial : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : : : :,, second­guess : : :, : secondary : Secondly : : : : show : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, respectively : respects : : : respond : Respondent : Respondents : : : : : response : : : responsibilities : responsibility : rest : result : : result­oriented : results : : : retention : retreat : return : review : : : :, :,,, :, : :,, : :,, : : :, : : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,, : : : : : : roll : ROTC : : :, roughly : rounding : rule : : rules :, run : running : : rural : rush :, S : :,, S : : safe : :, : : : : SAT : : : : : : : : : : : reviewed :, reviewing : : right : :, satisfaction : satisfy : : : : : : :,, : :,, saying :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : risk : : road : ROBERTS : : : : scores : : : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : :, : : says : : :,, :, :,,, : : : second : : : : : : : : : : : scrutiny : : severely : Alderson Reporting Company Scalia : :, : seek : seeking : : : : : see :, : : :, : :, :,,, :, : : : :,, :, :,, : :, :,, : :, : :, :, :,, : segregated :, :, : seen :, sees : segment : :, : : segregation : seizes : selected :, scholarships : school : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : send : : : :, : selective : : selects : :, : : : sending : sense : : school's : schools : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : scientific : scientists : score : : : : : : sentence : separate : : : serious : : seriously : : : service : set : : : : seven : : : : : : :, : : shape : shaping : shifted : short : : shortcomings : showed : : : showing : : shown :, : shows : : :, : : : side : : : sides : significant : : similar : simply : : simultaneously : single : single­minded : single­parent : : situation :, : : : situations : : :, six : : size : : skills : skin : slower­track : small : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :,, : small­class : smaller : : so­called : : socioeconomic : : : : solely : : Official students : suffered : : systems : : Page  suffice : sufficient : : T :, T : : : tacked : tailor : : : tailored : : : : sufficiently : suggest : : suggested : : :, :,,, : :,, :, :, : :, : :,, : :,,, : :, : :,, :, :,, : :,, : : :, : :,, : :, :,,,, :,, : superior : : :,, supplement : : : : : : : supplemental : : : : suggestion : suggests : suit : : summarize : summary :, : : : : :,, : talked : : : support : supporting : talking :, : tailoring : :, take : : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, taken : : : takes : talents : talk : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : target :, Tech : tell : : : : : : : : : :, : telling : tells : : temporary :, ten : : : : : : :,,, : tender :, term : : terms : : : : terrible : test : : : Solicitor : : solution : somebody : soon : sophomoric : sorry : : : : : : : : : :, : stands : : start : : : : started : : : : state :, : sort : : : : State's : stated : : : States :,, sorts : : : : Sotomayor :, : :,, : : : :, :, : States' : statistic : :,, : statistically : : : : :, :, status :, step : :, : : :,,, : stereotype : :,,, : :,, stereotypical : :,,,, :,,, stereotyping : : : : sought : sound : sounds :, : special : : : specific : : : : : : specifically : : :, stop :, straight : strange : : straw : strict : : :,, :, :,,, : : : : : : : strict­scrutiny : : : : : studied : : : studies :, : study : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : : stuff : subgroup : subject : submit : submitted :, subset : substantial : : : supports : suppose :, : :, supposed : Supreme :, sure : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : surprise : : survey : surveys : : : survive : system : :, :, : : :,, : : : : : systematic : specificity : specified : spoken : stage : : stake : : standard : : : standardized : standing : : substantiated : : strictly : strong : : stronger : student : : : :,, : : : substitute : success : : : : : : :, successful : : :, : : : suddenly : substantive : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official two­court : type : : : : : : : : :, : : : : told : : tool : top : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : U :, : : :,,, UCLA : unacceptable : : :, undeniable : :, : : : : underlying : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : :,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : : : :, : :,, :, :, : : : : :,,,, :,,,, : : :, :,,,, : :,, : :, :, : : :,,, : : :,, : :, : :,, totality : : understand : : :,, : : : : : : undertook : unique :, underrepresented total :, : : : United :,, : : : Page  :, :,, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, university's : : : : : : : : unjustly­committ... : unquestioned : use : :, : :,, :, : :,, : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : testimonials : testimony : :, : Texas : : : :, :, : :, :, :, : : : : :,, :, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,, : : : : : :, : :,, :, :, Texas' : : Texas's : : Thank :,, :, : :, : :, theme : they'd : thing :, : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : thinks : : : thought : : : : : :,, thousand : : threatened : three :, : : : : : three­quarters things : : : : : : tiebreaker : :, : :, : : : : : : : : tied : time :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : timing : today : : think : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : totally : : trajectory : travel : triable : : : universal : universities : UT : : : usually : : : : : V truly : try :,, : : : : trying :, : universities' : trial :,, tried :, : university : : v : : : : : troops : : valid : : : : troublesome : variety : : : : troubling : various : : :, : true : : Verrilli : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,, : : : :, :, : :, : : :,,, :, :, :, :, :, : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, :,, :, versa : : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, turns : : twelve : two : :, : : : : : : versus : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : vibrant : vice : view : : :,, : work :, : :, : : : : :,, : worked : : : : :,, : : : :,, :, We'll : : : : viewpoints : views : : virtually : virtuous : vision : vital :, ways : : workforce : : : : working : : : we're : :, works : : : : world : worried : : : : : :, : :, : : : worry : : : :, :, : : : : worth : : wouldn't :, : worse : : : : we've : : : :, : :, : wealth : Wednesday : : : wrong :, : X x :, W wait : : : wake : Walker : : : want : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :,,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : : a : a : a : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : . : : : :,, (b)() : Y : well­deserving : : : weight : :, : :, : : : : Well­designed : :, : : well­done : : : : went : : : year : : :, : : : : :, :,, years : : wanted : : weren't : Yeah : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : :, : : : wants : : Washington :, white : : western : :, wasn't : : : : : : : : : : whites : : : whole­person : wipe : wit : : wonder : wonderful : way : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, wondering : : : : word : : : : : words : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : . : : : a : : : : : : : : :, : : : : . : : : :, :,, : :, :, :, :, : yield : Z zero : :, : : : . : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : a : : : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : a : : , : : ,­person : . : :,, : : : : : : , : : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 