Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MENOMINEE INDIAN TRIBE OF             WISCONSIN,                         : :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES, ET AL.                 : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, December ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: GEOFFREY D. STROMMER, ESQ., Portland, Ore.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  ILANA H. EISENSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondents.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE GEOFFREY D. STROMMER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ILANA H. EISENSTEIN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   GEOFFREY D. STROMMER, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin         v. the United States.                Mr. Strommer.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF GEOFFREY D. STROMMER                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. STROMMER: Mr. Chief Justice, may it        please the Court:               The facts in this case are very complex, but         the legal question that is presented to you today is          relatively straightforward to state. And the legal        question is whether or not an individual or an entity          that reasonably relies on class­action tolling can, if        tolling is found to be ineffective at a later date, then            rely on the same facts to argue that equitable tolling          under Holland should apply.                In the Irwin case, this Court specifically       cross­referenced American Pipe as an example of a        defective pleading that could satisfy equitable tolling.       American Pipe obviously being a class­action tolling        rule.             We read that cross­reference as a suggestion        that, under the right circumstances, if somebody       Alderson Reporting Company Official reasonably relies on class­action tolling facts that       ultimately prove to be ineffective, that that individual        has the ability to ask the Court to find that equitable           tolling should apply.               If there is such a case, the facts of this           case really should satisfy this test.                  The test is set forth in the Holland case.         Due diligence and extraordinary circumstances are the       two prongs that have to be satisfied. Both of them are            well­satisfied in this case.                First, the Menominee Tribe relied on a       preexisting class action which dealt with almost       identical substantive claims against the United States.                   Ramah?             Ginsburg.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you talking about the        MR. STROMMER: Yes. Correct, Justice       JUSTICE GINSBURG: And ­­ and that was a ­­          a decision, unpublished decision by a district court.         It never went any further.                 MR. STROMMER: Well, it is still a certified          class, Justice Ginsburg, and the Menominee Tribe not        only is a member of that class but has, to date,            received a portion of several settlements that were         entered into in that class action and, in fact, is          Alderson Reporting Company Official poised to receive another large payment in a settlement          that the class and the United States ­­                               approve.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The issue ­­     MR. STROMMER: ­­ has asked the Court to         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The issue that that case        settled or addressed was whether exhaustion was required        at all. Minimal research would have shown that every          other court at that time who had addressed the issue had           required exhaustion.              Now, we'll go later to exhaustion­when.      That's a separate question.                 So how could you reasonably rely on a lower          court decision that hasn't gone through the crucible of         appellate review without having done any research on        whether its premises were subject to dispute, reasonable        dispute, and rely on that?                 MR. STROMMER: Well, Justice Sotomayor, I       have a couple of answers to your question.                     First of all, the United States did not        challenge the certification of the class in the Ramah         case. Not when it was originally certified, based on          the claims that were then in the case, miscalculation         claims, nor later on with additional claims ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they raised the       Alderson Reporting Company Official argument just lost. They raised the argument that the          exhaustion requirement didn't meet the commonality prong       of class certification. So they did make an argument          against it.              MR. STROMMER: Oh, they argued, but the        district court judge in the Ramah case reasonably, we         think, concluded that, because of the unique nature of         the claims that the Ramah class was seeking ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know that's what you         believe, but every other court up until that time had          said no, you needed to exhaust.                  Now, we can go to a separate question of          exhaust­when later. But how could you at that point          rely on that case to think that you didn't have to ­­                       MR. STROMMER: Well, the Menominee Tribe       didn't rely just on that case. That case was an           important factor that it relied on, but there was also          other factors that it relied on.                  In the Cherokee Nation certification     process, the United States did not raise presentment as         a defense. Instead, it raised Rule grounds as a           basis not to certify the class.                  And the district court judge in that case,        on garden­variety Rule grounds, ruled that that case         could not be certified. Didn't say anything in his          Alderson Reporting Company Official order about presentment, jurisdiction. Did not talk        about that whatsoever. And in fact, in his ruling he           specifically said that, if a class had been certified,          it would have been easy to identify all of the tribes in            the country that would have been members because they         were all listed on the shortfall reports that the         United States produced at the same time as the years in           which the claims were ­­ arose.                                          JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Strommer ­­     MR. STROMMER: But then ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ all of this goes to         deciding whether the legal advice they received was        reasonable legal advice. I find that quite irrelevant.          Do you have a single case in which legal advice has            qualified for equitable tolling?                MR. STROMMER: No, Your Honor. We can't         cite a single case for that, no.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: So you're really ­­ you're        really arguing a ­­ a remarkable proposition, that if           you get bad legal advice, that justifies equitable        tolling.                         MR. STROMMER: Well, that's ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you mentioned       extraordinary circumstances, but our ­­ our cases refer        to extraordinary circumstances that stood in the way and         Alderson Reporting Company Official prevented timely filing.                 I ­­ I would not qualify erroneous legal        advice as preventing time ­­ timely filing. I don't           care how reasonable it was. It didn't prevent it.                      MR. STROMMER: Well, Your Honor, in the        context of class­action tolling, there is always a legal          judgment call made about whether or not class­action        tolling applies. And if equitable tolling is not         available as a fallback, if in fact that judgment was           not made correctly and discovered many years later, then         the whole premise of class­action tolling, I think, is          undercut because any member of a class ­­ for example,           in the Cherokee Nation case where the district court         judge said absolutely nothing about presentment, nothing       about jurisdiction, the government didn't raise that       defense, focused only on Rule issues ­­ in any case           in which a district court judge declines to certify a           class, if equitable tolling isn't available as a        fallback, then the most you could ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: You ­­ you want us to ­­ to           limit our principle of erroneous legal advice justifies        erroneous equitable tolling only in class­action cases?                   MR. STROMMER: No. I would frame it          slightly differently, Your Honor. I would say that,          when a party reasonably relies on class­action tolling         Alderson Reporting Company Official that at a later date is found to be ineffective ­­                       JUSTICE SCALIA: But you're limiting it to        class actions. You ­­ you don't want to ­­ why ­­ why             should it be limited to class actions? I mean, if ­­                        MR. STROMMER: Because the party still has        to show the circumstances.                JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ if erroneous legal       justifies equitable tolling, why should it be limited to         class actions?              MR. STROMMER: Well, the Holland test still        has to be satisfied, Your Honor. Have to show due           diligence.                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.    MR. STROMMER: Have to show extraordinary       circumstances. We're not eliminating ­­                 JUSTICE SCALIA: That prevent ­­ that       prevent the test prongs at all.                              MR. STROMMER: Right.    JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ but if legal advice         prevents tiling ­­ timely filing in class­action       situations, I don't know why bad legal advice doesn't          prevent tile ­­ timely filing in every other situation         as well. I ­­ I just don't ­­ it ­­ it's sort of a                 weird ­­ a weird rule. Just ­­ just for class actions?                         MR. STROMMER: Well, Justice Scalia, the       Alderson Reporting Company Official circumstances in this case are extraordinary and are ­­        are very rare. It is very unlikely that you will find            another circumstance where a preexisting class action        dealing with the same substantive matter against the        same party, the United States, in which a court          specifically addressed the presentment issue and ruled       in favor of certifying the class is what was ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: What was the length of time         between the denial of class certification and ­­ and the          presentment? It was a long time, wasn't it?                      MR. STROMMER: The total amount was        days, Your Honor.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: So why was that due        diligence ­­ I mean, I know that we're not arguing about             due diligence, but it seems to me that, when there          was ­­ certification was denied in the Cherokee case,         you had two years to present and you would have been           home free. You would not have encountered a time bar.            Two years. But you, in fact, didn't present until four           years after the denial in the ­­ in the Cherokee case.           So how was that due diligence?                  MR. STROMMER: Well, in the context of        reliance on class­action tolling applying, Your Honor,       it is due diligence. And it's reasonable diligence. In           a class action environment, a party is not encouraged to           Alderson Reporting Company Official do anything and a party is entitled automatically ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the class action is        over. It's been denied.                             denied.                         MR. STROMMER: I'm sorry, Your Honor?       JUSTICE GINSBURG: The class action has been        MR. STROMMER: Correct.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So at that point you know         you're on your own. You can't piggyback on the class.           You know you're on your own, and yet you let two years            go by. I don't understand that.                    MR. STROMMER: Well, Your Honor, under       class­action tolling rules, you're entitled to the       entire period that the class­action certification was       pending. That's days ­­                             allowed.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Actually ­­    MR. STROMMER: ­­ you're automatically      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that's not quite       true. There's a circuit split which hasn't been          addressed anywhere in the briefing. Some of the         circuits do it the way you say. They stop the clock and             restart the clock at the end of the tolled period. In            those circuits you would win. You could wait the entire           six years plus however long the other case was pending.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             But another series of circuits looked to       diligence throughout the period. And so you'd be asking          us to make an assumption about which ­­ or make a           decision about which tolling applies.                 did.             You are taking a risk no matter what you          MR. STROMMER: All right. There's certainly        in any class­action environment a risk in relying on          class­action tolling, particularly, as the facts of this        case demonstrate, if ultimately ­­                Justice ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, let's go back to        MR. STROMMER: ­­ reliance is found       ineffective because class­action tolling.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ Scalia's question ask       you a question.                            MR. STROMMER: I'm sorry.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All of these decisions,       were they made with the advice of a lawyer?                      And I have a sense that the Tribe was           concerned about its resources and that they were just         getting together and talking about this and deciding,        we're not going to win under the law, so we're not going            to file. And it was only when Cherokee Nation was           decided by this Court that they realized they had a          Alderson Reporting Company Official viable claim.              So ­­ but answer my question: Was there         legal advice sought?               MR. STROMMER: They relied on legal advice        provided by class counsel, who communicated with all        putative class members, and made it clear that the         tolling period would apply during the pendency of the         certification. And they also made ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we disagree that that        was ­­ if we think that was unreasonable, what ­­ your           reading of what class counsel said, what would happen?                     MR. STROMMER: Well, we still think the        backdrop against which the Tribe was making the        decision ­­ which is as a member of a class that had              been certified where presentment had not been found to         be an obstacle because of the unique nature of the          claims at issue in the case ­­ should be an important           factor that this Court will factor into whether or not          equitable tolling should apply.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But it has not been found by          a single district court, right? I mean, you're saying           that that single district court should have had such         power in the Tribe's mind that they didn't do the          presentment. And that ­­ that seems an extraordinary         thing. It's just a single district court. A single             Alderson Reporting Company Official district court has no controlling authority over anyone        or anything other than that particular decision.                   MR. STROMMER: That's true, Your Honor. And         that particular decision had a direct impact on the          Menominee Tribe because they were a member of the class.           They benefitted from that decision. They received        payments out of settlement that the United States and         class counsel had the court approve premised on the         court having jurisdiction to be able to approve them.         They will benefit shortly next spring from another        proposed settlement where the class counsel, as well as         the United States, have proposed that the claims that         will be signed by parties will serve as the presentment          to satisfy the jurisdictional requirement.                 So yes, they did benefit, and that was not         an ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: They benefitted, but the       point is there is one court that says your Tribe can be            a member. Your ­­ your Tribe didn't present its claim           to the contracting officer.                And so why can they be a member? The judge            addresses that question, and he says, normally they        couldn't be a member, but they can here because this is            the kind of case that is attacking general practices of          the administration.  Alderson Reporting Company Official                         Then okay. Fine. You got that.        Then shortly after that or maybe a few years          after that, another case comes along. And the other          case doesn't involve the situation of attacking the        practices generally. It concerns the individual       contracts between the Tribe and the Indian Bureau,        what ­­ you know, in the government.                   action.             And there they say, you can't have a class          So you'd think ­­ and this kind of case you          want to bring now is the second kind, not the first           kind. So you'd say, why is it fair to let you bring             this case? After all, if you'd read the opinion closely           in the first one, you wouldn't have thought you should          have waited. If you had any doubts about it, the second            one would have told you you should have waited. And           even beyond that, the administrator signs a piece of          paper where they ask him: Do you have any claims under            these contracts? And he says, none.                   So it doesn't seem to me you're talking        about pure equities; you have very strong grounds.                                Now what's your reply to that?      MR. STROMMER: Well, I ­­ I would not agree            with one of your premises.                 JUSTICE BREYER: You probably wouldn't agree       Alderson Reporting Company Official with any of them. But ­­ but ­­ but ­­                      MR. STROMMER: Not ­­ not your conclusion or         one of your premises.                But the premise that I disagree with ­­ that          I think is very important is that the Cherokee Nation          complaint alleged the same kinds of system­wide       short­fundings by the United States that were contained        in the Ramah complaint.                The Ramah complaint initially, when it was       certified, only included one category of claims, called        "miscalculation claims." But later on, during the        pendency of the Cherokee Nation case, additional claims        were added. And by the time the Cherokee Nation          certification decision was issued, the claims were, for        all intents and purposes, the same, and they challenged         a systemic underfunding and short­funding by the       United States that was based on ­­ we know now from your            Court's decision in the Cherokee case as well as the          Ramah case ­­ on an incorrect reading of the law. And            they implemented that, system­wide, the policies that       the Indian Health Service used to implement this        short­funding system were designed to short­fund tribes       because they were designed based off of the assumption         that they were not statutorily entitled to percent         funding. Alderson Reporting Company Official             So the nature of the claims in the Cherokee         case, in my view, Your Honor, were the same as both were            included in the Ramah complaint initially and then as         the complaint was amended over the course of the years          by the time the Cherokee Nation cert ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: You're not making that kind        of claim here, are you? I mean, you're not challenging            the general practices of the government. Rather, you're         challenging the particular contracts and whether you got        enough money under them. Is that right?                    We're ­­                                     MR. STROMMER: That's correct, Your Honor.       JUSTICE BREYER: If that's correct ­­      MR. STROMMER: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then the fact that        the second case emphasized the general ­­ you know, the          general attack, which lacks in your case, is more reason          for thinking that we better file our claims quickly         because what had ­­ they held in those two cases are not            going to help us, who have an individual claim. We           better do what the statute says or the rules, and we           better file our presentment to the contracting officer        and certainly not write the words "none" when they ask          you if you have any claim; am I right?                      MR. STROMMER: I would disagree with part of          Alderson Reporting Company Official what you're suggesting, Your Honor, which is that the         Tribe only had one option, which was to file,         essentially, after the Cherokee Nation's certification      decision was issued. In fact, there was nothing in that           decision that talked about presentment and jurisdiction.       The court ruled on garden­variety­Rule reasons. And         ordinarily, those reasons are not a basis for class          action tolling not to apply. In fact, Crown Cork is           almost identical, the same kinds of garden­variety­Rule        reasons were found in that case to bar the          certification of a class, but class action tolling, in          fact, applied in that case.                 So when you focus just on the Cherokee        Nation decision itself, I think there's every reasonable         reason to be able to rely on class action tolling.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But wait. I just want          to clarify one point. On this issue of ­­ that you were             a member of the class, you rely just on counsel's letter           in the first case, in Ramah, the letter that ­­ where           counsel described the class and said there would be ­­                     MR. STROMMER: In Cherokee Nation?                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, in the prior case.                    MR. STROMMER: No. In the Ramah case ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.                MR. STROMMER: ­­ the Tribe is a member of           Alderson Reporting Company Official the class. It's received settlement ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no, no, no. You          said that the lawyers had told you that there would be           class action tolling. That was the general ­­                    MR. STROMMER: That's in the second case.        That's in the Cherokee Nation case, Your Honor.                                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.    MR. STROMMER: And they said that when they         filed the complaint. The complaint clearly included the         Tribe. It identified all tribes that had        self­determination contracts with the Union Health      Services. The Tribe clearly fell within that        definition. And when the court ultimately ruled and         chose not to certify the case, the court said, I could            have identified who would have been part of this case,          because the government's own shortfalls identify each       Tribe by name, and how much we actually short­funded         them in the given years.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you haven't answered       my question. That's the only advice from a lawyer you            received.             MR. STROMMER: Yes, Your Honor, that's       correct, that's the only advice in the record.                    I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Ms. Eisenstein.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ILANA H. EISENSTEIN                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                Justice Sotomayor, you stated the Tribe      determined that it was not going to win on the law, and            so it decided not to file. Indeed, the Tribe made a            strategic calculation here to allow the six­year CDA        statute of limitations to pass, because it wanted to         monitor the litigation by other tribes, rather than file         and pursue its own action.                 The miscalculation that it made about      whether the clear deadline could be extended by class         action tolling, that was a routine litigation mistake,         the kind that is far from the sort of extraordinary          circumstance that could warrant equitable relief. Nor        did that miscalculation prevent the Tribe from filing        earlier. To the extent that there was uncertainty as to           whether it was a member of the Cherokee Nation class,           and whether presentment was a jurisdictional bar to that          class membership, the prudent course, and any reasonably        diligent litigant would have filed under the clear        deadline, rather than wait for the uncertain application        of tolling and the potential forfeiture of its claims.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How did it know that, in         Cherokee Nation? He claims that the only decision was          on ­­ under Rule , and that presentment and tolling          was not at issue there.                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, the ­­ the        Tribe confuses the definition of the class and the class          certification decision with its own ­­ whether the ­­        the court's own jurisdiction over its claim. So the ­­          the Tribe itself was jurisdictionally barred from the        class membership, regardless of how the class was        defined. There was no need necessarily for the class to           be ­­ carve out those over whom the district court lacks           jurisdiction. The fact that the court lacked        jurisdiction flows from the fact that the Tribe failed         to meet the mandatory presentment requirement.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, let's talk about       the American Pipe tolling. It would seem to me, as has            happened in a number of litigations, that at the time           that the complaint is filed, it doesn't mean that every          member of the class has to have exhausted, because if          that's what it means, then there can never be a class            action.             MS. EISENSTEIN: I agree, Your Honor, that         they can present ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So that        Alderson Reporting Company Official issue is still open under the law, because it would seem           to me, and I could be wrong, that if you still have time              on the clock when the complaint is filed, that you          can ­­ before you receive any remedy under the class          action suit, you can present ­­ exhaust then, and         recover, if you've done it during the period that ­­ the           six­year period plus tolling. That's what some courts         have done. They've defined the class as people who have           exhausted, or who still have time to exhaust.                    MS. EISENSTEIN: That ­­ that's correct,       Your Honor. But if ­­ but if the Tribe exhausted while            it still had time during the pendency of the Cherokee          Nation class action, we wouldn't be sitting here today.                     Secondly, if it exhausted, because ­­ let me        just be clear, that one of the problems with the class           action ­­ or a fundamental problem with the class action           tolling argument is the Tribe is trying to toll the          wrong deadline. Class action tolling doesn't apply to         the time to file administrative prerequisites to suit;        it applies to the time for filing a lawsuit in Federal            court. And there is a good reason for that. And that's              because the policy of class action tolling is to relieve          litigants of the difficult choice of whether to file an          individual lawsuit or to wait and participate in the         class and risk forfeiting their right to the lawsuit.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             But that doesn't apply to an administrative       prerequisite that must be completed either way. Whether         the Tribe proceeded individually or as a class, the          first step and mandatory step it had to take was to           present its claim. And it failed to do that within the            requisite time frame.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, this is a slightly         different argument. You're saying they can't get        equitably tolled for exhaustion of the administrative       process.                         MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I'm saying ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Even if they could get        tolled for filing a lawsuit.                  MS. EISENSTEIN: Yes, Your Honor. They        can't get class action tolling for the time ­­ the          administrative period, because that's not what American       Pipe refers to. It refers to the time for filing a            lawsuit.             And ­­ and in any event, the ­­ the class          action rule under American Pipe ­­ American Pipe made         clear that it only applies to asserted class members who          would have been parties to the suit had it been          permitted to continue as a class action. And the Tribe            fails there, too, because it was jurisdictionally       barred, at the time the class decision was pending, from          Alderson Reporting Company Official participating in the suit. So even if Cherokee Nation          had been certified during the pendency of the class         certification determination, the Tribe was barred.                  But importantly, the Cherokee Nation class      was not granted. It was denied. And it was denied, as             Justice Ginsburg pointed out, two years before the CDA         deadline would expire for the first claim. And the          Tribe waited more than four years after class denial to          present its claim.               There was no basis for waiting. At that         point, the Tribe knew it must pursue an individual         action, and the only reason it waited was to hope that           this Court would more conclusively reject, and did        eventually conclusively reject, the government's     affirmative defense that it was asserting in that case.                     But the ­­ the idea that a ­­ a Tribe, or ­­             or any litigant, who could have acted earlier chooses to          delay for strategic reasons, and then could get tolling         when it finds out that it miscalculated the deadline,         would be unprecedented. And in fact, the fact that          equitable tolling is foreclosed follows directly from       this Court's cases.               It simply is a common litigation problem        that this Court has addressed time and again, where a          litigant believes the deadline is longer than it is,         Alderson Reporting Company Official believes their claim occurred later than it did,        believes that tolling applies, and in fact, it didn't.         That was the case in Lawrence; that was the case in           Pace; that was the case in Irwin. And in each of those             cases, the Court found equitable tolling did not apply.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you explain something       in ­­ in your brief that would seem to make all of this             beside the point? You several times referred to a          release form that covered the years in question. And          it's in the appendix at Pages to .                     If the ­­ if there was a release covering          those years, then why does anything else matter? Why          isn't the release ­­ they release the claims for those          three years?              MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, certainly       on the merits, we agree with you, that the release would           foreclose the right of the Tribe to collect on these          particular years. But we're at the preliminary stage,         which is to say, whether we even get to the merits of            the claim. And certainly, we think it does have          relevance to the equitable tolling inquiry, and whether        the timeliness inquiry, which is ­­ first of all, it          goes to the diligence. This isn't just a litigant who            took no action. It took one affirmative step, and the           one affirmative step it took was to release the claims          Alderson Reporting Company Official at issue. That ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Did the Indian Health       Service have the authority to require the Tribe to         release those claims during the contract closeout       process?             MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, there's no       specific statutory authority. The Tribe argues in its         reply brief that the ­­ the Health Service was somehow          barred from seeking a release, but I don't believe that            there was any ­­ certainly in the government's view         there was no statutory prohibition on the type of         release that was issued here, which basically allows for         exceptions, provides a place in the release for         exceptions of claim, and the Tribe lists agreed to none.                      So ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: What would have happened if        they refused to sign the release?                  MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, the ­­ the       declaration of the contracting officer that's in the        record speaks to that point which said that there would          be no adverse consequences to a tribe that refused to           sign the release or that signed the release with         exceptions. It was an administrative process for the         agency to be able to close out the contract after a           requisite contracting period. But it certainly is        Alderson Reporting Company Official significant as to what the Tribe was thinking in its          diligence as to the pursuit of its claims, which is the           concern of equitable tolling.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it turned out        there were consequences after all.                 MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, there weren't      consequences in terms of its ability to contract with         his, or ­­ or the terms on which it could contract with            his going forward. I think that there are consequences           in equity when a party releases what ­­ releases a claim             affirmatively, whether or not that was something that        was required of it. It voluntarily signed that release.                      But ­­ but ultimately, even without the       release, the ­­ the Tribe took no action to pursue its           claim during the statutory period. And counsel for the          Tribe suggests that we should equate the rules for         class­action tolling and equitable tolling, but equity       operates under different ­­ different rules. And the         diligence requirement is paramount among them.                  Equitable tolling requires the party to      demonstrate diligence throughout the entire period it       seeks tolled, and it requires that the impediment to         suit actually prevent the timely filing. Neither of         those standards are met.                JUSTICE ALITO: Are there any circumstances       Alderson Reporting Company Official in which reliance on legal advice could constitute the         extraordinary circumstance required for equitable     tolling?             MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, I think it's ­­         this Court has never recognized as such. In Holland, it           was the very unusual circumstance where it was mistakes         by counsel, but mistakes that really amounted to an         abandonment by counsel. It was certainly not advice of          counsel, so ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That it's settled in all         circuits. They've all ruled one way. You don't           think it's reasonable to give advice based on that         ruling, that that might be an exceptional circumstance?                    MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, I think         in that ­­ in your hypothetical, it would be the          reliance on the binding circuit precedent, not the        reliance on counsel's advice per se, especially if        counsel's advice was ­­ was poor ­­ poorly rendered.                     But in the case ­­ if you're asking if there          was a situation where binding precedent afforded more         time to a litigant but yet later was determined that           less time was available, that may be ­­ may be a           circumstance that could qualify for tolling, but only        where other factors are met. And for example, in ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how about it's not        Alderson Reporting Company Official , it's , but you're in a circuit that hasn't ruled.            You mean that it's ­­ it wouldn't be an extraordinary          circumstance in that situation?                MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, that was        the case in Pace, for example, where the litigant in          that case claimed that he was relying on then binding          and existing Third Circuit precedent in believing that        his time for filing a Federal habeas action was tolled.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's one circuit. I'm        talking about the vast majority.                                         MS. EISENSTEIN: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: out of .       MS. EISENSTEIN: And even in those cases,        like in Duncan, this Court overturned a large number of           circuits in terms of the tolling standard. And the          lower courts did examine whether that could be an         extraordinary circumstance. But it wasn't enough to        necessarily get tolling where the litigant failed to        otherwise exercise diligence in the pursuit of the        original claim. And here that would meet ­­ be ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Fair. Fair answer.                   MS. EISENSTEIN: Yes. Exactly.                  As this Court has ­­ and the questions have         already suggested, the Tribe's reliance on class­action       tolling in this case was not reasonable. But even if it            Alderson Reporting Company Official had some belief that the deadline for filing its         administrative claim could be extended, it was incumbent        upon it, under the diligence standard for Holland, the         diligence prong of Holland, to file within the clear         deadline.             After , the Tribe knew that it had to         proceed individually. And the reason it waited, in the          words of the Waxhaw Declaration, was that it wanted         certainty over its ­­ over the substantive claim. And          what it amounts to, what this ­­ this case essentially          amounts to is the Tribe's determination that it was not          worth the effort to pursue a claim until after this           Court's decision in Cherokee Nation.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Was the government harmed in        any way by the ­­ the lack of presentment?                     MS. EISENSTEIN: Well, Your Honor, in some        respects it remains to be seen. But I believe that            prejudice may result from the failure to present in a          timely fashion.              First of all, putting aside the notice       requirement, this is a very records­intensive inquiry.        And in ­­ in Petitioner's brief they suggest that this          was just a matter of records that are already stored in            the government's possession. But many of the ­­ the          inquiry of what actually the contract support costs        Alderson Reporting Company Official would be required is a detailed and complex         determination.             And in fact, the ­­ the ­­ the experience in          Ramah highlights this where the settlement negotiations       have gone on for three years trying to determine what          the actual damages are through good­faith negotiations.                   And so yes, I would believe that the         government may suffer prejudice as a result of now          nearly years later having to determine actual        contract support costs if this were to go back on the           merits.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: The D.C. Circuit said       this is presentment, this is just paperwork, easy ­­        easy to do. But the Tribe couldn't ­­ if they had            presented to the contracting officer, they just couldn't        leave it at that. They would have to take an           administrative appeal within days, or they'd have to         appeal to the Federal circuit within a year. So more            was at stake for this Tribe than simply filing a piece            of paper.              MS. EISENSTEIN: Your Honor, there's no       doubt that perhaps the D.C. Circuit's      envelope­and­a­stamp may have been a bit of hyperbole.         But that said, what the Tribe's argument, that it was          the subsequent deadlines that would have led it to         Alderson Reporting Company Official delay, is really an astounding proposition, which is        that their basis for tolling is the existence of the          statutes of limitation. And that really can't be the          case, that the fact that once they filed their claim, it           may then follow; that additional limitations periods may        kick in; that that could warrant delay in and of itself.                       But even putting that aside, there were       other options that the Tribe could have pursued. For          example, having presented its claim, and if it did so          prior to ­­ it said it hoped to be a part of the              Cherokee Nation class action, if it did so prior to the           Cherokee Nation class action, and the Cherokee Nation        class action was in fact certified, then ­­ then it may           have an argument it's part of that class.                    To the extent to which the Cherokee Nation        class was denied, then the only ­­ then the presentment          requirement was the necessary step to moving forward to         presenting its claim individually at the contract, Board        of Contract Appeals level or at the judicial level.                     So I don't believe that the inevitability of         further litigation in any way is a basis for tolling in            this case.              you.             If there are no further questions, thank       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official You have nine minutes remaining, Mr.                  Strommer.         REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GEOFFREY D. STROMMER                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. STROMMER: Thank you, Your Honor.       I'll start with a few comments on the last          point that counsel made.                The stamp­and­an­envelope quote is more than      hyperbole; it's just flat wrong. There's costs incurred         by the Tribe to calculate the amount of claims. There's           costs in pulling together the letter that then goes into          the envelope that is the claim itself.                   But more than that ­­ and your question        alluded to this, Justice Ginsburg ­­ the ­­ once ­­ once           the claim is filed, and the government, undoubtedly, as         it did during this period of time with all of the claims            that were filed, they would have denied the claim. That           triggers another statute of limitations, either days        to appeal in the civilian board of contract appeals, or          one year to appeal in Federal district court. And that           deadline had been found by courts to be jurisdictional.                     So in fact, what we're talking about here is         a conundrum, because the six­year statute of limitations        under the Contract Disputes Act had not been found to be           jurisdictional. It was later on found to be         Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdictional as a result of the presentment        requirement, but the statute of limitations that would        have been triggered would, in fact, have been        jurisdictional, and the Tribe would have had no option         but to litigate. And if we place these facts on top of             what happened in Cherokee Nation, it perfectly       illustrates the conundrum. days it took for the          certification process in that case.                 If the Tribe had filed at the beginning of         that process and received a rejection of its claim          during the first , days ­­ let's give the          government, you know, ample time to respond ­­ then it          would have triggered a statute of limitations that was          jurisdictional that the Tribe would have had to have         acted on, in order to make sure that its claim was, in            fact, going to still be alive.                  And that would have happened before the end        of the days.                So it's more than a stamp in an envelope.          It really is a jurisdictional conundrum that the Tribe          was aware of and concerned about, that partially        factored into the Tribe's decision not to file a claim.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There ­­ there are so        many people who don't have resources to pursue a         litigation. How do we differentiate you from those         Alderson Reporting Company Official millions of people with lack of resources who choose not          to pursue claims, either because they think, at least up          till then, they're going to lose, because that's the         state of the law, or for whatever other reason they're          waiting? How ­­ how do we ­­ how do we articulate an             equitable tolling principle that won't open a floodgate         to making a statute of limitations basically a nullity?                       MR. STROMMER: Well, the ­­ the primary        basis, Your Honor, for the Tribe's position that        equitable tolling should apply is its reasonable       reliance on class­action tolling.                   The other factors, such as the cost of     litigation, such as the United States' fiduciary       responsibility and trust responsibility towards the      Tribe ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If it was reasonable,       why didn't you litigate that?                 MR. STROMMER: There was no ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why didn't you take the        order of the ­­ the court below, that ­­ and appeal that            order?             MR. STROMMER: Well, there were two cases.        Both the Federal circuit and the D.C. Circuit ruled just          about the same time on that issue, and both concluded          the same, that class­action tolling was not available        Alderson Reporting Company Official because of the presentment requirement.                 question?             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: To seek cert. on that        MR. STROMMER: The Arctic Slope, the other        case, did, so ­­ so there was no split in the circuits,            and the Arctic Slope case did, in fact, petition this          Court, and this Court didn't take the case.                    So the Menominee Tribe chose not to throw        bad money after ­­ after a bad result, which was           guaranteed, by preparing a petition cert., which this         Court had already denied in the Arctic Slope Native         case.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When there was no split.        But you had a split.                  Honor.             up.             MR. STROMMER: There was no split. No, Your          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When your decision came       MR. STROMMER: No. Our decision on that         issue ­­ there were two rounds of litigation at the          court of appeals level. In the first round, both the           Federal circuit and the D.C. Circuit held that        class­action tolling was not available, and they both        remanded back to the trial courts to determine whether         or not equitable tolling applied.     Alderson Reporting Company Official                And that first decision was appealed by    Arctic Slope Native ­­ or petitioned this Court to take          that case, and it was not taken. And Menominee did not            take those steps by filing a petition.                      I ­­ I also want to address the prejudice         issue. There's ­­ if there's anything in the         government's briefs that strikes me as hyperbole, it's        that they were prejudiced. They have been settling         hundreds of these claims around the country.                   These claims are very straightforward. The       contract, the methodology that's used to calculate the        entitlement for contract support costs, are well       established in policy. We know the government produced         shortfall reports, contemporaneous with the years in       which these claims accrued, in which they told Congress,         for each Tribe, how much they short­funded them.                    So the ­­ the government would tell you that         they're prejudiced because they would have to go back         and look at the contract and look at the policy in place            at the time to calculate the amount due is just not ­­           just not credible, in my view.                    I rest our case, Your Honor.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official above­entitled matter was submitted.)     Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialagency : agree :, : : agreed : AL : ALITO : : : : : : beginning : argued : argues : arguing : : behalf :, : argument : : :, :, :,, : : : : : : believe : : :, : : : belief : A a.m : : : abandonment : ability : : able : : : above­entitled : arose : articulate : aside : : asked : asking : : asserted : asserting : American :, Assistant : : :,, assumption : : alive : alleged : absolutely : allow : accrued : allowed : Act : allows : acted : : action :, : alluded : : :, : amended : :,, : :, : amount : :,,,, : : : :,, : : : amounted : : :,, actions :,,, actual :, added : additional : amounts :, ample : answer : : answered : answers : appeal :, :, : : astounding : attack : attacking : : : : : believes : : : believing : benefit :, benefitted :, better :,, beyond : binding :, : bit : board : : BREYER : : :,, Page  :,,, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :,,, cases : : : : : : : category : CDA : : cert : :, certainly : : :, :, : certainty : certification : :, :, : : : :, : : : certified : : : : : : : : certify : : certifying : challenge : challenged : challenging :, Cherokee : : :, : :,,, :, :,, : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : Bureau : : authority : : brief : : : : automatically : briefing : : available :, briefs : bring :, aware : B back : : : : backdrop : bad : : : : balance : bar : : : C C : : calculate : :, calculation : call : called : care : carve : case :,, :, appealed : appeals : : : APPEARANCES : appellate : appendix : application : applied : : applies : : : : : apply : : : barred : : : : : : : : : : based : : : : applying : approve : :, basically : Arctic :,, : : argue : basis : : : :, Chief :, : : : : : :, :,, :,,,, : :, : : :,, : : : choice : : :,, choose : : :,, chooses : :,, : chose : : : : address : addressed :, : : : addresses : administration : administrative : :,, : : : administrator : adverse : advice :,, : :, : : : :, :, :, :,, affirmative : :, affirmatively : afforded : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : context : : continue : contract :, Page  court's : : : : defined : : definition : courts : : : circuit : : :,, :, :, :, Circuit's : circuits :, : : : : circumstance : : :,, : :, circumstances : : :,, :,, : :, :, :,, class­action : : : :,, :, : : :, :,, : : :, : : : covered : :, : : :, covering : :, :, credible : : cross­reference contracting : : :, : delay : :, demonstrate : : denial :, : denied : :, :, : : : Department : described : designed :, detailed : determination : : : determine :, : determined : : different : :, differentiate : differently : difficult : diligence : : :,,,, : : : :, : :, diligent : direct : directly : disagree : : : discovered : dispute :, Disputes : district : :, :, :, : : : : doubt : doubts : due : : : :,, : : cross­referenced : Crown : crucible : DD : :, :, :D.C :, : : : : damages :date : : : days : : : : : :, deadline :, : :,, :, : deadlines :dealing :dealt :December :decided : : deciding : : decision :, : : : :,, :, :,, :, : : : :, : decisions :declaration ::declines :defective :defense : : :: :, :, clear : :, contracts :, : : : : : : : controlling : clearly :, cite : clock :, : conundrum : civilian : close : claim : : closely : :,, : closeout : : :, : : : : collect : : : : :, :,, comments : :,, : common : :, :, Cork : correct : : :, : : correctly : cost : costs : : comes : commonality : communicated claimed : claims : :, : : : : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, complaint :,, :, :, : : completed : complex : : concern : concerned : : clarify : class :,,, concerns : concluded : : : conclusion : :, :,, : :, :, :, :,,, conclusively : :,, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : : :,, :,,,, :, :, :,,,, contemporaneous : :,, constitute : contained : confuses : Congress : consequences :, : counsel :, :, : : : : :, : : : counsel's : :, country : : couple : course : : court :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : : :,, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : :,,, : Alderson Reporting Company Duncan : especially : ESQ :, :, essentially : : E E : :, earlier : : easy : :, effort : Eisenstein : : event : : established : ET : eventually : Exactly : examine : :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : example : : :,, : : : : : exceptional : exceptions : either : : : eliminating : emphasized : encountered : encouraged : entered : entire :, : entitled :, : :, exercise : exhaust : :, exhaust­when : exhausted : :,, exhaustion :, : : exhaustion­when : entitlement : entity : envelope : existence : existing : experience : expire : envelope­and­a­s... explain : : : environment : : equate : equitable :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, : :, : equitably : equities : equity :, erroneous :, : : extended : : extent : : extraordinary : F fact : : : : : : :, :, :, : : :, : :, : Official factor : : : factored : factors : : : facts :, :, : : failed : : : fails : failure : fair : :, fallback :, far : fashion : favor : Federal : : Page  follows : foreclose : foreclosed : forfeiting : forfeiture : form : forth : forward : : found : : : :, : : : :, good­faith : government : : : : : : : :, government's : : : : : granted : grounds :, : guaranteed : four : : frame : : free : fundamental : habeas : funding : happen : H : : : H : : : further : : happened : : :, : harmed : Health : : : G fell : fiduciary : file : :, G : : :, :, : : filed : : : : : :, : garden­variety : garden­variety­... :, :, hear : held : : help : highlights : general : : Holland : : : : :, :,, : filing :, :, generally : home : : : : GEOFFREY : Honor : :, : : : : : : :, : : getting : find : : : Ginsburg :, finds : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : go : : : : give : : given : flat : floodgate : flows : focus : focused : follow : goes : : : going :, : : : : : good : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : hoped : hundreds : hyperbole : : : hypothetical : :, : : Fine : : : : :, first : : : : : hope : Alderson Reporting Company Official judge :, : : : : Page  longer : look :, looked : lose : lost : lower : : : mistake : mistakes :, money : : monitor : moving : M N majority : N :, : making : : name : : Nation : : L lack : : lacked : lacks : : large : : law : : : : : Lawrence : lawsuit :,, :, : mandatory : lawyer : : lawyers : leave : led : legal :, : mean : : matter : : : :,, : :, : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : Nation's : : : : : : :,, :, : :,, :, : length : let's : : : letter :, : level :, : limit : limitation : limitations : : :, :, : means : meet : : : member : : : :,, : :, : : members : : : Native : : nature : : : nearly : necessarily : : necessary : need : needed : negotiations :, membership : Neither : : never : : Menominee : : : :, : : nine : : : limited :, limiting : listed : lists : litigant : : met : : mentioned : merits :, : : : : :, litigants : litigate : : litigation :, : : : : : litigations : long : : methodology : millions : mind : Minimal : minutes : miscalculated : miscalculation normally : notice : nullity : number : : O O : : obstacle : obviously : occurred : officer : : : : : : : Oh : I idea : identical : : identified :, identify : : ILANA : : : illustrates : impact : impediment : implement : implemented : important : : : importantly : included : : : incorrect : incumbent : incurred : Indian : : : : : individual : : : : : : individually : : : ineffective : : : : inevitability : initially : : inquiry :, :, intents : involve : irrelevant : Irwin : : issue :,, : : : : : : : : : issued : : : issues : J : : judgment :, judicial : jurisdiction : : : : :,, jurisdictional : : : : :,, : jurisdictionally : : Justice : :, :,,, : :,, : : :,, : :,,,,, :, :,, :, :, :, :, : : : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, :, :,, : : : : : :, :,, : justifies : : : K KAGAN : kick : kind : : :, : : kinds : : knew : : know : : : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : prejudiced :, prove : preliminary : premise : : period :, okay : percent : once : :, perfectly : open : : operates : opinion : option : : options : oral : :, : : : :, : : : premised : : : premises : periods : permitted : petition :, : : : preparing : prerequisite : prerequisites : present :, provided : provides : prudent : pulling : pure : purposes : pursue : : : : : reasons :,, : : : : presented : pursuit : : putative : putting : : : : : pursued : : : : petitioned : Petitioner :, :, : : Petitioner's : piece : : piggyback : presenting : Pipe :, : presentment : qualified : : : :, qualify : : :, : : : : question :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : pleading : please : : plus : : point : : prevent : :, place : : :,, : Q : : : questions : : order : : :, ordinarily : Ore : original : originally : overturned : P P : Pace : : PAGE : Pages : paper : : paperwork : paramount : part : : :, partially : participate : participating : particular :, Page  : : : : reasonable : : : : : : : :, reasonably : : : : : : REBUTTAL : : receive : : received : : : :, : recognized : record : : records : records­intensive : recover : refer : referred : refers :, refused :, regardless : reject :, rejection : relatively : release :,, :,, : :,,,, : :, releases :, relevance : reliance : : : : : : : pointed : poised : policies : policy : : : : : poor : particularly : poorly : parties : : portion : party : : : Portland : : : : position : : pass : payment : payments : pendency : pending :, : people : : : possession : potential : power : practices : : : : preexisting : : prejudice : prevented : preventing : prevents : primary : principle : : prior : : : probably : problem : : : quickly : quite : : quote : R R : raise : : raised : :, Ramah : : :, :,, : :, : problems : proceed : proceeded : rare : process : : read : : :, :, produced : : reading : realized : relief : really : :, relies : : : : :, : relieve : reason : : rely : :, prong : : prongs : : proposed :, proposition : : :,, : : relied : :, : : : : : precedent :, prohibition : Alderson Reporting Company :, :, relying : : remaining : remains : remanded : remarkable : remedy : rendered : reply : : reports : : require : required :, : : : requirement : : : : : : : : requires :, requisite : : research :, reserve : resources : : : respects : respond : Respondents : : : responsibility :, rest : restart : result : : rule : :, : : : : ruled : : : : : : : rules : : :, ruling : : S S : : satisfied : : satisfy : : : saying : : : : Scalia :,,, : :,,, :, Scalia's : se : second :, : : Secondly : seek : seeking : : seeks : seen : self­determination : says :, : simply : : Official short­fund : short­funded : specifically : : : Page  :, :, : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :, split : :, :, spring : stage : stake : stamp : strong : stamp­and­an­en... subject : : submitted : standard : : : standards : start : state : : stated : States :,, : : :, : : : :, :, States' : statute : : :, :, : statutes : statutorily : statutory :, : step :, : : : subsequent : substantive : : : suffer : suggest : suggested : suggesting : suggestion : suggests : suit :, : : : support : : : Supreme :, sure : system : system­wide : : systemic : steps : stood : stop : stored : T T :, take : : : : :, taken : talk : : talked : talking : : : : : : short­funding :, short­fundings : shortfall : : shortfalls : shortly : : show :,, shown : sign :, signed : : : significant : signs : single :, :,,, sitting : situation : : : : situations : six : six­year : : : slightly : : Slope :,, : Solicitor : somebody : sorry : : sort : : : : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : :, :, :, :, : : : : :,, sought : speaks : specific : : : review : right : :, : : : : : : Service : : : : : sense : separate : : Sotomayor :,, straightforward series : serve : : : strategic : : strikes : Strommer : : risk :, : ROBERTS : : : : : round : rounds : routine : Services : set : settled : : settlement : : : : : settlements : settling : tell : : :,, : : :, :, terms :, : :,,, : : :,,, : :, :,,, : test :, :, thank : : : : : they'd : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : : : : :, : : Official :,, : : :,, Union : : :, undoubtedly : whatsoever : win : : thing : think :, : :, : : : : : :,, : thinking : : Third : thought : three : : throw : tile : tiling : till : time : : : : :,, : : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : : : : timeliness : timely :, : : : : times : today : : told : : : toll : tolled : : : : : tolling :,, :, :, : : :,,,, :, : : : :,, :, :, : : : : :, :,,, : :, :,, :, :, :, top : total : trial : tribe : : : : : : : :,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :, :, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :, : : :, :, : : : Tribe's : : : : : : tribes : : : : triggered :, triggers : true : : trust : trying : : Tuesday : turned : two : :, : : : : : type : U ultimately : : : : uncertain : uncertainty : undercut : underfunding : understand : unique : : United :,, : : :, : : : :, :, : unprecedented : unpublished : unreasonable : unusual : V v : : vast : viable : view : : : voluntarily : W wait : : : : waited :, :, : waiting : : want : : : : : wanted : : warrant : : Washington :, wasn't : : Waxhaw : way : : : : : : we'll : : we're : : :, : : : weird :, well­satisfied : went : weren't : : Wisconsin : : words : : worth : wouldn't :, : : write : wrong :, : x :, X Y year : : years : : :,, : : : : : :, : :,, : : : Z : : : : : : : : :, : :, ­ : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company 