Official ­ Subject to Final Review         IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  BRANDON THOMAS BETTERMAN,            :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          MONTANA,                                       Respondent.            : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: FRED A. ROWLEY, JR., ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf             of Petitioner.  DALE SCHOWENGERDT, ESQ., Solicitor General, Helena,         Mont.; on behalf of Respondent.     GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE FRED A. ROWLEY, JR., ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   DALE SCHOWENGERDT, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   FRED A. ROWLEY, JR., ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear       argument next in Case ­, Betterman v. Montana.                    Mr. Rowley.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF FRED A. ROWLEY, JR.                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ROWLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Speedy Trial Clause applies to a       criminal prosecution through its culmination in      sentencing. It is not cut off when the defendant pleads           or is found guilty. The Court has said that the clause            guarantees an early and proper disposition of a criminal          charge, and that guarantee applies to the guilt stage of          a prosecution when most defendants plead guilty and to         the sentencing stage, which may be the only place in a           criminal prosecution today when a defendant actually        mounts a defense.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Does the Federal Speedy       Trial Act ­­ not the constitutional provision, but the         legislation ­­ does that cover sentencing, or is that         limited to trial?               MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, my understanding is        that it's limited to trial. The Court has recognized          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review specific interests that are protected by the Speedy        Trial Clause, and those interests apply not just to         presumptively innocent defendants, as the State and the        United States suggests, but some of them apply        specifically to guilty defendants.                In Barker, for instance, the Court notes       that one of the interests that are protected by this ­­          that is protected by this clause is the interest in          rehabilitation, and that a prolonged period of detention         in jail can affect a defendant's rehabilitation. Well,          that's specific to a guilty defendant. And in Smith v.            Hooey, the Court noted that even though the defendant         had been incarcerated in Federal prison, that that        defendant could still be prejudiced by a prolonged delay          in the State prosecution that followed because it could         affect his ability to seek a concurrent sentence. That           interest also is specific to a guilty defendant.                     So the sharp line between the guilt stage of         a prosecution and the criminal ­­ and the sentencing         stage of a prosecution isn't supported by this Court's          speedy trial precedence.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with        the ­­ all of our speedy trial decisions say there's          only one remedy, and that is case over. Dismissal is           the only appropriate remedy. But you're ­­ you're not          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review arguing that, I understand, with respect to sentencing.                                                         MR. ROWLEY: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are arguing ­­      MR. ROWLEY: We were not arguing that.        JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it's different. The        speedy trial requirement says if you ­­ if you don't          comply with the constitutional provision, dismissal.      But you're saying sentencing is not the same as trial,          to that extent, that the remedy is different?                    MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, at the guilt stage         of the prosecution, the outcomes are ­­ are binary. So           the defendant is either adjudicated guilty or the        charges are dismissed or the defendant is acquitted. So          there's two possible outcomes at the guilt stage: Guilt          or innocence.              At sentencing, the situation is quite      different. There's greater opportunity for tailoring,       which is what the Court requires per Morrison; and there          may be a greater need for tailoring because the          defendant has been adjudicated guilty. So in the         sentencing context where courts have wide discretion,       where there's a range of possible sentences, where         there's a range of possible outcomes, tailoring ­­        there's a greater opportunity for tailoring and ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: So ­­ so what would the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review remedy be in a case like this?                    MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, we submit that a         proper remedy in a case like this would be to reduce            Mr. Betterman's sentence by the period of delay, and the          Montana Supreme Court concluded that the period of        unjustified delay here was months.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, he was serving on        another sentence. He was serving a sentence for another           crime.             MR. ROWLEY: Yes, Your Honor. He was ­­ so           he got time served credit on the prior sentence that ­­          that he was serving. But that period of delay, the            months was not credited to his sentence on the         bail­jumping sentence, which is the ­­ the sentence        that ­­ that's at issue here.                  And we submit that a proportionate remedy,        an appropriate remedy, would be to reduce that sentence         by the period during which he was denied access to          rehabilitation programs and suffered the anxiety that is        detailed in his affidavit, and that that would be a ­­ a             way to go. The lower courts have applied that sort of            remedy to sentencing delays. And another possible        outcome in another case would be simply to vacate the          remaining portion of the defendant's sentence.                  But here we submit that a tailored remedy         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would be just reducing his sentence by ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: What do you make of the fact          that the Sixth Amendment says that "the accused shall         enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an            impartial jury"?              MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, the impartial jury        clause doesn't cut off or limit the word "trial." We           know that because the Court has recognized that the         public trial right might apply at a suppression hearing,          and there's no jury convened at a suppression hearing.          The Court concluded that in Waller. So the impartial          jury clause applies to the portions of a criminal          prosecution, the stages of a prosecution where a jury is            actually impaneled. And if you go back to the purpose           of an ­­ of the impartial jury clause, which was to           prevent jurors from offering evidence against the       defendant, it makes good sense that it would apply to          the stages of a criminal prosecution where a jury is            convened.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Rowley, if we were        to disagree with you and say that there's no Sixth          Amendment right and there was only a due process right,           have you waived any argument that you meet the due          process standard?              MR. ROWLEY: We haven't included that. We         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review didn't include that in the question presented, Your        Honor. And the Montana Supreme Court rejected that         challenge. It applied a due process test and concluded           that under a due process analysis, Mr. Betterman         wouldn't be entitled to relief.                 And that gets to an important point here        because ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I ­­ I understand          that. So you're admitting you're giving up that its          analysis under the Due Process Clause might have been         wrong?             MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, we are not        advancing that claim here. And so there is a          significant difference, we submit, between the due       process analysis and the Barker test that this Court has          applied under the Sixth Amendment speedy trial right,        and ­­ and that is that under a Barker analysis,           prejudice may be presumed. And ­­ and Barker also          addresses specific forms of prejudice that may flow from         a delay in a criminal prosecution.                   The Lovasco test that is applied under a due          process analysis does not address some of those        specific ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I agree, but why do you          think Lovasco applies at all, meaning that's to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review pre­indictment delay where we were creating an exception        and saying generally you have ­­ the State has the          period of statute of limitations to bring an action.                                 MR ROWLEY: Your Honor, that line of ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you want to cut them         off from having that right, you need to show actual          prejudice.             MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, that's the test        that the Montana Supreme Court applied below. It is the           test that other courts that have rejected the Sixth         Amendment's speedy trial rights application at      sentencing, they have pivoted to the due process test in          Lovasco, and that test creates a significant burden.                     JUSTICE KAGAN: For example, Mr. Rowley,       just to continue on this line of questioning, there's         another case that we have which dealt with civil         forfeitures, which is the $, in U.S. currency case         where it said, Well, we're going to do a due process            analysis, but we're going to take the Barker factors as          our test for that due process analysis.                   So I think one of the questions that Justice          Sotomayor is asking is: Why wouldn't that be equally          appropriate here? In other words, even if ­­ and I'm           not saying that this is right, but even if there's ­­          this is ­­ falls within the due process box rather than           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the Sixth Amendment box, that there's still a further          question as to whether the Lovasco approach is right or          whether this U.S. currency approach is right.                   MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, that's what the        Montana Supreme Court attempted to do. So it eventually          modified the Lovasco test and tried to draw on Barker          principles in applying it. But if you compare the          results in this case to, say, the result in the Burkett           case where the court analyzed the specific forms of         prejudice that are at issue in a ­­ a pretrial or             presentencing delay situation, and if you don't ­­ and         if you presume prejudice or require the State        prosecution to rebut articulated prejudice     particularized by ­­ it's been articulated by the        defendant, the court there found a violation, and the          Court here, despite modifying Lovasco, did not find a         violation. And so the test is still inadequately         protective.             JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess I'm ­­ I guess I'm            not ­­ just not sure what you ­­ you mean by that,            because in this other case, the civil forfeiture case,         we just said we're going to apply the four factors of           Barker. And if that were the result of the due process            approach, I mean, it just wouldn't make any difference          which box it was in.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. ROWLEY: That would ­­ that would        certainly be true, Your Honor, but that's not what the          Montana Supreme Court here did. So it didn't apply all           the factors in Barker. It didn't apply Barker in a           straightforward fashion because it approached prejudice      the same way that Lovasco did. It required the          defendant to make an affirmative showing of prejudice.        It required that that showing be substantial. That's         different from the Barker test. And we submit also that           given the specificity of this right, that it's        enumerated in the Sixth Amendment, that it would not be          appropriate for the Court to shunt that interest, that         set of interests that are enumerated in the Sixth         Amendment, into the due process test; that the better         approach is to do what the lower courts have done, which           is to take the Barker framework, which already exists,         and apply it in straightforward fashion to a delay at           sentencing.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you're not asking us        to do it in a straightforward fashion. That's what           Justice Ginsburg asked you, because you're giving up the         Barker remedy.              MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, the lower courts,        in applying Barker to the sentencing context, have fixed         more tailored remedies in recognition of the fact that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there may be a difference between a delay at the guilt             stage and a delay at sentencing, because now the          defendant's been convicted.               And so the lower courts, in applying Barker,        have done this. They have tailored remedies. They have           applied remedies that leave the conviction standing and        try to affix some proportionate remedy for the delay at          the ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why don't you think        that they've done the same thing under the Due Process          Clause, recognizing that it is unfair to undo a         conviction merely for sentencing delay because you're no        longer presumed innocent, you're now guilty?                  MR. ROWLEY: The key ­­ yes, Your Honor.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't the due       process test that's being applied that modification?                   MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, the ­­ the reason         why the due process test, as it's been applied by the           lower courts, doesn't do the job is because they         continue to require an affirmative showing of        prejudice. So they don't presume prejudice which may be        significant. Washington, the case out of the         Fifth Circuit that we cite, illustrates this point        because the  court there didn't presume prejudice. And as         the Court  explained in Doggett, it may be important to         presume Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prejudice because it is sometimes hard to show the         effect of a delay on the defendant's defense or other           forms of prejudice.                  And so even the courts that have applied     Lovasco, and have modified it, still ­­ still don't         presume prejudice, still don't require the prosecution       to make a showing in response to articulated prejudice.          They just apply Lovasco and require an affirmative        showing of substantial prejudice.                So even this modified version that you see        in the Montana Supreme Court's opinion below, we submit         is inadequate and also not appropriate because there is         this enumerated right in the Sixth Amendment and ­­ and          shouldn't be shunted into the ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, when you say prejudice        should be presumed, do you mean it should be presumed          conclusively? Could it be rebutted?                  MR. ROWLEY: Yes, Your Honor, it could be         rebutted. And indeed, in a case like this where the            defendant has articulated specific forms of prejudice, I        was denied access to rehabilitation, I suffered anxiety,         the State ought to be able to come in and rebut that            presumption.             Now here, despite those specific forms of       prejudice being set out in the motion to dismiss that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Mr. Betterman filed, the State did not offer that         evidence. The first evidence that we saw was in the           briefing on the merits in this Court. So the State did            have the opportunity to make a showing, and it didn't do            that.             JUSTICE ALITO: When you say that the ­­ the          remedy should be tailored, tailored to what? What is ­­          what is the Court supposed to do, in ­­ in your view?            Select a punishment that is appropriate to deter the          State from doing this again, or select a remedy that in            some way undoes the ­­ the damage or the prejudice          that's been done to the defendant?                  MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, Morrison speaks to        this, and it requires that the Court fix a remedy that            is tailored to the injury suffered from the        constitutional violation.              JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. Well, then, in that         situation, I don't know why reducing the sentence by the           length of the unconstitutional delay ­­ the supposedly        unconstitutional delay undoes the damage that's been       done by the delay.                MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, it's a       proportionate remedy because the defendant was denied.       Mr. Betterman was denied access to these rehabilitation        programs that aren't only good in themselves, as Barker         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review recognizes, but that also bear on his prospects for         parole, on his case for parole or early release. And so            the fact that he was denied access to them for a           significant period of time bears on his ability to try          to win early release. And this Court has recognized          that any amount of time that the defendant has to spend           in prison as a result of a Sixth Amendment violation is             cognizable.             And so we submit that it is proportionately        tailored, even if the fit isn't perfect.                   JUSTICE ALITO: When Justice Ginsburg asked       you about the Federal Speedy Trial Act, and you said          that does not cover sentencing. But there are         provisions of Montana law that do cover sentencing. Why          didn't you seek relief under those?                  MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, there are Montana        statutes that require that sentencing take place within        a reasonable amount of time and foreclose on reasonable         delay. But we have been unable to find a case where the              defendant was actually able to win some kind of relief          on the basis of those statutes. As the Montana Supreme           Court decision below reflects, the court's view there        was that those statutes incorporate due process       principles, and so it would be due process principles         that provided the relief. And we haven't found any case           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that gives any freestanding, independent relief on the        basis of those statutes.                            If you'd look at the Rule cases ­­        JUSTICE ALITO: Did you bring a claim under          those statutes?              not.             MR. ROWLEY: We did not, Your Honor. We did           JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would ­­ would it be        appropriate for the government to respond, yes, there        are these disadvantages, but he had certain advantages,        too, from being in jail. He was closer to his family.            He was closer to his counsel to confer more easily with           counsel. Isn't it then we have to consider the pluses           as well as the disadvantages?                 MR. ROWLEY: Certainly, Your Honor. If        the ­­ if the prosecution offered that kind of evidence,          it would weigh in the balance, and Barker itself         discusses that. It notes that the Speedy Trial Clause          is unusual in that delay in some instances may benefit          the defendant. But ­­ but here, where Mr. Betterman has           submitted an affidavit, and also in the initial motion         detailed the prejudice that he suffered from this delay,         inability to access these programs that he was ordered         to complete as part of the suspended portion of his          sentence that under Montana regulations would bear       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review directly on his case for parole, the prejudice is         palpable. It resonates strongly with Barker itself and         with Smith v. Hooey where the Court noted that even if           you're incarcerated on a prior charge, you may yet          suffer prejudice as a result of delay in a subsequent            prosecution.             So back to Justice Sotomayor's question      about Lovasco, and about the difference between these        two tests. We submit that if you compare the outcome           here and compare the outcome in Burkett, Burkett        involved a defendant who advanced a very similar theory           of prejudice. The theory was he was denied access to           rehabilitation programs and that he suffered anxiety.       The defendant testified to that effect, and the Third         Circuit concluded that in the absence of contrary        evidence, that that was enough to state or to show a           Sixth Amendment violation.               Whereas in ­­ in the decision below, the        Montana Supreme Court placed the burden squarely on        Mr. Betterman to make an affirmative showing of        substantial prejudice. So even though he submitted this         affidavit that detailed the prejudice, the Montana       Supreme Court deemed it speculative.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My problem is with this        use of ­­ of language. Prejudice is prejudice. And           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they ­­ they seem to be arguing that substantial         prejudice means something like actual damages, that you        can point to something that I've actually been damaged         by either having served longer than the sentence that's         ultimately imposed, or something else like that.                      But why are you even taking on the     substantial damage definition? Why aren't you just        arguing that prejudice is prejudice?                 MR. ROWLEY: Well, it is, Your Honor, but         Lovasco actually uses the word "actually." So the         Lovasco test that was applied by the Montana Supreme         Court ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're still ­­ you're       still in the Lovasco test?                 MR. ROWLEY: Yes. I mean, if ­­ if the            court ­­ that's the court ­­ that's the due process test           that the court has applied. Now, if the court were to            say that the Barker test, including the way that Barker          approaches prejudice, could be actionable under the Due        Process Clause, that would be a different story, but          simply not the way that lower courts have examined it.          That would effectively give a defendant Sixth Amendment         relief under the Due Process Clause.                  But that is not what the Montana Supreme        Court did, Your Honor, and that is not the way that it            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review applied.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's not the way        you're arguing the case.                MR. ROWLEY: Well, Your Honor, we didn't        preserve a ­­ a due process challenge. Our challenge is             solely under the Sixth Amendment. It's set forward         in ­­ in the ­­ in the question presented and, indeed,           in the lower courts we pressed a Sixth Amendment right.                       But to Your Honor's question, if the court        were to take that Sixth Amendment analysis and drop it          in the due process context, the defendant would        certainly get the same relief. But we submit that just           given that the right is enumerated in the Sixth         Amendment, that it ought to ­­ that the relief ought to           be granted under that clause and not shunted into due          process.             If there are no further questions, I'd like        to reserve the balance of my time.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   General Schowengerdt.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF DALE SCHOWENGERDT                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:                 The Speedy Trial Clause does not include       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentencing delay because its purpose is to protect a         presumptively innocent defendant from the harms      associated with a criminal charge. That purpose is          consistent with the text in history of the clause. It's           consistent with the remedy that this Court has said must          apply to speedy trial violations. And, importantly, it         leaves defendants with other means of challenging       unjustified sentencing delay without requiring the court       having to modify both the test and the remedy for a           speedy trial violation.               The Speedy Trial Clause is unique among       Sixth Amendment rights because it goes to the heart of          the government's authority to try a presumptively        innocent defendant at all. If the government        unjustifiably delays, it may forfeit the right, which is         why dismissal is the remedy.                 Sentencing delay doesn't impact the validity      of trial. It doesn't impact the authority of the          government to bring a defendant to trial. And after           conviction, none of the interests that are supported by         the Speedy Trial Clause apply. For example, there can          be no anxiety over public accusation because the        accusation has been confirmed. At the moment of         conviction, a defendant's liberty is justly deprived        because ­­ and that's why bail is presumptively        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review unavailable at that point.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: When, in your view ­­       let's say we agree with you that speedy trial isn't the           right rubric. When would a delay in sentencing amount           to a due process violation?                  MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I think if a ­­ if a            defendant could show prejudice, for example, if he was         not able to present mitigating evidence at sentencing        because of passage of time, a lost witness, that ­­ that            may be one example. If he's serving a ­­ if he's             awaiting sentencing for a time longer than the maximum          sentence for ­­ for the charge, that would ­­ that would           be another example.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you ­­ you would not         count factors of the kind that were raised here, that          is, I could have gotten into a drug treatment program in             the penitentiary that's not available in the jail. You          would not include that?                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: That's right, Justice      Ginsburg. And ­­ and the reason why it ­­ it's too            speculative a basis, you know, it's speculative whether         rehabilitative programs or parole would have been       available and whether the defendant would have taken        advantage of them.               And I ­­ this case is ­­ is a good example             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of that. It's not in the record because it happened           after the Montana Supreme Court's decision, but the        Petitioner was ­­ was offered parole in March of          on ­­ conditioned on that he would fill ­­ fulfill a           rehabilitation program. He started the rehabilitation       program, and days later he quit, quit it, so his           parole was rescinded. And that's ­­ that's the sort of           speculative basis ­­ I think it's too speculative a          basis to ­­ to give a remedy.                    But the defendant's always able to file a        mandamus claim if he ­­ if he's ­­ the sentence is           harming him. He can first ask to be sentenced. The            defendant in this case didn't mention it until nine         months into the progress ­­ process.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: General, there ­­ there may        be some real differences between the pretrial context        and the presentencing context, but one which seems quite         similar is the potential of delay to impair the defense.          So I guess I would like you to address that, because,             you know, as the Petitioners point out, in most cases          these days, most of the actual adjudication of contested         issues goes on in sentencing rather than at the trial          stage, given that we don't have very many trials         anymore.             And certainly Barker and certainly Doggett      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review made it very clear that this was an important interest          in thinking about the speedy trial right.                   MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Yes, Justice Kagan, a few         points. First of all, I would ­­ I would say that that               danger is equally at issue in pre­indictment delay,        delay involving interlocutory appeal, which the court       held was not included in the speedy trial analysis in          Loud Hawk v. United States. Second ­­ so that can be            remedied by ­­ by due process, even if it's a similar            interest.             Second, there's ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, doesn't ­­ Lovasco       really talks about a whole different set of         considerations in the pretrial context, which simply       don't apply once the indictment ­­ once the accusation         has been made.               MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Perhaps not. But I think          it would apply in the ­­ in the interlocutory appeal          context or even ­­ or even appeal in resentencing. I           mean, those same considerations would be at issue. The          delay could impact or retrial ­­ if there's a retrial           ordered on remand in a case. And those are interests            the Due Process Clause can ­­ can remedy.                    But the other ­­ the other point is that         sentencing is different. I mean, there ­­ the same           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review rules don't apply. And usually, the same facts that          aren't ­­ aren't at issue. I mean, given the ubiquity            of plea agreements, so often the ­­ the real action is           in the plea bargaining, anyway. And ­­ and the          prosecutor and the defendant agree on a sentence or a           range of sentence, and then ­­ and then that's         implemented by the judge.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, sometimes, but there       may also be real factual disputes. It might be about           the amount of loss. It might be about the amount of            drug quantity. It might be about prior bad acts. It            might be about a whole range of things which are the            kinds of things that we actually typically think of as          contested issues at trial.                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: That's true. I would         argue the due process provides adequate remedy in that         situation, but there is different standard, too. I         mean, the rules of evidence don't apply. The         Confrontation Clause doesn't apply. There's no burden        to prove facts beyond a reasonable doubt. So it is a             different type of proceeding.                And our argument is that ­­ that due process         can remedy any prejudice that happened ­­ ­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the problem. How        do you prove ­­ I mean, let's take an indeterminate           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentence, more or less like this one, where you have the           possibility of a sentence between zero and ten years.                      How do you ­­ how does the judge know         whether ­­ if the defendant is brought before him at          year eight, eight and a half, nine, how does the judge            know that if the defendant had been brought to him at           year five, he would have given him a six­year sentence           instead of an eight?                Don't you think that there's a lot of         pressure on the judge if the defendant's hearing is         delayed for eight years to, say, time served? That          really ­­ don't ­­ don't you think there's prejudice in          the fact that an unexplained delay caused by the State          more likely than not had some sort of effect on the           sentence?             MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Well, I think in that         case, the defendant should ­­ if it's that lengthy of a           delay, he should ask to be sentenced. And like I say,             he can ­­ he can always file a mandamus petition in that             context.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Look, this defendant      asked to be sentenced faster. He was told that there           were other issues the court was dealing with. So a           couple of the months were not his fault, clearly not his           fault, it was an administrative fault.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. SCHOWENGERDT: That's true. There       was ­­ not all the delay was his fault. But he            didn't ­­ he didn't mention anything about wanting to be          sentenced until nine months into that process when he         filed a ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that may go to the         issue of whether, under a Barker analysis or any          analysis, he should be heard to complain about the         delay, but I still am not quite sure why your definition            of substantial prejudice or actual prejudice should be        the controlling one.               MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I ­­ I think the court           said ­­ even the court ­­ lower courts that have applied           the Speedy Trial Clause to sentencing delay, they ­­ you          know, the Tenth Circuit, for example, in Perez v.         Sullivan, they assume that it applies, on the one hand,          based on the Court's decision in Pollard, but then on          the other, they recognize that the interests don't        apply. They ­­ they recognize that in order to fashion           a remedy in a post­conviction setting, the defendant has          to show prejudice.               In addition, it takes into account that       the ­­ that the balance is shifted. The person is no            longer accused, but convicted, and ­­ and his        presumption of innocence has vanished.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Assume ­­ assume that       there is a prompt trial, then a very substantial delay            in sentencing, and then there's an appeal, and the         appeal results in new trial. Does the Speedy Trial Act           then apply when the defendant says that my second trial          was delayed?              Are there cases on that?                 MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I don't ­­ I don't think           so. I think generally when courts ­­ lower courts are            applying delay in the appellate context, resentencing       context, they apply due process. And I can't think ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because if that delay were        attributable to the State, it seems to me there would be           a Speedy Trial Act violation in that connection.                    MR. SCHOWENGERDT: There may be. And ­­ and          lower courts, when they're look at appellate delay or         delay in resentencing, I mean, it's a ­­ it's a pretty              similar test as far as the Speedy Trial Clause is          concerned when courts are applying at presentencing,       because it requires a showing of prejudice, and it          evaluates the government's reasons for the delay.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but you're not        aware of any cases of the kind I've indicated where          they ­­ the Speedy Trial Act then clicks in for the           second prosecution?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I'm not aware of any        JUSTICE ALITO: Under Montana law, can a ­­                     cases.             a defendant who suffers inordinate delay in sentencing        get relief?              MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Certainly. There's ­­      there are rules on delay, prohibiting delay, just like         there are in most States, if not every State. And under            the Federal rules there's specific procedures that put        into place ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mr. Rowley indicated       that there ­­ there's the rules there, but no defendants          have had the benefit of getting it ­­ their sentences          shortened because of those.                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Well, I ­­ I'm not aware          of any defendants pressing claims, any reported       decisions on those ­­ those claims, one way or the          other. But a defendant always has that option, and           especially under mandamus.               And ­­ and I think at that point, fashioning          a remedy just for delay, I think, is difficult because           my friend mentioned years, but the delay ­­ I mean,             months. The delay wasn't really months of          unjustified delay. Like I said, he didn't make his           claim until nine months. But before that, there's         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review going ­­ always going to be some delay and the ­­                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the court did ­­ did         say that it ­­ the delay was principally caused by the           court's institutional problems.               MR. SCHOWENGERDT: It ­­ it was. There         were ­­ the court took a while to ­­ to decide            post­conviction motions, and it was institutional delay.       I don't ­­ I don't disagree with that. But my point is              that there's always going to be some delay in the          processes. And so to figure out what the remedy would           be simply by ­­ by including the entire months, I           think, would be a windfall to the defendant, especially          in this case where he's ­­ he was receiving credit on           his sentence for ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is that typical? Is         it typical for a sentencing court to give credit for           time served?              MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Yes. In fact, it's        statutory.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there any way        they can do that when you have a indeterminant range,           sentence is zero to ten? Is there any way they can do             that? Can they say it should be zero to nine in this             case because of the delay?                 MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I'm ­­ I'm not sure. I          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review mean, I think a judge could do that. I mean, the ­­ in                 his ­­ in the Petitioner's first conviction on domestic         assault, he was awarded days of credit for ­­ against           his sentence. And the court specifically stated on the          record that he took that into account and applied that          against ­­ against his sentence.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think the courts        are ­­ the judges are incapable of making determinations         of a remedy?                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Certainly not, no. I        think ­­ I ­­ and I think under due process, they ­­ you               know, that's ­­ that's the advantage of due process, if          courts can fashion a remedy to target the specific          prejudice. And I think they're well equipped to do           that.             JUSTICE BREYER: Where did ­­ where did it         come from that Barker v. Wingo prejudice is supposed to          be assumed? I was just looking at the case. It doesn't              say that. In fact, they analyze prejudice.                    MR. SCHOWENGERDT: That's right. The ­­ the         Court has only presumed prejudice, that I'm aware of, in          one case, Doggett, and ­­                            JUSTICE BREYER: You think we held that?        MR. SCHOWENGERDT: You know that ­­ there ­­        two ­­ two things: Extraordinary delay. It was an           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review eight and a half­year delay between when a person was            indicted and when they were brought to trial. And then           it was ­­ there ­­ the Court said there was no           justifiable reason for that delay.                 JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. My question is you          heard your ­­ your brother counsel say that Barker v.          Wingo, if it applied, would presume prejudice. So I've          just been looking at that. And in the case itself it            doesn't presume prejudice.                           MR. SCHOWENGERDT: It does not.      JUSTICE BREYER: It analyzes whether there       was or was not prejudice. So I want to know where that              requirement of presumed prejudice comes from.                  MR. SCHOWENGERDT: The first ­­ the first        factor in Barker is to ­­ to analyze what ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: I know the four factors. I           have them in front of me.                  MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Yes. That's the       presumptive prejudice factor gets you ­­ gets you to the          test. So it triggers the test. I think my friend is              referring to the Doggett case, though. That's ­­ and in           his brief, he cites Doggett as ­­ as sort of this, at            some point, if the delay is so excessive ­­ and I ­­ I              take it that he's not arguing ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So ­­ so it ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I mean, obviously, it's a ­year delay. The person           won't even remember who he was going to call, and all           the witnesses will be gone and so forth. So I think             it's fair to say there was prejudice in such a case, if             that's what it's about.                So if it isn't presumed all the time, do you          have any objection, as he apparently does not have any          objection, to our saying you're right. It's the Due          Process Clause.              Now, in applying the Due Process Clause to        cases where the sentencing has been unduly delayed or         that is the claim, you ­­ the Court should apply the           factors as set out in Barker v. Wingo.                    MR. SCHOWENGERDT: And there's a couple        problems with that. One, Barker was specifically        designed to take into account pretrial interests under        the Speedy Trial Clause. And in the case that Justice           Kagan mentioned, the forfeiture case, that was a        pre­adjudication case, so it fit in that context. So          applying Barker, courts have done it, applied it ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Sorry, that was a       forfeiture case.              MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that's a penalty        after adjudication. The forfeiture doesn't start until        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review someone has been found ­­                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I think it was a ­­ I'm            sorry, it was a pre ­­ basically, property was taken           before ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Whatever the case is, I'd        like to get an answer to my question.                                MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Sure.    JUSTICE BREYER: It says the Court should        balance four factors: Length of delay, the reason for          delay, the defendant's assertion of his right, and        prejudice to the defendant.                Now, if I quote that sentence and say those          are the factors that should be taken into account under          the Due Process Clause, do you have any objection to          that?             MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Prejudice needs to take       the forefront in that analysis.                 JUSTICE BREYER: I should just reverse the         four?             MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Well, the problem with       Barker is it held ­­ it holds that ­­            I mean, in the   postconviction setting is that none of the factors are         necessary. So prejudice doesn't necessarily have to be         shown in Barker. Lower courts have modified that and          said in the postconviction setting, a defendant has to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review show prejudice. In the ­­ the test that lower courts           use, the modified Barker test looks a lot like Lovasco.           In fact, it say it's indistinguishable because       prejudice. And prejudice is the key, to the answer to           your question, Justice Breyer, that in a postconviction         setting, that's what's necessary.                  And also, to my friend's point that the      Petitioner made claims of prejudice, I'd point the Court         to Joint Appendix and where he ­­ he made his            claim of prejudice in ­­ in the space of a couple            paragraphs. And this sort of illustrates the problem         the State has in rebutting claims of prejudice that         aren't substantiated. He didn't file his ­­ his         affidavit, which was still fairly bare, but at least         more substantiated, until three months after he filed        his motion, and the motion was denied, his motion to          reconsider. So I think defendants in this context have           to come forward with some showing of prejudice.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that ­­ that might        present some challenges, but there are also challenges        on the other side. It's often hard to show that people            have forgotten things, that, you know, they've forgotten        them. So unless there's something like a witness dying,           it's very difficult to make the kind of showing that you           are suggesting. And that's why Barker, you know, left          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review things flexible and said, you know, in most cases, we          really are going to look at prejudice. We're going to           see what you have to say for yourself. In some extreme            cases, we're not going to do that.                   So, again, I guess I'm back with        Justice Breyer's question as to, yes, this is a         different context, but why don't all the same        considerations apply?              MR. SCHOWENGERDT: The court has never       presumed prejudice, except in the extreme ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: I wasn't suggesting presumed        prejudice, because Barker doesn't suggest presumed      prejudice. As you say, the difference that Barker has          with respect to your test is simply that Barker says          it's not always necessary to show prejudice, that there         are extreme circumstances in which we'll just take that         for granted.              MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I don't think that takes         into consideration the change that happens at       conviction. I mean, there's a substantial change.          The ­­ the interests of the society take the forefront.          And to give ­­ I think it gives the defendant a windfall              if ­­ if he can come to court and say this, you know,             delay has prejudiced me, but I'm not really going to ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but if you think that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review a very significant part of this rule has to do with           impairment of the ability to defend yourself, and if you          think that that kind of consideration applies just as         well at the sentencing phase as it does at the          conviction stage, maybe in most cases more so, given         that most of the action these days takes place in the           sentencing phase, I guess I just wouldn't see why           there's any need for a different rule, especially given          the level of flexibility that Barker gives.                   It's not like Barker says we're presuming       prejudice in all circumstances. Barker is saying        prejudice is one of the four factors. And it's a very             important one. And usually we'll expect people to come          in with some kind of showing, except for in extreme          cases when not.               MR. SCHOWENGERDT: I think it comes down to          a remedy. You know, the remedy for a speedy trial            violation is dismissal. So in the postconviction ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's what we said in         Barker when we were talking about a pretrial case, but           the remedy in this case would be different.                    MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Right. But it would be         more difficult. If the defendant doesn't have to show          prejudice, I'm not ­­ I'm not sure how you ­­ what           you ­­ what the Court would remedy. And that's one of            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the reasons that the prejudice should be required,        because there's got to be something, something that ­­        that the Court is actually remedying. And even in the           speedy trial cases, the courts usually ­­ usually        require some showing ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: When it comes to the        determination of facts that are relevant at sentencing,        that does not take place exclusively, or probably even         it doesn't take place primarily at the time when the          sentence is pronounced; isn't that correct? It ­­ it          takes place during the preparation of the presentence        report, at least in the Federal system. Is that true in            Montana as well?               MR. SCHOWENGERDT: May I answer?                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You may.                  MR. SCHOWENGERDT: Yes ­­ yes, Justice       Alito, that's exactly right. Most of the facts are          analyzed through that presentence report, and speedy ­­       and the sentencing hearings at that point are pretty         drab affairs because most of the facts have been         resolved.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Anders.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                 SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT               MS. ANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               To go right to Justice Kagan's concern about        the possibility that a defendant's defense at sentencing         could be impaired, we think the due process analysis is          adequate to address that. And we think that's so          because, although the defendant has to show prejudice,        the prejudice standard should essentially be the same        one that applies in cases of other violations of         constitutional rights that may affect the defendant's       ability to defend at sentencing. And that is the          defendant should have to show that theirs is a         reasonable probability that the result would have been        different, the outcome would have been different. That         is the same standard that's used in cases of Brady          violations of ineffective assistance of counsel. It's        one that doesn't require the defendant to show by a          preponderance that he would have received a different         sentence or anything like that. He just has to show           that ­­ that he suffered prejudice. That ­­ that          when ­­ when you take all the evidence into account, it           puts the outcome in a different light.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: And how did you see that as          different from what goes on under the Barker analysis?         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MS. ANDERS: Well, I think under Barker, the          Court does allow for prejudice to be presumed in some          cases, so the defendant does not have to show ­­ make           any kind of concrete or particularized showing of        prejudice. We think that ­­ that in the case of           sentencing ­­ prejudice at sentencing that the defendant        should have to show some concrete effect ­­ some         concrete effect ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: But I take it that we've          said that that's the case where the delay is super­long,          so take a delay of eight or ten years. And, you know,              why is it in that very extreme circumstance that the          defendant should make ­­ that the defendant should have         to make any particularized showing?                 MS. ANDERS: Well, I think the defendant may          well be able to make a particularized showing in that           case, but I think ­­ I think there are ­­ there are two               primary reasons that it's just not appropriate in any         case for prejudice to be presumed at sentencing. And ­­          and the first one of those is that, I think, you know,             the constitutional rule has to take into account the         wide range of sentencing proceedings here. So when         we're talking about pretrial delay, I think, you know,          all trials involve historical facts that, in theory,        could be affected, could be prejudiced by delay.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             That's not the case of all sentencing       hearings. There are fully discretionary systems       where ­­ where historical facts would not have as great          an effect. There are sentencings that turn mostly on          the present characteristics of the defendant, rather       than on ­­ on historical facts.                  So I think ­­ I think prejudice should not           be presumed in any case, but in a situation where the            defendant actually will be affected, the due process        analysis is tailored enough to allow him to have relief          in that situation.               And I think the second reason it's not         appropriate ever to presume prejudice at sentencing is        that the conviction changes everything. It ­­ once ­­         once a defendant has been convicted, there's a strong           societal interest in giving him an appropriate sentence.        And so to give him a remedy for presentencing delay, I            think, involves ­­ generally, the remedy is going to         involve lowering what would otherwise be an appropriate        sentence. So in that context, I think it's appropriate           to require the defendant to show some actual injury in          order to justify the societal cost of lowering an         otherwise appropriate sentence.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In the ­­ in the         Federal system, do judges typically give credit for time         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MS. ANDERS: They do, yes.      JUSTICE KAGAN: Your rule would apply to        served?                         capital cases, as well?                MS. ANDERS: Well, I think capital cases may          be different. I think the ­­ the Court has said that in              some context, for instance, double jeopardy, the ­­ the         capital sentencing is essentially, in some respects, an        extension of the trial. So in that situation, you may           say the same thing with respect to ­­ to speedy trial           claims, as ­­ as well.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. Could you say a          little bit more than that? You would ­­ you would say            because the penalty phase really is a trial?                     MS. ANDERS: I think there are some respects          in which you treat the ­­ the penalty phase as a ­­ as              an extension of the trial, yes.                    I ­­ I think, finally, the other reason        that ­­ that it's not appropriate to presume prejudice         at sentencing is that in the pre­indictment context, of         course, the Court has said that the core interests of          the Speedy Trial Clause aren't implicated; and,       therefore, even though that kind of delay, pre­arrest        delay, may have the same sort of effects on ­­ on the            trial that are ­­ you know, prejudice that is hard to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review articulate, that ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: In that situation, the       defendant is at liberty in a pre­indictment delay?                     MS. ANDERS: That's right. And that's ­­        that's why the core concerns of the Speedy Trial Clause          aren't implicated in that scenario, that ­­ that ­­ the          Speedy Trial Clause isn't implicated because the       defendant's liberty interest hasn't been ­­ hasn't been        restrained by the indictment.                But a similar thing happens after       conviction. At that point, the defendant doesn't have a          cognizable liberty interest ­­ a cognizable interest in         avoiding the ­­ the detriments that can be imposed on          him as a result of the conviction and as an incident of             the sentence.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we take out the        "presumed prejudice" which is not part of the Barker         analysis, it just says ­­ defines "prejudice," how would         using the Barker standard in saying, no presumed        prejudice, you have to prove some prejudice, how would         that change the analysis?                MS. ANDERS: Well, I think that ­­ I think            there's one other difference, I think, in ­­ in the two            approaches, aside from the presumed prejudice; and that        is what counts as cognizable prejudice. So I think           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in ­­ in the due process context, the Court said in           Marion that the type of prejudice we're concerned about         is actual prejudice to the defense of a criminal case.                                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's for the pretrial.       MS. ANDERS: Right, but what that ­­ we         think what that means in the sentencing context is that          the defendant should have to show a concrete effect on           his defense at sentencing; in other words, the        probability that the result would have been different        or, you know, that he's been serving longer time than he           should have been. But I think it also means that ­­            that things like ­­ like access to rehabilitation        programs, anxiety, that those would not be independently        cognizable as prejudice under the due process inquiry.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You think that if a        defendant was writing to a judge every week saying, I'm           anxious, I really need to know what my sentence is, and            the judge ignores it for a period of time, that that            defendant still has to prove something more? That's not          the facts of this case. There was no complaint for nine            months. So whatever treatment the defendant started,        started ­­ for anxiety started well before any time had          elapsed in this sentence.                But you don't think that defendant is       entitled to any consideration by a ­­ a trial court, or             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that we should be barring a trial court from considering           that?             MS. ANDERS: And two points with respect to         that. I mean, certainly if a ­­ if a defendant is               asking for sentencing and the court is ignoring that,         that would be inappropriate. The defendant would        obviously have ­­ have other remedies, I think, at that           point after requesting sentence, perhaps mandamus,      perhaps a habeas petition.                 But if all ­­ if the only prejudice he's         claiming is anxiety, then ­­ then yes, I do think that            that would not be cognizable under due process. And I           think that's ­­ that's really because once a defendant          has been convicted, he can ­­ he now can be sentenced.           He can be subject to the practical deprivations that are          an incident of sentence. And I ­­ I think that after he               has been sentenced, of course, he doesn't have an         interest in not being anxious, that kind of thing. And           so I think it would be very odd to say that he has a ­­                a sentencing delay­related interest in that kind of        claim that could be the basis for a constitutional          violation.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Anders, I'm sorry, one        of the things that strikes me as odd about your argument           is that you are suggesting that a remedy would be           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review appropriate in certain circumstances. You just want to         put this under the Due Process Clause. And what's ­­          what's odd is that, as you say, that in this          post­conviction context, the president ­­ the ­­ the        defendant has been deprived of any liberty interest, and         yet the Due Process Clause talks about a deprivation of           liberty, but the defendant no longer has a liberty          interest.             So it seems a very odd place to park this           right and this remedy, the Due Process Clause, in this          context. It seems much more natural that you would do           it under the Speedy Trial Clause on the assumption ­­ on           the ­­ on the view that the ­­ that the trial has to do              with both the adjudication of guilt and the        determination of the proper sentence.                 MS. ANDERS: Well, two points with respect        to that. I think if the Court were to say ­­ to ­­ to                use the standard that ­­ that we propose, so essentially          no presumed prejudice, only certain things are       cognizable as prejudice, and ­­ and the remedy would not          always be ­­ vacatur the conviction, then I think we           probably wouldn't have a practical objection to calling         that a Speedy Trial Clause, right? What we're concerned           about is the substantive standard and ­­ and the remedy.                      But I do think after a defendant has been           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review convicted, the societal interests have shifted; and       that's why it's appropriate, I think, to apply due          process. The defendant has a liberty interest in the           length of his sentence. He has a ­­ he has a due               process interest in a fundamentally fair sentencing        proceeding. And so we think due process nicely captures          that interest the defendant has.                 And so the Court has said before ­­ before         rest, before speedy trial kicks in, due process applies.         And it provides a right. And we think that after the             defendant no longer has the interest protected by the         Speedy Trial Clause, due process can, again, provide the         proper approach.                                      If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Rowley, you have minutes remaining.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF FRED A. ROWLEY, JR.                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ROWLEY: The standard for prejudice       articulated by the United States shows well why due         process protections are ill­suited to the specific       interests protected by the speedy trial right. The         United States suggested that the defendant would have to         show that the outcome would have been different,        consistent with Lovasco. The only form of prejudice         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that would be cognizable under that test is an effect on           the defendant's defense at sentence.                 But as Barker illustrates, and Smith v.       Hooey also illustrates, there are other forms of        prejudice that are specific to the Speedy Trial Clause         that may apply to a defendant and, indeed, may apply to            a defendant even after they've been convicted.                   So, for example, in Smith v. Hooey, the        defendant had already been incarcerated on a prior         Federal charge. That defendant's liberty interests were        already impinged, and yet the Court noted that the delay          from the follow­on prosecution could still prejudice       him.             So this notion that you would apply the due         process test or the Lovasco test and require a showing,           an affirmative showing that the defendant would have had         a different outcome at sentencing but for the delay         really highlights why due process is inadequately       suited.             Justice Kagan's question points to another      anomaly in the test that has been proposed by the          government because of this focus on liberty interests.        And in ­­ in Smith v. Hooey, the defendant had          already ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or I suppose if it isn't          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review liberty, it's not incorporated under the Fourteenth       Amendment, anyway.                          MR. ROWLEY: Yes, Your Honor, but ­­ but ­­         JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, the Sixth        Amendment applies only to the Federal government, and        it's only because of the Fourteenth Amendment liberty        that it applies to the States. So liberty is involved.                       MR. ROWLEY: Yes, Your Honor, but the ­­ the          position that the State of Montana and the United States          has taken is that at sentencing, once a defendant has           been convicted, they don't have a specific liberty         interest of the kind that was recognized in Barker and          the kind that was recognized in Smith v. Hooey; and that           is the interest in rehabilitation, in accessing       rehabilitation programs that could be affected by a        delay in a prosecution.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Isn't ­­ his liberty is        certainly affected. He's in jail. So he's sitting          there in jail. Tell him you're free. I don't think he              believes it.              MR. ROWLEY: Well ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: And ­­ and then the        question is: Is ­­ at some point, is being in jail a             deprivation of his liberty without due process? Because         the Due Process Clause would require application of        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentencing under ­­ and when it's ­­ it's not due          process when, say, Barker v. Wingo or some violation is          violated. I don't see a problem with liberty.                       MR. ROWLEY: Well, Your Honor, the point is         simply that the Speedy Trial test that the court         articulated in Barker is better suited to the specific         forms of prejudice that are at issue in this case,          because it addresses this concern with even a defendant          who's been guilty, accessing rehabilitation programs, or       the anxiety that that defendant may feel at the         sentencing stage.              And this gets to another point that the        United States made, and that is that ­­ that the          conviction changes everything, because the concerns that       the court articulated in Barker may yet be more         significant at the sentencing stage, given that most        convictions today result from guilty pleas.                  And so the fact that a defendant ­­ their          defense may be impaired by a delay in criminal          proceedings, may be more significant at the sentencing        stage because it may be the only place where the          defendant challenges an upward adjustment or contests       facts.             The fact that the defendant may need to        access rehabilitation programs may be more pronounced at        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sentencing because the defendant's already been      convicted, they're going to serve time, and they want to          get access to the programs that they'll need to get          parole as soon as ­­ as possible.                      So we submit that ­­ that Barker is the      appropriate test; that if the Court agrees that        Barker ­­ Barker's the appropriate framework, that the        proper right to ground that analysis in is the Sixth          Amendment and not the Due Process Clause.                   And that is particularly so because of the        antecedents of the Due Process Clause which ­­ which         apply, not just to the ­­ the guilt stage of the           prosecution, but also to sentencing. And why? Because          at ­­ at common law, and at the time of the Framing ­­            Framing, sentencing and ­­ and the jury verdict were so          closely bound.              And ­­ and the right is rooted in this         practice of circuit justices riding into the countryside        and resolving cases. Not just presiding over jury         trials, but resolving cases. They had the power to hear           and decide those cases. Their jurisdiction was from the          beginning of the prosecution through the end.                   So we think the Sixth Amendment is the        appropriate basis for this right.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, at the time of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review adoption of the Sixth Amendment, weren't post­trial but        presentencing delays fairly common?                MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, the Stevens       Treatise says that at the time, at common law, that          sentencing took place usually ­­ not always ­­                                                       JUSTICE ALITO: Usually.    MR. ROWLEY: Usually soon thereafter.      JUSTICE ALITO: But ­­ but not always.        MR. ROWLEY: That's right, Your Honor. But         as a general rule, the sentencing did take place soon           after the ­­ the jury issued its verdict, and oftentimes          immediately. And the cases that we catalog in our          appendix illustrate that point.                But it's not just that. As the Court has          recognized, the sentence was usually automatic. It        flowed from the jury verdict. And so ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: But that's just not true as         a historical matter.                           MR. ROWLEY: Well, it ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: It's not true as a        historical matter. If you look at the ­­ at the first            criminal provisions that were enacted by Congress, they        called for a range of ­­ of sentences, and the ­­ and             the sentencing judge had to select within that range.                     MR. ROWLEY: Justice Alito ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: I'm talking about the early        th century, not when you say that it was automatic.                      MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, I'm referring to        the observations that this Court has made in the         Apprendi line of cases. And it is the early part of the             th century, because as the Court has noted ­­ I'm          sorry ­­ in the early part of the th century, because           as the Court has noted, States started to adopt statutes          that gave sentencing courts more discretion. But        certainly at common law, certainly at the time of the          Founding, the Court noted that typically the verdict        dictated the sentence. And so this right that was          created ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: That just isn't true. We         don't have the right to change history. It isn't true.           The first ­­ if you look at the very first criminal           provisions that were enacted by Congress, the first        Congress, they were not. It was not determined at          sentencing.             MR. ROWLEY: Your Honor, many of the ­­ for          many crimes, serious crimes at common law, and even for          some that today we would consider not so serious,         usually the penalty was death. And so there was this           close relationship. The Court has called it a close           relationship between the verdict and sentencing.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                And we submit that that, together with the     way that the process was consulted ­­ was conducted,         shows that the right was created to cover the whole          proceeding, through the imposition or pronouncement of       sentence.                         If there are no further questions.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : ability : : : : able : : : : : above­entitled : : absence : access : : : : : : : : : accessing : : account : : : : : : accusation :, : accused : : acquitted : Act : : :,, action : : : actionable : acts : actual : : : : : : addition : address : : : addresses : : adequate : : adjudicated :, adjudication : : : adjustment : administrative : admitting : adopt : adoption : advanced : advancing : advantage : amount :, : :, analysis :, :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, : analyze : : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : applies :, : : : : : : :, : advantages : affairs : affect :, : affidavit : : : : affirmative : : : : : affix : agree : : : agreements : agrees : Alito : : :, : : : : : : :,,, : :, allow : : Amendment : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : Amendment's : amicus : : : analyzed : apply :, : : analyzes : Anders : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : Angeles : anomaly : answer : : : antecedents : anxiety : : : : :, : : anxious : : anymore : anyway : : apparently : appeal :, : :, APPEARAN... : appellate : : appendix : : application : : applied : : : : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : applying : : : :, : : Apprendi : approach :, : : : approached : approaches : : appropriate : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : :,, argue : arguing :,, :, : : argument : :,,, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : : articulate : articulated :, : : : :, aside : asked : : : asking : : : assault : assertion : assistance : Assistant : associated : assume : :, assumed : assumption : attempted : attributable : authority : : automatic : : available : : avoiding : awaiting : awarded : aware : :, : B back : : : bad : bail : bail­jumping : balance : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : Brady : bare : BRANDON : bargaining : Breyer :, Barker : : :,,, :,, : :, :, : :, :, :,,, Breyer's : brief : : : : : briefing : :, : bring : : : : :, : :, : brought :, : :, :,, :,,, : : :, : : :, : :, Barker's : barring : based : basically : basis : : C C : : Cal : call : called : burden : : : Burkett : brother : :, : : : :, : : bear : : bears : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : believes : benefit : : better : : Betterman : : : :, : : Betterman's : beyond : binary : bit : bound : box : :, : characteristics : : : charges : Chief :, calling : capital :,, captures : case : : : :, :, :,,, : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : circuit : : :, : : :,,, : : : :, : :,, :, :, : :, circumstances : : : circumstance : cases : : cite : cites : civil : : :, : : :, Alderson Reporting Company :, : :, : :, : :, : : catalog : caused : : claim : : concerned : : : : : : claiming : claims :, :, : clause :, : : concerns : : concluded : : : : conclusively : : :, : : conditioned century :,, certain : certainly : : : :, : : : : :, :, :,, concrete :, : : : :, concurrent : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :,,, : : : : challenging : :, change :, clear : conducted : confer : confirmed : Confrontation :, connection challenges : Congress : challenge : : : :, : : : : : changes : clearly : clicks : close :, closely : closer :, charge : : cognizable : consider : : consideration : : : considerations :, : considering : consistent : : : constitutional : : : : : : consulted : contested : : contests : context : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : come : : : : : comes : : : common : :, : : compare : :, complain : complaint : complete : comply : concern : : :, :, continue : : contrary : controlling : convened : : convicted : : : : : : : : conviction : : :, : : : : :, : : convictions : core : : correct : : cost : counsel :, : : : : : : count : countryside : counts : couple : : : course : : curiae : : currency : cut : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, D.C :, :, : : : :, : : :,, :, : : D D : : : courts : : dealing : court's : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : cover : : : : created : : creates : creating : credit : :, : : credited : court :, : :, :, : : :, crime : :, : : crimes :, criminal :, :,, : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : :,,, culmination Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : delay­related :, : : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,, : delayed : :, :, :, : :,,, : :, :,, : : delays : : : denied : : defendant's : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : Department : deprivation : : deprivations defendants : : :, : :, : defense : : : : :, : : defines : definition : : deprived : : designed : despite : : detailed : : : detention : deter : delay : :, determination : : : determinations : : detriments determined : : : : : :,,, : :, : : :, : :,, : : :, dictated : : :, difference : :,, : :,,, : :,, :,,, differences :,,,, : :, : : : : : : : different :, : : : DALE : : damage : : : damaged : damages : danger : days :, : : dealt : death : decide : : decision : : : : decisions : : deemed : defend : : defendant : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : :, : : :,,, : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company : :, :, : :, : :,,, : : : : difficult : : : directly : disadvantages :, disagree : : discretion : : discretionary : discusses : dismiss : dismissal : : : : dismissed : disposition : disputes : Doggett : : : :, doing : domestic : double : doubt : drab : draw : drop : drug : : :,, : : forth : forward : : found : : : : Founding : four : : :, : Fourteenth : : framework : : Framing : : FRED : : : : : free : freestanding : friend : : friend's : front : fulfill : fully : fundamentally : further : : : : G G : general :, : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : : : : : : : :,, : :,,,, :, : : : :, dying : E : : : : exactly : examined : example : fashioning : faster : fault :, : : : :, Federal : : : :, : : : : : : : exception : excessive : exclusively : exists : expect : E : :, early : :, explained : extension : :,, easily : effect : : extent : : : :, : : : Extraordinary : effectively : extreme :, effects : eight :,,, : : : : : either : : elapsed : enacted : : enjoy : entire : entitled : : enumerated :, : : equally : : equipped : especially : F fact : : : : : : : :, factor :, factors : : : : : : :, : : facts :, :,, : :, : : feel : Fifth : figure : file : : : filed : : : fill : finally : find : : first : : : : :, : : :, : fit : : five : fix : fixed : flexibility : flexible : flow : flowed : focus : follow­on : followed : foreclose : forefront : :,,, : : due :, : :,,, :,,, ESQ :,, : : :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : evaluates : eventually : evidence : :, : essentially : : : : forfeit : factual : fair : : fairly : : forfeiture : falls : family : far : fashion :, generally : : : getting : forfeitures : GINGER : forgotten : Ginsburg : :,, : : : : : : form : forms : : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : : : give : : : : :, given : :,, : : : :, H habeas : half : half­year : : : : : : hand : : : happened : : :,, : I ignores : ignoring : ill­suited : illustrate : illustrates : : :, immediately happens : : : impact :, hard : : : gives : : : giving : : : go : : : : : harming : : going :, goes : : harms : Hawk : hear : : : :,, heard : : hearing :, : :,, : : : hearings : : good : : : gotten : government : heart : held : : : : :, Helena : : : government's : : granted : : great : greater :, : ground : guarantee : guarantees : guess :, : : : guilt : : :,, : : : guilty :, highlights : historical : :, : : history : : holds : Honor : : : :, : :, :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : : :, : :, :, Honor's : Hooey : : include : : : included : : including : : incorporate : : : : : : : : :, :, interlocutory :, involve : incorporated : : involved : independent : : independently : indeterminant : indeterminate : indicated : : indicted : indictment : : indistinguisha... : involves : involving : issue : : :, : : : issued : issues : : : J jail : : : :, : jeopardy : ineffective : job : Joint : initial : JR : :, injury : : innocence : : innocent : : :, inordinate : inquiry : instance : : instances : institutional :, interest :, : :, : :, : :, :, :,, : :, interests :,, : : judge : : :, : :, : judges : : jurisdiction : jurors : jury :,,, :,, :, : : Justice : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : impair : impaired : : impairment : impaneled : impartial :, :, impinged : implemented : implicated : :, important : : : : importantly : imposed : : imposition : inability : inadequate : inadequately : : inappropriate : incapable : incarcerated : : : incident : : Alderson Reporting Company : : :, : : :, :, : :,, :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : : :, : : :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, :, : justices : justifiable : justify : justly : K Kagan : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : Kagan's : : KENNEDY : :,, : : key : : kicks : Official ­ Subject to Final Review kind : : : : : :, : : :, :, kinds : know : : look : : meet : : : : : looking : : looks : Los : loss : lost : lot : : mention : : mentioned : : merely : merits : minutes : mitigating : modification : : : :, : :, : Loud : : :, Lovasco :, modified : :, : :,, : :, : :,, : :, : :, modify : : : : : : :, : : lower : : Mont : modifying : notion : moment : Monday : O O : : : : need : : : : : : needs : never : new : nicely : nine : : : : : : noted : : : :, : notes : : : :, Montana : : objection :, : : : :, : : : : observations : L language : law : : : : :, leave : leaves : left : legislation : length : : : lowering : : M lengthy : making : let's : : mandamus level : liberty : : : : : :,, : March : : Marion : :, : :, : matter : :,,, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : months :, : : : :, : : : : Morrison : : obviously : : odd :, :, offer : offered : : offering : oftentimes : Okay : once :, :, : : :, : option : oral : :,, : : : order : : ordered : : :, opinion : opportunity : light : limit : limitations : limited :, line : :, : little : longer : : : : : : : maximum : motion : mean :, : : :, : motions : :, : mounts : : :, : : : : : N :, : natural : necessarily N meaning : means : : : :, necessary : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Petitioners : phase :, :, practice : pre : pre­adjudicati... : : : presented : : presentence pre­arrest : pivoted : place : : pre­indictment presentencing : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, precedence : prejudice : presiding : procedures : pressed : : : prison : : probability : : probably : : problem : : : : : problems : : proceeding : : : proceedings : : process :, :,,,, :,,, : : :,, :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : :,,,, :, : : : :, : processes : program : :, programs : : : : : : : :, : progress : prohibiting : prolonged : presumed : :,, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : preserve : : : : president : :, : : :, : :,, pressing : :,,, pressure : : : presume : : :, :,,, : :,, : : : : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :,, presuming :,,, :,,, : :, : : :,, : :,, : presumptively : :, : :,, :,,, pretrial : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :, pretty : : presumption : : presumptive : : : prejudiced : prevent : : : preparation primarily : primary : principally : preponderance principles : : : :, ought : :, outcome : :, : : : : outcomes : :, P P : p.m : PAGE : palpable : paragraphs : park : parole :, : : :, : part : : : :, particularized : :, : particularly : passage : penalty : :, : penitentiary : people : : placed : plea :, plead : pleads : pleas : please : : : pluses : point : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : points : : : : Pollard : portion : : portions : position : possibility : : Perez : possible :, perfect : : : : period : :, post­conviction :, : : : person : : : petition : : : : : post­trial : postconviction :, : : Petitioner :, potential : :, : : power : : : practical : Petitioner's : : present : prior : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : rebutted : : rebutting : received : receiving : recognition : recognize : : recognized : : : : : : recognizes : recognizing remedied : remedies : :, : remedy :, : : response : rest : restrained : : : : : : : : :,,, result :, :, : : :, :, : :, : results : : : :, retrial :, : : : :, :,,, right :,,, :, : :,, reverse : riding : : prompt : pronounced : : : purpose : :, put : : pronouncement puts : : proper : : : : : Q quantity : question : property : proportionate : : : : : : : : : : proportionately questioning : : : : : quote : questions : : : : propose : proposed : prosecution :,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, raised : range :, prosecutor : prospects : protect : protected :, : :, :, : : :, real : :, really : R : R protections : protective : prove :, : : provide : provided : provides : : : : :, : : : : reason : : : : : : release :, reasonable relevant : :, : relief : : : :, : : :, : : provision : : provisions : reasons : : : : : rebut : public :, : punishment : REBUTTAL remaining : : remand : : resonates : respect : : : : : respects :, respond : Respondent : :, :, Alderson Reporting Company quit :, quite : : reduce :, reducing : : : : reconsider remedying : remember : report :, record : : reported : requesting : require : : :, : : : : : : referring : : : reflects : regulations required :, : : requirement : : rehabilitation :, : requires : : : : :, : : : :, requiring : :, rescinded : resentencing rehabilitative : : :, rejected : : reserve : relationship resolved : resolving : :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, : rights : : : ROBERTS : : :, :, : : : rooted : Rowley : : : :,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :,,,, Official ­ Subject to Final Review shortened : Smith : : show : : says : : : sentences : : : :, rubric : rule : :, : : : rules :, :,, S S : : saw : saying : : : : : : : : : : : : scenario : Schowengerdt : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :, : : :, second :, :, : see : : : : : seek : : select :, : sense : sentence : :,,,, :,,, : : set : : : : setting : : : : : : : : :, :,, : :, :, : : : :,, : :, shifted : :, : : : : : : sharp : : :, : sentenced : :, : :, sentencing : :, : :,,, : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, :, :, :, : : :, :, :, : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : :,,, :, : : : showing :, : :, : : : :, : : :,, :, shown : shows : : shunt : shunted : : side : significant : : : : : :, similar : : : : : simply : : : : : : sentencings : serious :, serve : served : : situation : : : : :, : : : : : serving :,, sitting : six­year : Sixth :, : :, :, society : solely : Solicitor :, spend : soon : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : : :, : :,, : societal :, : : sorry : : : : : sort : : : : : : Sotomayor : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, Sotomayor's : space : speaks : specific :, : :, : :, : : : : : : specifically : : : specificity : speculative speedy :, :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : squarely : stage :, :, : : : : : :,, : stages :, standard : : :, : :, : standing : start : started : :,, : state :, : : : :,, : : : : : : stated : States :,, : : : : : :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company statute : statutes : :, : : : supporting : : : suppose : supposed : talks : : target : Tell : ten : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, :, : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, : :, : : : : Tenth : test :,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, Third : :, : THOMAS : : :, :, : :,,, : : three : time : :, thinking : : trials : : : tried : triggers : true : : : : :, : : try : : : turn : two : : :, : : : : type : : typical :, typically : : : U : statutory : Stevens : story : straightforward suppression : supposedly : :,, strikes : strong : strongly : subject : submit :,, : : : : : : : : : Supreme :, : : : : : : : :, : : : sure : : : : : submitted : suspended : :, : subsequent : system : substantial : : : : :, : : : substantiated :, substantive : suffer : suffered : : : : : : suffers : suggest : suggested : suggesting : : : suggests : suited : : Sullivan : super­long : supported : : systems : T T :, tailored : : : :,, : : tailoring :, :, take : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : taken : : : : takes : : : : talking : : : testified : tests : text : Thank : : : : theirs : theory :, : thing : : : : things :, : : : : : : think : : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :,, :, :, :,,, :,, :,,, : : :, : : : : : :,, :,, : : today : : : U.S : : ubiquity : told : ultimately : treat : unable : Treatise : treatment : unavailable : : : : :, unconstitutio... understanding understand : trial :,, : :,, :, :,, : : : : : :, :,,, undo : undoes :, : : unduly : :, : : :,, unexplained :,,, : : : : :,,, United :,, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : : unjustifiably unfair : unique : : : Alderson Reporting Company unjustified : wasn't : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : unusual : upward : use : : : uses : usually : : :, :,,, : V v : : : : way : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : we'll : : we're :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : ­ : : : th :, : th : we've : week : ­year : weigh : : weren't : wide : : : win :, windfall : : : : : : : : :,, : : vacate : vacatur : validity : Wingo : vanished : : : verdict : : : : : : : : : : , : :, : : witness : : : : violated : violation : version : witnesses : view : : word : : words : : wouldn't : : : : : writing : wrong : : : : : : : : : : : violations : x :, X Y :, W waived : Waller : want : : : : wanting : Washington : : : year :, years :, : : Z zero : : : Alderson Reporting Company 