Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MICHAEL MUSACCHIO,                  :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ERIK S. JAFFE, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor             General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     ERIK S. JAFFE, ESQ.     PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ROMAN MARTINEZ, ESQ.      On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ERIK S. JAFFE, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Musacchio v.        United States.              Mr. Jaffe.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIK S. JAFFE                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. JAFFE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               This case presents two questions concerning      the consequences of the failure to object or raise an          issue at trial.               On the question of whether jury instructions       not objected to by the government become the baseline         for measuring the sufficiency of the evidence at later         stages in the case, the critical point here is that only           the jury can determine that a defendant is guilty. And            if a jury does so under a particular framework, it            should be evaluated under that framework. And if it          cannot sustain that verdict on the reasons it used in          its own deliberations, that verdict is not rational.                    In ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, there ­­ there's ­­       there's no doubt in this case, is there, that the jury           Alderson Reporting Company Official found beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant had          committed a crime set forth in the indictment?                     MR. JAFFE: Your Honor, I think that is not           entirely correct. There is no doubt there was         sufficient evidence that they could have done that.        Whether they did that is ­­                                         JUSTICE SCALIA: They ­­ they had to.        MR. JAFFE: ­­ a different matter.        JUSTICE SCALIA: They had to find that, plus         something else, isn't ­­ wasn't that ­­                                                      MR. JAFFE: So ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ that the issue?       MR. JAFFE: It was the issue.       JUSTICE SCALIA: So if ­­ if they came in          and said both are true, the first has to ­­ has to have             been true.              MR. JAFFE: In the Fifth Circuit, we pointed         out that there was the potential for confusion the way          "and" could have been misread by them as "or," and they           would not have necessarily had unanimity on ­­ on which          elements of the "and" added up.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: I didn't read that as being          a part of your case here.                  MR. JAFFE: It is only so indirectly. So we           raised this as plain error, and we lost that because we           Alderson Reporting Company Official couldn't demonstrate prejudice because there was some       uncertainty.             Our point in this Court is that, if the         government wants to ignore or have a court disregard the           instructions, it would then be its burden to prove         harmlessness, and that same uncertainty about unanimity       would then redound to our benefit.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Well ­­ well, the ­­ the         "or" would have been accurate, wouldn't it have?                    MR. JAFFE: Well, the "or" would have been         accurate, but would have required a unanimity        instruction to be clear which of the "ors" they agreed          on. If six thought it was "exceeding" and six thought           it was "unauthorized," that is a ­­ not a valid verdict.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On the basis of the        argument in this case, I didn't think there was any           argument that the government tried this case solely on         the theory that he encourage others to exceed their         authority.                         MR. JAFFE: I think ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's how they argued       the case. That's how it was indicted. So why isn't it             harmless error?              MR. JAFFE: Well, because the evidence is        not sufficient to actually support that conclusion. The         Alderson Reporting Company Official government certainly argued that.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not sufficient to       support the conclusion that he exceeded authority.                               MR. JAFFE: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it is more than        sufficient, if not the only theory they could have         convicted on, was that they ­­ that he had encouraged          others to exceed their authority.                 MR. JAFFE: No. I ­­ I ­­ I disagree, Your               Honor. We argue that what he encouraged others to do,           if one accepts all those facts as true, still would not           constitute exceeding authority.               That the government's ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you ­­ I'm          sorry.             MR. JAFFE: Yes.                JUSTICE ALITO: You wanted to finish that.                    MR. JAFFE: I was saying the government's         theory about what is and is not exceeding authority is          somewhat confused in this case as it was confused in the           presentation at the trial level; and therefore, it        wouldn't have been clear that that evidence would have         been sufficient to show conspiracy to exceed.                   JUSTICE ALITO: It doesn't seem clear to me         that these two theories are actually separate. They ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official they ­­ when Congress enacts a criminal statute, it          often adds a lot of synonyms. So, you know, in the ­­             in a theft statute, whoever embezzles, steals, or         unlawfully and willfully extracts or converts,      et cetera, they're not necessarily all distinct. And I          don't really see a difference between making        unauthorized access and exceeding authorized access.                  Let's take the first, making unauthorized      access. Let's say somebody has access to some ­­ an           employee here in the building has access to ­­ lawful          access, proper access to some records. If that employee          at night sneaks into some other place in the building          and starts looking through files, that person is making         unauthorized access.              And in the other situation, exceeding      authorized access, let's say a person doesn't have         any ­­ any access to any files in the court, but sneaks            in and looks at those files. That person had zero           authorized access and, therefore, exceeded authorized      access.               I just think these are ­­ it seems to me,         reading them, they're two ways of saying the same thing.          So the issue that's presented here may not ­­ the issue           that you've asked us to decide may not actually be          presented by the facts of this case.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. JAFFE: Your Honor, that question is        actually not before this Court. The government does not          dispute that exceeding and unauthorized are discrete and        independent means of accomplishing a crime. The Ninth          Circuit has held that they are discrete. Even the Fifth           Circuit agrees that they're discrete. It just disagrees         as to what the content of those two separate elements          are.             But for this Court's purposes, you need not        ever go there. We've invited that in a footnote in our             brief. You declined the invitation, which is entirely         your prerogative, but that is an issue that will have to           be briefed.                I agree with you, it is not the clearest of         statutes, but suffice it to say, the way this issue has           been brought to this Court, it has been assumed by the           Fifth Circuit, assumed by the government, and I believe          assumed by the Ninth Circuit that they are discrete and          independent elements that would be separately and       distinctly proven.              JUSTICE KAGAN: If I could go back to your           main argument. You seem to be suggesting that the          inquiry that we should be undertaking really focuses on         this jury and how this jury made its decision. But I            had thought that some of our prior cases, in particular,          Alderson Reporting Company Official Jackson, suggests that that's not the correct inquiry.        That the correct inquiry really is ­­ is as to a           hypothetical jury, any jury. And so your focus on,          well, the way that these instructions might have        affected this particular jury just really isn't the        right one at all.                MR. JAFFE: I partially agree with you, Your          Honor. It is not that we are asking what the           individuals on the jury thought or what their literal         thought process was in the jury room; but it is, indeed,           could any jury in the position of this jury, with the           facts this jury received, with the instructions this        jury received, could possibly have come to this        conclusion?             And our point is no rational jury facing the         facts and instructions this jury faced could have        convicted on the exceeding portion of the charge.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they convicted on the        first portion and that was enough.                  MR. JAFFE: They convicted on a combined ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: They found, beyond a       reasonable doubt, intentionally accessing a computer       without authorization, period. And they were told they         had to find that unanimously. So what ­­ what else is            there? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. JAFFE: It is not clear they understood         that because the unanimity instruction did not       distinguish between unauthorized access and exceeding      authorized access.              JUSTICE SCALIA: That ­­ that ­­ that's what         your case comes down to: Failure to instruct the jury           that they had to be unanimous as to both?                     MR. JAFFE: No, that is what our objection         to the government's harmlessness argument comes down to,        which is the government cannot resolve the uncertainty        in the jury room.                JUSTICE SCALIA: It isn't a harmlessness        argument. It ­­ it's an argument that the jury was told            you can convict if A plus B. They came back and said,              beyond a reasonable doubt, A plus B, he's guilty.                       And now you come and say, well, you know, he          really wasn't guilty on B. There wasn't enough         evidence.                                     That's okay. He's still guilty on A.        MR. JAFFE: Let me give you ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I just don't see how            you get around that.                MR. JAFFE: I'll give an example that may         help clarify it: In murder charges, it is typically          charged that one knowingly and intentionally killed a        Alderson Reporting Company Official person. If the government fails to prove intentionally         but had sufficient evidence for knowingly, you cannot        support a murder conviction because they proved        manslaughter unless it was specifically charged as a        separate instruction to the jury. You can't just save          it because yes, of course, they found manslaughter by         implication.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's not this case.        What you ­­ you ­­ what you have hypothesized is an           erroneous instruction that ­­ or ­­ or a ­­ a ­­ a              failure to find what was necessary. There's no failure          to find what was necessary here, so your hypo doesn't          work.             MR. JAFFE: Well, the "what was necessary"        sort of begs the question a bit on necessary to whom.            To the jury, it was necessary to find both. And they            only, at best, could have found one. We do not concede            that they did find one accurately, because there is ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: I can see that your         argument might work in some cases if the jury was          confused, if ­­ if this meant that it took their          attention away from a critical element. But I ­­ I             don't see that that's a possibility here, even assuming          that Justice Alito's comments, which I think have         considerable merit, are inapplicable, but you ­­ that        Alderson Reporting Company Official they're quite different.               MR. JAFFE: Well, as I said, I believe           Justice Alito's comments are a fair issue to be          litigated, and it could be litigated on remand if this          case goes back. It's not presented here.                    As to whether the jury was confused, we        certainly argue the jury was confused. We couldn't meet          our burden of prejudice, but our point is the government          couldn't meet its burden of showing that didn't happen         either. That's the Olano situation, where right in the          middle where there is confusion, neither side can win ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: That sounds like what       you're saying ­­ I don't understand the point. What           Justice Scalia said seems right. It's charged. You          have to find A and B. Therefore, they must have found             A. The indictment, superseding indictment charged A.        The statute says A. Okay? So we know they found A.                                                 Now, what's the problem?    MR. JAFFE: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: The problem seems to have        been that they were also charged that they had to find           B. Fine. They made a mistake.                                 Did you object? No.     Was it harmless? It doesn't seem to me how          it ­­ how could it have been harmful.        Alderson Reporting Company Official               I mean, I ­­ I think your problem is the           problem with the extra B in the jury instruction. And            so I would look to see what's your objection to B? Did              you object? No. Then it must have been plain error.            Well, it was ­­ it was erroneous, but was it harmful?                       Now, that I could understand, but you're        arguing something else, and it is the something else         that I don't understand.                 MR. JAFFE: Sure. We ­­ we are not arguing           that it was erroneous or harmful to include that. We           are arguing that it is binding. We are defending the           jury instruction; not rejecting it. It is the         government seeking to reject the jury instruction; and        therefore, we think it is incumbent upon the government,         if they want to analyze the verdict on grounds different          than the instruction, to prove that doing so ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Is there anybody ­­ well ­­        well, I don't see the theory of it. The jury is             instructed. You ­­ he is guilty of murder if he killed            someone, da­da­da, and he had ­­ and he was looking at           the ceiling. Okay? Doesn't make any sense.                                 Okay. That was wrong.     So now you're saying if the judge makes a         mistake there, nobody objects, he says the wrong thing,         and he was looking at the ceiling, you have to let the            Alderson Reporting Company Official guy go because ­­ although he didn't hurt anybody, no          harm, you still have to let him go. And I just need the               "why."             MR. JAFFE: Sure. So the "why," I think,           comes from Jackson v. Virginia. So let's say they said           ­­ and he was ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: It was not a case involving          a jury instruction.               MR. JAFFE: It was a case involving         sufficiency of the evidence ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: To show that the charge        met ­­ the charge ­­ the evidence proved the crime on           either the statute or the indictment.                  MR. JAFFE: But the reasons behind Jackson        explain that we are looking to whether or not the jury           could have rationally reached that conclusion. And the         reason we do so is to enforce the presumption of          innocence and to enforce the reasonable doubt       instruction.             So if a jury instructed erroneously that the         person needed to be wearing a green hat, had zero           evidence that that person was wearing a green hat, yet           found that they were wearing a green hat anyway, there           is a problem in that verdict, and we know there's a            problem in that verdict. No rational jury could find          Alderson Reporting Company Official that a fellow with a red hat was wearing a                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My problem       green hat.  is that I   don't know that it's rational to say that           a jury in ­­  that sufficiency of the evidence has to do         charged as ­­ what was charged to the jury          with what was   as opposed to   what was laid out in the statute and/or in          the indictment.             If it's sufficient under both,      what you're  trying to say now is it may be sufficient          under both.  You're conceding it is. You're conceding        it is a   possibility the jury found what was charged in the         indictment, but the government now has added an element         to the crime.               MR. JAFFE: Absolutely. So the ­­ the fact          that that ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any case        where we've held that or anything close to it?                     MR. JAFFE: This Court, no.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Have you had any case        discussing sufficiency of the evidence where we look to         the jury instruction as opposed to the statute and the          indictment?             MR. JAFFE: I'm not aware of one where that          has come up. However, in the circuits, every circuit to           consider the issue, as a general rule, accepts this          Alderson Reporting Company Official so­called law­of­the­case doctrine.               JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that there's a ­­        that there's a two­count indictment and there's plenty         of evidence to convict on Count I and zero evidence, not            one scintilla of evidence, on Count II, and the jury          convicts on both counts; so the ­­ defendant is entitled          to a judgment of acquittal on Count II.                     But you seem to be saying in that situation,         the court would say, this is a crazy jury. This is an              irrational jury because their verdict on Count II is         totally ridiculous; and therefore, the defendant is       entitled to judgment of acquittal on Count I as well,           despite the fact that there's plenty of evidence on         Count I.              Is that what you're saying?                 MR. JAFFE: Not entirely. It is certainly a          reasonable conclusion from the implications of Jackson       v. Virginia. However ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what's different ­­      what's the difference between that and the argument you         just made?              MR. JAFFE: This Court has treated separate        counts as significant and distinct ­­ the Smith case,         for example, that the government cites. And given         that ­­ I'm not sure that's the right answer in an           Alderson Reporting Company Official abstract term, but given that, I believe the same thing           would be true where the jury made a terrible decision on            one count and an acceptable decision on another count,         that you wouldn't cross, in fact, from one count to the           other.               I could see the argument perfectly well, if       this Court were inclined to go there, that yes, a jury            that went that off the rails on one count is          questionable on everything it did. And one might well          question under the Jackson rationale whether or not they         properly applied the presumption of innocence and the        reasonable doubt standards.               JUSTICE ALITO: That ­­ that would be a         revolutionary holding.              MR. JAFFE: It would. But I'm not asking          this Court to make ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: But, now, I don't see a          difference, other than a purely formal difference,        between that situation and what you're ­­ what you're         arguing.             MR. JAFFE: At some level, there is a         certain formality to it, but that is Smith. And Smith           made that formal distinction, I believe, to cabin the          implications of Jackson. And if, at the end of the day,            Jackson makes a good point, but one doesn't want to           Alderson Reporting Company Official extend it to its furthest logical reaches, that's        reasonable. But within a count ­­                                           JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course, this ­­      MR. JAFFE: Yes.    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ this case is even ­­ is          even worse than the hypothetical that Justice Alito        posits in that ­­ in his hypothetical, Count II was a           real count. In this case, the equivalent of Count II in            the hypothetical was not real at all. It was a           misinstruction which you did not object to.                                           MR. JAFFE: It was not our burden to object.          But the reason it's not worse is ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: You didn't object because       it was favorable to your client. I mean, it's always            better to ­­ if you have two than just one.                      MR. JAFFE: We didn't object because we were         confused. The trial counsel was actually confused and         thought this was a case about both, as the government           itself sort of acknowledges towards the end of trial         where they ­­ where trial counsel makes a motion,          assuming both were in play, and the government        understands that trial counsel was confused.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Didn't the ­­ didn't the        government correct the indictment so it would be "or"         not "and"?  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. JAFFE: They corrected the formal       portion of the charge, but all of the allegations, the          means, the mechanisms of the conspiracy, the particular        facts charged as being supporting acts, all of that         included, continued to include "exceeding," just as the        prior indictment had.               And so, understandably or not, there was       some confusion both on the part of counsel, I believe on            the part of the court, potentially on the part of the           government that continued to argue "exceeding" even       through its closing.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, I'd like to        hear your argument on the statute of limitations        question at this point.                            MR. JAFFE: Yes, Your Honor.      On the statute of limitations, both parties       agree that it is inevitable that a court will review a            forfeited limitations bar. Whether it comes at habeas         or sooner is really the only question before this Court          because the government concedes that it can be raised as          an ineffective assistance­of­counsel claim if it is a        meritorious limitations bar.               Our point is, doing it sooner, doing it on         direct appeal, doing it while you still have counsel, so          take ­­ in ­­ in point­of­counsel cases, is the better          Alderson Reporting Company Official and more efficient way of doing that.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a ­­ that's a ­­          that's a rule that will have application in a lot of             other situations. You're saying whenever an error can         be raised on habeas, we ­­ we should accord ­­ no matter            that it's been waived, no matter what else exists, we          should allow that point to be raised in initial review.                      MR. JAFFE: No, Your Honor, that is not what          we are saying.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why ­­ why wouldn't        it? I mean ­­                                                     MR. JAFFE: Several reasons.     JUSTICE SCALIA: Why doesn't it follow?       MR. JAFFE: Because that's ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: That's your argument:      Since it can be raised in habeas, why not do it now?                        MR. JAFFE: Because statutes of limitations       can be distinguished from those other types of        arguments. The habeas argument is merely a reason not           to wait.              But it can be cabined ­­ our point can be          cabined to limitations issues for several reasons. If         you look at the habeas cases we cite at the tail end of             our blue brief, one, it is taking it for granted that           the failure to raise a meritorious statute of         Alderson Reporting Company Official limitations argument is indeed ineffective assistance.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: So you are, Mr. Jaffe, at         least saying, in every statute of limitations case,        whenever a statute of limitations is involved in every          case, the defendant can raise it for the first time on           appeal, every statute of limitations.                 MR. JAFFE: Yes, though the theory under        which that would happen might be different. So in some           instances, it would be as a plain­error question; in          other instances, it might be on a stronger theory.                      But yes, that is basically our point, with        one exception.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe you should       take the exception out.                                                                                                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The court below ­­      MR. JAFFE: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The court below ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe you should ­­       MR. JAFFE: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ is by waiver. I ­­          MR. JAFFE: The ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­ you just get         your exception out and then answer ­­                  MR. JAFFE: The exception would be in the ­­         the example of the Powell case, where the burden to          Alderson Reporting Company Official prove withdrawal was actually on the defendant and not         the burden of proof complies with state of limitations         on the government. The shifting in burdens of proof in           that case might be an ­­ an exception to the general           statement I gave Justice Ginsburg.                  I'm sorry.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'd like to get to the         substance of your argument, but as I understand your          argument, this wasn't a waiver which the court found          below. You're arguing it's a forfeiture.                    MR. JAFFE: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forfeiture because it      was unintentionally done.               MR. JAFFE: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so you are going        under plain error.               MR. JAFFE: Plain error is the ­­ the ­­ the           narrowest and easiest of the theories.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 MR. JAFFE: You have to call up ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you're saying when       there is plain error, when there isn't an intentional ­­         you don't disagree with the government that there are         intentional waivers that you can't raise on appeal of         the statute of limitations. We've gotten a few of them            Alderson Reporting Company Official here.             MR. JAFFE: For purposes of our case, we         would be perfectly content to accept that. Some of our           theories, in fact, would be broader. This Court need          not reach those broader theories ­­                                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.     MR. JAFFE: ­­ to vote in our favor.         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So let's assume this is        under plain error. Now let's go to what ­­ what made            this plain. Okay?                We have a bunch of cases that say that this           is a statute of limitations as opposed to a          jurisdictional bar. Why would it be plain that this is           jurisdictional?             MR. JAFFE: You need ­­ if you're under         plain error, one need not conclude it as jurisdictional.         One simply needs to conclude that the government has         failed to bring the suit within the time required by a           statute.             On its face, the date of the indictment        compared to the date of the alleged crime is very          simple, very plain. It's more than five years. The           government may well have a defense ­­ relation back,          whatever their defense is ­­ and they can raise that.          But on its face ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I ­­        MR. JAFFE: ­­ it's plain.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ I ­­ I ­­ I'm having                                                a very hard time accepting that argument. If we say           that it ­­ it wasn't plain, that this was a          claim­processing rule ­­              MR. JAFFE: I believe there are two separate          lines of cases that are getting conflated.                   Plain error could involve any error. It        need not be jurisdictional. It can simply be contrary          to statute, which is a non jurisdictional, merely a          substantive statute like the statute of limitations.                   The jurisdictional argument is a different       and separate reason that need not infect ­­ or be          decided in order to resolve plain error. The error here           is simply the statute says you must bring it in          five years. They brought it in seven. That's error.           We failed to raise it, but that's the very purpose of           the plain­error rule, is to make up for mistakes of          counsel who failed to raise things they should         otherwise have raised, and so one gets to raise it as           plain error. That's ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Your ­­ your ­­ your         argument really does ­­ this is true of all         jurisdictional defenses, but I think it's particularly        Alderson Reporting Company Official problematic here, which is it encourages gamesmanship.       I mean, if you have what you think is an arguable           statute­of­limitations argument, you know, take your      chance at trial, and if you win, fine, but if you lose,            then raise this statute­of­limitations argument.                  MR. JAFFE: I guess what I'd say is that no           sane lawyer would do that because they subject        themselves to claims of malpractice, they subject       themselves to the higher standards of plain­error       review. At the end of the day ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What's malpractice?      It sounds like a ­­ a good practice to me for his              client.             MR. JAFFE: Well, in subject on appeal to         the higher standards of plain­error review is still a         negative. If they end up losing and there was some           chance they could have won had they brought it timely,          that lawyer has now sent a man to jail based on not             merely a mistake, but an intentional decision.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's not true of your        jurisdictional categorization if it's jurisdictional and      it's not plain error ­­                            MR. JAFFE: That's true.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: And your jurisdictional      argument surprised me because you cite a line of cases           Alderson Reporting Company Official that were meant to cabin the use of jurisdiction.                                 MR. JAFFE: Correct.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: The distinction between      claim processing and jurisdictional was to cut back on         exorbitant use of jurisdiction, and you just seemed to         switch it.              MR. JAFFE: I start with the case of          Bowles v. Russell, and merely point out that, on pretty          much every single ground in that case and those that          follow, this statute is stronger and more clearly a         limitation of the court's power.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought Bowles went on         that the Court had held that before, and so it was going            to adhere to its prior ruling.                  MR. JAFFE: That was some of what Bowles         went on, but it gave many other reasons, as did the           follow­on cases. And if one looks at the wording of the            statute, one may not try or punish is a continuing           prohibition. It is not merely you can't prosecute,         which might just be thought to apply to the prosecutor.          This is a ­­ a restriction on the court.                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: But again, you would be        making all statutes of limitations, quote,      "jurisdictional."             MR. JAFFE: No, we would not, Your Honor.         Alderson Reporting Company Official We would look ­­   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Which might that be?       MR. JAFFE: ­­ at the wording.       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.    MR. JAFFE: Because ­­ because I believe the                                                                      wording of this statute is, in fact, unusually strong,         particularly with the "except as otherwise expressly       provided by law," meaning you cannot avoid it by         implication. It is such a strongly worded statute.          Others might not be that way at all, and one would not            need to extend this to differently worded limitations,         period.             JUSTICE KAGAN: I ­­ I would have ­­ the ­­            the most recent case that we had, which was Wong, makes           clear the statute of ­­ of limitations generally are not          jurisdictional, and I would think suggests that you         really have to have language saying it is jurisdictional         to overcome that presumption. In other words, just a          strong­sounding statute of limitations wouldn't cut it       according to Wong. That's the way I would read that.                        MR. JAFFE: I would read those cases as          dealing with civil situations as opposed to criminal        situations, where the limitations period is generally       thought of as a period of repose, not as a substantive             limit on the government's power. And that's the Toussie          Alderson Reporting Company Official case, as well as Benes, which followed that.                      I would also point out that the ­­ the        clarity of Congress's language goes to, are you limiting         the court, as opposed to merely requiring bringing the         claim within a certain period of time, but without          specifying the consequence of failure.                 Here, the language is so expressly directed       to the court's power, and it does indeed specify the          consequences of failure: You may not try or punish any           person.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But are you saying that we         should adopt a different interpretive rule in the         criminal context? Is that what I understood you to say?                        MR. JAFFE: I'm saying that you already        have. That this Court views criminal statutes of         limitations more strictly. It views them as different         from civil statutes of limitations that is viewed as a          limit on the government's power rather than merely a         limit on a litigant's remedies. And that that's          already ­­ that's Toussie. And I believe Benes          discusses that at further depth.                 But you need not reach jurisdiction. I        believe the easiest way to reach the ­­ to deal with           this case is on the Wood and Day line of cases, where            you have already held that a limitations period cannot          Alderson Reporting Company Official be forfeited, only waived, and that's in the habeas         context, admittedly. The ­­ the sides are flipped. But           where the government in the habeas context inadvertently        fails to raise a limitations period, it is still allowed           to bring that up on appeal. The court, on appeal, is            allowed to raise that sua sponte.                    I think this case is stronger, once again,       on every score than Day. And, consequently, if Day is           good law, this case is almost a fortiori the same           result.             And one need not give it any further        analysis than that, that if the government has to         affirmatively waive a limitations objection to a habeas          petition, then Petitioner, who has so much more at         stake, should have to affirmatively waive a limitations         objection to indictment.               If I may, I'd like to reserve the remainder          of my time.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Martinez.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROMAN MARTINEZ                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Petitioner is wrong that the sufficiency of       Alderson Reporting Company Official the evidence must be measured against an extra element         in an obviously erroneous jury instruction. That rule         is not consistent with the purpose of sufficiency        review, it contradicts how this Court has treated the         same issue in civil cases, and its whole purpose and          effect is to give guilty defendants windfall acquittals.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it was obviously       wrong, why did the government the first time, in the          original indictment, charge "and"?                MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ it ­­ it was obviously           wrong to include the ­­ the ­­ the exceeding authorized          access component to the case at the jury instruction         stage after the superseding indictments had already made        clear that the case was about a conspiracy to commit           unauthorized access.              And I think my ­­ my friend on the other           side pointed out that ­­ that ­­ that Petitioner's         counsel was confused as to what the case was about at           that stage, but if you look at what Petitioner said the           case was about when he was briefing this case in the           Fifth Circuit, he made very, very clear that, in         Petitioner's view, the government had abandoned the       conspiracy to commit exceeding authorized access, and it        had abandoned that with its superseding indictments, and        it had abandoned that by the fact that, when we proposed           Alderson Reporting Company Official three different sets of jury instructions as to the         conspiracy count, the ­­ the instructions that we        proposed were limited to a conspiracy to commit         unauthorized access.              Petitioner's other counsel, Mr. Kendall,     during his oral argument in the Fifth Circuit, over and          over again ­­ at the beginning of his argument, in the           middle of his argument, at the end of his argument ­­          emphasized that the government had tried this case as a          "unauthorized access case from start to finish."                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why didn't the government       ask the judge to correct his charge when the judge made           the mistake of saying "and"?                 MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ Your Honor, I ­­ I don't              know why we didn't do that. I think obviously the ­­            it ­­ it would be better for ­­ for all of us if ­­ if               we had ­­ if we had noticed the ­­ the change that was             made.               I will say that the change was made at the         last minute. The ­­ the parties had had a charging            conference the day before when the erroneous language        was not at issue. Petitioner had never asked for the           "exceeding authorized access" language to be included in        the instruction.              We had proposed three different sets of jury        Alderson Reporting Company Official instructions that didn't include that language. It was         a mistake on our part, and we suffered the consequences          of the mistake in the sense that, at that point, the           jury was charged incorrectly. But if the jury had          acquitted Mr. Musacchio based on its view that there was          insufficient evidence with respect to the extra element,        under this Court's decision in Evans, we wouldn't have         been able to ­­ to appeal that. That ­­ that would have             been the end of the case.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Well, why was the       instruction erroneous? You concede that these two        methods of violating the statute are discrete? They're         not just different ways of describing the same thing?                     MR. MARTINEZ: We do think that they are         discrete, and we think that's consistent with our ­­ our          sort of general reading of the statute and with the way           the courts have ­­ have addressed it. I think they're            very closely related.                 I think what ­­ we agree with what ­­ what         Petitioner said in his petition at page , which was          that ­­ that these are essentially two different ways of          committing the same crime.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, suppose you had an        indictment charging someone with exceeding authorized      access and there was a factual dispute about, let's say,           Alderson Reporting Company Official the date on which the employee's employment ended, so         therefore, the date on which any authorized access that         the employee had to records of the employer ended, you          would say that, if you did not succeed in proving beyond           a reasonable doubt that, as of the date when the access           was obtained, the employee had ceased to be employed,         that that employee would be entitled to a judgment of           acquittal? That seems rather odd.                  MR. MARTINEZ: Justice Alito, I don't ­­ I          don't want to resist a broader reading of the statute,           but I ­­ I would only say that ­­ that the statute              defines the term "exceeding authorized access" in a        way ­­ this is at page a of our statutory appendix.           It said, "The term" ­­ it says, "The term 'exceeds          authorized access' means to access a computer with         authorization and then to use such access to obtain or          alter information in the computer that the accessor is         not entitled so to obtain."                 So if there were a circumstance in which         there was no authorization in the first place to ­­ to           access the computer, I think we would be in trouble.           But we would, of course, have the other ­­ the other way            of ­­ of proving that the statute had been violated,          which was the unauthorized access charge.                  And that's why in this case, I think, there          Alderson Reporting Company Official was no dispute and there was no confusion whatsoever         that a conspiracy to commit unauthorized access was         alleged. There was overwhelming evidence that       Petitioner hasn't challenged on that point, and there        were, of course, two substantive convictions that ­­       Counts II and III of the indictment ­­ which had to do            with ­­ with unauthorized access.                 ­­            JUSTICE ALITO: Well, couldn't there not be        JUSTICE KENNEDY: I understand ­­ I        understand your argument about, in effect, that this was         harmless error but ­­ something at page of your          brief. You would like us to write in an opinion ­­ on             the very first line of page ­­ even if courts should            generally look to jury instructions when assessing the        sufficiency of the evidence which they should not ­­ you          want us to write that in an opinion? It seems to me             that would surprise many, many lawyers.                                                                  that.             MR. MARTINEZ: We ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: First thing ­­     MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ we would ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ we look at ­­       MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ that you don't have to do          JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ when we ­­ the first         Alderson Reporting Company Official thing we look at in a sufficiency question is, well,           what are the instructions? So you want to say, oh,           well, don't look at instructions?                 MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think ­­ I think,           Your Honor, in ­­ in the ­­ the vast majority of cases,            the instructions are going to correctly reflect the ­­        the State statute that's being charged.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but you ­­ but you          say that we shouldn't look to jury instructions when         assessing the deficiency of the evidence. I ­­ I ­­ I              think that's an astounding proposition.                 MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I don't think it's           astounding at all, Your Honor, and I think that's          expressly what the Court said in the Jackson case. If           you look at the footnote of Jackson, the Court said           that, when conducting the sufficiency analysis, that ­­       that the ­­ the analysis should be conducted with,         "explicit reference to the substantive elements of the        criminal offense as defined by state law."                   JUSTICE KAGAN: That suggests that you       wouldn't even look to the indictment. That you would          just look to the statute.                 MR. MARTINEZ: I think you would have to          look to the statute, but the indictment would tell you          which statute is being ­­ is being charged.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's ­­ it's,       frankly, a style point rather than a substantive point.           But it ­­ it ­­ it does seem to me that we should not              put that in the opinion.                 MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think that you         shouldn't put that into the opinion. I ­­ I would agree              on that ­­ with you on that because I think that ­­ I              think that, on our first argument, what you should         clarify and you should ­­ you can apply the same rule,           essentially, that the Court has applied in the civil         context when you've recognized that ­­ that jury        instructions and sufficiency review are essentially      on ­­ on two different tracks.                  And when the ­­ the issue in the case is an           instructional error, then I think it's fair to look to           what the parties said about the instructional error.        But if the issue is sufficiency and there is ­­ there is            no dispute ­­ if the issue is sufficiency, then I think            the place to look would be the ­­ the elements of the            crime as defined by the statute. I think that's what            Jackson says, and I think that's what the Court          essentially held in ­­ in the civil context in these          cases ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: So Mr. Martinez, just ­­       MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ like Praprotnik and Boyle.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry. Just going back         to this question of whether it's the statute or the          indictment, you think you just look to the indictment to          tell you which statutes to look to, but if the          indictment would, let's say, add an extra element, that         doesn't matter? You should ­­ you should look to the           statute in the ­­                           MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ in the same way that         you're suggesting here we shouldn't look to the        instructions?             MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I think what the ­­ the             purpose of the indictment is to give the defendant         notice of the ­­ the crime with which he is charged.           But a lot of times, as the Court well knows, the            indictment is going to be a lengthy document that          contains a lot of allegations, a lot of different facts.            And what this Court has made clear is that, just because           the indictment says something happened at a certain time          or ­­ or in the narrative of a description of the            offense it includes some information, that doesn't mean        that the government is required to prove everything        that's identified there.               JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but I guess I ­­ it             is ­­ that does seem a little bit troubling to me just             Alderson Reporting Company Official because of the function of an indictment is providing         notice, that if the indictment gets the statute wrong,         that ­­ that the government should be stuck with that          because that's what ­­ you know, that's what the         defendant now thinks is the charge.                  MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I think that, in a case              like ­­ and I ­­ it may be that ­­ that in a different                case where ­­ I would have to see the indictment           that they ­­ you're hypothesizing, Justice Kagan. But         in a case like this, where the indictment says this is            the statutory offense and ­­ and ­­ and it ­­ and it            identifies the statutory code provision and it says        "unauthorized access," so it makes clear that the        conspiracy being alleged here is the unauthorized access        branch of a (a)() violation.                    I think that ­­ that shows you what the ­­        you know, that points to the law that needs to be           applied.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the        government agreed that, if the charge in the indictment         was "and," A "and" B, the government would have to prove            A and B ­­ if that was what the indictment charged.                        MR. MARTINEZ: I think if the ­­ if the           indictment had said that the conspiracy here was to         do ­­ was ­­ was to do A and B, the normal rule is that                Alderson Reporting Company Official if the ­­ that charge says "A and B," the government           could nonetheless prove the conspiracy theory under A or          B, and then the jury instructions could ­­ could so          specify.             And so I think ­­ I ­­ I think that's ­­             that's fairly well­established that the government can       charge in the conjunctive in that sense.                   But I think what's important for this case         is that the ­­ the indictment in this case was very           specific. It changed from the original indictment,        which had the ­­ alleged the broader conspiracy to ­­ to           both commit unauthorized access and to exceed authorized        access, and it went to a narrower conspiracy that just           charged unauthorized access.               And that's why Petitioner's counsel said      repeatedly in his briefs and at oral argument on appeal,          this was an unauthorized access case from start to         finish.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, you can ­­       you can imagine cases, can't you, where the instruction         on an additional element could cause prejudice to the         defendant?             MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I think you ­­ one could             imagine such a case. And I think that the proper ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Try, just for an        Alderson Reporting Company Official example, if the additional element would cause the        reasonable jury to focus on particular evidence,       particularly damning evidence that they might otherwise       not have highlighted in their discussion.                  MR. MARTINEZ: Mr. Chief Justice, I think ­­         in a case like that, I think the ­­ the proper way to               analyze that case would be the way you would analyze any           case where the ­­ the root error is an instructional          error. And ­­ and you would look to that, and if you             thought it was prejudicial, you might remand the case         or ­­ or vacate the conviction but allow for a new            trial.             But that's not what Petitioner is asking       for. What he is asking for is an acquittal, despite the            fact that the jury found with respect to all of the           actual elements of the crime. There was sufficient         evidence as to those actual elements.                  And I think the other point to add is ­­ is            that this is not a case ­­ this particular case does not             involve the kind of confusion that you're hypothesizing.                    Petitioner argued this ­­ a confusion theory        in the court of appeals, and the court of appeals ­­ and            this is at page A­ of the Petition Appendix ­­ the           court of appeals expressly rejected the theory. The         court of appeals said that ­­ that if, you know, the ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official the only error here was the erroneous jury instruction,         and if that jury instruction had any effect in this          case, it worked only to the benefit of the defendant.                        I mean, Petitioner here really got a trial        that was ­­ that was biased in his favor, which is very            unusual for ­­ for ­­ for a defendant. And what he's             trying to do is ­­ is piggyback off of a trial that was              biased in his favor and nonetheless, you know, sort of          piggyback on that error and get ­­ get a ­­ an appeal             that's ­­ that's in his favor.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let ­­ let ­­ let me ­­         I've been trying to break this down.                   Let's assume that this had been charged as        "or."             MR. MARTINEZ: In ­­ in the jury        instruction?             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the jury instruction.                   MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And you concede there       was no evidence of the second prong of the "exceeding          authorized." How would we look at the case then? It's            not A plus B, and we know they had to have found A and                B, and if they were wrong on B, they still found A.                        MR. MARTINEZ: Just ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is ­­ we're not        Alderson Reporting Company Official sure which they did, A or B.                    clear. I ­­                MR. MARTINEZ: Right. And I just want to be            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And B is not actionable,         let's just say, or there's insufficient ­­                  MR. MARTINEZ: By assumption, if we assume        and ­­ and that ­­ we are ­­ we do not concede that we              think there is overwhelming evidence of both A and B.           But if you were to assume that there were not evidence           of the extra ­­ of the extra element, I think then the             question would be whether there was some sort of         unanimity instruction that would have been required to        specify which particular theory.                            It's not this case and, you know ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's interesting      because I ­­ I ­­ I'm not sure that that's true.                         MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think in ­­ I ­­ I             think in this case because of the fact that A and B are               two different ways of committing the same crime, you         would not need an ­­ a unanimity instruction. But I ­­             I think ­­ I take it that Petitioner would have a            different view of that, and that would pose a ­­ a legal              question that obviously the parties could brief in an         appropriate case. It would be a slightly more          complicated ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My hypothetical was that       B is not statutorily proper.                                                     MR. MARTINEZ: Oh, that B is not a ­­           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes.    MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ not a proper at all.         Well, in that case, I think that ­­ that ­­          that that would posit harder questions for the        government, because there, I think, there would be         some ­­ there could potentially be confusion that it's         possible that the jury might have convicted on ­­ on a           theory that's not legally viable.                 So just to ­­ to go back, Your Honors, I          think that the purpose of sufficiency review, both        from ­­ from Jackson and the due process origins of ­­          of sufficiency review, that they make clear the jury         instructions are distinct. This Court's decisions in        Praprotnik and Boyle make clear that forfeiture in the         context of jury instructions doesn't carry over into the         sufficiency context.              And I think the practical point is very         significant here, which is that his rule is only going          to have an effect in cases where a jury has found the             defendant guilty as to all the actual elements of the          crime, where there's sufficient evidence as to all the         actual elements of the crime, and where there's no         Alderson Reporting Company Official confusion.             And so we think this ­­ this is a rule           that's designed to produce ­­ designed to produce        windfall acquittals.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Suppose you took a converse         case where the instructions favored the government and        the defendant didn't object, is convicted, then brings a         sufficiency claim. Do you again say it really is          measured as against the statute? It has nothing to do           with the instructions?               MR. MARTINEZ: Yes. We think that if ­­ if           there had been an obvious clerical error in ­­ in the           defendant's favor and he had made all the right         arguments at trial about sufficiency and ­­ and ­­ we          don't think that the ­­ the error on the ­­ on the            instructional point would carry over into ­­ into the         sufficiency­of­the­evidence review. So we have a       neutral rule that really applies equally to both sides.                     If there are no more questions as to the         first question presented, perhaps I can turn to the          statute­of­limitations issue.              JUSTICE SCALIA: You know, I ­­ I have a ­­             sort of a threshold question on that. Your ­­ your            friend says that he really doesn't have to demonstrate         that the statute here is jurisdictional because, even if         Alderson Reporting Company Official it's not jurisdictional, he wins anyway.                  Do ­­ do you agree with that?                     I don't know what the plain error is if        it's ­­ if it's not jurisdictional.                  MR. MARTINEZ: We don't think there is a         plain error, partly because it's not jurisdictional and        partly for other reasons.                Maybe I could step back and just give ­­         give the Court my understanding of how I understand the           arguments that he's making.                  I think he's got basically three distinct      arguments. The first is ­­ is that it's jurisdictional,          which would mean that it's not waivable, that the court          always has a duty to ­­ to raise it at any time.                                     The second argument ­­   JUSTICE SCALIA: In which case there would        be plain error.               MR. MARTINEZ: In which case, I think ­­ I           think what ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: In ­­ in which case the ­­         the ­­ the trial court's failure to raise it would be           error.             MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I think it would be            error, but I think what Petitioner would say is that he            doesn't have to satisfy the plain­error rule because, if         Alderson Reporting Company Official it's a jurisdictional, then it can be raised ­­                                 time.                         JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true.     MR. MARTINEZ: ­­ and must be raised at any         JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true.     MR. MARTINEZ: So I think his second         argument is that he ­­ he can get de novo review even if             it's not jurisdictional if he raises it for the first          time on appeal.               And I think his third argument is he has ­­          he can get plain­error review.                             We think each of these arguments is wrong.        First of all, with respect to the       jurisdictional point, this Court has said for over         years that the statute of limitations is a matter of           defense that the defendant has the burden of introducing         into the case. That's completely contradictory to the         idea that the statute of limitations is jurisdictional,        which would mean that the government, as the ­­ the ­­          the party invoking the jurisdiction of the court, would         have the burden of establishing compliance with the        statute of limitations.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you deal with his         argument that we should ­­ if, in a civil case, we make             a presumption that a statute of limitations is a          Alderson Reporting Company Official claim­processing rule?              In a criminal case, we should have the         opposite presumption because of, A, the rule of lenity         and, B, because it is on the ­­ a question of the power              of the government.               MR. MARTINEZ: I don't think ­­ I don't           think you should have that presumption. I think that ­­           that this Court ­­ the ship has already sailed to some           extent because this Court ­­ again, for ­­ for          years, from Cook through Biddinger to this Court's        decision in Smith just a few terms ago ­­ has said            that ­­ that the statute of limitations is a matter of            defense that has to be introduced into the case by the           defendant.             And I think if ­­ if Petitioner's primary         argument, his jurisdictional argument were accepted,      that rule would go out the window, and what would be           required is that the government and the Court would have          to establish and raise the jurisdictional ­­ would ­­        would have to establish the statute of limitations was         not violated in every case.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Why shouldn't the rule in        this context be the same as the rule for timely filing a            Federal habeas petition?               MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think that ­­ for ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official for a couple reasons, the most important of which is           that Rule (b) governs this case where Rule (b) does          not directly govern the filing of a ­­ of a habeas             petition.             And so Rule (b) makes clear that the ­­        the exclusive means by which a criminal defendant can          obtain appellate review of a ­­ of a claimed error where             they didn't object below is by satisfying the four­prong         Olano standard. And in the habeas context, that rule          doesn't apply.              If you look at the Court's analysis in one         of the habeas cases, which was drawn on by the other,           the Day v. McDonough case, the Court emphasized that its          holding was valid there because, in part, there was no          rule to the contrary. Here you have a rule to the             contrary.               I think the second point that could be made        on those ­­ on that ­­ on this front is that the habeas             context is special. And I think the Court's decisions           in both Day and in Wood v. Milyard really emphasize that           what's driving those cases is a desire to have a rule             that ­­ that takes account of the habeas context, the          desire to have finality with respect to criminal        convictions, and the desire to harmonize the rule that         applies to statute of limitations with the rules that         Alderson Reporting Company Official apply to other threshold barriers to habeas relief.                    JUSTICE ALITO: You think that the State's        interest in the habeas context in finality and comity is          stronger than the defendant's interest in a direct         criminal appeal in requiring that the charge be filed on          time where what's at stake is ­­ is a criminal           conviction?             MR. MARTINEZ: I think that ­­ that ­­ I           think that criminal defendants are obviously going to        have an interest in raising arguments that they think         are meritorious when they didn't raise it below. I do            think that there's a very significant legal difference         in that those types of policy concerns don't really ­­         are not really applicable in ­­ when you're talking         about a direct appeal because Rule (b) sort of blocks           that.             And I also think that the ­­ the reasoning          of cases like Day and Wood really does turn on the fact            that you had a statute of limitations rule and you had a             bunch of other rules governing sort of threshold        barriers to habeas relief. Rules about procedural        default, rules about exhaustion, rules about      retroactivity. And what the Court said in both of those           cases is that it's trying to harmonize those rules. And           the court ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE ALITO: But ­­ but just take a         situation where, under the habeas rule, it would be         proper for the ­­ the district court to raise the          statute­of­limitations defense on its own motion. Why        would that not fit within the plain­error rule?                    MR. MARTINEZ: I think that ­­ that, for it           to fit within the plain­error rule, and so we would be           shifting, I think, to Rule (b), you would ­­ the           defendant would need to show that there's both an error          and that the error is obvious. And as Justice Scalia           was hinting at, perhaps, with his question earlier, we         don't think there is an error here. The statute of           limitations is an affirmative defense; and therefore,       the burden is on the defendant to raise that issue.                      In ­­ in the Cook case, the Court made clear          that, if there's an indictment that alleges a ­­ a crime             that's outside the statute of limitations, that       indictment is nonetheless not necessarily or inherently       flawed unless the statute­of­limitations defense is      raised and ­­ and subsequently litigated.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: It still in all doesn't        make any sense to say we're going to let him off on            habeas because of inadequate assistance of counsel who        failed to raise the statute of limitations and yet he          cannot raise that point on appeal ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ on direct appeal. Make                                 him go through ­­ why? Why ­­ why make the society            incur more expense, make him probably languish in jail         when he's going to ­­ going to get out on habeas? Why             not decide that statute­of­limitations thing in the       direct appeal?                          MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think ­­ I think ­­           JUSTICE SCALIA: Bear in mind I dissented in          both Day and Wood, so ­­                 MR. MARTINEZ: As I recall, Your Honor, I          think ­­ I think there's a ­­ there's a couple of              reasons. The strongest is that the difference in the          habeas context is that the record can be developed.         When you're looking at a case on Rule (b), this Court            has always treated review under (b) as being limited         to the existing record, whereas in habeas case, the         record can be developed.                And that's very important in two fundamental       ways. First, it's important to know why the defense was           not raised by the defendant at the appropriate time.         The ­­ the defendant is going to have ­­ and including           in this case, could have a very strategic reason for not            raising the defense during the trial.                  And I can get into that in ­­ in ­­ in this             Alderson Reporting Company Official particular case if the Court is interested.                   In the second ­­ so that's one reason why         it's important to have a record. And the second reason            is the government has to have the ability to ­­ to           introduce evidence if it wants to rebut or establish         compliance with the statute­of­limitations defense.                 That's what this Court said in Cook. In         Cook the whole point of the case was that it's unfair           to ­­ to allow for a ­­ a ­­ a indictment to be                dismissed on a demurrer because that would deprive the          government of its right to reply and give evidence to          establish compliance with the statute of limitations       once the defense is raised.                 So on ­­ on direct review, the record would         be frozen and you wouldn't be able to look out outside           the record, whereas on habeas you would be able to look           outside the record.               And in addition, I think the ­­ it's very          important to ­­ to sort of look at the theoretical basis           for the ­­ the error and ­­ and ­­ and recognize that it             doesn't satisfy Rule (b) in the way that that rule          has ­­ has traditionally been thought about.                   First of all, Rule (b) is generally about        things that the trial judge is supposed to notice on his           own. And what this Court has said about statute of           Alderson Reporting Company Official limitations, including in the Day case, is that the         trial court doesn't have an obligation to serve as         the ­­ the co­counsel or the paralegal for ­­ for the           defendant. It doesn't have an obligation to go         searching through the record and finding potential       defenses for the defendant. Rather, that's something        that the defendant himself has an obligation to do.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose the court of appeals        in ­­ in a direct appeal sees that the statute of            limitations for a particular offense is six years and          the indictment was filed years after the event. Can           the court of appeals say to the government, look at          this. It looks like it's too late. Do you have any             explanation for this? And the government says, well,         no, doesn't ­­ we can't think of anything. Do you have            to wait until habeas to correct that?                   MR. MARTINEZ: I ­­ I think that the ­­           the ­­ the better way is to wait until habeas to ­­ to             correct that. And the reason for that is that          Rule (b) is limited to the existing record. And as           Your Honor, you know, made clear in your hypothetical,         the only way you can figure out that there's an error in            that case is by looking outside of the existing record          and asking the government, well, what's your       explanation? What evidence do you have? What would you           Alderson Reporting Company Official have done differently if this had been raised before?                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that might be true        sometimes, but it doesn't seem as though that's the         ordinary case. I mean, why would you have ­­ you            could ­­ you can make an exception for cases in which           there really ­­ the government has ­­ is able to come in            and say, we really need to develop the record. But           where that's not true, why wouldn't you decide this as          quickly as you could?                MR. MARTINEZ: I think I appreciate the ­­          I ­­ the sort of practical concern embedded in that          question. I think as a formal matter you would still             need to be looking outside the record.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Why formal? I mean, we've          been through this many times. It comes up in all kinds            of instances. People are always alleging ­­ not always          but often allege that their counsel was inadequate.        Sometimes it would be possible to know that on direct          appeal, but in the mine­run of cases, you want to find           out from the counsel why he did it.                                MR. MARTINEZ: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: And therefore I think every         circuit ­­ I don't know what this Court has said ­­ has             said that you raise IAC claims in collateral        proceedings. Alderson Reporting Company Official             Now, if we start making exceptions from       that, you're going to get a jurisprudence of when the           exception comes up ­­                           MR. MARTINEZ: I think ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ and when it doesn't and         how clear does it have to be, and then we'll just add            further delay because I guess if I were a court of              appeals judge and I saw some obvious mistake, I would            say, go file it tomorrow.                 MR. MARTINEZ: Right. And I ­­ and I think             that's the better way to handle this because the         alternative is to ­­ to ­­ because we see some cases           that look like they'd be pretty easy to decide, is to           say, well, let's ­­ let's erode what would otherwise be          pretty hard­and­fast rules about how Rule (b) is        supposed to operate.               Again, we don't think there is an error        under Rule (b) because this isn't something that the         trial judge is supposed to figure out on his own. We            don't think that an error is plain on the record because           the record itself is not sufficient in and of itself to           show that there is an error. And so we think that if             you have a rule that says sometimes you should bring in            on plain error, sometimes you should bring in in habeas,          it's going to create a lot of confusion both for courts            Alderson Reporting Company Official and for litigants. You're going to be litigating about          when the exception applies, when the exception doesn't        apply.                         And I think the key thing that ­­        JUSTICE GINSBURG: Of course ­­ of course,        if there was a ­­ a strong statute­of­limitations bar,           isn't it likely that the trial judge would suggest to          defense counsel, don't you want to raise a ­­ a           limitations defense?              MR. MARTINEZ: I think that's very, very         likely that the trial court might do that. I ­­ we             would think that, because there are sometimes strategic        reasons for not raising the defense, you know, the ­­         the trial judge should do it in a way that it doesn't             interfere with those strategic concerns.                 We don't think that there is a problem if          the judge does it that way, but we certainly don't think           there's an obligation, and we don't think it's an error          if the judge doesn't do that.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What type of       strategic reason are you talking about?                  MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I think there ­­ there          could be a couple of them. In this case, for example,             the ­­ the original indictment was undoubtedly filed        within the limitations period. Now that indictment was         Alderson Reporting Company Official superseded. But if the defendant had raised in a          pretrial motion a motion saying, you know, that the          superseded indictment's out of time because it doesn't        relate back and he had won, the effect of that would           have been just to resurrect the original indictment        which had never been dismissed.                 And so if he had actually raised this before         trial and he had succeeded on his statute­of­limitations        challenge to the superseding indictment, we would have        just been back in the world where the original         indictment applied. And, as the Court has noted, the          original indictment was somewhat broader than ­­ than        the superseding indictment.                           And so that might have been a good reason.          In another case, the ­­ there may be        circumstances in which a defendant's      statute­of­limitations defense will be in contradiction      to his defense of innocence. You know, it's one thing           to say, I was in Hawaii when the crime was committed,            and it's another thing to say, I committed the crime on            January st and not on, you know, March th.                     And so there may ­­ you know, the defendant         might ­­ might look at those arguments and decide he's          going to pick the ­­ the stronger horse, and he might           decide he doesn't want to raise the       Alderson Reporting Company Official statute­of­limitations defense for that reason.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you summarize for       me your position on three arguments he made.                                MR. MARTINEZ: Sure.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I know the          jurisdictional one.                                                              MR. MARTINEZ: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But then there's the ­­       MR. MARTINEZ: So ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the other two.       MR. MARTINEZ: So ­­ so on ­­ on his claim           for de novo review on appeal, we think that's         inconsistent with Rule (b), and we think that that         misreads Wood and Day, the habeas cases, because those         are really about the habeas context.                  He makes another argument about Nguyen. We        don't think Nguyen is a ­­ a kind of all­season pass             for ­­ for ignoring Rule (b).                  And then, finally, with respect to plain       error, we think there are two overriding arguments. The          first one is that we don't think there is an error here.            For there to be an error, we think the statute of           limitations would need to be something that the ­­ the          trial court is supposed to have an obligation to sort          out. We don't think the trial court has that obligation           Alderson Reporting Company Official because this Court's cases say that ­­ that the statute          of limitations is an affirmative defense that has to be          raised by the defendant.                Even if you disagree with us on that, we         think that ­­ that Cook makes clear that, whenever a          statute­of­limitations defense is raised in a case, the         government has to have the opportunity to reply and give          evidence. And what that means is that, if the defense           is not raised, that the government has not even had the           opportunity to explain what evidence it would have        brought in, what that means is that the record as it           stands, the existing record, is not sufficient to        diagnose an error because you would have to essentially         figure out, well, could the government have responded?        You know, would they have argued that ­­ that there was           tolling of the statute of limitations? Would they have          introduced a different set of evidence? You would have           to, essentially, reimagine how the trial would have gone         if ­­ if the defense had been raised at the appropriate           time.             And if you're trying to reimagine that,       that's another way of saying the error is not plain on           the ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what would you argue        if this was brought up on habeas?       Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. MARTINEZ: On habeas?     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume counsel                              comes in and says, I just didn't notice it.                      Honor?             MR. MARTINEZ: In this particular case, Your        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. And ­­ and it's         very clear ­­ and the evidence was super clear that this           was past the statute of limitations.                    I don't want to get into the facts of this         case.             MR. MARTINEZ: Well, I ­­ I ­­ I think ­­ I               think ­­ in some cases, I think it would be fair for ­­             for the parties to litigate why the defense wasn't         raised. So if there ­­ if it looked like there may have             been a strategic reason, such as there may have been in            this case, then the parties could litigate that.                      I think as well, if there were ­­ if there         were no dispute about the merits, then I think that           would be a case in which a habeas relief may well be              appropriate if ­­ if the party ­­ if the defendant could           establish the requirements of ineffective assistance of       counsel.             We ask the Court to affirm.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Four minutes, Mr. Jaffe.    Alderson Reporting Company Official            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIK S. JAFFE                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. JAFFE: On the issue of whether or not          the jury instructions are binding, several points:                   First of all, the confusion persists to this        day. Just as Justice Alito is pointing out that it's           very difficult to see the difference between       unauthorized and exceeding authorized access, that too       would have infected the jury. We could not prove it           sufficiently to show prejudice, but they cannot prove it         sufficiently to show harmlessness or inevitability of a        conviction had you not so instructed them.                   Second of all, I believe that Jackson v.         Virginia talks from a jury­centric perspective. The         issue is not the statute. The issue is whether a           rational jury could have done what they did. And that           only works if you look at the instructions. It does not            work if you look at some hypothetical statute that they          didn't think they were applying. They thought they were          doing something different.               Third, their objection that we ­­ we       acknowledged that this was only about unauthorized       access is curious because he cites the appellate stuff         where there was new counsel, yet his own side's briefs          at the trial level recognized that trial counsel was         Alderson Reporting Company Official confused.             Yes, after that confusion was resolved      post­verdict, we argued. Okay. The government        abandoned it. That's fine. We absolutely argued that.                      But at trial the harm was already done.        They confused themselves, they confused the jury, and        apparently confused the judge.                Third, it seems to me that the phrase        "unauthorized access" is not actually even in the        statute, which just goes to my point that there would be           confusion as to access without authorization and access        exceeding authorization. Both could have theoretically       been part of the rubric of unauthorized access. Neither          would be authorized there.                The ­­ moving onto the ­­ well, I guess the           last thing I'd say is every court to consider the          question, if this had been in the original indictment         where it also said "and" and in the jury instructions,          every court to consider this issue, including the Fifth         Circuit below, including the First Circuit, would have        held the government to it.                   I don't think the government denies that.      They just say if it's in the indictment alone they can           do either/or. But if it's in the indictment and in the            instructions, they concede that the so­called law of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official case is binding.                           The easy way for this Court to ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: The law of the       case you ­­ you are ­­ you are asserting that, if there            is a mistake but it's the law of the case, that applies             on appeal. As ­­ and I thought that law of the case              applied to the same court, different stages of        litigation, not that a ­­ a court of appeals has to             perpetuate a trial court error.                  MR. JAFFE: Law of the case is a terrible           name. We unfortunately didn't come up with it. The           government ­­ we both agree that it's not an accurate          descriptor. It's just the phrase that's been used in          all the cases. At the end of the day, the issue is are              the instructions binding at the sufficiency stage       whatever court you're in? That's really the issue. The           law­of­the­case cases don't really apply because they're       misnamed.             Turning to the statute of limitations, what       I'd say is this: There is error when something is           contrary to law whether or not it was the judge's          obligation to raise that. The Apprendi ­­ the         post­Apprendi cases are the best examples of this. The          judge is applying pre­Apprendi law. It did not make a           mistake. We're not expected to anticipate Apprendi.        Alderson Reporting Company Official Yet on appeal those cases were considered erroneous        because this Court adopted Apprendi.                 Again, it is not about whether you made an         objection or whether the Court should have thought of it          themselves. It is about the merits of the result, and           in this instance, we claim the statute of limitations         was violated. That is the error regardless of who          needed to raise it.                Talking about raising the issue: Again,       calling the statute of limitations the affirmative       defense is a little misleading. It is not an           affirmative defense. One has to plead it. One ­­ but            the government has to actually prove that they satisfy         it. It is a hybrid kind of creature, and Cook and those              cases deal with pleading because they wanted the        government to have the opportunity to respond.                   We do not disagree. The government should        have the opportunity to respond, and in the First         Circuit, the Seventh Circuit, and the Sixth Circuit, if         there is some need for evidentiary submissions, they        just remand it. Get it done more quickly with the court            that actually heard the case, which makes a lot more           sense than waiting till habeas.                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. JAFFE: Thank you.     (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the                                above­entitled  matter was submitted.)   Alderson Reporting Company Official Officialalternative : analysis : :, : analyze : : : and/or : answer : : anticipate : anybody : : anyway : : apparently : appeal : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, :, : : APPEARANCES : appellate : : appendix : : applicable : application : applied : argue : : : : argued : : : : : : arguing :,, : : Page  authorization : :, :, authorized :, :, : :, : : :,, : : : : B avoid : argument : : :, :, : : : :, aware : : : : : : : : : :, B :,, :,, :, : : : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : back : : : : : : : : :, :, :, :,, : : :,, :,,, :, : arguments : : :, : : : :, asked : : asking : : :, : asserting : assessing : : assistance : : : affirmatively : appeals :, A A­ : a.m : : : abandoned : :, : ability : able : :, : actionable : acts : actual :, :, add : : : added : : addition : : above­entitled : additional : : absolutely : : addressed : adds : adhere : admittedly : adopt : adopted : affirm : affirmative : abstract : accept : acceptable : accepted : accepting : accepts : : access :,,,, :,,,, :, :, :,, : :, : :,,,, :, :, :, :, agreed : : :, :, :,,, agrees : Alito :,, ago : agree : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : access' : accessing : accessor : accomplishing : accord : account : accurate :, : accurately : acknowledged : acknowledges : acquittal :, : : acquittals : : acquitted : bar :, : : barriers :, based : : baseline : basically : : basis : : Bear : begs : behalf :, : :, : : : believe : : :, : : : :, : benefit : : Benes :, best : : better : : : : : beyond : : : : : assistance­of­cou... beginning : : : Alito's : : all­season : allegations : : allege : alleged : : : : alleges : alleging : allow : : : allowed :, alter : applies : : Assistant : : : apply : : : : : : applying : : assume : : :, : assumed :, : assuming : : appreciate : assumption : Apprendi :, astounding : : : appropriate : attention : : : : authority : : arguable : :,, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : biased :, Biddinger : binding : : :, bit : : blocks : blue : Bowles :,, Boyle : : branch : break : BREYER :, : :, :, : brief : : : : briefed : briefing : briefs : : bring : : : :, bringing : brings : broader :, : : : brought : : : :, building :, bunch : : burden : :, : : : :, : burdens : C C : : cabin : : cabined :, call : calling : carry : : case :,,, : :,, : : : : : :, Official : : :, co­counsel : clearest : clearly : clerical : changed : charge : : : : : : : : : :, : client : : closely : :,, : :, : : closing : :, : : : : code : :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : : :, :,,,, charged : : close : :, : : : : :,, :, :, :,, charges : :,, : : :,, charging : : : : :, :, Chief :, : :,, : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :,,, :,,,, :, : cases : : :, : : : : :, :, : collateral : combined : come : : commit :, : : : committed : : : : : : :, circumstance : committing : circumstances : :,, : comes :, : Congress : : :, :, : : : : comity : : : : Congress's : conjunctive : : consequence : consequences : comments : circuit : :, Page  : : : conducted : conducting : conference : conflated : confused :, : :, :,, : :,,, confusion : : : : :, : : : : :, : : consequently : consider : :, considerable : considered : consistent : : conspiracy : : :, :, : : : :,, constitute : contains : content : : context : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : circuits : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :,, :, cite : : cites : : civil : : : :, : : categorization : cause : : ceased : ceiling :, certain : : : certainly : : : : cetera : challenge : challenged : chance :, change :, claim : : : : : : claim­processing : : claimed : claims : : clarify : : clarity : clear : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : compared : completely : compliance : :, complicated : complies : component : computer : :,, concede : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company concedes : conceding :, continued :, continuing : concern : concerning : contradiction concerns : : : contradictory conclude :, conclusion : : contradicts : : Official Page  contrary : :, : converse : converts : convict : : convicted : : :, : : conviction : : : : convictions : : convicts : Cook : : :, : : correct : :, : :, : : : : corrected : correctly : counsel :, : :,, : : : : :, : :, : :,, :, : count :,,, : distinction : : : decide : : deal : : :, :, de : : :, :, :, :, : : : dealing : : :, : :,, :,, : : : : decided : :, : :, :,, :, :,, Department : deprive : depth : describing : description : : : : descriptor : : designed :, desire :,, district : despite : : doctrine : determine : develop : developed :, diagnose : difference : decision : : : : : : court's : : : : : : : : declined : : : default : decisions : distinctly : distinguish : distinguished :, : : doubt : :, document : doing : : : : : courts : : defendant : : : :, : : : :, : : different : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, :,, :, : : : : : : : drawn : : : : driving : : :, :, :, : : : :, : : : due : duty : : crazy : create : creature : crime : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, defendant's : differently : : : : criminal : : defendants : :, : : :, : defending : :, defense :, : difficult : direct : : : :, : : : E E : :, earlier : easiest : : easy : : effect : : : : : efficient : either : : either/or : element : : : : : : : : elements : : : : : :, :, embedded : embezzles : emphasize : emphasized : : employed : employee :, :,, :, :,, critical : : : :,,, : cross : curious : counts :, : cut : : couple : : D : course : : D : date :, : court :, : : : :, D.C :,, da­da­da : :, : :, damning : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : :, :, : :, :, day : : :, : : : directed : :, :, directly : :, :,, disagree : : :, : : : :,,, : disagrees : :, discrete :,,, defenses : : deficiency : defined : : defines : delay : deliberations : demonstrate : :, discusses : discussing : discussion : dismissed : : dispute : : : : : disregard : dissented : distinct : : : :, : :, : : : demurrer : : : : denies : : Alderson Reporting Company Official extend : : extent : extra : : : : : : extracts : F face :, faced : facing : fact : : : : : : : : : facts : : : : : : : factual : failed : : : : fails : : employee's : employer : employment : enacts : encourage : encouraged :, encourages : ended :, enforce :, entirely : : : entitled :, :, equally : equivalent : ERIK : :, : : erode : erroneous : :, : : : : : erroneously : error : : evaluated : Evans : event : evidence : : : : : : :,, :, :,, : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : evidentiary : example : : : : : examples : exceed : :, : exceeded : : exceeding : Page  :,, : fundamental : : : : further : : finding : fine : : : finish : : : : furthest : G G : gamesmanship : first : : : : : : : :,, general : : : : : :, : : : : : : generally :, : : : : getting : Ginsburg :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : : : fit :, five : : flawed : flipped : focus : : focuses : follow : : follow­on : followed : footnote : : given : : go :, :, forfeited : : : : : : : : give :, : : : :, : : forfeiture :, : : formal :, : :, formality : forth : fortiori : found : : : goes : : : going : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : good : : : :, : : : : :, : : : gotten : govern : Four : governing : four­prong : framework :, government : :, : :, frankly : : : : friend : : :, : front : : :,, frozen : :, :, function : :, :, : failure : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : : fair : : : : : exception :, : : : :, :, :,,,, : : : exceeds : :, :, :, :, :,,,, : :,, : : : exclusive : :,, : exhaustion : :,, : existing : : :, : :, : : : :, exceptions : :, : ESQ :, :, : essentially : exists : exorbitant : expected : expense : :,, : explain : : : explanation : establish :, : :, : establishing : et : explicit : expressly : : : : fairly : favor : :, : : favorable : favored : Federal : fellow : Fifth : :, : : : figure : : : file : filed : : : files :,, filing : : finality : : finally : find : : : Alderson Reporting Company harmlessness : :, : : : :, :, :, :, : :,, :, : : : :, :, :, : : :, : :,, Hawaii : : :,, hear : : :, hat :,, : harmonize : Official imagine :, implication : : implications : : important : : :, :, inadequate : government's : heard : : : : : : governs : granted : green :,, : ground : grounds : guess : : : : guilty : : :, : : : guy : held : : : : : : help : higher :, highlighted : hinting : holding : : Honor : : : : : : : : : : : : : H Honors : horse : habeas : : hurt : :,, : hybrid : :, : hypo : :,,,, hypothesized : :,, :, hypothesizing : :,, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : : hypothetical : : handle : happen : : happened : hard : hard­and­fast : I IAC : idea : identified : identifies : ignore : ignoring : harder : harm : : harmful : : II :,, :, : harmless : : III : inadvertently : inapplicable : inclined : include : : : : included : : includes : including : : :, inconsistent : incorrectly : incumbent : incur : independent :, indicted : indictment : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : :, :,,,,, :,,,,, : :, :, : : :, :,,,, :,, indictment's : indictments : : indirectly : individuals : ineffective : : : inevitability : inevitable : infect : infected : information : : inherently : initial : innocence : : : inquiry : :, instance : instances :, : instruct : instructed : : : instruction : Page  introduced : : introducing : invitation : invited : invoking : involve : : involved : involving :, irrational : issue : :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : :, : :, : issues : J Jackson : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : instructions : : :,, : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : :, :, : : : instructional : Jaffe : :, : :, :,,, :, :, : :,,, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :, :, :, : :, :,,, :,,,, : :,, : :,, :, :,, :,,, : :, : : :, : : interest :,, interested : interesting : interfere : interpretive : introduce : jail : : January : intentionally : intentional : insufficient : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company judge : : : : : : :,, : : : judge's : judgment :, : jurisdiction :, : : jurisdictional :,, : :,, : :, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :, : : :,, : :,, :,,, :,,,, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :, : : :, : :,, :, :, :, :,, :, :, : :,, : :, :, :, :, :, : : : :,, :, : :,, : :, : :,, : :,, : : : K Kagan : : : : : :,, : : : jurisprudence : jury :,,, :, :,,, :,,,, :, :, : :,, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : : : : :, : :,, : Kendall : :,, : KENNEDY : :, :, jury­centric : key : Justice : :, killed : : : :,,, : :,, : kind : : :,,, : :, :, : :,, :,,, : :, :,, : : :, :,,,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : kinds : know : : : Official :, : :,,, : : knowingly : : knows : L laid : language : :, :, : languish : late : law : : : : : : :,,,, law­of­the­case : : lawful : lawyer :, lawyers : legal : : legally : lengthy : lenity : let's :,, : :, : : : : : : : level : : : limit : : : limitation : limitations : Page  :, :, : :, : : : : : : : malpractice : : man : limited : : manslaughter : : : limiting : line : : March : Martinez : : : lines : literal : litigant's : litigants : litigate :, litigated :, : litigating : litigation : little : : logical : look : : :,, : : : : :,, : :, :, : :, :, : : :,, :,, :, : :,, :, :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :,, : :,, matter : : : : : :, :,, :,,, :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, McDonough : : : : mean : : :, : : : : : : :, looked : looking : : : : : meaning : : : means : : looks : : : : : : : lose : losing : lost : lot : : : measuring : meant : : measured : : :,, : : :,,, :, : : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, : : : majority : :, : M main : :, : : making :,, mechanisms : meet :, merely : : : :, :, merit : meritorious : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : : :, once : : operate : needed : : Olano : : needs : : negative : neither : : opinion :, neutral : never : : new : : Nguyen :, night : Ninth :, non : normal : noted : notice : : opportunity : : :, opposed :, opposite : oral : :, : order : ordinary : original : : : : noticed : November : : : merits : : met : methods : MICHAEL : middle : : Milyard : mind : mine­run : minute : minutes : misinstruction : misleading : misnamed : misread : misreads : mistake : party : : pass : People : perfectly : : period : : :, :, : : perpetuate : persists : : :, : petition : Page  plus : :, : point : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : point­of­counsel : pointed : : pointing : : : : person :,, : : : perspective : : : : novo : : :, : : : O mistakes : Monday : morning : motion : : :, moving : murder : : : Musacchio : : : N N :, : name : narrative : narrower : narrowest : necessarily : : : O : : object : : : :,, : : : objected : objection : : :, : : objects : obligation :,, : :, : obtain :, : obtained : obvious : : : obviously :,, : : : necessary :, odd : :,, offense : : need : : : : : :, :, oh : : : : : okay : : : : : :, : : : : points : : : policy : portion :, : :,, Petitioner :, : :, : : : : : pose : : : : posit : : : : position : : : : origins : ors : outside : : : : : : overcome : overriding : overwhelming : : P P : page : : : :, : paralegal : part : :,, : : : partially : particular : : : : :, : : : : particularly : Petitioner's : : : : : phrase : : pick : piggyback :, place : : : plain : : :,, : :,,, :,,,, : :,, :, : : posits : possibility : : possible : : possibly : post­Apprendi : post­verdict : potential : : potentially : : Powell : power : : :, : practical : : plain­error : : :, : : : Praprotnik : : practice : : : : play : parties : : plead : : : : pleading : : please : : plenty :, partly :, pre­Apprendi : prejudice : : : : prejudicial : Alderson Reporting Company purely : purpose : : reaches : reached : : : : purposes : : put :, read : :, reading : : : real :, really : : : : : : : : : :,, : :,, : : : : : prerogative : presentation : presented :, : : presents : presumption : : : : :, pretrial : pretty : : : primary : prior : : : probably : problem :, :, :, : : problematic : procedural : proceedings : process : : processing : produce :, prohibition : prong : proof :, proper : : : :, : properly : proposed : :, proposition : prosecute : prosecutor : prove : : : : : : : : : : proved : : proven : provided : providing : proving :, provision : punish : : Q question : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : questionable : questions : : : quickly : : quite : quote : R R : rails : raise : : : : : :,, : :, :, : : : :,, : : : : : raised : : :,, : :, : : : : :, :,,, : raises : raising : : : : rational : : : : : rationale : rationally : reach : : : Official Page  : : : : : ROBERTS : reimagine :, reject : rejected : rejecting : relate : related : relation : relief :, : ROMAN : : remainder : remand : : room : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : remedies : repeatedly : reason : : reply : : : : : repose : :, : required : : : : : : : : : reasonable : : requirements : : : : : : : reasoning : reasons : : :, : : : : : rebut : REBUTTAL : : recall : received :, recognize : recognized : : record :,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, records : : red : redound : reference : reflect : regardless : : requiring : : reserve : resist : resolve : : resolved : respect : : : : : respond :, responded : Respondent : : : restriction : result : : resurrect : retroactivity : review : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : revolutionary : ridiculous : right : :, : : : root : rubric : rule : : :, : : : : : :, : :,, :, :,, :,,,, :, :,, : : : :, : :,, : : rules : : :,,, : ruling : Russell : S S : :,, :, : sailed : sane : satisfy : : : satisfying : save : saw : saying : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company says : : : : : : :, : : : : : significant : : : simple : simply : : : Scalia : :,, single : situation : :, : : :, : :, :,, : : : situations : : :, :, :, : : : : :, scintilla : score : searching : second : : : : :, : see : : : : :, :, : : : seeking : sees : sense : : : : : sent : separate : : : : : : separately : serve : set : : sets :, seven : Seventh : shifting : : ship : show : : : : : : showing : shows : side : : side's : sides : : six :, : Sixth : slightly : Smith : : : : sneaks :, so­called : : society : solely : Solicitor : somebody : somewhat : : sooner :, sorry : : : : sort : : : : : : :, : : : SOTOMAYOR :, :, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, :, : : :,, : :, sounds : : special : specific : specifically : Official specify : : : specifying : sponte : stage :, : stages : : stake : : standard : standards : :, stands : start : : : : starts : state : :, State's : statement : States :,, : statute :, : Page  statutorily : statutory : :, steals : step : strategic : : suggest : suggesting : : suggests : : : :,, : suit : strictly : strong : : strong­sounding : stronger : : : : : strongest : strongly : stuck : stuff : style : sua : subject :,, submissions : submitted : summarize : super : superseded :, superseding : :, :, support : : : supporting : suppose : : : : supposed : :, : Supreme :, sure : : : :, : : surprise : substance : sustain : switch : synonyms : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, :, :, subsequently : surprised : :,,, :, :, substantive : : : : : :,, : : : : : : :, :,,, :, : : :,, suffice : :, : : :, : :, : : : : sufficiency : : :, : : : :, :, : :,, :, : succeed : succeeded : suffered : T :, tail : take : : : : : : : takes : talking : : T statute­of­limitat... :, : : : : : : :, : : statutes : : : :, : sufficiency­of­th... : sufficient : : talks : tell : : term : :, : :,, : : terms : : : : : : terrible : : Thank : : sufficiently : : : Alderson Reporting Company theft : theoretical : theoretically : theories : : :, theory : :, : :, : :, : : they'd : thing : : : : : : : : :, : three :, : : threshold : :, till : time : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : timely : : times : : tracks : traditionally : treated : : tomorrow : totally : Toussie : things : : think : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : told : : :,, : tolling : : :,, :,, : :,,,, : :, :,, :, :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, :,, : :, :,, :, :, :,,,,, :,, :, :, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,,, :,,,, :, : :,,,, : : trial : : tried : : trouble : troubling : true :, : :,,, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, try : : thinks : : Page  wasn't : : : : : : way : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : ways : :, : : we'll : : we're : : : we've : : : : wearing :, : : well­established : went : :, : whatsoever : willfully : win : : window : wins : withdrawal : won : : Wong :, Wood : : : : : worded :, wording : : : words : work :, : worked : works : world : worse :, wouldn't : : : : : : : : :, : : : : v : : : : :, V : :, : two­count : type : types : : typically : U unanimity : : : : : : vacate : valid : : vast : verdict :, : : : : : viable : view : : : viewed : unanimous : unanimously : unauthorized : views :, violated : :,, : : : :, : :, violating : :, :, violation : : :, :, : : : uncertainty :, vote : : understand : :, : : : : understandably : understanding : understands : understood : : undertaking : undoubtedly : unfair : unfortunately : unintentionally W wait : :, waiting : waivable : waive :, waived : : waiver : : waivers : want : : : : : : : : : : wanted : : wants : : Washington :, : Official third : : : : : trying : :, United :,, : thought :, : : unlawfully : unusual : : :, : :, : unusually : : : : two : : : use :, : : : : turn : : Turning : Virginia : : windfall : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : :, : :, :, : : : : : write :, wrong :, : :, : : : x :, X Y years : : : : : : Z zero : : : : : : (a)() : : : a : ­ : : : : th : : st : :, : : : : : : (b) :,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company 