Official ­ Subject to Final Review          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES      ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  CRST VAN EXPEDITED, INC.,             :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY         COMMISSION,                                    Respondent.            : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Petitioner. BRIAN H. FLETCHER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   BRIAN H. FLETCHER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear       argument first this morning in Case ­, CRST Van         Expedited v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.                  Mr. Smith.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               On the issue we initially asked this Court        to resolve in the petition for certiorari, the parties         are now in complete agreement. That issue, of course,          was whether a prevailing defendant in a Title VII case            is barred from seeking attorneys' fees if it hasn't         prevailed on the merits. As we showed in our opening           brief, such a rule, which exists only in the          Eighth Circuit, makes little sense. It doesn't ­­ it is           certainly not compelled by the statutory language and        doesn't serve any rationing statutory policy to take        away the power of work fees in a ­­ in a case of a                non­merits disposition.              The EEOC, having staunchly defended that      rule in its brief in opposition, executed an about­face         in its merits brief and now agrees with us that a           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review non­merits disposition can be the basis of a defendant          attorneys' fee award under Title VII.                  Now, for that reason and for all the reasons         in our opening merits brief, which the government        apparently found convincing, at least, we would suggest        that the Court should reverse the Eighth Circuit's        ruling and resolve the circuit conflict and rule that         prevailing defendants can seek fees as long as they meet          the Christiansburg standard, whether or not the       disposition was on the merits.                 If there are no questions about that, the        second issue is, what do we do ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't the standard      whether the EEOC's actions were frivolous, unreasonable,       or without foundation?               MR. SMITH: That's the Christiansburg      standard, yes, Your Honor.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what difference does       it make on what ground it was dismissed?                    MR. SMITH: I couldn't agree more.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I've been reading these       briefs, and with or without prejudice, merits,       non­merits, I don't know that even if a judge gets to             that point of deciding whether it was on the merits or           not, that's not enough. You always have to decide the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review bottom line.              MR. SMITH: Right. But the Eighth Circuit's         ruling was that even if it was frivolous or unreasonable          or without foundation, if the reason it was frivolous or          unreasonable or without foundation was the fact that it         was res judicata, or was time­barred or something like         that ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There wasn't the      slightest suggestion of any frivolity or groundlessness       to this complaint.               MR. SMITH: Your Honor, there certainly is.        As the case turned out, they never had any foundation          whatever for bringing this class claim. They never had          any pattern of practice that they could identify and ­­         and prove.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: They ­­ the claim was        that many women had been harassed by lead drivers, not          one, but many.               MR. SMITH: That was ­­ that was the         allegation, Your Honor. But in order to bring a class            claim ­­ a collective claim under Title VII, what the           EEOC needs is a pattern or practice, which means either           an express policy that's discriminatory or some       unexpressed standard operating procedure. That's the       term the Court used in the Teamster's case. In the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review absence of that, what you have is a ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that was the         whole thing, that the ­­ the ­­ that the company was not            giving the lead drivers adequate training. To put it          bluntly, they were not taking sexual harassment       seriously.                         MR. SMITH: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: That was ­­ that was the         complaint about the employer, that there were complaints        about these lead drivers, and the ­­ and the employer          just didn't take them seriously.                 MR. SMITH: But what became clear as the         case proceeded is that, A, the EEOC never investigated         any kind of pattern or practice at the investigatory         phase. They only investigated two cases. And then when           it ­­ when they started alleging that they had a pattern            of practice and telling the Court they wanted to go to           trial on a pattern of practice, we ­­ we filed a motion              for summary judgment and said, what is your evidence         that there's a consistent policy of disregarding these         complaints, that there is a consistent failure?                    And ­­ and the ­­ and as Judge Reed found,          the evidence didn't remotely support that. The        evidence ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: The EEOC, when it was        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review investigating this case, asked CRST, tell us about        complaints you've gotten of sexual harassment. And        initially, the company came out with two names.                                hundred.             MR. SMITH: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: There were well over a        MR. SMITH: Your Honor, the ­­ the EEOC's         suggestion that we did not answer their question        completely was looked at in detail both by the district          court and by the Eighth Circuit, and they both concluded          that the only ­­ the question at issue was a question            about people who had complained about the conduct at         issue in this case, meaning Ms. Starke ­­ Ms. Starke's          harassment. The ­­ the suggestion that we had not          answered that question completely was rejected by the        district court on Pages and of the Petition          Appendix. It was rejected by the Eighth Circuit as          factually baseless on Page of the Petition Appendix.         They simply didn't ask a question that called for that           until later in the investigation. And what the ­­         what ­­ all the judges below, the ­­ the district judge           and the majority in the Eighth Circuit, concluded is we          answered every question in the investigation fully and        accurately. So that is not a basis for what ­­                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is it so that, when you         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review were initially asked how many complaints have you gotten         or tell us the names of the people who have complained,           they came up with two people?                  MR. SMITH: It is true that they named two          people. And as Judge Reed concluded ­­                   it?             JUSTICE GINSBURG: That wasn't accurate, was       MR. SMITH: Well, that wasn't the question.        The question that we were answering was people who had          complained about the particular issue in the charge.        And so as Judge Reed concluded, we gave them more          information than the EEOC requested. That's on page          of the Cert Petition Appendix.                 When they later on asked for all the people         who had filed charges of discrimination, we gave them         all that information. That was about eight more people          that they got.               Finally, at the end of the investigation       phase, they said, Give us the names of all the women who            have driven for you in the last several years with their           contact information. We gave them that. They didn't do           anything with it.               They then filed their ­­ their class finding        of reasonable cause, having investigated Ms. Starke's       complaint and one other with ­­ and did no sort of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review systematic look at how things were done at the company.                      And then when they put together this case in         court, they listed people who were so­called class         members; and it turns out most of those claims washed          out. They simply were non­meritorious. And we file a           motion for summary judgment saying they don't have any         evidence of a systematic problem here of a ­­ of a             pattern of practice. And Judge Reed looked at this          wealth of information, which has developed       depositions, accepted the truth of everything that       those ­­ those women said in those depositions, and         concluded that, in fact, by and large the policies         exist. The policies are followed. People ­­ complaints          are followed up. Remedies are ­­ are put in place.           Women are protected.               And she said if ­­ assuming the truth of         everything that's in these depositions, there may be        examples of sporadic exceptions to that where the        managers could have done a better job. Maybe they           didn't act fast enough. Maybe they could have been more           severe in their sanction or whatever, but that that's ­­         that no rational finder of fact could conclude on this          record that there is any kind of pattern of neglecting          sexual harassment complaints, any kind of problem with        the policies that existed, any kind of problem with the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review training. That was all factually not true.                    It is true that there were some complaints        which, of course, when you read them are ­­ are quite           serious, but that doesn't mean the company is liable,         certainly not liable on a class basis where ­­ for           claims which were never investigated, never conciliated.       The whole policy of the statute, of course, is to have a            reasonable investigation, have a reasonable cause       finding, have conciliation. And here that became        meaningless, except with respect to one claimant.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you're here      complaining about a threshold question. That is, you          said that the investigation and conciliation efforts       were inadequate. But you said that after months of           heavy litigation.              MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. Here's what         happened. They come in October , , with their          list of people. They ­­ we said ­­ we then say to              the Court, well, they can't possibly have investigated         claims, and how are we going to adjudicate this,          anyway? They respond and say, This is a pattern of            practice case. We're going to ­­ we're going to          litigate it the way we litigate pattern of practice         cases. We're going to have bifurcation. We are going           to have an initial phase of the trial where we prove           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that it is their de facto policy to neglect sexual          harassment, and then we're going to have a damages phase           where individual claimants will come in.                  And so we had a class claim which they said           was a pattern of practice claim. And there was no way             at that point for us to say, well, you ­­ you can't            litigate these individual claims, because they were       classifying these people as class members, and they were         going to use them as witnesses to establish this         supposed ­­ this policy of neglect of sexual harassment.                     We then do depositions of all of these         people, except for the ones who didn't show up at all,           the other . And most of those claims turned out to be             non­meritorious, even accepting the truth of everything       that the ­­ the complainants said.                  We then file a motion that says, You don't          have a pattern of practice case. This is not a class              case. You can't litigate this case because there is no           systematic policy that has been identified.                  And we have this wealth of factual       information from these depositions, different       stories involving different drivers, different charges,      different conduct, different responses. And Judge Reed        reads thousands of pages of testimony and concludes        there isn't any evidence that would allow a rational          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review trier of fact to conclude that there is a ­­ a            systematic ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: So that all gets to the         reasonableness or unreasonableness point. And we ­­       this Court need not reach that, I take it, if we ­­ we              address the ­­ the prevailing party argument. And it          is ­­ as you understand the government's position ­­ we          can, of course, ask them in a few minutes ­­ in what             cases, where there is not an adjudication on the merits,          would the government agree that there is a prevailing          party, that the defendant can be a prevailing party?                      MR. SMITH: I think they have ­­ they've          said the merits issue is not really relevant. They          have ­­ as I understand it, what they've said certainly           is, you know, if it was ­­ they ­­ they would say if             it's a disposition with prejudice, whether it's based on          a merits issue or some other merits, non­merits issue,         like statute of limitations or something else, that        appears to be their position.                 And I think the problem with the without         prejudice/with prejudice distinction, which they ­­ they       brought out in their merits brief, is that's the first          time in this litigation that that argument has ever been          made by the EEOC. They have never in the lower courts            ever argued that, A, the disposition here was without         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prejudice or, B, that that's a basis on which CRST was            not a prevailing party.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, understanding      that you think that, but if we could just go on from            that, what is wrong with that position? And do you have            a substitute test, or ­­ or is there no substitute test,           in your view?               MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, as ­­ as to          the first question, the first problem with the argument         is it's factually not true. The ­­ the disposition here           was with prejudice.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. Let's just assume        that it were.               MR. SMITH: Okay. Leaving aside the waiver         and the fact that there's no factual predicate for the          argument here, on the merits, we didn't have an         opportunity to brief this issue because it's not in the          case until we're writing our reply brief. So we have           about a paragraph on the issue.                     I think that it's a ­­ there's ­­ there is a           circuit conflict on the question whether or not a         district judge ought to have the power, in the suitable          circumstances when dismissing a case for failure to do          something like pre­suit petitions, where there was a        sufficient level of abusiveness by the plaintiff, he        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review should have known ­­ he or she should have known that           this case was not ready for suit, and it has cost the ­­            the defendant money that shouldn't have had to be spent;          that even in a without prejudice dismissal situation,         there ought to be the power of a court to exercise its             discretion ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Even if the ­­ even if the          reason for the dismissal ­­ for the dismissal is         completely curable?              MR. SMITH: Well, it's curable perhaps, but        there are going to be situations ­­ and this case is a            good illustration ­­ where you can't get rid of the fact           that you've spent lots and lots of money litigating         claims which, if they'd been ­­ been investigated and         had to make reasonable cause findings and been        conciliated, likely would never have seen court to begin         with. of these claims were ­­ where summary judgment           was granted after the women were deposed, never         showed up for their deposition.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but then you're        suggesting that whatever the reason for the dismissal        is, with prejudice, without prejudice, for any reason        whatsoever, curable or not, it's up to the discretion of          the Court?              MR. SMITH: I ­­ I guess I would ­­ given              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the severity of the Christiansburg standard, I'm ­­ it's         not clear to ­­ clear to me that ­­ that you can't trust             district judges in those situations. It's not clear to          me that we need to have a categorical bar that turns on             this issue of with prejudice or without prejudice.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: In ­­ in this case as to,          I guess, the women that the Court ­­ before it goes            to the court of appeals on round number one, says the           Court bars the EEOC from seeking relief.                               MR. SMITH: Yes, sir.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that a phrase district         courts use often, "bars"?                MR. SMITH: You know, I think it was          invented by the judge here because she's dealing with a          rather peculiar animal, which is a one­count complaint         which says Ms. Starke was sexually harassed and it was          not appropriately handled, and a class of people were          sexually harassed and it was not appropriately handled.        And they start bringing these things in, and to the          extent that ­­ at that point in the case, they're trying           to litigate them as individual claims.                  And the ­­ so rather than dismiss the ­­ the          claims, she said individuals ­­ when they were        litigating on their own behalf, she would dismiss the ­­         the claim with prejudice, but she would tell the EEOC,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review You're barred from litigating this claim, this claim,        and this claim. And there were six or seven different           categories of claims where she went through and said,         You can't do these six because there was never a          complaint made to the ­­ to management. You can't do           these six because the conduct just wasn't severe enough         to be sexual harassment.                And then she gets to the and says, You          can't do these claims because you never investigated        them or conciliated them or made a reasonable cause          finding. And there was ­­ the whole class thing, which           led you to bring them into court ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: With respect to those ,        I thought we had held that in Mach Mining, that the           remedy for inadequate conciliation, investigation and      conciliation, is not dismissal, but return to continue        the efforts to conciliate.                MR. SMITH: What you held in Mach Mining,         Your Honor, is that where there is a failure of           conciliation, the appropriate remedy is a stay so they          can conciliate some more. And you cited a provision in            Title VII in which specifically authorizes a judge          to stay a case for further conciliation.                    What Judge Reed concluded is that a stay         wouldn't make sense here. She expressly considered that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review question and said, well, you haven't even investigated        the claims, and you haven't made any findings about the          merits of the claims, and you've put the court and the           parties through years of litigation.                 In that situation, the ­­ the additional       sanction of barring you from litigating the case is         appropriate, and I think that clearly ought to be within           the discretion of the district court ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, do you understand        her order as ­­ as saying that if the EEOC did engage in             conciliation, had made the initial findings, had       satisfied all the pre­suit requirements, could the EEOC,        do you think, have come back and brought those         individual claims?              MR. SMITH: Certainly I ­­ I think she was            very clear that that was not available to them ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Even after filing the       pre­suit requirements? Even after satisfying the       pre­suit requirements?              MR. SMITH: Yes. Because she ­­ she         considered whether to stay the case and let them go do           that and said, no, I'm going to do the much more severe            remedy of dismissing these claims.                 And then the government ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Why didn't she say "with        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prejudice," then?               MR. SMITH: Well, she does eventually, Your       Honor. The ­­ the judgment that ends the merits case            in this ­­ in this ­­ the merits phase in this case in              entered with the ­­ the agreement of the government          expressly says that the case and all the claims that          were litigated in this case are dismissed with        prejudice. That's on page of the Joint Appendix.                                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why ­­ why isn't it ­­        JUSTICE KAGAN: But back in , she didn't         say that. So why didn't she say that? You had asked             for the case, the ­­ all of them to be dismissed with ­­            with prejudice.                          language.             MR. SMITH: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: She did not include that        MR. SMITH: She didn't use that language.        She said the government shall take nothing in the         judgment. She said, I'm not going to stay the case and            let you go back and do it ­­ do a do­over. And she said                it's a severe remedy that means these claims may not           ever see the inside of a courtroom. But she didn't use             the word ­­ "prejudice" language at that point.                    But the government understood what she      meant, what they complain in their brief appealing that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review order, that they had ­­ that the order had barred these           claims from ever seeing the inside of a courtroom and           that the judge acknowledged that fact. They did that          again in the second appeal from the Eighth Circuit.                     And then, most tellingly, they file a       Rule motion after Mach Mining is decided last year in           which they asked the district judge to reopen the case,          and say, you should have done a stay; you shouldn't have            dismissed this. And the reason you should do that is           because we have been prevented for the last six years          from litigating these claims.                And does Judge Reed then say, no, it was         dismissed without prejudice. I wasn't telling you, you          couldn't litigate these claims. No. She said I did            what I did, and I did it for good and sufficient reason              because of the way you messed up this case, and you           abused the process and didn't follow your obligations,        and I'm ­­ and I'm denying the motion.                    And they then appealed that to the court of         appeals. And the day before they file their merits          brief in this Court, they ­­ they pull that appeal          because they recognize that the Rule motion and         arguments they're making is completely inconsistent with       the argument they're about to make ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: But if I understand, their         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review motion did not say now we've satisfied all our pre­suit          requirements, right? So she might just have said, well,          you still haven't satisfied your pre­suit requirements,       so of course I'm not changing anything.                               MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, there's ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: The question is what would        have happened if the government came back and said we          have satisfied the pre­suit requirements. Would she        then have thought, okay, well, that's a different story          now. I didn't ­­ I didn't dismiss these with prejudice.             Now that the government has satisfied the pre­suit        requirements, it can go ahead.                 MR. SMITH: No, Your Honor. I think it's           quite clear from what she did say last fall, in          December, actually, that ­­ that she knew it was with          prejudice, intended it to be with prejudice, and wasn't         going to change her mind. And I think there's no other             way to read the record here.                  And we ultimately have a judgment that says         with prejudice, which is the controlling judgment ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Where is that? There's a         piece of paper called "the judgment" somewhere. What         does it say?               MR. SMITH: But you see if you look at the           Joint Appendix ­­ first of all, I'm at Joint Appendix,          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Your Honors ­­ there is a judgment that appears on page             and which says, "Judgment is entered in         accordance with the attached." And the attached is an          order of dismissal which was negotiated by the parties.                     And if you look at the bottom of a, the          order of dismissal, which was incorporated in the        judgment, at the bottom of a it says, "Based on          EEOC's withdrawal of its claim on behalf of Tillie         Jones, the parties' settlement of EEOC's claim on behalf         of Monika Starke and the mandate issued by the court of           appeals on September , , with respect to all other          claims asserted by the EEOC, this case is dismissed with          prejudice."             JUSTICE BREYER: That's the end of it, isn't         it? It was dismissed with prejudice.                   MR. SMITH: That's the point, Your Honor.                    (Laughter.)             MR. SMITH: There doesn't seem to be any         doubt about it. And the government knew it. It           actually agreed to this form of judgment. So we found           it rather remarkable that we were facing this ­­ this          argument.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Smith, what is ­­       what's ­­ what are you asking us to do in this case?            What's the disposition that you're seeking?      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. SMITH: Well, you should ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are we supposed to say                                Eighth Circuit, you're wrong, it has nothing to do         with ­­ exclusively with the merits? Do a do­over?                       MR. SMITH: That's ­­ that's the issue we         should ­­ you should certainly reverse them on, Your         Honor. But there's ­­ I think we have agreement in the             courtroom that that's just ­­ at least on this side of           the ­­ of the bench ­­ that that's an incorrect ruling.                       And then, you know, I think you should give          the back of the hand to this idea that the judgment here            was without prejudice and therefore that has some impact         on this case. It's just not factually true. It was not             preserved, and it's ­­ and it's not ­­ it's not ­­          probably not the right line, anyway.                  Then the ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Smith ­­ Mr. Smith,        will you explain why "dismiss this case with prejudice"         isn't talking about the case that was settled, the         Starke case?              The ­­ there were ­­ all the other women         were out of it; it was down to two women; one dropped            out; one was left. Why isn't this case the case that            was just settled?               MR. SMITH: Well, it refers to her case; it          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review refers to the Tillie Jones case, and to all the other           claims asserted by the EEOC under a one­count complaint.          There is no separate count for each of these people.          And so when you dismiss that count, it expressly says,          "With respect to all the other claims asserted by the          EEOC," I think it's pretty obvious that the case is           dismissed with prejudice with respect to all the claims         asserted by the EEOC, including the , Your Honor.         That was ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: All the claims that were        then being litigated by the EEOC, which did not include          the claims that had previously been dismissed for        failure to satisfy the pre­suit requirements.                  MR. SMITH: It's a basic principle that a          judgment at the end of the merits phase goes back and           incorporates all the ­­ the prior rulings of the court,          and is based on the prior rulings in which ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that's not ­­ it's          not right, if the prior ruling was based on a curable            dismissal and the EEOC had simply done nothing with         respect to that set of claims, neither cured it nor          renounced the possibility that they would cure it.                    In , the court was facing a much reduced          set of claims in a different suit.                    MR. SMITH: Your Honor, I think that ­­ that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the judgment is going to go back and cover everything          that happened in the case. If there was something left           that could be reopened with ­­ that had been dismissed          without prejudice, you wouldn't agree to a judgment in          this form.              In any event, the ­­ the government told the         Eighth Circuit twice in two separate appeals that these         claims were dismissed with prejudice, and that was a         problem for them, that they were precluded. They file a           Rule motion acknowledging that they were dismissed        with prejudice and asking for that dismissal to be         lifted. I just ­­ it's hard for me to believe that ­­             that they're ­­ that this argument is available for         them, especially since they never made it before.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why should we decide        this?             MR. SMITH: Well, I think it ­­                    MR. SMITH: Why don't we just remand it         completely, and let the Eighth Circuit decide, or the         district court decide what it meant?                  MR. SMITH: Well, you should certainly       decide the issue that was ­­ we brought you here, which           is the circuit conflict ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assuming we reverse, why       don't we leave it to the court below to decide whether           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they will, in fact, entertain the government's new        argument because there might be a waiver of that, or           whether there's a factual predicate for it at all?                      MR. SMITH: We could do that, Your Honor. I           guess the ­­ the main reasons you ­­ you might want to            at least address it briefly is ­­ is if you're going to            go on and follow the government's lead and reach the          Christiansburg issue here, which the government asked       you to do at the ­­ at the end of their brief, and             decide that there ­­ they want you to decide that the ­­           whatever positions they took on behalf of these women          were ­­ were not without foundation; were not        unreasonable.             We're actually, in some ways, tempted to ask        you to go ahead and rule on that issue too, because           we've been doing this ­­ the issue now for six years.           And I think the government's conduct here was glaringly          unreasonable that that ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: On that one ­­ on that one          issue, was ­­ the amount awarded some $ million. Did           the debt include this ­­ was ­­ was that your entire           bill, or did you segregate ­­ the attorneys segregate         out the costs for the Starke?                  MR. SMITH: I think the Starke issue gets ­­          gets separated out. It's the entire bill for all of            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the depositions, including the ones that were ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there were ­­ but        there ­­ in other words, this was not percent of the            fees? There was ­­                MR. SMITH: Oh, no, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: The fees were separated       out.             MR. SMITH: First of all, they were Cedar         Rapids rates, and we charge Chicago rates. But aside          from that problem, it was about ­­ there was         certainly ­­ the part that the government had prevailed         on, it was where there was a settlement. That was            certainly taken out. So I don't think there's an           argument about the amount here of any significance.                    So ­­ so I do think that there's a ­­ there             may be some value in the Court reaching the         Christiansburg issue, if only to instruct the EEOC that         there's a different ­­ difference between a        pattern­or­practice class case where you have an actual        practice of policy that you're litigating, and a case          where you just have a bunch of individual claims which           you ­­ which don't add up to any kind of pattern or            practice.             If you ­­ if you allow the EEOC to use class           language like this as kind of a club at the end of an              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review investigation that's not a class investigation in a         complaint for which they have no factual basis, then you          end up creating a great deal of litigation exposure for           defendants in situations where class litigation really       isn't appropriate.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, do you think it's         possible to have a pattern of practice appropriate class          claim with respect to sexual harassment?                  MR. SMITH: I do, Your Honor. I think it             would ­­ but it ­­ but it may be more difficult than in             other contexts. For example, you could have a pattern           of practice case, I think, about one work setting in           which the hostile work environment would affect any        woman working in that setting. I think that would be            appropriate.             If ­­ if they had some specific policy that         they identified that they said has a discriminatory         effect such as, for example, we had a three­strikes          policy. You have to harass people three times before          we'll take the complaint or something like that. That          could be a pattern of practice case.                    But what I don't think you can do is have            individual stories involving different alleged      malefactors, different alleged conduct, different     allegations about who ­­ what complaints were brought to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review management's attention and different stories about how       management responded.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Couldn't you have a       pattern and practice case of saying there ­­ there         are ­­ all these complaints were made, and the employer          didn't take them seriously, he either did nothing or         gave the ­­ the driver a slap on the wrist?                       MR. SMITH: Your Honor, I think you can have           a ­­ a standard operating procedure that you show by           saying over and over again they don't do what they're          supposed to do and that their policies are not taken          seriously. But you have to show a consistent pattern or            practice in order to do that. And what Judge Reed said            is, by and large, that's not what they do. They do            exactly the opposite.               There may be some situations, if we take the         testimony of the complainants at ­­ at face value         without any ­­ hearing from anybody else, that where         some of the managers didn't do good ­­ as good a job as              they might have in some of these cases, but that's the           sporadic exception; that's not the rule. That's not         what they do as a matter of policy.                     If I could save the balance of my time,          Your Honor.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Mr. Fletcher.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF BRIAN H. FLETCHER                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. FLETCHER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The question on what this Court granted       certiorari is not, as Mr. Smith suggested, and has been          the basis for his waiver arguments, whether or not the          Eighth Circuit was correct to say that a Title VII           defendant has to prevail on the merits in order to          secure a fee award and to be a prevailing party.                        Instead, the question that petitioner framed      in the petition and the question on what this Court          granted certiorari is whether the dismissal of a        Title VII case, based on the EEOC's failure to satisfy          its pre­suit investigations, can form the basis for an         award of attorneys' fees.                JUSTICE ALITO: In your brief in opposition,        you argued that the Eighth Circuit was correct; did you          not?             MR. FLETCHER: We did. We endorsed ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: Have you abandoned that       argument?             MR. FLETCHER: We're advancing a slightly        different argument that yields the same answer on the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review question presented.              JUSTICE ALITO: Have you abandoned the       argument that there must be an evaluation of the merits?                      MR. FLETCHER: We are ­­ we're making a         slightly different argument, yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: You have abandoned it, was        the question.              MR. FLETCHER: Well ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Yes or no?                  MR. FLETCHER: We have abandoned the Eighth        Circuit's view that you need a disposition on the          merits.             JUSTICE BREYER: Thank you.                 MR. FLETCHER: But I think in explaining ­­         I don't think that the change in our argument and ­­ the            change in our argument to a different argument that's          still within the scope of the question presented        constitutes a waiver. I'd like to talk about two           reasons why, because I understand Mr. Smith to have          argued that we're waiving the version of the argument         that we're presenting now at two stages ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: I don't care if it ­­ I           mean, that's up to you, what you want to argue. But I             would like ­­ look, it says, can the dismissal, based on           the failure to satisfy form the basis for an attorney's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review fees? I take that to mean, is the defendant ­­ can the              defendant in such a case be a prevailing party?                                   MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: He has to meet the other         standard, too.                          MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: I would think the answer is          obviously yes. They won. Okay? So if they won, why             isn't that the end of it? It says judgment ­­ it            says ­­ it says the ­­ the case is dismissed with           prejudice. Therefore, they won. So why aren't they the           prevailing party?              MR. FLETCHER: Sir, I'd like to talk about         the dismissal with prejudice, which is a ­­ a          case­specific issue here that I ­­ I do want to address.                         But I think first, I want to talk about the            broader question, which is what makes a party a          prevailing party? Because this Court addressed that in         its Buckhannon decision. It said prevailing party is a          term of art. In the fee­shipping statutes, including         Title VII, it means a party that has secured an order            that materially alters the legal relationship between       the parties.              JUSTICE BREYER: Can't a plaintiff be a         prevailing party? I don't know the answer, but I           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review thought the plaintiff brings a suit charging, you know,          serious discrimination. After lots of litigation, the        parties decide to settle, and they settle on terms very          favorable to the plaintiff, really because of the        litigation. I thought in such cases, the plaintiff was           the prevailing party. A.m. I wrong?                    MR. FLETCHER: Well, under Buckhannon, it       depends. What this Court says that under Buckhannon, if          the Court incorporates the settlement agreement into a        consent decree or the lower courts have held if the          settlement agreement is approved by the court or        incorporated into the judgment such that it's       enforceable by the court, then yes. But the courts have           generally said that private settlement agreements, or       the particular issue in Buckhannon, if the defendant        just voluntarily changes its conduct and the plaintiff        gets what it wants, the plaintiff is not a prevailing           party because it has not secured an order that         materially changes the party's legal relationship.                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You see, I found ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose that the         settlement agreements often take into account liability       for attorneys' fees ­­               MR. FLETCHER: Yes.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ how they are going        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to apportion those.                           MR. FLETCHER: Very often, yes.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why do we apply the same         standard to a defendant? The plaintiff is seeking a           change of the status quo, but a defendant is actually ­­           all they want is the status quo. They want just to            stay ­­ not to be found liable. So why do we apply the              question of whether there's been a legal change between          the parties? The defendant was never seeking that.                     MR. FLETCHER: So what the defendant was        seeking, though, was a judicial declaration that        essentially ratifies the status quo, that ­­ that ends         the dispute. And so after this Court's decision in          Buckhannon, the circuits have looked at this question.        And eight of them, which we cite at Pages to of             our Brief, as far as we can tell, every court to           consider this question has said that the same rule         applies to the defendant. And if the defendant obtains          a dismissal because the plaintiff voluntarily withdraws       or because it's in the wrong forum or something like          that, something that allows the underlying dispute to        continue, then the defendant hasn't prevailed in the        litigation in the sense in which the fee­shifting        statutes have used ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't know where         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that ­­ where that artificial line comes from. I mean,            the defendant wants to win. And I don't know ­­ it's             getting pretty ­­ when I was practicing that ­­ parties           didn't come in and say, I want to win, and I want to win                on this ground. They said, I want to win. I want the                case thrown out.               MR. FLETCHER: Well, I ­­ I think that's ­­           that's right, but I think that what the defendant          wants ­­ and I think this is perhaps expressed best, of            all the cases we cite, in Judge Easterbrook's opinion in          the Steel Co. case. The defendant wants to win, but the            defendant wants to win in a way that definitively ends           the litigation. And if the defendant wins on a ground            that makes clear that the plaintiff can come back to          court the next day, or in a different district, or after            satisfying a precondition to suit, I don't think the           defendant has won in the way that the defendant wants to           win.             JUSTICE ALITO: There is a material        alteration in their relationship, is it not? I mean,           it's not as big a one as the defendant would like. A              defendant would like to have a ­­ a win that precludes             future litigation. But don't you think a defendant who           secures a dismissal of a complaint, and, therefore,          doesn't know whether the ­­ the complaint is going to be           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review filed again is going to celebrate? Isn't that a ­­ an             alteration in the relationship between the parties?                   MR. FLETCHER: I'm sure the defendant would        be happy about that, in much the same way a party would             be happy if they secured the reversal of a directed           verdict on appeal or if they defeated a motion for           summary judgment. And you could, in some sense of the           words, say that all of those things materially changed         the party's legal relationship because they settle       certain issues and they alter the course of the future          litigation.             But what this Court has said in Buckhannon        and in the cases that it ascribed there is that those           sorts of interlocutory wins don't count.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, well, this is not        interlocutory. This ended the litigation. So, I mean,           I have the same question the Chief Justice had, where a           defendant secures the end of a case, dismissed, goodbye,          you win. Now, maybe they can bring another case          tomorrow; that's another case. But they won this case.          That's going to be pretty hard for them to get          attorneys' fees anyway because there's a very tough         standard. But why isn't a simple rule the best rule?            If the case is over, the defendant won, he is the           prevailing party for purposes of that case.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Then we could go on to take all the things          you wanted to into account when we consider what kind of           fee is reasonable and when we consider whether it's         based on frivolousness. I mean, the ­­ the plus of            that, to me, is the simplicity. And ­­ and I don't see              how it would work any unfairness or serious harm to the           objective of this statute. So I'd appreciate it if you           would address what could be my benighted view.                    MR. FLETCHER: I wouldn't go that far, but I           do think it's a different view, and a very different            view, than the one that all of the courts of appeals           that have considered ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, then they might ­­ I         mean, unfortunately, I a.m. in the position of having to           decide it.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: So I put the question to          you. And I'd say at first blush, the simplicity of this            approach, its consistency with the language, its ease of         administration, and so forth, in terms of prevailing        parties has that to recommend it. So now what is ­­ you             don't like it, so tell me why.                   MR. FLETCHER: So I think because when a          defendant prevails on this sort of round because the         plaintiff, say, withdraws the claim voluntarily or       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review secures a dismissal with prejudice, the dispute really         isn't over. And it certainly isn't over in the sense           that this Court used the term in Buckhannon, which         requires a judicially sanctioned, material alteration of        the legal relationship of the parties. And I this Judge            Easterbrook put this well in Steel Co. If the plaintiff           can come back the next day or if the plaintiff can sue            in a next district or if the dispute is going to            continue, that really doesn't ­­ hasn't changed the        legal relationship of the parties.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What if they don't?        What if they don't come back the next day? What if they             don't sue in the next district? Then it seems to me the             purposes of this fee­shifting provision have not been        served.             MR. FLETCHER: Well, I ­­ I don't think           that's quite right. I think you're right, as Your           Honor's question alludes to. I think the purpose of the            fee­shifting statute ­­ and this is what the Court said          in Fox versus Vice and Christiansburg ­­ is to protect          defendants who are forced to bear factually or legally         unjustified suits. I think, first of all, there's some           reason to question whether that purpose is served, where         the reason why this suit is defeated is a failure to            satisfy a procedural precondition. I'm not sure it's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review fair to say that that's a factually or legally          ungrounded suit. It's a suit where the plaintiff failed           to take a step that it was supposed to take before            coming to court, but a curable step.                      I think in those sorts of circumstances to       say that those defendants can't recover for whatever        fees they secure in resolving that initial procedural        question doesn't really get at the core of what the          statute was.              JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there ­­ because ­­       now, there's much to recommend what you're saying,        saying at least if you come back the next day, at least            if you could sue in another district. But have you           heard of the Hatfields and the McCoys? You see ­­ you            see why I bring them up? Because they're going to be             fighting each other for years. And if you tell them            they can't sue in this district, they'll change the         complaint slightly and go to a different district.                     So if I adopt the standard you're just         suggesting, I will discover a whole host of questions:           Is this really the same suit? What about the          possibility that they could have sued in Tasmania? And          what about the possibility ­­ you ­­ you see where I'm           going. And so I'm back, again, to that kind of concern,            an administrative concern ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ versus the simplicity of                                saying, well, that ended this case. If they bring          another case and it's frivolous, we'll consider       attorneys' fees in that one.                 MR. FLETCHER: So, I guess, to the ­­ to the            administrative point, I do think the ­­ the views that           the circuits, and the views that the circuits have been          applying for years, in some cases more now, ought to           be persuasive? Not just because that's what the         circuit ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say that. I          haven't read them yet.                MR. FLETCHER: But ­­ but just in ­­ in the           notion that if the sort ­­ if our rule was going to            cause problems of administration like you suggest, you        would expect to see it in the circuits, and I don't            think you're seeing that in the circuits. I think           they're applying this rule; has the plaintiff been        barred from pursuing this claim permanently? If so,         then the defendant is a prevailing party. If not, if            it's a different ground, if it's a precondition to suit,            if it's the wrong forum, if it's a dismissal without           prejudice, then the defendant hasn't been precluded.       I ­­ I don't think you can hypothesize cases. I don't              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review think we've seen them in ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't it be an        adequate response to your concern if fees were awarded         solely on the ground in which the case was dismissed?          That would be ­­ in other words, the judge would have           the discretion to do that. If the judge looks at this            and says, okay, it's clear you're in the wrong venue,          you know, and hours of research would have showed you          that. So, you know, it's frivolous on that ground, and           I'm throwing the case out because the ­­ the defendant          prevails on that ground.                Now, the defendant may have spent a lot of          other money with depositions and everything else. But         the judge could say, well, you can file the ­­ the case            again tomorrow. You probably will. You just have to go            into the next district. So I a.m. going to award fees.             They're going to be equal to the amount of time the           defendant had to spend defending against your frivolous        venue assertion.              It doesn't have to do that. I mean, you           know, if you have the wrong venue, and they spend five           years doing depositions because you have the wrong        venue, they should probably get fees for all of it. But            if it's just, you know, a small portion, easily disposed           of, is that a possible remedy?       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FLETCHER: Sir, I think that's a better,           a more sensible rule. Certainly I'll ­­ I'll say a           little bit about why I think it may be a little tricky              to fit into the doctrine, but just to illustrate its          application in this case, for instance, a petitioner got          a fee award on the order of ., $. million, as we            explain in our brief. The amount of those fees that are            attributable to actually litigating about this ground       here, whether or not we satisfied the preconditions to         suit, is a little more than $,.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then that may        be a case contrary to the proposal where it's that           discreet. In other words, your frivolity on that         particular point compelled them to incur $. million        over many years. It's not their fault that that issue           didn't come up until later in the litigation.                                MR. FLETCHER: Well, first of all ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's sort of       intertwined with the merits. It's not a venue          objection.             MR. FLETCHER: Well, I ­­ I'm not sure          that's ­­ that's right, Mr. Chief Justice.                   First of all, we ­­ we disagree that we were          frivolous in thinking we satisfied our pre­suit       obligations. That's an issue that hasn't been resolved         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review by the Eighth Circuit yet, and we think for some of the            reasons that Justice Ginsburg suggested and that Judge        Murphy suggested on the merits in the Eighth Circuit.         Actually, we very much were not frivolous on thinking we          had satisfied these preconditions.                But to get to the ­­ the heart of your          question, I do think, actually, that it is a very            discreet issue. It's ­­ Title VII says before you come           into court, you have to do an investigation. There has           to be a reasonable­cause determination and you have to          attempt to conciliate ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. Well, it may         be a discreet issue, but it's a cause in fact for all              the other fees.               MR. FLETCHER: Well, I ­­ I'm not sure          that's right, in that if Petitioner had raised this         early on ­­ and I ­­ I do want to be clear, that from                the outset in this litigation, I disagree a little bit            with what Mr. Smith said about what the EEOC looked into           in its investigation. But from the outset, everyone         knew that we had told them in conciliation, we think you           have a problem here; we think you're engaged in sexual           harassment against a class of women. We tried to           conciliate that class claim; they declined to do that.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wait. Wait. I         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review suppose whether the issue we're debating may not be         directly pertinent, my question is whether or not that         could be a factor that the district courts could look at            in deciding the amount of fees and so on.                     MR. FLETCHER: Yes, I take that point.         If ­­ if you resolved the question against us, you say a            defendant could be a prevailing party when it prevails          on this sort of ground that doesn't foreclose for         litigation, then I absolutely agree with you that it          would be perfectly appropriate and ­­ and indeed, I         think a good idea for the district court to engage in            this kind of inquiry. But, I ­­ I guess, I think the                main question ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: So ­­ so as I understand          your answer, let's assume a hypothetical case, not this          case. For five years there's litigation, and the         litigation is finally dismissed because the EEOC has not         followed its obligations. It's a frivolous or an          unreasonable suit. The trial judge said you are barred          from proceeding further in this case.                  MR. FLETCHER: Yes.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Doesn't say with prejudice       or without.              MR. FLETCHER: Yes.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could fees be awarded in        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that case?              MR. FLETCHER: I believe, no. I believe           that is this case, but ­­ but I believe no.                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because he didn't say       with ­­ with prejudice?                MR. FLETCHER: Because that sort of       dismissal under principles of res judicata, under this        Court's interpretation of Federal Rule of Civil       Procedure , when you have ­­ even after extended         litigation ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Incidentally, is it clear       that after this time that there was no time bar if they            had come back again?                MR. FLETCHER: That's right. The EEOC does         not have a statute of limitation that's applicable to ­­          to suits brought by the commission.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: So then, your position       that no matter how unreasonable the plaintiff has been,         no matter how costly it's been, no matter how long it's           taken, that you cannot award fees unless the case ­­ and           then the case is dismissed, and the judge says you're          barred from bringing this claim in this suit, no fees;          that's your position.               MR. FLETCHER: That's correct. And I        understand that in some cases ­­ I don't think this is            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review such a case ­­ but in some cases, that might have            unappealing consequences.              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, and that's ­­ in a         case like that, what if the ­­ the EEOC after that           dismissal goes back and looks at these cases and says,          you know what, we really have nothing here, and         therefore, chooses not to bring the case, you would say          that because the ­­ because the first case was dismissed          without prejudice, there could be no fees?                   MR. FLETCHER: I ­­ I would, and I think             that follows ­­                          JUSTICE ALITO: What sense does that make?        MR. FLETCHER: I think it follows from         Buckhannon. Remember, that ­­ the issue in Buckhannon         was you have a plaintiff that brings a suit. By             hypothesis, let's assume it's a meritorious suit, and         there's some litigation and the plaintiff incurs fees,        and then at some point the defendant sees the writing on           the wall and voluntarily recedes from the conduct and         gives the plaintiff exactly what they want.                     I think the Court recognized that there is a        really strong policy argument for allowing courts to        award fees to plaintiffs in that case, because they're         doing what Title VII and the Civil Rights Act intended          to ­­ to encourage plaintiffs to do. And they're sort           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of left, you know, out of pocket for all the fees if            they're not eligible for fee awards.                  This Court still said they're not entitled       to get fee awards because they haven't secured a court           order that materially alters the party's legal       relationship. I think the same thing is true of the ­­                        JUSTICE ALITO: I guess I just don't see           what functional sense that makes. If ­­ if the          defendant has wasted a huge amount of litigation         resources and caused the ­­ I'm sorry, the plaintiff         has ­­ has caused ­­ imposed a great and unjustified           burden on the defendant, I don't ­­ I don't see why, as              a functional matter, unless this is foreclosed by a         prior decision, there shouldn't be a possibility of fees          in that situation.               MR. FLETCHER: Well, I do think it's pretty          close to foreclosed by Buckhannon. Obviously,       Buckhannon dealt with whether or not a plaintiff is          prevailing. Our argument is that the Court's rationale         was "prevailing party" is a legal term of art. It means             a party that secured a material alteration in the legal           relationship of the parties.                And the court in Buckhannon stuck to that,        despite very strong policy arguments, saying that those        sorts of plaintiffs ought to get fee awards. And I           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review think it ought to do the same thing here when it's           presented with essentially the converse ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Then what is the argument?        I take it your argument now is what's sauce for the           goose is sauce for the gander.                  Buckhannon says that a plaintiff can't       recover, even if he litigates to death and they find ­­          give up and pay him a billion dollars. Unless there is             a judicially sanctioned change in legal relationship, he        can't recover fees. And if he can't recover it, why           should the defendant recover, unless there is a        judicially sanctioned change in relationships and the       only candidate for such a thing is a dismissal with            prejudice of some form.                MR. FLETCHER: Yes, that's correct.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Got the argument.                    So if that's the argument, and that argument        is correct, why don't we have the situation here?         Because you heard the judgment being read. It says          "with prejudice."              MR. FLETCHER: Yes. So there's two        judgments in this case, the one that's entered after the          district court resolves the issue that's before you        now ­­ the claims that are before you now is found at             pages to of the Petition Appendix. And what the            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review district court says is the EEOC has asked me to stay           this to allow it to go conciliate. I'm not going to do             that. I'm going to dismiss instead. And it drops a            footnote ­­ this is a few pages earlier on, pages            to ­­ and it cites another case that dismissed a           claim under the same circumstances. That earlier case         that the district court cited as precedent for the         dismissal was expressly a dismissal without prejudice.                    The district court then goes on to say ­­        and this is language that you've referred to, Justice         Kennedy ­­ that the EEOC is barred from further         litigation on the claims. But it says barred from          further litigation in this case. It cannot pursue         relief in the trial in this case.                   And I think most importantly, when the        district court says it's dismissing, and then when it         ultimately enters a judgment of dismissal, it does not          specify that the judgment is with prejudice.                   And we actually have a Federal Rule of Civil          Procedure, Rule (b), that is particularly and       expressly designed to address this situation to ensure        that parties and courts don't have to engage in the kind           of inquiry that Mr. Smith was engaged in, in the first           half of the argument, of trying to figure out what does           the judge mean, what do the parties think that the judge           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review means.             This is at ­­ Rule (b) is at page a at           Petition Appendix, and it says, "An involuntary       dismissal" ­­ it establishes a default rule. It says,           "Ordinarily, if you have an involuntary dismissal by the         court, unless the court specifies otherwise, it operates        as an adjudication on the merits." Ordinarily dismissal         with prejudice.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Now, so what you're        saying is in ­­ the judge said they cannot precede again           in this case?               MR. FLETCHER: They cannot seek relief on        behalf of these women in this case.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And why ­­ why isn't         that prevailing? Why aren't they prevailing? What ­­         they may not prevail in another case or ­­ that's your           argument?             MR. FLETCHER: So that ­­ that's my        argument.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Because they have       engaged in ­­ under your theory, they have engaged in an           illegal practice. But they ­­ they prevailed in this          case, but they may be sued by somebody else in another           case?             MR. FLETCHER: They ­­ they may be sued by          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review us in another case. They may be sued by the Commission            in another case. They've ­­ they've secured a dismissal           that said the EEOC didn't satisfy the preconditions that         it had to satisfy before bringing these claims.                    But our view is ­­ and ­­ and we think we're           right about this, and we ­­ we think it's supported by           Costello ­­ that leaves the EEOC free to satisfy the          precondition ­­                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ ­­      MR. FLETCHER: ­­ and come back to court.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What do you ­­ yeah,         I ­­ what do you think the significance of Mach Mining           is on this issue?                MR. FLETCHER: So our view is that Mach         Mining suggests that this issue shouldn't come up again         in future cases. As we read Mach Mining, it suggests           that the appropriate remedy for a failure of         conciliation like the one here is a stay rather than a            dismissal. I don't think ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Then why isn't       that ­­ I mean, if ­­ if the EEOC doesn't do anything at              all ­­ I mean, under Mach Mining, if they don't           conciliate, the remedy is go conciliate.                              MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review wouldn't you think if the reason they're ­­ didn't ­­ it           was frivolous for them to bring the suit without         conciliation, you know, if somebody said, Well, we've        got to conciliate, and they said, Oh, forget about it,          go ahead, why wouldn't fees be a perfectly appropriate          sanctions?             In other words, there's no ­­ under some        sense, there's no incentive for them to conciliate,        because if it turns out they didn't, they have to go           conciliate. But if they were subject to fees because          they ignored their duty to conciliate, it seems to me          that might give them some incentive to get it right the           first time.              MR. FLETCHER: So I think I ­­ I'd like to             quibble with the premise. I ­­ I think, as we explain              in our brief, the EEOC has a great incentive to           conciliate because it gets a massive number of         complaints each year or charges each year. It finds a           reasonable cause to believe that there's been a        violation of Title VII in a huge number of cases, and            has very limited resources. And so it really does, try           and actually does, resolve far more cases by        conciliation than by litigation; it doesn't rush into        court.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're not likely        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to be subject to this sanction in many cases, which is a            good thing.                          okay.             MR. FLETCHER: Right.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But sometimes ­­      MR. FLETCHER: But I take your point, that          then the question is, so if the EEOC ­­ let's ­­ by            hypothesis, should ­­ unreasonably fails to satisfy its        conciliation obligation, and the court finds that to be         the case, and then it stays, pursuant to Mach Mining,          and sends them off to conciliate, could the court award          fees, I take it to be the question.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.                 MR. FLETCHER: I think the answer is it          couldn't do it under this provision because everyone        agrees that you have to be a prevailing party to get            fees under this provision. And I don't think even           Mr. Smith would argue that if all the defendant gets is           a stay, the defendant has prevailed. Now, I'll argue          that it is dismissal without prejudice to allow for         conciliation and then the potential for coming back to         court isn't that different from a stay to allow for           conciliation as to the same ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's hard to imagine       that the district court didn't consider this a dismissal          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with prejudice when it announced in this very decision         you're pointing to that the ­­ that the Petitioner was a           prevailing party entitled to attorneys' fees at the end         of the case.               Certainly the district court thought it was       imposing a sanction. It was barring you from trying           these cases, at least at this trial.                   MR. FLETCHER: At ­­ at least at this trial,          I ­­ I agree with that. And the district court did say              in the same order that that made Petitioner a prevailing           party. It didn't explain what test it was applying, and           it certainly didn't say "dismissed with prejudice." And         this gets back to the point that I was making to Justice             Breyer about Rule , which is that Rule serves          exactly this function. It tells you how to read a           dismissal.                         effect.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the ­­     MR. FLETCHER: It doesn't specify its       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the real problem for        you is that any ­­ the dismissal of the action, even           according to this order by the court, would happen at          the end of the case. And at the end of this case we had               a dismissal with prejudice. One would think that         everything would get merged into the final judgment.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FLETCHER: So I ­­ I disagree with that,            that you're talking about the dismissal ultimately       entered after remand in . I do want to talk about             that, but ­­ but first I think it's ­­ it's helpful to             just sort of tie down the dismissal originally.                     And just to wrap up the point, it's that         under Rule , if you have a dismissal that's for lack            of jurisdiction, that doesn't count as an adjudication        on the merits; it's not with prejudice.                   And in this Court's decision in Costello,       which courts have followed ever since, jurisdiction       there doesn't mean jurisdiction in the sense of        jurisdiction over the person or the subject matter. It          also includes a failure to satisfy a precondition like           it did here.               JUSTICE BREYER: Just simply, No. ,       //, judgment in favor of CSRT against the EEOC?                                             MR. FLETCHER: I believe so, yes.        JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Where is it?        MR. FLETCHER: So the ­­ the judgment that         is actually entered is I think not in the Joint           Appendix. It's ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean ­­ but where          do I find it?                 MR. FLETCHER: You find it at Docket Entry         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review No. on the district court's docket.                               JUSTICE BREYER: What does it say?       MR. FLETCHER: It says, "Decision by the        court. This came to trial or hearing before the Court.           The issues have been tried or heard and a decision has            been rendered. It is ordered and adjudged that         Plaintiff EEOC takes nothing, and the action is        dismissed."             JUSTICE BREYER: The action is dismissed.                   MR. FLETCHER: Yes. The action is        dismissed. And so then to understand the effect of that           dismissal, you look to Rule , which says, "A dismissal          involuntarily ordinarily operates as an adjudication      with prejudice on the merits."                 We're not disagreeing with that as to the        claims on which the district court passed on the merits          and concluded that we didn't have enough evidence to         survive a motion for summary judgment.                   JUSTICE BREYER: Except ­­ it has three        exceptions: Lack of jurisdiction, improper venue, or        failure to join a party.                  MR. FLETCHER: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: This was not failure to        join a party.                MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: It is not improper venue.        MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: I don't think it's lack of                                              jurisdiction. Is that what it is, lack of jurisdiction?                      MR. FLETCHER: It's exactly that because in        this Court's decision in Costello, the Court said        jurisdiction in Rule doesn't mean lack of        jurisdiction over the parties. It also includes failure         to satisfy a precondition to bringing suit.                    In Costello, that particular precondition     was the failure to file an affidavit of good cause          before the government brought a denaturalization       proceeding. That's a precondition that looks a lot like            this one. And, in fact, in Mach Mining, this Court           analogized the precondition at issue in Costello to the         precondition at issue here in ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Fletcher, could I ­­        could I take you back to where you started, which is            whether you've waived all of this?                              MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And, you know, you point out         that the question presented includes your argument, but        clearly it is, as you say, a different argument from the            one you litigated below, both in the district court and          in the circuit court.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. FLETCHER: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: And in the bio that you         And Mr. Smith has responded to this new                                filed here.              argument in less than a page, which is really his every            right to do, given that it has sort of sprung from your            head at this late date. And I'm wondering why we           shouldn't just ignore the whole thing.                  MR. FLETCHER: So if I could address it          separately. First of all, as to why it wasn't raised           below, below this ­­ both parties litigated this case on          the understanding that it was governed by circuit        precedent established by an Eighth Circuit decision       called Marquardt that made clear that ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you can always file a         footnote, you know? I mean ­­                   MR. FLETCHER: Well, that ­­ that's true,        but I guess that ­­ that argument doesn't do Mr. Smith            much good because he didn't make that argument. He          didn't challenge beyond the merits rule in the Eighth         Circuit. They didn't even do it in their petition for           rehearing en banc.               Now, we haven't argued that they've waived       it because we think it was within their rights to stay           within the confines of circuit precedent and then to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review make a broader argument on the same legal question once           they're in this Court. But we think we have a equal             right to refine our arguments once we're free from the          constraints of circuit ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We ­­ what is the ­­         I suppose I should know, but, I mean, what is the             general practice? I mean, it would be kind of futile to             go before the Eighth Circuit and say we think you should           overrule your precedent, at least on the panel decision.         But that doesn't mean they're not free to raise the          argument here. This is where ­­ where you should go if            you want a court of appeals overruled.                    MR. FLETCHER: Absolutely. And as I'm        saying, I don't fault Mr. Smith for not raising ­­          challenging me on the merits rule. I'm just saying that           there's a good reason why we weren't considering a          different argument or considering how we might respond        to a challenge to that rule because it just wasn't           raised by either party. Both parties should have         litigated within the confines of Eighth Circuit       precedent.             Now, that also leaves the brief in       opposition, Justice Kagan, which you also asked about.        There, you're right; we didn't raise this argument. We          defended the Eighth Circuit's decision. In part,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review frankly, obviously, if we had it to do over again, we'd           present the argument that we presented in our merits         brief.             But I think it's important to go back and          look at the petition. The petition doesn't really         develop a developed argument on this point, either. It           doesn't say Buckhannon. It doesn't make an extended         argument about what it means to be a prevailing party.           It mostly focuses on certiorari considerations.                  And we did the same thing in our brief in          opposition. I think this Court's argument ­­ or cases           about when you waive an argument by failing to ­­ to           include it on ­­ in the op. Our focus on cases for the              argument is about why the question presented isn't        really presented or why there's a bar to reaching it,           and that's not what this argument is.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, regardless of whether       there's blame on either part, we're still in a situation           where it really has not been briefed by one party, and           it hasn't been thought about by the courts below. And           usually, you know, we do that ­­ we're a court of            review, not a first view, mine, and we would kick it            back.             MR. FLETCHER: Yes. You certainly could do         that. We think ­­ you know, we have presented it. It's             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review aired in the amicus briefs. And Mr. Smith certainly          could have addressed it at greater length in his reply          brief. But if that's your view, it's certainly well          within the Court's right to kick it back to the Eighth           Circuit for consideration of these issues.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Fletcher, is it your        view that all of this discussion of prevailing parties         is really academic because there's no way that the EEOC          could satisfy the Christiansburg standard?                 MR. FLETCHER: I think I agree with that,           Justice Ginsburg. And that's where I was going to go,            was to say another option for this Court is to resolve           this on the alternative ground that we've raised, which         is Christiansburg.              JUSTICE KAGAN: That seems even worse. I         mean, nobody has thought about that. It seems to be a            complicated factual scenario, you know. There are        circumstances in which you could proceed with a class          properly and circumstances in which you couldn't, and we         know nothing about whether this is the circumstances,        one or the other.                MR. FLETCHER: Well, you don't ­­ you        certainly don't have to resolve it on the merits. But I            think all you need to do is to say it was not            unreasonable for us to think that we had done it here.           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review And I think the way that you know that is because            Judge Murphy, in a very persuasive dissent, concluded         that we were not only reasonable, but correct in         thinking that we'd satisfied our obligations. And also         because not even Petitioner is defending the rule that         the district court applied.                The district court said you cannot      conciliate a claim on a classwide basis. You have to             conciliate on behalf of each and every one of these           individuals. That's the rule the Eighth Circuit        applied. That's the rule Judge Murphy criticized. And          Petitioner doesn't defend it. What Petitioner said        instead is that this was all fine as long as we had a             pattern­or­practice theory. And it only became not fine         when we lost on summary judgment on the        pattern­or­practice issue. But I don't think that ­­         our ­­ our conciliation can become inadequate only when         we lose a summary judgment motion.                   Thank you.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Smith, you have three minutes remaining.                  REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. SMITH: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        First of all, on the question of Buckhannon        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and this idea that we have to show a change in the legal              relationship between the parties, the ­­ the first thing         that Buckhannon says is the paradigm of a ­­ a case             where there's been a prevailing party is where a          judgment has been entered. It only goes on to talk           about this other more complicated stuff about legal        relationships when it's talking about things plaintiffs       win short of a judgment. But there's nothing in           Buckhannon that says a judgment can't be treated as a           basis for a prevailing party.                  Now, to the extent it matters what the        nature of the dismissal here was ­­ and I don't know            that it should, but if it does ­­ I'd point out that any             uncertainty about the nature of the dismissal here        arises from the fact that the government never made any          argument in the courts below that the distinction made         any difference. And, indeed, it contradicted the very         point it's now making. It said to the Eighth Circuit ­­           and this is on page in our reply brief in the            footnote ­­ it said, quote, "The court recognized        dismissal as a severe remedy and acknowledged it would          result in dozens of potentially meritorious sexual       harassment claims never seeing the inside of a        courtroom."             JUSTICE GINSBURG: It said it may ­­ may         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review result, not would result.                MR. SMITH: No, no. This is ­­ I'm reading           their quote from their brief where they left out the          word "may" because they thought that it didn't make a          difference. That they knew at the time and understood,          or at least believed, she was referring to the fact that           these individual women might be able to litigate their         own claims. But they recognized over and over again in           the courts below that the "may" didn't mean that the          EEOC could come back and litigate, that they were         precluded. That's why they filed their Rule motion          five years later.               Now, to the extent there was an argument        that we shouldn't get all these fees, we should maybe          get a little bit of fees because we should have raised            the issue early on, the problem here precisely was the          class action. The two are tied together, and they were           both, Judge Reed found, frivolous, the argument that        there was a pattern of practice here, and then the           argument that they could go on and litigate on behalf of           the individuals once the class action washed out.        They're ­­ they're part of a package. But until ­­                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did she hold that they        would have to investigate and conciliate each individual        claim? Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. SMITH: She said that where there is not          a valid pattern or practice. I don't think there's           anything in ­­ in the court's decision that suggests you          can never conciliate a class claim. The court so held            in General Telephone. She cites the case. I don't know             that the judge was intending to ­­ to second­guess this          Court's decision in General Telephone about how pattern        and practice cases are litigated. The question is where          you don't have any kind of a policy or ­­ or standard             operating procedure. You have a handful of individual          stories, or maybe a large number of individual stories.          How do you conciliate those? And the answer she gave           was you have to conciliate them one by one, just ­­          or ­­ or you're bypassing the statutory procedure and         the statutory policy.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What is the rule that        you would like us to announce? When is it right to            award prevailing defendants attorneys' fees?                 MR. SMITH: When they ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What would be your rule?                    MR. SMITH: When they've won a judgment and          prevailed, and where the ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't matter with       or without prejudice?               MR. SMITH: I would ­­ I would think that            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that should not be in the rule, that that ought to be            something within the discretion of the district judge        for a lot of the reasons we've been discussing here.           And where the ­­ the claim that ­­ that was dismissed           was frivolous or unreasonable or without foundation       under Christiansburg. And that that, therefore, caused        costs to be incurred as occurred here. And, you know, I            don't see any reason why you would want to add          additional constraints.                                                  Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : : : : abandoned : :, : able : about­face : above­entitled : : absence : absolutely : : abused : abusiveness : academic : accepted : accepting : account : : accurate : accurately : acknowledged : : acknowledging : act : : action : :,, :, actions : actual : add : : additional : : address : : : : : : addressed : : adequate : : adjudged : adjudicate : adjudication : : : : administration : : administrative : : adopt : advancing : affect : affidavit : agree : : : : : : agreed : agreement : : : : : agreements :, agrees : : ahead : : : aired : ALITO : : : : :, : allegation : allegations : alleged :, alleging : allow : : : :, allowing : allows : alludes : alter : alteration : : : : alternative : alters : : amicus : amount : : : : : : analogized : animal : announce : announced : answer : : :, : : : answered : : answering : anybody : anyway : : : apparently : appeal :, : appealed : appealing : appeals : : : : : : APPEARAN... : appears : : Appendix : : : : :, : : : applicable : application : applied :, applies : apply :, applying : : : apportion : appreciate : approach : appropriate : : :,, : : : appropriately :, approved : argue : :, argued : : : : argument : :,, :, :, : : : : : : : :,, :,,, :, : : :, :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,,,, :, : : :, : arguments : : : : arises : art : : artificial : ascribed : aside : : asked : : :, : : : : : asking : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company asserted : :,, assertion : Assistant : assume : : : assuming : : attached :, attempt : attention : attorney's : attorneys : attorneys' : : : : : : : : attributable : authorizes : available : : award : : : : : : : : : awarded : : : awards :, : B B : back : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : balance : banc : bar : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review bunch : burden : bypassing : Breyer : : :, :, : C :, : :, : C : : :, : : : :,, :,,, :, called : : : : :, : :, : : :, : categorical : categories : cause : : : barred : : : : : : :, barring : : bars :, based : : :, : : : baseless : basic : basis : : : : : :, : : : bear : behalf :, :,, : : :, : : : :, : believe : :,, : : BRIAN : : : brief :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : briefed : briefly : briefs : : bring : : : : : : : bringing : : : : : brings : believed : bench : benighted : best : : better : : broader : beyond : bifurcation : : brought : : : : : : : big : bill :, billion : bio : bit : : : blame : bluntly : blush : bottom : : case­specific changing : charge : : Buckhannon charges : : :, : : : : : : charging : :, : cases : : Chicago : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : Chief :, : : :, : claimant : Alderson Reporting Company caused :, : : : : : : : Cedar : certain : certainly : : : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : candidate : care : case :,, :, : :, : : :, celebrate : : :, Cert : :, : : : :, :, :,,, :, : : :, :,,, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : :,,, : :, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :,,, changes : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : : : :, : changed : change : :, : challenging : : : challenge : : : : : :, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : chooses : Christiansburg :, : : : : :, : circuit : : :,, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : circuits : :,,, circumstances : : : :, : cite : : cited : : cites : : Civil : : : claim :,, : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : certiorari : Circuit's : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : concludes : cost : conduct : : : : : : : confines : Costello : : :, : costly : costs : : counsel : : : count :, : : courtroom : : : : courts : : :, : : : : : : : : cover : creating : course : : criticized : : : : CRST : : : : : court :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : :, : : : : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :, :, : :, :, : : : : :, : : court's : : : : : : : : :, CSRT : curable :, : : : cure : cured : DD :D.C :,, damages :date :day : : :, : de :deal :dealing :dealt :death :debating :debt :December :decide ::,,, : :, : :decided :deciding ::decision :: :: ::, : : complained : compelled : complain : claimants : claims : : : :, :, : complainants : :, : : :,,, :, : :, : complaining :,,,, :, : : : : : : : : complaint : : : : : : : : :, : :, : class :, : : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : classifying : classwide : clear : :, : : : : : : : : clearly : : complaints : : : : :, : : : : complete : completely : : : : : complicated : : concern : : : conciliate : : :, : :, :,,, : : :, : :,, : conflict : : : consent : consequences : consider : :, : : consideration : considerations : considered : : : considering :, consistency : consistent : : : constitutes : constraints : : contact : contexts : continue : close : club : collective : come : : conciliated : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : comes : coming : : commission : : : : company : : : : conciliation : : : : :, contradicted :, : : : :, : :, : contrary : controlling : : conclude : : concluded : : :, : : converse : convincing : core : correct :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, :, declaration : declined : decree : default : defeated : : determination : develop : developed : : difference : : : : different : :,,, defend : : : defendant : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : :,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, : : :,,, :, : : : :, : difficult : :, : directed : directly : :, : : :, disagree : : :, defendants : : : : : defended : : : : disagreeing : discover : discreet : :, defending : discretion : : definitively : : : : : discrimination denaturalizati... : : : denying : Department : discriminatory : : discussing : discussion : dismiss :, : : : : depends : deposed : deposition : depositions : dismissal :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : designed : despite : detail : :, : : : :, : doctrine : : : : :, : :,, doing : :, : : :, dollars : : :,, doubt : :, : dozens : :, : : driven : driver : drivers : : : : dismissed : :, : : :, :, :, dropped : : : : : : : : : : :, : : E : :, earlier :, drops : duty : E dismissing : early : : : disposed : disposition : :, : : : : : dispute :, :, : ease : easily : Easterbrook : Easterbrook's : EEOC : : : :,, : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : either : : : :, eligible : employer :, : Employment : : en : encourage : ended : : endorsed : ends : : : enforceable : engage : : : engaged : : :, disregarding dissent : distinction : : district :, : ensure : entered : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : :,,,, :, : enters : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, EEOC's : : :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : : : efforts : entertain : entire :, entitled : Entry : environment equal : : : : effect : especially : ESQ :, : : :, : do­over : : docket : : eight : : Eighth : : essentially : : establish : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : : :, :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : fighting : figure : file : : :, : : : : filed : : : : : : filing : final : finally : : find : : : finder : finding : : : findings : :, finds : : fine :, first : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : fit : five : : : :, : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : :, :, : :,, :,,, :,, : : :,, focus : focuses : follow : : followed :, : : Fox : framed : frankly : free : :, frivolity : : frivolous : :, : : : : : : : : : frivolousness : fully : function : functional : : further : : :, futile : future : : : G G : generally : getting : follows :, gander : general : footnote : : :, : : forced : foreclose : foreclosed : Ginsburg :, :,, :, : : : : : : : :, : : forget : form : : : : : : forth : forum : : found : : : : : : : give : : : : given : : gives : giving : glaringly : fact : :, established : : : : : : : : : : establishes : evaluation : event : eventually : evidence :, facto : factor : factual : : : : : : : : : exactly : : : : factually : : : : : : failed : failing : fails : failure : : : : : : : : : :, : : fair : fall : far : : : fast : fault : : favor : favorable : Federal : : fee : : : : : :, fee­shifting : :, fee­shipping : example : : examples : exception : exceptions : : exclusively : executed : exercise : exist : existed : exists : expect : Expedited : : explain : : : : explaining : exposure : express : expressed : expressly : : : : : extended : : extent : : : F face : facing : : fees :, : Fletcher : :, : : : : : : :,,, : :, :, : foundation : go : : : : : : :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, :, guess : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : H goes : : H : : : : : : half : hand : handful : handled : going :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : :, happy :, : :, : :, harass : harassed : :, : happen : happened : : : : good : :, : :, harassment : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : goodbye : goose : gotten : : governed : harm : government : Hatfields : : : hard : : : :,, :, : : : : : : government's head : hear : heard : : : hearing : : heart : : :, granted : : :,, heavy : held :, : : great : : helpful : hold : Honor : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : : greater : ground : groundlessness : :, : Honor's : Honors : host : hostile : hours : huge : : hundred : hypothesis : : hypothesize : hypothetical : I idea : : : identified : : identify : ignore : ignored : illegal : illustrate : illustration : imagine : impact : important : importantly : imposed : imposing : improper : : inadequate : : : incentive : :, Incidentally : include : : : : includes : :, including : : : inconsistent : incorporated : : incorporates : : incorrect : incur : incurred : incurs : individual : : : : : : :, :, individuals : : : information :,, : : initial : : : initially : : : inquiry : : inside : : : instance : instruct : intended : : intending : interlocutory :, interpretation : intertwined : invented : investigate : investigated :, : :, : : : investigating : investigation :, : :, : :, :, investigations : investigatory : involuntarily : involuntary :, involving : : issue :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, :,, : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : issued : issues : : : J job : : join :, Joint : : : : Jones : : judge : : : :, : : : : :, :,, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :,, : : : :, : :, : : : judges : : judgment : : : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : judgments : judicata : : judicial : judicially : :, jurisdiction : :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :,, :,, :, : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, :,,, :,,, :, : : : :,, :, : : :, : : K : : : : : knew : : : : know : : : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : known :, L lack : : :,, language : :,, : : : large : : : late : Laughter : : : : lead : :, leave : leaves : Kagan :, :, : Justice : : :, : : :,, : : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, : : :, : Leaving : :, : : : : :, : :, Kennedy : :, : : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : kick : : kind : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : : : : led : left : : : : legal : legally : : length : let's : : : : level : liability : liable :, : lifted : limitation : limitations : limited : line : : : : looked : : : : looks : : : lose : lost : lot : : : lots :, : lower : : M : M : :, : list : listed : litigate :, Mach :, : :, :, : : :, : : :, : litigated : : : : : : main : : majority : making : : : : litigates : litigating : malefactors : : : : : : : management : : : litigation : management's : : : :, :, managers : : :, :, : mandate : : :, March : Marquardt : : : : :, : massive : little : :, material : : : : : long : : : : : : : : : materially : : : : : :, : : look : : matter : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, ordered : ordinarily : : : originally : ought : : : : : : : :,,, :,, :, : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : outset :, overrule : overruled : passed : party's : : : O O : : objection : objective : obligation : obligations : : : : obtains : obvious : obviously : : : P occurred : October : P : Oh : : package : : okay : : page : : : : : : : : : : : : : pages : : once :, : : : :, one­count : panel : : ones : : paper : op : opening : : paragraph operates : : paradigm : : operating : : : opinion : opportunity : part : : : : particular : : : : pattern :, :,, : : :, :, : :,, :, : :, pattern­or­pr... : :, PAUL : : : : : pay : peculiar : people : : :,,,, :, : :, : : : percent : perfectly : : particularly permanently : : person : persuasive : : opposite : opposition : parties : : : : : : : : : : : pertinent : : :, petition : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, option : oral : :, order : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : parties' : party :,, : : petitioner :, :, : : : : : : :, : : : : minutes : matters : McCoys : mean : : Monday : money :, : :, : :, : : Monika : :, : months : morning : : : : :, motion : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : meaning : meaningless : means : : : : : : meant : : meet : : members : : merged : meritorious : : merits :, :,,, :,,, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : messed : million : :, mind : mine : Mining :, : :, Murphy : :, N N :, : named : names : : : nature :, need : : : : needs : neglect :, neglecting : negotiated : neither : never :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : new : : non­meritorio... : : non­merits : :, : notion : number : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : principles : prior :, : : : : :,, :, : private : : : probably : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : problem :, :, prejudice/with : premise : present : presented : : : : :, :, presenting problems : procedural : : procedure : proceed : proceeded : proceeding : : : preserved : process : pretty : : properly : proposal : protect : protected : prove : : : prevail : : prevailed : : : : : : : provision : : :, pull : :, : possible : : :, :,,, petitions : phase : : possibly : potential : potentially : : : : : phrase : piece : place : plaintiff : : :,, :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :, : : plaintiffs : : : : please : : plus : pocket : point : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : power : : : practice :, :,, : :, : : :, :,, :, : : : :, practicing : pre­suit : :,, :,,, : : : precede : precedent : :, : : precisely : precluded : : : : : : :, quote : : quo :,, : :, : :, : : :,, : : :, : : :,, :, : : : : : questions : : quibble : quite : : : R R : raise :, raised : : : : : raising : Rapids : rates :, ratifies : rational : : rationale : rationing : reach : : reaching : : read : : : : : : reading : : reads : ready : real : really : : : : : :, :, : policy : : pointing : policies :, : : precludes : prevailing : precondition : : : : : :, :,, : : : preconditions :, : : : : :, : predicate : : : :, : :,, purpose : : : :,,, : :, : : : : :, : pursuing : : : :, : : :, : pursuant : pursue : : : : purposes : put : :, : : : portion : position :, : : :, positions : possibility : prejudice : :, : : :, : :, : :, prevented : :, : previously : :,,, principle : prevails : : : Q question :, :,,, :, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review scenario : : : : :, scope : :,, : :, second­guess : second : : : ruling : : : : secure : : rulings :, secured : rush : reasonable : : responses : : :, : : reason : : :,, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : relationships : : respond : : responded : : Respondent : relevant : : : : relief : : response : remaining : result : remand : :, : return : reversal : reverse : : reasonable­ca... remarkable : : reasonableness Remedies : : : remedy :, review : : : : :, right : : : rid : : :, round : resolved : : : refine : resolves : regardless : resolving : rehearing : resources : rejected :, relationship : : : :, respect : : : :,, : : rule :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, :, Alderson Reporting Company S S : : sanction : : : : sanctioned : :, sanctions : satisfied : :,,, :, : : satisfy : : : : :,, : : : : satisfying : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : rights : : ROBERTS : : :, sauce :, : : : :, :, : :, : :,, : :, : : : save : saying : : :, : : : : : :, says : : reasons : : : : : REBUTTAL : : recedes : recognize : recognized : : : recommend : : record : : recover : :,,, reduced : Reed : :, : : : : : : referred : referring : refers : : Remember : remotely : rendered : renounced : reopen : reopened : reply : : : requested : requirements :,, :,,, : requires : res : : research : resolve : : : : :, : secures : : : see : : : : :,, : :, : seeing : : : seek : : seeking : : : :,, seen : : sees : segregate : : sends : sense : : : : : : : : : sensible : separate : : separated : : separately : September : serious : : : seriously :, :, serve : served :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : specifically : : : : : : small : spend :, spent :, settled :, settlement : : :, :, seven : severe : : serves : set :, setting :, Smith : :, specifies : settle :, :,, :, specify : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, sporadic : :, : sprung : :,, stages : :,, standard :, :,, : : : :,, : : : :,,, : : : :, :,, : : :, :, Starke : :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, severity : sexual : : : :, : : : : sexually : : : showed : : : short : show : : start : started : : : : :, Starke's : : : : States :, status :,, statute : : : : : : statutes : : statutory : : :, staunchly : stay :,, so­called : solely : Solicitor : somebody : : sorry : sort : : : : : : : : : sorts : : : side : significance : : simple : simplicity : : : simply : : : : sir : : : situation : : : : : : : : : six :,, : : slap : slightest : slightly : situations : SOTOMAYOR : : : : : : :, support : : : : : : :, stays : :,, : : :, : Steel : : : : :, : stories : : : :, :, step :, specific : supported : suppose : : : supposed : : : : Supreme :, Alderson Reporting Company submitted : T :, story : strong : : stuck : stuff : subject : : : : substitute :, sue :, :, sued : :, : sufficient : : suggest : : suggested : :, suggesting : : suggestion : :, suggests : : : suit : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : suitable : suits : : summary : sure : : : : survive : systematic :, : : T take : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : taken : : : takes : talk : : : : : talking : : : Tasmania : Teamster's : Telephone : : tell : : : : : : telling : : tellingly : tells : tempted : term : : : : terms : : test :, : testimony : : Thank : : : :,, :, theory : : time : : uncertainty they'd : thing : : : :, : : : : things : : : : : think :, : : three­strikes : threshold : throwing : thrown : tie : tied : : :, : : time­barred : times : Title : : : : :, : : : : :, : Tillie : : :,, :, : : :, : : :, : : :, :,, : :, :, :, :,, :, : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :, : : : :,, :, : :, : :,, :,, :, : :, : : :, :,, :,, :, : : treated : trial : : trust : truth :, tough : training : : : :, : : : : : told : : tomorrow : understood : : unexpressed : United :, tricky : tried : : unjustified trier : true : :, : : : : : : unreasonable : :, :, : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : valid : :, : value : : : Van : : venue :, : washed : : Washington :,, U ultimately : : : unappealing : : underlying : understand : : : : : : : : understanding : unfairness : unfortunately : ungrounded : :, : wasn't : :, : : verdict : version : versus : : : : : : wasted : way : : : Vice : view : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : ways : :, views :, VII : : : : :, : : : : violation : voluntarily : : : : W Wait :, waive : waived : : waiver : : : : waiving : wall : we'll : : we're :, : : : : : :, : : : : : :, we've : : : : : : wealth : : went : weren't : whatsoever : win :,,, :,,, : : wins : : withdrawal : withdraws thinking : : : thought : : : :, : : : : thousands : three : try : trying : : : turned : : turns : : unreasonable... want :, : unreasonably : use : : :, : usually : : :, : : :, :,, witnesses : : : woman : : : women : : : wanted : : V twice : two : : : v : : : wants : :,,, : :, : : :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : won :,, : :, : wondering : word : : words : : : : : work : : : : working : worse : wouldn't : : : : : :, wrap : wrist : writing : : wrong : : : : : :, : x :, X Y yeah : : year : : : years : : : : : : : : : : yields : Z // : : : : : , : : : : : : : a :, : : ­ : : : : :, : : : : : : a : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : . :, . : : :, : : : (b) : : Alderson Reporting Company 