Official          IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES      ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE,               FENNER & SMITH, INC., ET AL.,            : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          GREG MANNING, ET AL.                  : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, December ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: JONATHAN D. HACKER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioners.  PETER K. STRIS, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of             Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE JONATHAN D. HACKER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   PETER K. STRIS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   JONATHAN D. HACKER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Merrill Lynch,        Pierce, Fenner & Smith v. Manning.                   Mr. Hacker.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN D. HACKER                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. HACKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               In language that differs distinctly from the       "arising under" language of Section , Exchange Act        Section confers on the Federal courts exclusive        jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty         created by the Exchange Act and its regulations. That          language establishes a straightforward test.                  The Federal court has exclusive jurisdiction      if the suit is brought to enforce Exchange Act duties          even if the suit is also brought to enforce State law           duties.             In particular, the words "brought to      enforce" focus on what the plaintiff itself wants the         court to decide, not on what the court would necessarily          have to decide, as has been read to require.                      By applying the test, the Third Circuit        Alderson Reporting Company Official not only ignored Section 's distinct language but also         its distinct policies, which strongly disfavor State       court adjudication of Exchange Act duties and thus are         exactly the opposite of the policies favoring State        court adjudication that underlie the Jackson Pollock       canvas this Court has painted over Section .                    Respondents, however, begin not with the      necessity rule derived from but with a much more           aggressive position that Section only creates       jurisdiction over causes of action created by the        Exchange Act itself and thus categorically bars       jurisdiction over State­based causes of action like       those asserted here.               JUSTICE ALITO: Now, does your ­­ does your         test depend solely on what is alleged in the complaint          or what might be proven under a ­­ a more generally             worded complaint?              Suppose the complaint in this case made no        reference to any Federal regulations but ­­ I'm not that          familiar with the pleading rules in New Jersey, but         suppose they would ­­ it was, you know, notice pleading          and so there's no reference to the regulations but         they ­­ they sought to prove their case by arguing that           the New Jersey ­­ the New ­­ the rule in New Jersey            should be the same as the Federal regulation. Would          Alderson Reporting Company Official that fall within your test?                 MR. HACKER: The way you put it at the very           end, the answer is no. If the rule in New Jersey is the              same because it's the rule in New Jersey, then that          would not be seeking to enforce an Exchange Act duty.                      The answer to the first part of your        question is yes, which is our test does look at the           allegations on the face of the complaint: Is the          complaint as pleaded seeking to enforce a duty created          by the Exchange Act?                JUSTICE GINSBURG: So they could amend the        complaint, and then we wouldn't be here, because they         could amend the complaint to say that we're suing under          New Jersey law and New Jersey law mirrors the Federal          law. It's a matter of New Jersey's choice.                      MR. HACKER: The way I would put it is we            wouldn't have been here if they had written that         complaint to start with, but because removal ­­       jurisdiction is tested at the time of removal, if they          amended their complaint now, it wouldn't change the fact         that there's Federal jurisdiction based on the face of         the complaint at the time of the ­­ of removal.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, is the Court       obligated to do a search of all Federal laws and           regulations to know if this complaint might have a         Alderson Reporting Company Official Federal cause of action?                MR. HACKER: No. That's why it's important         to look at the face of the complaint. This complaint           exemplifies the kind of complaint that triggers       Section jurisdiction because it's ­­                             JUSTICE SCALIA: But what you said ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let ­­ let me ask you:         This ­­ this ­­ this ­­ let's assume, as Justice Alito           assumed, that New Jersey is the same as the Federal          system, notice pleading. Can you just tell me as a           matter of practice, do most complaints set forth the         Federal statute under which ­­ not but the specific          Federal statute that creates the duty, or do they just          allege the duty?               MR. HACKER: Most complaints ­­ sure. It         depends on the jurisdiction. But certainly in my ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Let's say just under       notice pleading under Federal standards.                 MR. HACKER: They would almost certainly set        forth the ­­ the statute under which they're pleading.         They're identifying the duty so that the Court        understands what the nature of the claim is. That's          very common precisely because you don't want the Court         to go looking around for the cause of action, especially          after Twombly and Iqbal.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: But they ­­ but they don't         have to do that. As ­­ as I understand your case, they              don't have to explicitly refer to the Federal statute.                     MR. HACKER: That's ­­ that's right in a         limited sense that ­­ I think this Court would recognize           and has recognized inartful pleading doctrine where, for        example ­­ if you use this complaint as an example, if           they had just literally whited out, deleted the        references to Reg SHO as such but were clearly         unambiguously pleading violations of its requirements      with the same capital L, Locate, capital C, Close­Out         requirements, you would unmistakably understand the      complaint to be based on violations of the Act ­­ of the            Exchange Act regulation seeking to enforce those duties.        Then sure, the fact you didn't cite it wouldn't change          the fact.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, that imposes quite       a ­­ quite an onerous task upon ­­ upon the Federal           district court, it seems to me. You ­­ you have to sift             through the complaint and see if any of the claimed          causes of action under State law mirror a cause of           action that happens to exist under Federal law, without         even the hint that they mention the Federal statute.                     MR. HACKER: Well, but that ­­ that only         goes to the question in an artful pleading situation,         Alderson Reporting Company Official which in this case doesn't present, and would be, you          know, the next third, fourth, fifth case down the road.                      But certainly in ­­ in ­­ the defendant, you         know, who moves or seeks jurisdiction, the party seeking         to establish jurisdiction, would have to identify for        the court the defendant's theory as to why the complaint          seeks to enforce Federal duty. So it's not like the           judge has to do it him or herself.                    But all of these are hypothetical questions.       We're talking about a complaint here that unambiguously         seeks to enforce duties prescribed ­­                 how.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I just don't understand        MR. HACKER: ­­ about regulation ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Meaning under Pan Am, we        looked at the operative paragraphs of the complaint, not         the general pleadings or background. We looked at what          remedies were sought to determine whether you were        looking to enforce the law. Each of the causes of           action here are under State law. How is that seeking           redress under Federal law?                MR. HACKER: A ­­ a couple of points. First             of all, Pan Am was a well­pleaded complaint­rule case.          The Federal issue didn't appear on the face of the          complaint, so this Court, correctly applying the ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official an ­­ uncontroversial applying the well­pleaded      complaint rule, read the complaint, took it for what it          said ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, it looked at the        operative paragraphs. Why should ­­                             MR. HACKER: Right. So ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The operative paragraphs      here are the causes of action.                  MR. HACKER: But then turning to this        complaint, the ­­ the ­­ the court looks at the causes           of action, each of which obviously incorporates,       explicitly incorporates all of the prior conduct alleged        as the basis for the violation of the cause of action           and the ­­ the prior allegations and the causes of          action themselves.              The causes of action themselves are all       about what the complaint ­­ the Respondents describe as         illegal short­selling. That's what causes ­­ that's        what makes unjustment enrich. That's what makes the         interference of contract tortious. That's what makes ­­        it's negligent. That's the breach of the duty, is to ­­           is to ­­ is to do ­­ find a Locate.                       So where in the complaint you find ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Without the Federal law,       would there be a duty under State law not to short sell?             Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. HACKER: Not under this complaint. The         complaint identifies ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Please go back to answer        my direct question: If there were no Federal law.                      MR. HACKER: There is ­­ the answer is no.          The Third Circuit itself said there is no analogue under          New Jersey law to Regulation SHO. Nothing. Zero in           New Jersey law. Not a statute, not a regulation, not an              administrative guidance, and not a common law ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, New Jersey ­­       New Jersey law certainly prohibits fraud. So is ­­ are           they doing anything more than saying, we think this         constitutes fraud?                          MR. HACKER: They ­­ they're saying ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "This" being what       the ­­ the violation ­­ what you say is the violation of            the Federal law.               MR. HACKER: Right. What they're saying is         fraud or is tortious interference or is negligence or is          unjust enrichment is the failure to get a Locate.                      The complaint isn't ambiguous about this.      The complaint explains what a Locate is. It's          prescribed by Regulation SHO.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So do they just have         to expand their allegation and say, okay, we're not         Alderson Reporting Company Official going to call it "a Locate," but we think it's fraud           when you're, you know, short­selling this and you're        supposed to have ­­ and you haven't borrowed this much,          blah, blah, blah? In other words, just creating a          parallel duty ­­ which I understood you to tell Justice           Alito that would be okay. Instead, they're using a          shorthand, "the Locate." Is that ­­ is that all the ­­           the only difference?               MR. HACKER: Well, they're ­­ they're       definitely not just using a ­­ a shorthand. They're            very explicit about it in defining "Locate," capital L.         That is the gravamen. To use the phrase from this           morning's decision, that is the ­­ no matter how         packaged, that is the gravamen of the suit here, is a           complaint about failure to get Locates, which is        compensation.             like ­­                         JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why isn't this just        MR. HACKER: But ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are ­­ there are        many, many instances in which there is a State claim,           say a State claim for negligence, and the negligent          conduct is alleged to be violation of a Federal safety           standard. So it's all about whether the Federal safety          standard was violated, but the claim is a State claim           Alderson Reporting Company Official for negligence. You wouldn't say that that is a claim            that has to be brought in Federal court.                    MR. HACKER: Well ­­ but the language of         this statute is different. That's the key. In this           Court's Moore decision addressing "arising under," under       , the Court addressed exactly that situation. It         was precisely that situation. The State of Kentucky         made it negligence per se to violate the Safety         Appliances Act, and this Court says ­­ and it used the           exact phrasing that became Section when it said, the          State negligence per se statute incorporated the duty        prescribed by the State. We're seeking to enforce the          duty prescribed in the Act.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: So in your ­­ in your         view, you have to ­­ if ­­ if ­­ if this Court finds             that the section here, Section , is the same as          "arising under," you lose?                MR. HACKER: Well, no, but for a different          reason. We do think it's actually necessary and the          Third Circuit erred in that respect, but that's not the          question here. The question here ­­ and we think it's           perfectly clear that the complaint actually ­­ they        can't prevail under State law unless they establish that         Reg SHO was violated.                But ­­ but our point is ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm sorry. Can we go         back? Because I'm not sure I understood your answer to            my question. Are you saying that if a State adopts a             violation of a Federal safety standard as constituting         negligence, that that claim arises under Federal law?                    MR. HACKER: Not that it arises under        Federal law, but that a suit under that State's standard           says it is a violation of State law to violate Reg            SHO ­­ for example, if New Jersey law said it is a            violation, it is a ­­ you know, the statutory tort to            violate Reg SHO, if that was the statute, and you          brought a suit under that statute, you were ­­ and it            was seeking to enforce the duties created by Reg SHO.          That's why this language is different from "arising        under," because the suit was clearly ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But what's the answer to        Justice Ginsburg's question?               MR. HACKER: It would not necessarily be ­­        it would be ­­ only be a suit "arising under" if it was              necessary, but under this language, it would be a         Federal court action because that suit would be a suit           seeking to ­­ brought to enforce duties created by Reg          SHO.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't understand.       Necessary for what?   Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. HACKER: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE KENNEDY: You said that it would be                                 only a suit if it were ­­ Federal suit if it were             necessary.             MR. HACKER: I'm sorry. It would only be an           arising under action under . That would be ­­         that's a different statute, a different jurisdictional         statute. Under that statute ­­ to be clear, that's not           the one we're talking about. Under , this Court has           held, since at least the Smith case, that a State ­­ an             action brought under State law can be in State court,          even if it's a State cause of action, if resolving a            Federal issue is necessary to resolve the State cause of          action. That's .                This statute is markedly and meaningfully      different because it doesn't turn on whether it's        arising under what the cause of action is. What it           turns on is what was the suit brought to enforce. It            was brought to enforce a duty brought by the Exchange           Act.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hacker, just looking at        the language, I mean, I understand your interpretation          of it, but it seems to me that there's, you know, a ­­             just as good interpretation which says the opposite. In          other words, you know, what does it mean for a suit to             Alderson Reporting Company Official be brought to enforce a liability in a kind of            circumstance you're talking about? In the circumstance        you're talking about, the suit is brought to enforce         State law.              Now, it's true that State law might look to         Federal law; State law might incorporate Federal law in         certain ways; State law might have some kind of         relationship to Federal law. But what's the suit         brought to enforce? The suit is brought to enforce          State law.              MR. HACKER: A couple of points, though.         Remember, the statute doesn't say is the suit brought to          enforce State law.                           JUSTICE KAGAN: But State liabilities.      MR. HACKER: It's also not said ­­ said         brought to enforce State liabilities. It says brought         to enforce State liability or ­­ excuse me, brought to          enforce liabilities or duties created by the Act.                    If it were liabilities alone, this might be        a different case, because the Exchange Act creates        liabilities by its own terms, and an action brought to          enforce Exchange Act liabilities, basically remedies ­­      would be, as I say, that might well be a case that              has ­­ would only be brought under the Exchange Act.                      But when they added the words "or duties,"        Alderson Reporting Company Official clearly they're addressing the same kind of problem that         this Court addressed in Moore when the States ­­ it was           an emerging issue at the time ­­ when States were          incorporating explicitly, not just generally looking to,       but explicitly incorporating Federal duties into State       law, and plaintiffs were bringing State causes of action         for negligence, saying that ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you would say that's a         duty created under this chapter.                 MR. HACKER: Right, created ­­ the Reg SHO         in this situation is a duty created ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But why isn't it created        under State law as well?                 MR. HACKER: Because the ­­ the cause of         action is created in State law. State law says it is a             violation of State law to violate a duty created by           Federal law. State law doesn't, itself, care about the          content. It's incorporating. It's saying we leave to          the Congress, we leave to the SEC, whatever the         regulatory body is, the content of the law, and we just           say that you can have a cause of action under our State             procedures if you violate duties created by Federal law.         That's the situation.               JUSTICE SCALIA: I think that's sort of         ambiguous in the statute.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             Let's assume you have a State statute and a          Federal statute, both of which impose the same duty.         Okay? And someone brings a suit only under the State            statute; does not ­­ does not even mention the Federal          statute.             As I understand your case, you would say         that that person is suing to enforce a duty under           Federal law. I would not say that. I would say that               person is seeking to enforce the duty that State law          creates, not the one that Federal law creates.                    MR. HACKER: And I agree with you. Our           argument is not ­­ if there are literally parallel State          duties, the State says if New Jersey tomorrow, or more          importantly, years ago, had promulgated its own Reg SHO         and had its own Locate requirements, its own Close­out         requirements, and there was a State cause of action          saying you violated the New Jersey Reg SHO and you          caused us injury, we wouldn't be here. There might be a            preemption argument that the State can't do that, but         that would not trigger Section jurisdiction, because        you're clearly seeking ­­               ­­                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you would have no         MR. HACKER: ­­ to enforce New Jersey duty.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You would have no        Alderson Reporting Company Official case if New Jersey passed a law saying, as a matter of              New Jersey law, we hereby adopt, you know, everything         under the Securities Exchange Act, including, in       particular, Regulation SHO. That is State law. We're          following the Federal law because, you know, we think         it's easier to do that than write up our own securities           code.                         That's fine with you?    MR. HACKER: No. That's a different case,          because there, the New ­­ New Jersey isn't making its          own politically accountable decision ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, it is. It's         saying ­­ it's saying wherever it says Federal law as ­­          we just strike that and put in New Jersey law. They can             do that. They can adopt whatever law ­­ source of law            they want.                          MR. HACKER: Sure.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Even though it's       precisely the same at the same level of detail, you have           to say under your theory that if you sue just under the            New Jersey law, that's okay.                 MR. HACKER: I don't think so, Your Honor,          because there New Jersey is leaving to Congress and the          SEC to decide what the law is. The duties are always ­­            under that structure, the duties are always created by         Alderson Reporting Company Official Federal law, and then incorporated by the law that says          we'll do whatever the Federal law says.                               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.     MR. HACKER: The duty is created by the ­­         by the Exchange Act and its regulations.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, the duty under        New Jersey law is passed by whatever statute they enact          saying we ­­ us too, we want to do it as well, as a              matter of New Jersey law.                 MR. HACKER: But they can do it separate.         They can establish their own independent duties.                               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah.     MR. HACKER: But when they consciously       choose not to create an independent duty, but to say          that we're going to ­­ literally, in the hypothetical         you're adopting, they're literally saying we're      incorporating the Federal duty. And in that        situation ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And as New Jersey ­­        as New Jersey law.                MR. HACKER: Right. But that's still        seeking ­­ an action under that law would still be          seeking to enforce a duty created by the Exchange Act           and its regulations, you know, albeit incorporated into        State law. It's a different type of case.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: But then you're going to be         in a situation where the judge is going to have to try             to figure out whether State law exactly mimics Federal         law, or whether there are minor deviations from Federal         law. And that can't be a good jurisdictional test, can            it?             MR. HACKER: Well, all jurisdictional tests       will have, you know, challenges at the margin.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think this is a          marginal question. I think this is kind of a, you know,             pretty ordinary question of like, well, what is the         State law doing? Is it exactly ­­ lots of State laws            exactly mimic Federal law, and lots of them don't.                     MR. HACKER: I think, in practice, there is          quite a clear margin because States make different         choices in this. If a State wants to say, as plenty do,              that we are just in haec verba incorporating the Federal          standard, then you ­­ the ­­ the duty is created by the            Federal standard, and becomes enforceable under State       law.             But the duty still is created by Federal        law. States make other clear, distinct choices where         they say we're going to have a fraud law; we're going to             have our own securities laws. New Jersey has its own           securities laws. It could, if it wanted to, adopt a Reg             Alderson Reporting Company Official SHO.             JUSTICE ALITO: Why couldn't the New Jersey        Supreme Court ­­ why couldn't the New Jersey Supreme         Court say this is our interpretation of a provision of           the ­­ the New Jersey Uniform Securities Act, with         respect to short selling, this is what it means, and          without ever referring to Reg SHO, adopt basically the         same or exactly the same rule that is incorporated in          that regulation? Would you say that then an ­­ that an            action under that provision of the New Jersey Securities         Act would be one seeking to enforce a Federal duty?                       MR. HACKER: No. I think that would be a            different case where the State is saying, you know, this          seems like a pretty good rule; we're going to adopt it            because we like it, adopt it independently as our own          rule. And in any future case, they might do something           different. As happened in the very New Jersey case, the           Third Circuit cited for the proposition that New Jersey         law sometimes different ­­ differs from Federal law. It          can, but here, the complaint ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it seems to        me ­­             MR. HACKER: I'm sorry.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The only one who        benefits from that are ­­ are printing companies. You          Alderson Reporting Company Official say they can't say, we adopt Regulation SHO as         New Jersey law; they have to actually go ahead and          reprint everything that SHO says, and then it's okay.                     MR. HACKER: Well, no. It's ­­ it         definitely is a politically accountable choice if the         New Jersey, you know, wants to go to its ­­ the ­­           the ­­ the people in New Jersey and all the interested           parties and say, we think ­­ we don't like the way the            SEC has balanced the many competing interests involved        in regulating the market for, in this case, the         electronic market, and short selling in the       United States; we want it done differently in        New Jersey. And all of the competing interest parties          can come and ­­ and talk to New Jersey about whether it            should ­­ they should do it that way or not.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: What if ­­ what if the         State law says ­­ and I'm not sure this one doesn't.           What if the State law says, we are adopting the          disposition of the current regulation in, you know, in         ­­ in ; all right? That's all it says. So if that              regulation changes and Federal law changes, State law        would not change. What happens in that situation?                     MR. HACKER: I mean, that would be an          unusual way for a court to conduct itself, but if it did             that ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SCALIA: Why? Why? Why?        MR. HACKER: Well, I've never seen it        JUSTICE SCALIA: The court likes this                               before.             regulation. It doesn't know what this kooky SEC is          going to do in the future. This regulation is okay. So             they put that ­­ they put that into State law.                      MR. HACKER: I think that's right if the          court said and made it clear that we find, as a matter             of New Jersey fraud, that under New Jersey fraud law, if           you don't get a Locate in accordance with SEC          requirements ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Current SEC requirements.      MR. HACKER: Yeah, and that could change.        And it's clear that it's an independent ­­ independently         created duty, but none of this is at issue here.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that what the       court is going to do when it hears this action?                      MR. HACKER: I'm sorry?                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't that what the       State court's going to do when it hears this action?          There's nothing about the alleged causes of action ­­        they allege theft and fraud. So they're going to have           to prove theft and fraud under State law as defined in           the sections that they've cited.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. HACKER: But ­­ well, they also allege         unjust enrichment and negligence ­­                                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All of that.      MR. HACKER: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now, that might be       something you could object to at trial if they try to           say State law is the same as Federal law and can't prove            it. You then appeal that decision if it's wrong. If            State law is different, you prove it's different. I'm          just not sure what that has to do with the well­pleaded           complaint that ­­ that they are saying this is a duty            that arises under the theft and fraud provisions of         New Jersey's uniform Securities Act.                 MR. HACKER: Right. You won't see that         sentence anywhere in this complaint. It doesn't exist.         What this complaint says is, in paragraph , it says          that illegal short selling is short selling that, quote,         "violates securities laws and regulations." That's what        they're complaining about. Short selling defined as        something that violates securities laws and regulations.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Surely they mean the       current regulations, right? And you've just told me         that if the State law applies only to the current          regulation, it is not adopting Federal law, right? So          this complaint is referring to the current regulation.        Alderson Reporting Company Official How do you know it's referring to that regulation as it           may change in the future?                 MR. HACKER: Well, it's ­­ well, it's        referring to past conduct. So it's saying what you did           injured us ­­                          JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.    MR. HACKER: ­­ because you violated the        regulation as it exists today. You committed this         illegal short selling. You didn't get Locates as they          think ­­                                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Fine.    MR. HACKER: ­­ the SEC would require.        JUSTICE SCALIA: Because that regulation is       a good regulation, and it ought to be New Jersey law.           But if that regulation changes, we ­­ we don't say that           it ought to be New Jersey law.                   MR. HACKER: Let me try an exercise. If you           eliminated ­­ all of this suggests that you could just          as easily eliminate all of the references to Reg SHO,          all of the references to capital L, Locate, capital C,          Close­Out, and their complaint would just proceed the        same way it would. And we know that that's not true            because they've got no source ­­ if they have a          complaint like that that just says, this is fraud, this          is tortious interference, we're unhappy about it because        Alderson Reporting Company Official you didn't short sell the way we wish you would, they           would have literally nothing in New Jersey law to cite          to.             JUSTICE BREYER: Then they'll lose under ­­       they brought a claim ­­ look, is it a necessary ­­ as a               Federal issue, Federal issue is whether what they've        done violates Regulation SHO. They don't say that         anywhere in the complaint, not even in paragraph , but          you cite it, I read. This is background. They don't             say anything about it, but is it necessary? Is it           necessary for them to prevail that they prove a         violation of Regulation SHO?                                                    MR. HACKER: We think it is, but that's ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: What do they ­­      MR. HACKER: ­­ not the question here.        JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't ask you that. I           asked what you thought.                necessary ­­                                     MR. HACKER: We ­­ we think it is         JUSTICE BREYER: You think it is necessary.        MR. HACKER: ­­ but ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Fine. Fine. That's all I          want to know.                           MR. HACKER: All right.     JUSTICE BREYER: Now they presumably think       Alderson Reporting Company Official it isn't necessary. Okay?                             MR. HACKER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: So if it is necessary and         you're right, then this case should have been brought         under .                          MR. HACKER: That ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: It wasn't, and we're not        deciding that. So since we're not deciding it, we have           to assume that it is not necessary.                               MR. HACKER: Correct.    JUSTICE BREYER: Okay? If we assume it is          not necessary, if we assume that the conditions for          are not met, and therefore it doesn't get into Federal          court for that reason, why would anyone want a case like            that in Federal court when the States want to adjudicate          it?             MR. HACKER: Because Congress wanted it in        Federal court ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: And what is the evidence        that Congress wanted that?                MR. HACKER: The language of the statute.                    JUSTICE BREYER: And all you're left with        is, you say, read the language of the statute, don't          look to the purpose, don't look to surrounding ­­ don't          look to the surrounding rules of law which actually make          Alderson Reporting Company Official very little necessity for this to be in Federal court,          and don't look to anything else. You have your          language.                         language.                         MR. HACKER: Your Honor, I ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: And I agree you have your          MR. HACKER: I'm sorry, but ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: You have the language. I'm         not saying you're going to win on the language.                     MR. HACKER: No, I ­­ but I couldn't           disagree with you more.                            JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Go ahead.       MR. HACKER: The language, first of all, I         think is unambiguous in our favor. But we absolutely          believe the objectives and purpose are uniformly in our         favor because what you know, if nothing else, about         Section is that Congress, unlike ­­ unlike all of the           other jurisdictional statutes that use decidedly      different language, Congress here did not want State        courts to adjudicate duties created ­­                 here?             JUSTICE BREYER: So why ­­ why isn't the SEC          MR. HACKER: There's ­­ I mean, the SEC          makes its own decisions. And I certainly think this           Court cannot decide a case based, not least on what the            Alderson Reporting Company Official SEC hasn't said.                           JUSTICE BREYER: Curious.    MR. HACKER: Right. That's for the SEC, but          you know, we would not, I think, construe a statute            based on the absence of the SEC ­­                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: You are relying on a        different language. This is not arising under, but the          special language in Section . And we have a brief;            it's a public citizen brief that says, well, this is ­­           this Section is not unusual. It lists about, what is            it, some ten other statutes that are phrased the same          way.                         MR. HACKER: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So with respect to every        one of those statutes, Public Utilities Holding Company,        Federal Power Act, Connally Hot Oil, the same argument         would apply to those statutes.                 MR. HACKER: Those are all similarly       narrowly prescribed statutes. And as the public citizen         itself indicates, those were enacted mostly in the New         Deal era when we know, if anything, Congress was looking          to expand opportunities for plaintiffs to get into        Federal court. And it wouldn't be surprising at all          that New Deal statutes would favor Federal court        adjudication of Federal duties.    Alderson Reporting Company Official I'd like to reserve ­­    JUSTICE KAGAN: And you think we can reach                                 that interpretation, even as to the Natural Gas Act         consistent with Pan American?                MR. HACKER: Yes. Pan American was purely a          well­pleaded complaint rule case. And the footnote that         the other side relies on, referring to arising under,         was simply saying the fact they used different language         doesn't change the fact the well­pleaded complaint rule        applies as it does on its face, "brought to enforce"          requires the court to look at the face of the complaint.                                                           I'd like to reserve my time.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. HACKER: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Stris.                   ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER K. STRIS                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. STRIS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  It is well­settled that jurisdictional     statutes will not be interpreted to intrude on State         judicial authority unless Congress makes its intention       clear.             Petitioners ask this Court to interpret      Section of the Exchange Act to strip State courts of           Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction, to decide State law­created claims when       such claims have already failed the Grable test. There          is no indication that Congress clearly intended such an         unprecedented intrusion on State court authority.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Why do you think, Mr. Stris,         this different language was used in these ten statutes?                     MR. STRIS: So my ­­ my best answer is to           mirror, essentially, what our amici public citizen and        the State securities regulators have said, which is at         the time that certainly the ' Act and the ' Act were            passed, the Federal question statute had an       amount­in­controversy requirement.              Now, I understand that my friend, Mr.        Hacker, points out in his reply that there's a current           statute, U.S.C. , that was enacted in . It           had a predecessor statute, U.S.C. () that was          enacted in that removed the amount­in­controversy       requirement for cases involving interstate commerce.                  And one would think, because it's the case        today, that that would apply to securities. But as best           we can understand from our research, in the years that          are relevant, to the time of the ' Act and '            Act, it was not interpreted that way.                   So there was essentially an     amount­in­controversy requirement for securities cases.     Alderson Reporting Company Official So I think, if I were to ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: The amount in controversy       wasn't very high. And wouldn't most cases of this          character easily meet it?                MR. STRIS: I don't know that that's true,          Justice Ginsburg. But more importantly to ­­ to your          question ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it was $,,       something like that?                                       MR. STRIS: Well ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Or even less?      MR. STRIS: If we're attempting to ascertain        why Congress would choose to use this language instead         of other language, I would submit that any         amount­in­controversy requirement, if they felt they      didn't want that for purposes of Federally­created       claims ­­ so this is going to segue into my first           point ­­ we think the most natural reading of Section           is as a creation test.                              And so if that's what ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: $, is probably a lot of          money today.                          MR. STRIS: I'm sorry?     JUSTICE SCALIA: $, is probably a lot of          money today.  Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. STRIS: Well, I don't ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Would you like to have                                , dollars?               MR. STRIS: Yeah. I ­­ I ­­ I don't want to                get into any debate ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's a yes­or­no        question, counsel.              (Laughter.)             MR. STRIS: I would like any money that          anyone on the Court or in the courthouse would like to           give me, and I'll be taking collections after ­­ after          the argument.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: If ­­ if ­­ if your answer          is correct, why do they need to use the term          "exclusive"? Why don't they just ­­ just ­­ just ­­                                  MR. STRIS: So let me ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ there is jurisdiction       in Federal court. That ­­ why ­­ that doesn't explain           the ­­ the use of the word "exclusive."                    MR. STRIS: No, no. But I think it does.            So ­­ so this particular statutory language is found in          eleven statutes. In some of them, they used the term           "exclusive jurisdiction"; in ­­ in others, they did not.                     What follows exclusive jurisdiction is     essentially a creation test that ­­ which I'll explain          Alderson Reporting Company Official in a moment. The fact that they chose to confer            exclusive jurisdiction here just means that, when there        was a cause of action that was created by the           Exchange Act, they wanted it to be in Federal court.                      So ­­ so let me ­­ let me get to the spirit            of ­­ of the answer, which is why I think that there's             good reason to believe that exclusive jurisdiction in        the statute is limited to causes of action that are          created by the Act itself.                 So my friend Mr. Hacker concedes, I think         reasonably, that if someone sues under a parallel State          duty, that that is only a duty under ­­ that's a lawsuit              that's brought to enforce only a duty under State law.           I was pleased to hear that, because I think that is the             most natural reading of ­­ of the language.                    Our position is that the result is no        different if a State accomplishes the same thing through          the expedience of incorporating or referencing Federal       law.             And I want to be clear on this point. Our            position is not that the plain meaning of the statute          compels that interpretation. I'll be the first to say          that one could theoretically read the ­­ the language         brought to enforce a liability or duty created by the           Act or its regulations the way that my ­­ my friend           Alderson Reporting Company Official suggests. One could. But I think it starts to break             down and not really make much sense if we look at what's            missing from Section .                Here's what's missing: There is no Federal        jurisdiction over Exchange Act counterclaims, which      means that State court ­­                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Over ­­    MR. STRIS: I'm sorry. Over Exchange Act         counterclaims. So that means that Congress was willing         to have State courts adjudicate claims that were created         by the Act itself.                There is no exclusive jurisdiction over      Exchange Act defenses. And most notably, that would         include preemption. And in the mine­run of preemption         cases ­­ and I'm going to get to this in a little bit ­­              not only is the State court determining what the         Exchange Act says, but it's doing it for the purpose of           assessing whether there is a conflict between State and          Federal law.              It's really important that those two things       are missing from the statute, because I find it very           difficult to believe that a Congress that was not          concerned about State courts adjudicating those cases       somehow would be very concerned about a State court          adjudicating a State law­created cause of action that         Alderson Reporting Company Official happened to implicate a Federal duty or a liability.                       When we look at the language and we take it          in context, I think it just ­­                                           JUSTICE ALITO: But Congress must have ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: I ­­ go ahead, please.         JUSTICE ALITO: Congress must have had in        mind a certain category of claims that it did not want            adjudicated in State court, correct?                             MR. STRIS: I agree.      JUSTICE ALITO: All right. So you seem to          be saying that the category of claims they did not want           adjudicated in State court are only these: Those in          which the plaintiff is asking for the enforcement of a          Federal duty, and there is no comparable State duty at          that time, and the State court is unwilling to recognize          a comparable State duty in the context of that         litigation.             So these are essentially cases in which the        State is basically hostile to the Federal duty. And          those are the only cases that Congress did not want to           have adjudicated in State court.                             Am I ­­ have you gone wrong in that?          MR. STRIS: I ­­ I don't think you've gone            wrong, but I think that that position is firmly          supported by history, if we look at the context.         Alderson Reporting Company Official And let me explain what I mean.        So at the time the Exchange Act was passed,                                 there were only three express rights of action, and they          were very minor. There was no private right of action           under (b); there was a market manipulation of a (a),            short­swing profits; and a third one that I don't           recall.             So if we look at the context, we have a          history of States regulating securities. We have a         parallel provision in the Exchange Act, Section , that         this Court in Matsushita acknowledged, expressly      endorsed the fact that States were going to continue to          regulate.             So I think the Congress that passed the '          Act was thinking the following: They were thinking we          have a very narrow window of claims that are created by            this Act. And for those, a (a) straightforward market           manipulation claim, for ­­ for ­­ for wash sales. We           don't want State courts adjudicating those, because       those are very technical. We want exclusive        jurisdiction over those claims.                And I think that's the extent of what         Congress intended in passing this provision.                  Now ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Supposing that you had       Alderson Reporting Company Official brought this claim specifically to enjoin violations of        this SHO regulation. So that's your complaint. Court,          please enjoin the defendant from violating SHO.                   MR. STRIS: Well, I think as a factual           matter, Justice Ginsburg, that couldn't happen because       the conduct would have already occurred. But I won't           resist the hypothetical.                 I think ­­ I think the hypothetical you're        asking reveals the most difficult part of our plain­text         interpretation, which is assume a State statute that         seeks to enjoin what is only a federally­created duty.          I don't know that that would come up, but it could,           theoretically.             Our position would be that that is still        best interpreted as a lawsuit brought to enforce a duty            or a liability created by State law, because the ­­ the            State has decided by reference to have the duty being          don't violate the ­­ the ­­ the Federal standard that          you would get the injunction for.                  And I think, in the real world, what we're          seeing are, at best, States that are creating parallel         provisions that incorporate duties and liabilities      merely because it's an expedient. And so I think           that ­­ I guess before I move on ­­ you know,             administrative simplicity is a ­­ is a major virtue in            Alderson Reporting Company Official any jurisdictional statute. I know the Court has said           that before. Without any strong evidence to interpret         Section as anything other than a creation test, I           think that's the best result.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask you to describe          your complaint? In other words, Mr. Hacker has a          certain characterization or description of your      complaint, and the ­­ and the ­­ the role played in your            complaint by the regulation. So if you had to describe           your complaint, and particularly, what role does this        regulation play in your claims under State law?                    MR. STRIS: I understand, Justice Kagan.                    So I think there's been some       misunderstanding of what we're alleging. We are not         relying on Reg SHO for any theory of liability, and          here's why: We're bringing a straight­up        market­manipulation claim. And what that means is we're         suggesting that the naked short­selling that happened       was not just a technical infraction, not just a          technical violation of Reg SHO, but was done with the          purpose of depressing sales prices ­­ or prices of the          security. That's an analogue to a b­ action.                      And so if we look at paragraph of our          complaint ­­ this is on pages ­A to ­­ to ­A ­­ we             make clear that the relevant provision of New Jersey law          Alderson Reporting Company Official is substantially similar to the Federal securities law.                      We're referring to (b). When ­­ when the       Uniform Securities Act was promulgated in ,       Section , which New Jersey adopted, mirrors (b).                    If you're going to bring a claim under         Federal law, you're not suing under Reg SHO.        Manipulative short­selling existed well before Reg SHO.       It's a standard. You're basically saying someone is          taking a short position. They're injecting inaccurate         information into the market because they have taken a         position that's larger than normal supply and ­­ and         demand would ­­ would bear, given the size of the public           float. They've chosen to do that because they think          it's going to drive prices down and they're going to          make more money.               You don't need to prove all of that to get a           violation of Reg SHO. Reg SHO was enacted by the SEC            because this was a problem. What Reg SHO does is it             allows the SEC to take enforcement action and to fine          people that engage in conduct that is likely to         constitute market manipulation.               The point of it is not to punish market         manipulation. The point is to try and stop people from           doing it in the first place.                  To put it ­­ to put it differently ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I just ­­ yes.          I mean, but there are parts of your complaint that go in            much greater detail and focus on the Federal Rules.         I ­­ I think Paragraph says, you know, as set forth             in detail herein, the defendants violated the trading        rules and regulations requiring that they actually       deliver shares they owed to the DTCC to settle         short­sale transactions.                          That's a duty imposed by Federal law.        MR. STRIS: This is a very important point,          Mr. Chief Justice. We mention this in detail for a very             specific reason. It has nothing to do with our theory           of liability. It was us attempting to get in front of            the inevitable preemption defense, which happens. These        short­selling cases get litigated ­­ get litigated in        State court. A very significant one is on page of             the blue brief, note . It's in California State court,           overstock.             In these cases, the ­­ the largest defense        that's asserted in State court is, we complied with Reg          SHO. We complied with the Federal Rules. So if State            law gives you a remedy, it must be conflict preempted.           So ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, along these lines,       look ­­ look at Count , a of Appendix to the           Alderson Reporting Company Official Petition. "Each defendant ­­                                        JUSTICE SCALIA: What page is that?       JUSTICE ALITO: a.    "Each defendant enterprise owed plaintiffs a      duty of care in their capacity as gatekeepers of the          market. Each depend ­­ each defendant enterprise        breached the duty of care that they owed to the          plaintiffs to report suspicious transactions and naked       short sales."              Where does that ­­ doesn't that come right        from Reg SHO?               MR. STRIS: Look, I'm not going to suggest,         Justice Alito, that Reg SHO isn't relevant as a         background proposition. We're in a regulated market, so          of course, the ­­ the ­­ the landscape that exists is           going to implicate Federal rules. The relevant question         is: Jurisdiction can't be sustained on a theory that we            haven't advanced, right?               JUSTICE ALITO: But that doesn't seem to ­­        that doesn't seem to be relying on Reg SHO as a           background proposition. You say that they breached a ­­          this is a claim for negligence, requires a breach of a             duty, and you say the duty that they breached is a duty             that's created by Reg SHO.                 MR. STRIS: I ­­ I ­­ I would characterize             Alderson Reporting Company Official it a little bit differently. Here ­­ here's what I            would say. I would say that if market manipulation           requires that someone do something that injects       inaccurate or artificial information into the market,       that's the theory of a market manipulation claim.         You're messing with natural supply and demand forces.                    Of course, any theory of market      manipulation, including under State law, would have to        reference and talk about the ground rules, because the         ground rules that are set up by the SEC are what set up             the market's normal expectations of traditional supply       and demand forces. So it would really tie our hands to            say that any time you talk about someone doing something          that is inconsistent with the regulatory scheme, you        can't bring a State law claim that is truly a State law              claim, because if you're trying to allege that        there's ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: That isn't what it's       saying. It's saying they breached the duty of care that           they owed to the plaintiffs to report suspicious        transactions of naked short sales. That's the        allegation under negligence.               What duty of care? A duty of care imposed           by New Jersey law? What New Jersey law?                     MR. STRIS: New ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Or is it a duty of care           imposed by SHO?               MR. STRIS: It's a duty of care, Justice          Breyer, imposed by New Jersey State law.                               JUSTICE BREYER: Which State law?      MR. STRIS: New Jersey Statute :­.       It's found on pages a to a of the ­­ the Petition            Appendix, and what it does is it's the section of of            the Uniform Securities Act that mirrors b­.                   JUSTICE BREYER: And so the exact words        there that the duty of care is referring to are what?                                               MR. STRIS: I believe it says ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: If you know.      MR. STRIS: ­­ you can't engage in deceptive         or manipulative conduct. What we ­­                              JUSTICE BREYER: I see what you're saying.         MR. STRIS: What we attempted to do here ­­         we may lose on this point in State court.                     JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I ­­ I have a bigger              ­­ a question that I can't get ­­ I can't figure out,               and so I would like your help.                    Let's go through this. Let's suppose, for        present purposes, that as I read through your complaint,          I find words ­­ it's not the words we just said, but            similar words somewhere, and I sink ­­ think, but there           Alderson Reporting Company Official is nothing under New Jersey law unless New Jersey picks          up SHO. All right?                 Why isn't that good enough on that matter to         get them into Federal court in arising under cases?                     MR. STRIS: Okay. So if ­­ if we're out of            the world, and you've rejected my creation argument ­­                    because ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: I'm doing it for argument        MR. STRIS: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ I'm really concerned       about I can't clarify in my mind the difference between           somebody being thrown out in an arising under case, and          yet getting back in under Section . That's what          doesn't make too much sense to me. If this is           necessary ­­ the Federal issue is necessary for the         plaintiffs to win, there's arising under jurisdiction.       Then I don't know what to do with the word "exclusive."            But all that seems not to be in the case.                                  MR. STRIS: Well ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­ so then, if ­­ if it           is not sufficient to get in under arising under, why in           heaven's name should it be to get in under ?                      MR. STRIS: Well, I mean, obviously, I'm not          going to resist, but what I would ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: You're not going to resist        Alderson Reporting Company Official my conclusion, but you see, it's ­­ it's ­­ I ­­ I need               clarification, because I'm not sure I've thought it        through correctly.              MR. STRIS: So here ­­ here's my best         attempt to clarify. I think ­­ let me throw away the             facts for a minute. In other words, I think there's no              theory that we've pled that satisfies even their        standard, but let me throw that away. Let me assume the            best case for them, that we've relied on Federal duties          and try and put it through those ­­ the ­­ the ­­ the             legal question that you've asked.                   I think one way to resolve this is to take         the simple approach, which is what I advocated first,          and to say, look, if it's just enforcing a State law            cause of action, even if it incorporates Federal law,         that's all does, and you're done. I understand the            premise of your question is let's say you've rejected         that, and we're thinking, you know what, maybe some         State­law claims fall within the sweep of Section ;         how do we think about this?                  Here's what I would say. I would say that            whether this is an arising under statute or not, it has           to incorporate what I'll call a Federal necessity         requirement, because that's a longstanding rule that's        part and parcel of the well­pleaded complaint rule. And          Alderson Reporting Company Official if you look at Pan American, for example. Let's say I            accept what my friend Mr. Hacker says that it's dicta,          they weren't saying it's an arising under statute, they         applied ­­ this Court applied the well­pleaded complaint        rule without looking at the text of the statute at all.           It's a sensible thing to say that when Federal          jurisdiction over State­law claims is predicated on the        Federal character, there being a Federal issue, that we          use the well­pleaded complaint rule.                 It's also similarly sensible that the      well­pleaded complaint rule would have an adjunct which        is Federal necessity, and that's precisely what the        Court said in Christianson. And I'll quote the Court:          "The well­pleaded complaint rule focuses on claims, not        theories, and just because an element that's essential        to a particular theory might be governed by Federal          patent law does not mean the entire monopolization claim         arises under patent law."                Now, to the second half of your question,        which is, well, how does that ­­ how do they map           together? Well, then the question becomes how did we          allegedly use this Federally? Do we use it in our RICO            claim as one of several predicate acts? That's all          that's ever been alleged until today. I was surprised           to hear a suggestion that ­­ well, I shouldn't say until             Alderson Reporting Company Official today; until the briefing in this Court.                   In the lower court, the suggestion was that        we relied on a Federal duty because it was somehow being            snuck in as a ­­ an additional predicate of our RICO            claim. I resist that cause ­­ that claim. If you go              and look at the pages, we allege three ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Right, something. And ­­       and don't tell me I'm right if you think it favors you,            because maybe it does favor you, but I've got ­­ there           will be other cases, you know, so sympathize a little           with my problem.                           MR. STRIS: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: I'm looking for a way to          see if we really have to answer all these difficult          questions that have been raised, which are pretty tough.         And so I was thinking, look, here's what you look to.            Judge, see if it is a necessary thing, and if so,            whether it falls under . Okay? If it's an arising            under claim under , kick it out of State court and           send it to Federal court.                 But if it isn't an arising under claim        because it isn't necessary to winning for the plaintiff,         forget about it. Keep it in State court. I don't care              whether it's ­­ don't ­­ don't worry about whether the          State passed it this way, or the State legislature         Alderson Reporting Company Official referenced it by numbers or referenced it by ­­ don't          worry about all that stuff. Just decide one question.                                  MR. STRIS: So ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Does it meet the four        criteria for arising under? If so, kick it out. If            not, keep it.               MR. STRIS: So, Justice Breyer, here are my         ­­ here are my thoughts on this. I think that the             Grable ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I just clarify? I          thought it was conceded there was no arising under         jurisdiction.             JUSTICE BREYER: That's true. I'm not        looking in this case. I'm looking for the general rule.                       MR. STRIS: That ­­ that's how ­­ that's how          I understood ­­ that's how I understood the question.                      And so as to the general rule, here are my          thoughts. The ­­ still exists. is powerful,           and we can call it Jackson Pollock all we want, but it's            been adopted, it exists, and it's applied by courts. So           I think that there is a very small distinction between           incorporating it here or not. There is a distinction,           exclusivity versus ­­ versus nonexclusivity, I      understand that; but my point is the simplest way of out           this morass, I think, is to say we want a simple,             Alderson Reporting Company Official administratable rule and we only look to to confer          jurisdiction over Exchange Act­created claims, and we       have, as a backdrop, .                  Now, if you resist that, Justice Breyer, and        you don't like that and you say, okay, well, what's the           second­best option? There ­­ there's ­­ there's two,         and I don't really need to advocate one as opposed to            the other because we win under both, but I'll throw them           out there.              One is to say we don't have to call this an           arising under statute. We don't have to reach the          difficult question of, well, was ­­ was that what Pan          American was holding; did they ­­ did Congress intend to          incorporate wholesale in all of its elements?        There ­­ there's a simple way out, which is to say the             notion of Federal necessity ­­ this is the one question          that you were saying ­­ does not inhere in the words           "arising under." It inheres in the well­pleaded        complaint rule, which is a backdrop presumption which         should apply to any type of congressional grant of ­­ of           Federal jurisdiction over State law claims unless       Congress says otherwise.               So I think that's the second­best option.        You say, okay, it's not only a creation test. Section             can reach some State law­created claims, but they         Alderson Reporting Company Official must be necessary.               And there's a long jurisprudence of this        Court. It's in the arising under context of what it           means to be necessary. And then you don't have the           difficulty of trying to look to whether it's        substantial, doing a Federalism balance. You would         essentially assume if it's something that trigger ­­ is         triggered by an exclusive jurisdiction provision of the        Exchange Act, it must be substantial; it must fit the          Federalism balance.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stris, I guess I don't           understand why you're resisting just say saying this        language ought to be interpreted in the same way as          arising under jurisdiction is interpreted. And it's        true they're different words, but it's at least as good          an interpretation of these words that they essentially        refer to what the arising under test refers to, which          after all ­­ I mean, the arising under test doesn't           really have a whole lot to do with the language arising            under anymore.                          MR. STRIS: No, that's true.      JUSTICE KAGAN: So ­­ so why isn't that just          sort of the simplest thing to do is, we have a test,             it's a four­part test, and this language seems to fit           that test pretty well, and that's what we should do, we           Alderson Reporting Company Official should just have one test.                 MR. STRIS: Well, so Justice Kagan, I won't          resist too hard because obviously we win under that ­­         under that outcome. I resist a ­­ I resist a little                bit, and I'll tell you why.                  Certainly I can defend that proposition, and        we did in our ­­ in our briefing. There ­­ there is a              solid basis to do that. The Court interpreted         materially identical language that way in Pan American,        as we pointed out in our brief Section of the           Securities Act, which uses materially identical      language. Then in the removal bar equates that language          with arising under. I could defend that proposition. I            just don't think it's the most natural reading of the          language.             If you're asking me honestly, like what do I         think Congress intended? I ­­ I believe that they            intended "brought to enforce" duties or liabilities       created under ­­ under the Act to mean the three narrow           categories of Federally created causes of action in        . I think that's what the statute meant. I don't              think Congress has done anything since then to change         that.             If you look to SLUSA in where there was          this serious concern on the part of Congress of what was           Alderson Reporting Company Official happening in terms of State law­created causes of        action, the initial bill that was proposed would have         preempted all State law­created causes of action. It         didn't go very far. Instead, Congress said, no, we're          going to restrict this to covered class actions.                        So if ­­ if you're ­­ if we're trying to      find what I think is the most intellectually honest          reading of the language, and consistent with the        history, I actually don't think it's adopting arising         under, but I certainly could defend it as a reasonable            interpretation of the language in the context.                   JUSTICE ALITO: So in light of SLUSA, the         issue that's before us would apply only in individual         actions and small class actions?                 MR. STRIS: That's ­­ that's exactly right.        And I think maybe I'll ­­ maybe I'll close with this. I              think that's very important from the perspective of just         sensibility and policy, which is the following.                   One of the things that ­­ that animated the         Private Securities Litigation Reform Act was the concern        that lawyers were driving litigation and not clients.        And that's why, for example, one of the things that went           into the PSLRA was a requirement of who the most           appropriate plaintiff is. That doesn't happen when you         have cases like this, when you have the CEO of a company             Alderson Reporting Company Official who holds . million shares who's bringing a claim.                         And so not only was it not the point of       Congress in and to invade the province of          State courts, if we look at the entire history of          purposes and ­­ and Congress trying to say, well, we          have some concerns about what State courts are doing,         there has never been an express concern about State         courts enforcing State law in individual actions like        this one.              For the Court to hold otherwise would be        unprecedented because you would be stripping State       courts of the type of jurisdiction that they've had         since the time of the Exchange Act. (b) of the           Exchange Act itself was predicated on common law deceit         and fraud and a whole history of what was occurring in            State courts. And I just don't think there's any way to             read Section that's workable from the Court's        jurisdictional precedents, but it's also sensible in       terms of what the dual system of securities regulation         is trying to do.                            And so if there are no further questions.        JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just out of curiosity,        why is it so important for your client not to be in            Federal district court?               MR. STRIS: So I think there's a few           Alderson Reporting Company Official reasons. The first is his lawyer's practice in State          court. They're familiar with the procedures; that's        where they want to be.                   The second is the ­­ the procedures are      better. I mean, it's not a surprise that a lot of               securities plaintiffs want to be in State court. In          some instances they want to be there because the law is           more robust. There's no scienter requirement. You can          bring a Holder claim. That's actually not the case here            because New Jersey law happens to parallel so we don't          have those benefits. But we want to be able to take a             RICO claim where we're trying to take a new area.                       These naked short selling cases, they're      new. You know, the Overstock case that's happened, we          would prefer a State forum for our State law­created          claims to convince a State court that this is actionable           and, you know, it should warrant punitive damages. And          I think we have every right to do that as ­­ as the             master of our complaint.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said that you could        prevail in this case without showing any violation of         the SHO regulation. So could you explain how you could           prevail even if you don't show a violation.                     MR. STRIS: Right. So I ­­ I would put it              slightly differently. If I said that, you know, I think             Alderson Reporting Company Official that's ­­ it's imprecise.                Any act of market manipulation in the       context of naked short selling will necessarily violate        Regulation SHO, but every violation of Regulation SHO is         not market manipulation.               What Regulation SHO does is it sets a floor.          And if you engage in certain conduct, you ­­ you short a            stock, you haven't borrowed it, you have no reason to          believe you've borrowed it, the SEC can fine you under          statutes where there's no prior right of action. That          doesn't make out a market manipulation came ­­ claim,          Justice Ginsburg. To prove market manipulation, you        have to go a step further. You have to show that that              was done intentionally to try and depress the value of          the stock.              So the point I was trying to make is if           there were an analogue to our State law claim, it's not           Reg SHO, it's b­. And ­­ and the idea that you can't             bring a parallel b­ action in State court and have           the State court adjudicate it, that's never been the         law. But they're ­­ they're essentially trying to do an           end run around that analysis by suggesting that somehow         Reg SHO is what we are trying to enforce.                     Reg SHO is not relevant for that purpose.        Reg SHO doesn't help us. Even under Federal law we           Alderson Reporting Company Official wouldn't have a private right of action. Section (d)           of the Exchange Act, there's no private right of action          for that. Section a­ of the Exchange Act. These are            the ones that deal with naked short selling. No private           right of action. Has to be (b).                                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Three minutes, Mr. Hacker.             REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JONATHAN D. HACKER                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. HACKER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Respondents' argument has a problem with        the language, both of their own complaint and with the          language of the statute.                The complaint could not be clearer that,       while it's true there are references to market        manipulation, what they're trying to establish is market        manipulation by the mere fact that there were not         Locates that complied with a Reg SHO. That's what           created what they call counterfeit shares. That, in and          of itself, forgetting intent, is also what diluted the         shares and caused their problems. That's clear from         paragraph . It's clear in paragraph and . What            they talk about are violations of the rules and         regulations that caused them harm.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             They would also like to establish a market         manipulation, I'm sure, if they could prove intent and         all of that. But the whole point of ­­ of the complaint             here is to say ­­ is to hope they can get in front of a               jury and judge who will agree with them that those mere           regulations of Reg SHO in and of themselves establishes         the State torts that they are pursuing. It's perfectly          clear in those paragraphs, and through the rest of the          complaint. I don't think there's any ambiguity         whatsoever.             Nor is there ambiguity in the plain text of         the statute. The first argument they make is that it           effectively incorporates the Holmesian view that it has        to be a cause of action created by the Act itself.                        The ­­ Section answers that question. It         doesn't say that jurisdiction is established for ­­ over         causes of action established by the Exchange Act. That          would have been the way that Congress would have said          it. If they meant to say there is jurisdiction over           causes of action established by the Act, Congress would         have said that. It didn't say anything like that. What            it said was very much essentially the opposite or         something very different, which is suits brought to        enforce duties prescribed by ­­ created by the Act.         It's about the substantive source of the ­­ the source          Alderson Reporting Company Official of the ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I always         thought violations had to do with criminal law. And the           whole structure of this provision talks first ­­ in the          first half of the first sentence it talks about         violations of the law. The second sentence parallels         it, says criminal. The second half of the first          sentence talks about all suits in equity at actions at          law, or actions at law.                 MR. HACKER: But ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know that ­­                    MR. HACKER: ­­ those are all civil actions.         It's clearly talking about civil actions. The reference         to "violation" itself talks about suits in civil        actions for violations ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It talks about criminal       proceedings.             MR. HACKER: Right. It ­­ it ­­ it          encompasses ­­ the language also encompasses criminal       proceedings, but the references to suits brought to        enforce liabilities or duties is unambiguously about a        civil proceeding, and the other side doesn't disagree        with that.              But let me turn to the last point,        Justice Breyer's argument and I think Justice Kagan's,         Alderson Reporting Company Official that, well, maybe it's just the same thing as .          That too is contrary to the text of the statute because            has been construed ­­ it also doesn't have the          textual requirement ­­ as having this necessity       component precisely because if you don't have a        necessity component, then you're taking away from State        courts cases that State courts are competent to        adjudicate.             We know that Congress had literally the       opposite premise here, that they didn't want State        courts adjudicating, as Respondents' counsel's conceded,      a certain class of cases.                 What class of cases is that? The statute         tells us the answer. It's those that are suits brought           to enforce duties. For example, a RICO case with two            predicate acts: One is a violation of Reg SHO; one is a              violation of State law. It is unambiguously clear that          that is brought to enforce the duty prescribed by Reg          SHO, and in that circumstance, that kind of case,         Congress wanted to proceed solely in Federal court.                                            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Page  bars : based : : : : :, :, : basically : : : : : :, : basis : : : : : bear : : : : believe : : arises :, : behalf :, : :, : : : : arising : : : :, :, : : :,,, : : : benefits : : :, :, :, :,, : : : best :, : : : :, : : : : amici : amount : amount­in­contr... :,, : artful : analogue : : : analysis : Angeles : animated : answer :, :, asserted : : borrowed : artificial : ascertain : asked : : asking : : : better : bigger : bill : bit : : : blah :,, blue : body : :, : : : : : answers : anymore : appeal : appear : APPEARANCES : assessing : assume : : :,, : : : assumed : attempt : attempted : attempting : : Appendix : authority : : Appliances : applied :, : applies : : apply : : : : applying : : : : B back : : : backdrop :, background : : :, balance :, balanced : bar : :, breach : : breached :, : : break : Breyer :,, :,, : :,,, :,,, : : :,,, :,, : :,, : : :,, : Breyer's : brief :, : : briefing : : bring : : : : bringing : : acknowledged : : : : adjudication :, : : adjunct : administratable act :,, : : :, : : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : :,, administrative : :,, :,,,, :,,, : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, adopt :, : : : :,, : adopted : : adopting : : : : adopts : advanced : advocate : Act­created : action :, : : : aggressive : ago : agree : : : :, : advocated : :,,,, : :,, :, : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, : : : albeit : : :, :, :,, :,, ahead : : AL :, : :,, : :,, : : Alito : : : : Official OfficialA : a.m : : : able : above­entitled : additional : addressed : acts : : added : : allegations : : area : allege : : : : : alleged : : arguing : argument : : : : : : addressing : absence : absolutely : accept : accomplishes : adjudicate : accountable : allegedly : alleging : allows : ambiguity :, : : : ambiguous : : : : adjudicated : :, amend :, amended : adjudicating : American :, : : : actionable : actions :,, : :,,, allegation : : approach : appropriate : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : brings : brought :,, : :,, :, : : : : : : : cited : : citizen :, : comparable : civil :,,, claim : :, compels : compensation : : : : : : :,, caused : : : :,,, :,,,, causes :, : : :,,, : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : :, CEO : : certain : : : : : certainly :, : : : : : : C C : : : : Cal : California : call : : challenges : change : : : : : : : changes :, : chapter : character : : characterization : case : :, : characterize : Chief :, : : : : canvas : capacity : capital :, : :, care : :, :,, : :, : :,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, :, :, client : :,, : clients : close : :, :, : Close­Out : choice : : choices :, : : code : cases :, : choose : : collections : come : : :, :, chose : :, : : : : Christianson : commerce : :,, committed : common : : Circuit : : chosen : : : : circumstance : : categorically : categories : category :, cause :, : Official :, : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, :, : :, :, claimed : claims :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : clarification : clarify : : : class :, : : clear : : :, :, : : : :, : : clearer : clearly : : : : : : Page  conflict : : Congress : : :, :, : : : : :, :,, :, :, :,, : :, :, :, : : competent : competing :, complaining : complaint :, : :,,, :,,, : congressional :, :,, :,,, :, Connally : :,, :, consciously : :, : : : : :,, : constitute : : : :, constitutes : : : :, constituting : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, :, construe : construed : content :, context :,, : : : : consistent : : complaint­rule : continue : complaints :, contract : complied :, contrary : controversy : convince : correct : : component :, conceded : : : concedes : concern : : : : correctly : : counsel : : : : concerned :, counsel's : : Count : counterclaims : : concerns : conclusion : conditions : counterfeit : conduct : : couple : : course : : court :, : : : : : : : : : cite : :, companies : company : confer : : confers : :,, :,, : :, : Alderson Reporting Company D criteria : : :, : :,,, : curiosity : :, : : Curious : : : :, current : : :,, :, :, :,, : :, : :,, : :,, : : : : :, : : :,, :,,,, : : : : :,, :, : : D.C :, damages : deal :, : debate : deceit : December : deceptive : decide :, D : :, :, : court's : : : : : : : Official depressing : derived : describe : : : : :,, description : : detail : :, : Page  :,,,,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, duties :, : : : : : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : enforcing : enforceable : enforcement : determine : determining : duty : :, :,, : deviations : dicta : :, : :, : difference : :,, :, engage : : :, :,, :, :, enjoin :,, : : : enrich : :,,, :,,,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : :, : : different :, : :,, : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : enrichment : : : decided : decidedly : deciding :, courthouse : courts : : : : : : :, differs : : : : : decision : : difficult : : :,,, : :, differently : : : : : difficulty : diluted : direct : : defendant : : disagree : covered : create : created : : : :, : :,, :,,, : :, :, : : :,, : : : : :, : :, creates : : : :, decisions : defend :, : :,, defendant's : defendants : defense :, defenses : defined : : defining : definitely : : deleted : creating : : deliver : creation : : : : : criminal :,, : : demand : : dollars : drive : driving : DTCC : dual : depend : : depends : depress : disfavor : disposition : distinct :, : eleven : distinction : : distinctly : district : : doctrine : doing : : : : : encompasses : : : : : E E : :, easier : easily : : effectively : electronic : element : elements : eliminate : eliminated : emerging : enact : enacted : :, : endorsed : enforce :,, : :, : :,, : :, :, enterprise :, entire : : equates : equity : era : erred : especially : ESQ :, :, : essential : essentially :, : : : : : : establish : : : : : established : :, establishes : : ET :, evidence : : exact : : exactly : : :,, : : example :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Exchange :, falls : far : favor :, : :, :, familiar : : : : : :, : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : : favoring : favors : Federal :, Official : firmly : first : : : : : : : : : Ginsburg's : : : : give : : : : : :,,, given : gives : go : : : :, : : : : : : : goes : going : : Page  : :,, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : : : : : :, : :,, haec : half : :, hands : happen : : happened : fit :, float : floor : focus : : focuses : following : : : follows : footnote : forces :, forget : forgetting : forth :, : forum : found : : four : four­part : fourth : fraud :,, : : : :,, : GREG : : : :, :, : :,,, : :,,, :,, : :, :, : :,,, :, :,, :,, :, :, :, :,, :, :,,, :, : :, :, :,, : :,,, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : :, :,, :, :,, : : :, : : : further : : friend : : front : : : : H : : : :,,, : :,, : : : happening : : : : happens : : :, :, :, : good : : hard : harm : : : : : : hear : : : : : governed : Grable : : grant : gravamen :, help : : greater : hears :, heaven's : held : ground :, guess : : guidance : high : hint : history : : : :, hold : Holder : holding : future : : Hacker : :, : Federalism :, Federally : : federally­created : : felt : Fenner : : fifth : figure : : find :, : : : : finds : fine : : :, : : G G : Gas : gatekeepers : general : : : generally : : getting : Ginsburg : :, : :, :,, Holmesian : honestly : Honor : : :,, :, : holds : :, :, :, :, : honest : :,, : : :, :, :,, hope : :, :, hostile : :, :, Hot : : :,, : :, :, :, :,,, : :, :,, I idea : hypothetical : : :, exclusive :, :,,, :, : : : : exclusivity : excuse : exemplifies : exercise : exist : : existed : exists : : :, expand : : expectations : expedience : expedient : explain :, : : explains : explicit : explicitly : : :, express : : expressly : extent : F face :, : : :, fact : :, :, : : : facts : factual : failed : failure : : fall : : Alderson Reporting Company identical :, identifies : identify : identifying : ignored : illegal : : : implicate : : important : : : : : importantly : : impose : imposed : : :, imposes : imprecise : inaccurate : : inartful : include : including : : inconsistent : incorporate : : : : incorporated : :, : incorporates : : : : incorporating : :, : : : : independent : : : independently : : indicates : indication : individual : : inevitable : information : : infraction : inhere : inheres : initial : injecting : injects : injunction : injured : injury : instances : : intellectually : intend : intended : : :, intent : : intention : intentionally : interest : interested : interests : interference : : : interpret : : interpretation :, : : : : : : interpreted : : : : : : interstate : intrude : intrusion : invade : involved : involving : Iqbal : issue : : : : :, : : : J Jackson : : Jersey :,, :,,, : Official :,,, : :,, : :,,,, :,,, : :,,, :, :,, :, :, :, : : : : : :, : : : Jersey's : : JONATHAN : :, : : judge : : : : judicial : jurisdiction : Page  L : : : :,,,, : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : : :, kooky : :,,, :,,, : :,,, : L : : : : :, : :, :, :, : :,,,,, : :,, : :, :,,, : :, : : : : : :, :,,,, : : : : :, : :, :,, :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, :, :, : landscape : language :, K : :, : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, : : : : K : : : : :, :, : :, Kagan : : :, : : : :, :, : Kagan's : :, : : : : keep : : jurisprudence : KENNEDY : jury : Justice :, : jurisdictional : :, : :, : :, :, kick : : kind : :, :, :,,, :, :, : Kentucky : :, :,, key : : :,, : :,, : :, : :,, :, :, :,,, : : :,, : :,, :, :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : know : : : larger : largest : Laughter : law : :,, :, :, : :, : :,,,, : :,,, : :,,,, :,,, : :,,,, :,, : :, :,,, :,,,, : :,,,, :,, : :,,,, :, :, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : : : : :, : : :, :, :, Alderson Reporting Company : :,,,, :, : : Locates : : : :, : :, :, :, : :,,, : : Official :,,, :, moment : :, :, money :, : : : Page  :,,,, : :,,, : :,, : :,,,, : :,, : : : :,,,, :,,,, :, : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, :,, nonexclusivity : monopolization : long : longstanding : market­manipul... look : : : market's : : Moore : : morass : : :,, master : : : : materially :, morning : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : moves : : : : : : Matsushita : morning's : matter : : move : looked :, : mean :, looking : : : : : : : : : : : : naked : : : : : : : : : : : : : N N :, : looks : Los : lose : : : lot :, : : name : narrow : normal : : notably : note : notice : :, notion : natural : : numbers : : meaning : : meaningfully : narrowly : means : : :, : : : : : meant : : nature : meet : : mention : : : : necessarily : law­created : : : : : : laws : :, : :, lawsuit : : lawyer's : lawyers : leave :, leaving : left : legal : legislature : let's :, : :, : : level : liabilities :, liability :, : : : : : light : likes : limited : : lines : lists : literally : : :, : : :,,, : : : Lynch : : lots :, lower : : M major : making : manipulation : met : mere : : merely : Merrill : : messing : : :, million : :,, :,, mimic : : :, mimics : : mind : : manipulative : mine­run : minor : : minute : minutes : mirror : : mirrors : : : : :, litigated :, Manning : : litigation : map : margin :, marginal : : : : markedly : market :, little : : O O : : object : objectives : obligated : obviously : : : occurred : occurring : necessary : :, :, :,,,, :,,, : : :, :, necessity : : Oil : need : : : : : okay : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : : negligence : : :,, : : : : : negligent : : onerous : ones : operative : : : opportunities Locate : : :, :, : : : missing :,, :, :, misunderstanding : :, : never : : : : new :,,, opposed : opposite : : Alderson Reporting Company Official policy : politically : : procedures : :, proceed : : Pollock : : position : : proceeding : : : : proceedings : :, : Page  :, :, :, :, : questions : : : quite :, : quote : : Power : powerful : practice : : promulgated : R : profits : prohibits : R : : option :, oral : :, : : ordinary : ought :, : outcome : overstock : : owed : :, : P : perfectly : : person :, perspective : PETER : : : Petition : : Petitioners :, :, : : : phrase : phrased : phrasing : picks : Pierce : : : : precedents : precisely : : proposition : :, :, proposed : : : : predecessor : predicate : : : P : packaged : page : : : place : pages : : : painted : Pan :, :, : : : paragraph : : : : :, paragraphs : :, : plain : : plain­text : plaintiff : : preempted : predicated : : : : : plaintiffs : : :, : : : prefer : :, : preemption : play : played : pleaded : premise : : prove : : :, : : : : proven : province : provision :, :, : : : provisions : : PSLRA : public :,, parallel : : pleading :, : : : : : parallels : parcel : part : : : : particular : :,, :, : pleadings : please : : : : : : pleased : prescribed : : :, : : : punitive : : : punish : present : : presumably : presumption : pretty : : purely : purpose : : : purposes : prevail : : : : raised : reach : : : read : : : : : : : reading : : : : real : really :, : : : : : reason : : : : : reasonable : reasonably : reasons : REBUTTAL : : recall : recognize : : redress : refer : : reference :, : : : referenced :, references : :, : : referencing : referring : : : : recognized : : : : : pled : :, particularly : parties :, parts : party : passed : : : :, : passing : patent :, people : : : prices :, plenty : point : : : :, : : : prior :, : : : : private : : : printing : :,, pointed : points : : probably :, problem : : : policies :, : : problems : pursuing : put :, : :, :, : : Q question : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : Reform : : :, : : : refers : Alderson Reporting Company Official road : ROBERTS : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : Page  : : :,, run : Reg : : : removed : report : : reprint : require : : requirement : :,, : reply : :, : : : : : :,, :, : :,,, :,,, : : : : :, : : : : : requirements : regulate : regulated : regulating : : regulation : : :, :, requires : : : requiring : research : reserve :, : : :, : : : :,, :, resist : :, :, :, :,, : : : : : : : resolving : :,, resisting : resolve : : respect : : regulations : : :, : : Respondents : : :,, : : : : : : : : regulators : regulatory : : Respondents' : : rest : restrict : rejected : : result : : relationship : relevant : reveals : RICO : : : :, : relied : : relies : relying : : : remedies : : remedy : Remember : removal :,, : : right : : : : :, : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,, : : rights : :,, : scheme : : :, scienter : :,,, se :, :, :, search : : : : : SEC : : : :,, : :, :,, :, : : second : : :, second­best : : section :, : robust : role :, rule :, :, : :,, :, :, :,,, :, :, rules : : :,, : :, : S S : : safety :, : : sales : : : : satisfies : saying :,, : :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : says : : : : : seeking :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : :, :, :, : seeks :,, : seen : SCALIA : :, segue : sell : : selling : : : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company send : sense : : : sensibility : sensible :, : sentence : : :, separate : serious : set :, : :, sets : settle : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, :, :,, : :,,, : : : :,,,,, : : : :, short : : : :,, : : : : : : :, : short­sale : short­selling : : : : : short­swing : shorthand :, show : : showing : side : : sift : :, SHO : :, :, : :, shares : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : sections : securities :, :, :, :,, : :, : :, : : : : : security : see : : : : : : seeing : Official : :,,,, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, statutes : step : stock :, State : :, : : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,,, statutory : :,,,,, : : : :,,,, : :,, stop : :,, :, straight­up : : : : straightforward : : : :,, :,, : strike : :,,,, strip : : :,, :,,, : :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :,,, :, :, :,,,,, :,,,, :,, : :,,, significant : similar : : similarly : : simple : : : simplest : : simplicity : simply : sink : situation : : : :, : : : size : slightly : SLUSA : : small : : Smith : : : snuck : solely : : solid : somebody : sorry : :, : : : : : : sort : : SOTOMAYOR :, :,, : :, :, : : :, State's : State­based : State­law : sought : : source : : States :, :, : :, special : specific : : specifically : spirit : standard :, :, :, : : : standards : start : starts : :, : : :, : statute :,, :, : : : :, :,,, : : :,,, : :, : :,, :, : : suggestion : : suggests : : suing : : : suit :, : :,,,, : :,, : :,,, : suits : : :,, : supply : : : supported : suppose :, : :, stripping : Stris : : : Supposing : Supreme :, supposed : : : : : : :, :, :,,, :,,,, : :, : : : : : : : Surely : surprise : :,,, surprised : :,,, : : :,, surprising : :, : surrounding : : : : : strong : strongly : structure : : suspicious : : sustained : sweep : sympathize : system : : T stuff : submit : submitted :, substantial :, substantially : T :, substantive : sue : sues : sufficient : suggest : suggesting : : take : : : :, taken : talk : :, talking : : Page  :, : talks :,,,, task : technical : :, tell : : : : tells : ten : : term :, terms : : : test :, : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : tested : tests : text : : : textual : : : theft :, : theoretically : : theories : theory : : : : : :, : : thing : : : : : things : : : think : : : :, : :, :,, : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : :, : sure : : : Thank :,, Alderson Reporting Company : : : unwilling : truly : try : : : : : :,, : : :,,, : :, : : : :,,, : :,, : :,,, :,,, :, :, Tuesday : : : : :, : :,, : trying : : thinking :, : : third : : : : : : turn : : turning : turns : two : : : thought : : Twombly : : : thoughts :, three : : : : throw :, : thrown : tie : time :, : : :, : : : : today : : :, : : told : tomorrow : tort : tortious : : : torts : tough : trading : traditional : transactions : : : trial : trigger : : triggered : triggers : true : : : : : type : : : U U.S.C :, unambiguous : unambiguously : : : : uncontroversial : underlie : understand :, : : : : :, : : : : understands : understood : : :, unhappy : uniform : : : : uniformly : United :, : unjust : : unjustment : unmistakably : unprecedented Official : : wants : : : Page  : : unusual : warrant : wash : workable : world : : worry : : use : : : Washington :, wouldn't :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, uses : Utilities : V v : : value : verba : versus :, view : : violate : :, :, : : violated : : : : : violates :, : violating : violation : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : :, violations :, : : :, : virtue : W want : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, :,,, : wanted : : : : : wasn't : : way :, :, : : : : : : write : : :, : : : : : : : written : wrong : : ways : we'll : : we're : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : we've :, well­pleaded : : : :, : :,, : : well­settled : went : weren't : whatsoever : whited : wholesale : willing : win : : : : window : winning : wish : word : : worded : words : : : : : :,,, : : : x :, X Y Yeah : : : years : : yes­or­no : Z Zero : : (b) : :, : : : : : a : : : : a­ : b­ : : :, : : :,, : : : : :,, :, :, :, :, :, : ­ : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : a : : (a) :, (d) : : : : : : : . : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : 's : :, : : , :,, : : : :, : : :, : () : :­ : ­A : ­A : : : a : Alderson Reporting Company 