Official           IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES     ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  JORGE LUNA TORRES,                   :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          LORETTA E. LYNCH,                    ATTORNEY GENERAL.                   : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MATTHEW L. GUADAGNO, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of             Petitioner. ELAINE J. GOLENDBERG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MATTHEW L. GUADAGNO, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ELAINE J. GOLDENBERG, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MATTHEW L. GUADAGNO, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next this morning in Case ­, Torres v. Lynch.                     Mr. Guadagno.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW L. GUADAGNO                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GUADAGNO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Congress made a choice. Congress did not         choose to make generic arson an aggravated felony.        Instead, Congress chose to make Federal arson an        aggravated felony.              And that makes sense. The Federal arson        statute has a minimum sentence of five years. There are            at least States with arson offenses that are         classified as misdemeanors. Arizona and Colorado have        misdemeanor arson offenses involving damage to property       worth less than a hundred dollars.                   Congress would not have wanted to make such        minor offenses aggravated felonies. We know this        because of the statutory scheme.                 Within the aggravated felony statute, we      have generic offenses, very serious ones like murder and         rape. There are no ­­ there are no sentence          Alderson Reporting Company Official requirements for those very serious generic offenses.                   However, for the remaining generic offenses      that are ­­ that are listed in ­­ in ­­ in the            aggravated felony statute, they ­­ they are associated        with a sentence of a year or more. Theft offenses,             obstruction of justice, burglary, they all require a        sentence of a year or more.                   Also listed with ­­ among the generic       offenses is crime of violence. There is a requirement           of a sentence of a year or more.                      Arson is a crime of violence, and so ­­ so           Congress would have realized that ­­ that arson offenses         would ­­ would fall under the crime­of­violence       provision, and ­­ and for more serious State arson         offenses, they would fall under this ­­ this ­­ this          provision so that, for the minor arson offenses, where         there's a sentence of less than a year, the individual            would ­­ would not be an aggravated felon and would be           eligible for discretionary relief.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But your reading leaves       out some very serious arson offenses. Say under foreign          law or under State law it could be the worst kind of            arson, but there's no commerce hooker and so it would be           left out, on your reading.                 MR. GUADAGNO: But ­­ but ­­ but on ­­ on           Alderson Reporting Company Official our reading, while ­­ while it wouldn't fall under         the ­­ the ­­ the (e) provision in the aggravated felony           statute, these more serious arson offenses, the ­­ the         State and foreign offenses, they ­­ they would fall         under the ­­ the (f), crime of violence, provision         where ­­ where there is a sentence to a year or more.                          And ­­ and under ­­ under that ­­ that         approach, these less­serious arsons would ­­ would not        be aggravated felons. And ­­ and individuals like ­­         like my client, Mr. Luna, who only received a sentence           of one day, they would be eligible to receive         cancelation of a ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that's still        clear after our decision in Johnson?                  MR. GUADAGNO: Johnson, if I ­­ if I          remember correctly, dealt ­­ dealt with ­­ with ­­ with           ­­ (b). You could still ­­ you ­­ one could still             be an aggravated felon under ­­ under (a). But ­­ but            regardless, what I'm talking about is ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: But what you're relying       is ­­ you're relying on language that is similar to,          maybe, and ­­ and maybe different in an ­­ in an           important respect; but nevertheless bears some      similarity to the residual clause in the ­­ in the armed           criminal ­­ Armed Career Criminal Act, does it not?         Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GUADAGNO: Yes. But I'm talking about         what Congress intended. When Congress write ­­ writes a          law, it doesn't intend for ­­ for the ­­ for the Supreme            Court to find the language ambiguous and ­­ and ­­ and           strike it down. So ­­ so that ­­ we should be looking             at what Congress's intent was, not ­­ not ­­ not whether           or not the crime of violence will still be an aggravated           felony after Johnson. If ­­ if ­­ if there are problems            with this, that will be ­­ that will be for Congress to            fix.             JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you about the          statutory language that seems to me to present the         greatest problem for your position. Maybe it's not         fatal, but what I'm referring to is the provision that          says the term applies ­­ so we're looking at whether          the ­­ the State offense here is described in the          Federal arson statute. And then there's language that         says, the term applies to an offense described in this          paragraph whether in violation of Federal or State law.                     What do you make of that? It can be argued           that what that means is that, when you have a Federal            offense with a jurisdictional provision, you disregard        the jurisdictional provision because you're never going       to find that in a State provision.                    MR. GUADAGNO: The ­­ the language you're ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official you're referring to is ­­ is referred to normally as the           penultimate sentence. And ­­ and the penultimate        sentence merely tells us that ­­ that State offenses         that are described in the aggravated felony provision        are aggravated felonies. In the ­­ in the board's first           matter of Vasquez­Muniz decision, the board looked at        that language and concluded that ­­ that ­­ that all          that means is that sometimes State offenses could ­­        could be aggravated felonies, but it didn't require        that ­­ that State offenses always be ­­ be aggravated          felonies.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. But, I mean,          the point is usually when you see language, you know,          in ­­ in interstate commerce, your immediate reaction        is, oh, that's Federal jurisdiction as opposed to State.         But here the one thing we know is they didn't want it to             matter. They said in violation of Federal or State law.                       So as I look at it, the ­­ your instinctive           reaction is to say, well, then, of course you don't have           to worry about the provisions that's in there to limit          the offense to Federal ­­ Federal offenses.                   MR. GUADAGNO: This ­­ this ­­ this        language, it ­­ it ­­ it doesn't ­­ it doesn't directly           address jurisdiction. It ­­ it just ­­ it's just saying           that ­­ that ­­ that certain offenses, certain State         Alderson Reporting Company Official offenses can be aggravated felonies, but it's not        saying ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There ­­ this ­­ this        provision applies to an entire list of multiple crimes,         right?                         MR. GUADAGNO: That is correct, Your Honor.        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so for most of those         crimes there is no jurisdictional element at all.                    yes.             MR. GUADAGNO: That ­­ that is also correct,         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if you're looking at        this as superfluous to not this individual subprovision,        one subprovision of many ­­                MR. GUADAGNO: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ it's doing a lot of          work.             MR. GUADAGNO: Yeah.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's doing a lot of work          because there are a lot of other crimes that qualify           under State law, correct?                MR. GUADAGNO: That's correct, yeah.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, your brief and         the solicitor general's sort of tunnel in on this one          provision of many. But I'm wondering why?                    I'm looking at the entire provision has many        Alderson Reporting Company Official State court analogues that don't involve interstate       commerce, correct?              MR. GUADAGNO: Yes. So ­­ so under ­­ under           our ­­ our reading of the statute, it ­­ it ­­ it            doesn't render the ­­ the penultimate sentence a nullity          because as ­­ as Justice Sotomayor noted, there ­­ there          are ­­ are many State provisions that ­­ that will still           be aggravated felonies. We have all ­­ all ­­ I ­­ I              mentioned the ­­ the generic offenses, all the generic         offenses will ­­ will be both ­­ both State and ­­                                                          JUSTICE ALITO: But suppose ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: What your ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Go ahead.     JUSTICE KAGAN: What your theory does is at         least create a world in which some things are included           and some things are excluded in a way that appears not            to make much sense. Now, you've said no, there is a            reason for doing this with arson to limit it to the           Federal offense. But I mean, there are a lot of things,              a lot of things on that list that have jurisdictional          hooks in them.               So you would be excluding ­­ in addition to         arson, you would be excluding the child pornography        crime. You would be excluding a kidnapping crime,          excluding felon and possession, excluding receiving      Alderson Reporting Company Official explosives for the purpose of killing somebody. So you          would be excluding all of those.                  And then on the other hand, you would be         including some things that seem a lot more minor that           just happen not to have jurisdictional hooks, like        operating a gambling establishment.                 So you create a world in which the         exclusions and the inclusions seem not to match up with          anybody's view of ­­ of a sensible categorization.                     MR. GUADAGNO: Well, the ­­ the ­­ the same          way that ­­ that ­­ that there's ­­ there's an          aggravated felony provision for arson in the generics        for all those things that Your Honor mentioned, that         there are other categories of aggravated felony which        would cover State offenses for those things: Sexual         abuse of a minor, crime of violence. And ­­ and even             outside the aggravated felony scope, we have crimes        involving moral turpitude. So individuals who commit        those crimes on ­­ within a State, they would still be            removable and they would still be removable for        aggravated felonies ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: Take two ­­ two defendants.        One is convicted of the Federal offense of possession of          a firearm by a convicted felon, where you have to prove            a connection between the firearm and interstate       Alderson Reporting Company Official commerce. The second defendant is convicted under an         identical State statute, but of course, there's no need         to prove an interstate commerce element. And under your          argument, the first would be included and the second         would not.              MR. GUADAGNO: The person ­­ the State        individual would still be removable under the firearm's        removability ground.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but that may be        discretionary as mandatory. That ­­ that does avoid the          question somewhat when you say, oh well, there's another         section. Don't worry. That's your answer.                    But that doesn't seem to me a complete         answer to the statutory question that Justice Alito's        question poses. You're making the statute a nullity as           to the States.               MR. GUADAGNO: Well, you know, the       interstate­commerce provision, it's ­­ it's an element       of ­­ of the statute that ­­ that's required for a           conviction.             JUSTICE SCALIA: But does it have to be         expressed in the statute? Is it not always a required            element of a Federal crime? There has to be Federal            jurisdiction, so as ­­ as a matter of fact, every           Federal crime has some jurisdictional element in it.        Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GUADAGNO: Yes, but ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: Whether it's expressed in       Right?                         the ­­ in the text of the statute or not, the statute's            invalid if there's no Federal hook.                  MR. GUADAGNO: But at the same time in ­­ in           Federal criminal law ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ but you're ­­ you're         not ­­ you're just limiting it to the jurisdictional         element recited in the statute, right? That seems to me           a little illogical.               MR. GUADAGNO: But in this ­­ this Court         always requires the jurisdictional element for ­­ for        the conviction. Jones v. United States, there was ­­         there was a conviction under U.S. (i), and this           Court overturned that ­­ that conviction because the        interstate­commerce element wasn't met. So you ­­ you         can't ­­ you can't have the Federal conviction without         the interstate­commerce element.               JUSTICE SCALIA: No, but ­­ but it doesn't         have to be recited in the statute. And I mean, if a              defendant could come in and challenge his conviction on         the ground that there ­­ there was no basis on which the            Federal government could ­­ could have reached my        conduct. It was not interstate commerce. There was ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official it was not pursuant to a treaty or anything else.                       Doesn't that make the Federal jurisdictional      hook a necessary element of any Federal crime?                     MR. GUADAGNO: Yes. It ­­ the ­­ the          Federal jurisdiction element is ­­ is a requirement         for ­­ for a ­­ for a conviction. And ­­                        JUSTICE SCALIA: But ­­ but ­­ but you're         not arguing that. You're ­­ you're saying only when          it's recited in the statute, right?                  MR. GUADAGNO: I'm ­­ I'm not following the         distinction that you're making.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On those other ­­ the        ones that are not stated in the statute, it's presumed.          It doesn't have to be proven to a jury beyond a            reasonable doubt, correct?                           MR. GUADAGNO: Okay. Correct, yes.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I have ­­ I'm going          to sound like my colleague, Justice Breyer.                               MR. GUADAGNO: Okay.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I became interested in        the argument of the National Association of Criminal        Lawyers. And basically, their position is that the         definition here that says, an offense described in         ­­ what ­­ of that title, relating to explosive          material offenses. And they argue that that takes arson          Alderson Reporting Company Official out of this section.                Why ­­ I don't see that argument in your          brief. Are you disavowing it? And if so, why?                       MR. GUADAGNO: We're ­­ we're not disavowing        it, and I think that that does show ­­ support our ­­            our position in ­­ in that it shows how easy it is            when ­­ when you have broad language that says         eliminate ­­ eliminate elements as ­­ as the government         says, that it could be any ­­ it could be any element            that gets eliminated. They're saying it's jurisdiction.                    arson ­­             In the amicus brief, it says ­­ it says         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not ­­ I'm not even         on your point.                           MR. GUADAGNO: Okay.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Did you read         the National Association ­­               MR. GUADAGNO: I ­­ I am ­­ I am familiar              with ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. They don't        argue that point at all.                 MR. GUADAGNO: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're just saying that       this ­­ this is not covered by ­­ the fire, the arson is             not covered by the statute at all by the enhancement ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official by the statute at all, except under the arson provision          that requires a sentence for a year. That's their            argument.                         MR. GUADAGNO: That is.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Forget about interstate      or anything else.               argument.             So tell me why you didn't make that        MR. GUADAGNO: We ­­ we didn't make that         argument because we didn't think about it. Their brief          came ­­ came after ours. And we ­­ we don't necessarily            disagree with their provision, with their argument.       We ­­ we just didn't make it in our brief.                      But ­­ but it does support our ­­ our         position, and as ­­ as I was saying earlier that ­­           that ­­ you know, the statute says "described in," okay?          And the government is saying "described in" tells us         that we ­­ we ­­ we can eliminate elements. But what's            the criteria? How do you know what ­­ what ­­ what            element to ­­ gets eliminated. And that ­­ that example           shows that ­­ that it ­­ it may not necessarily be           the ­­ the jurisdictional element, and ­­ and it could          just as well be the arson element.                   And ­­ and ­­ yeah, why does it have to be           the jurisdictional element that gets eliminated? It        Alderson Reporting Company Official could just as easily be the arson element.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: The sole purpose ­­ the        sole purpose of it is to enable Federal authority to be           brought to bear on the problem. It has no relationship           to the conduct. The arson is the same. The only reason             for the jurisdictional provision is to authorize Federal        action and nothing to do with the conduct involved in          the crime itself.               So I think a jurisdictional provision is not          like any other element. It's there for one purpose          only, which is to authorize Federal action.                   MR. GUADAGNO: On Page of our brief, we          cite three provisions from Title , two from         U.S.C. Section , and the third one is U.S.C.           Section . And these three provisions have language         referring to State offenses if circumstances giving rise        to Federal jurisdiction had existed. That ­­ that is          very clear language removing the jurisdictional element       or ­­ or applying a State offense with ­­ to a Federal              law.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And I agree ­­ yes, I          agree with you, that's clearer. But it still doesn't          say if ­­ if the jurisdictional element, why not some          other element? Because jurisdictional elements are       unique. Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GUADAGNO: But the important point       about ­­ about those three Federal statutes is ­­ is          that Congress is saying that if they want jurisdictional         elements to be ignored, they're going to say so, and          they're going to say so with clear language, much         clearer language than ­­ than ­­ than the penultimate         sentence or described in, and Congress didn't ­­ didn't         do that here.                 I mean, basically we're ­­ we're asking to       apply the full language of ­­ of ­­ of the statute, and            the government is saying omit things. And ­­ and to           omit things, you need clear language.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but your       assumption is that there ­­ an element is an element is           an element, whether it's substantive or jurisdictional.       And that's not the way our ­­ our cases have treated           them, or ­­ or the general. I mean, you don't need to              rely on it for ­­ for everything, but the Model Penal           Code draws a precise distinction between matters        relating to the harm or evil sought to be prevented and           facts that relate to jurisdiction, venue, or       limitations.             MR. GUADAGNO: But ­­ but still, the        jurisdictional element is required for the conviction.       You ­­ you cannot have the ­­ the conviction.         Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, I know. But my           point is it's required for a conviction. But that           doesn't necessarily mean that you would include the        jurisdictional element when you're saying, well, what       does the crime ­­ what is the ­­ what is the harm or             evil sought to be prevented? And in a statute like            this, it seems to me that that's what Congress is          concerned about, not the technical elements like, for        example, venue. I mean, is venue an element if it's            listed under the ­­ the criminal provision? Well, sure.          It's an element that could have to be proved depending          on the terms of the statute. But that has nothing to do             with the harm or evil sought to be prevented.                     MR. GUADAGNO: Okay. You know, going back         to ­­ to the United States v. Jones again, I mean, you             know, this ­­ this Court said that Congress didn't         intend to make all arson ­­ all ­­ all arsons Federal           offenses. And ­­ and by ­­ by the same token, but            that ­­ that if Congress didn't intend to ­­ to make           all ­­ all State arsons Federal offenses. They ­­         they ­­ they shouldn't have intended to make all State          arsons rulable offenses or aggravated felonies.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, but they wanted        to make arsons offenses, whether in violation of Federal         or State law.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GUADAGNO: But ­­ but it's ­­ it's ­­         it's described in this paragraph. So it's still ­­         the language of the penultimate sentence is ­­ is still          requiring all ­­ all the ­­ all the elements to ­­ to be             met. You know, it ­­ described in. It ­­ it has to be               described in.              And ­­ and the (i), okay, has that        jurisdictional element. And ­­ and there's nothing        about the penultimate sentence that ­­ that ­­ that         indicates that ­­ that any element of that offense ­­ of           an offense can ­­ can be ignored.                   You know, under ­­ under the categorical       approach, this ­­ this Court has ­­ has regularly         compared elements of ­­ of offenses, and we've never had          a ­­ a categorical approach case where ­­ where this           Court has ­­ has said an element can ­­ can be excluded            in the categorical analysis.                And ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we've ­­ we've        not addressed this question in the context of the         categorical ­­ application of the categorical approach.                   MR. GUADAGNO: I ­­ I ­­ I don't dispute it.              It ­­ it's never come up and ­­ and sort of my point.             But ­­ but ­­ but still, in light of the fact that ­­            that Congress is ­­ is aware that ­­ that this Court           Alderson Reporting Company Official utilizes the ­­ the ­­ the categorical approach,        Congress would have used strong language or clearer        language if ­­ if ­­ if there was going to be a            modification of the categorical ­­ I mean, this would be           a ­­ a major deviation from the way that the categorical            approach is applied. And ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Guadagno, this is along        the same lines as the Chief Justice's question. I mean,            tell me if I'm wrong, but jurisdictional elements are         different in one important way, which is that we don't          require mens rea as to jurisdictional elements.                   So that's a pretty critical distinction that        we've made. Are you suggesting that jurisdictional        elements are different? You know, you have to prove          them, but you don't have to ­­ the ­­ the defendant           doesn't have to have mens rea with respect to them.                      Why doesn't that suggest that there is a        real distinction here between jurisdictional elements      and substantive elements that can come into play in this          context as well?               MR. GUADAGNO: This is the ­­ what Congress         showed. Congress shows a statutory provision with ­­         with ­­ with jurisdictional elements I think should be          presumed that ­­ that ­­ that Congress knew what it was           doing and it ­­ and it meant ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but that ­­ the mens          rea example is also an example where ­­ where basically          State and what we think Congress meant. And we're          saying, you know, Congress could not have meant to         require mens rea for a jurisdictional element.                    Notwithstanding that there's not language in      a statute that says, and there shall be no mens rea for            a jurisdictional element. So why not the same here?                      MR. GUADAGNO: Well, even ­­ even if it's         different, okay, even if you're going to say        jurisdiction is different, it ­­ it doesn't stop it from          being a requirement. Okay? It ­­ it may ­­ it may be a                different element, it may a different kind of         requirement, but it's still a requirement. And ­­         and ­­ and so you ­­ you can't just ­­ just wish it             away.             The ­­ the language ­­ the language in the         statute isn't there to ­­ to say, circumstances giving         rise to Federal jurisdiction had existed. Congress        didn't put the language in the statute that was         necessary to ignore the plain language of the statute,         which is ­­ which is that Congress wanted convictions         under U.S.C. (i) to be aggravated felonies.                                The ­­ the ­­   JUSTICE BREYER: You could, perhaps, treat       Alderson Reporting Company Official it as we treated the $, ­­ million in the ­­                                  MR. GUADAGNO: ­­ in the Ashwan case.        JUSTICE BREYER: Right. And ­­ and say,         yes, Congress did mean to pick up this definition, the          jurisdictional part.              But since no State explosives law will have        that in the language, you can ­­ the government could,          if it wanted, prove it at the ­­ prove that it was            interstate­commerce related at the deportation hearing.      That's what we did with the ,, isn't it?                                 MR. GUADAGNO: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: The reason really is pretty        similar here. The ­­ the reason is there isn't a ­­ you              know, there isn't a theft statute in the States which           have a $, thing in it, and so it didn't make really             sense to think Congress wanted to exclude all those.         And ­­ and ­­ and so here this is a big thing,             explosives. I mean, that's quite ­­ quite a major            problem trying to have an explosive to blow up a          building. And I think if anything counts as an           aggravated Felony, it's that.                                        But there is this jurisdictional problem.      What do you think about that? I just ­­          MR. GUADAGNO: I think ­­ the Ashwan, I          think, is ­­ is a very different situation. The Ashwan            Alderson Reporting Company Official dealt with one specific provision, the      $,­requirement just ­­ just affected that ­­ that        single provision.              And ­­ and in that case, there was pretty         much a ­­ a nullity situation where that specific           provision would ­­ would ­­ would have been rendered a          nullity.             Here, the ­­ the penultimate sentence      relates to the ­­ the entire aggravated Felony        provision.                         what?             So my ­­ my reading of the statute ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: The penultimate sentence of       MR. GUADAGNO: The penultimate sentence      of ­­ of ­­ of (a)(). The ­­ the language ­­ the             term applies to an offense described in this paragraph         whether in violation of Federal or State law. The          board, in its decisions, calls that the penultimate        sentence. That ­­ that ­­ that's why I ­­ I keep              referring to it as ­­ as ­­ as that.                                                         JUSTICE BREYER: I just need to read it.          MR. GUADAGNO: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: It's () ­­     MR. GUADAGNO: ­­ (a) ­­ (a)(). It is in           the ­­ the ­­ our Joint Appendix at page A.          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: Thanks.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the ­­ the                                respect that we owe to the BIA for their interpretation?                      MR. GUADAGNO: The ­­ the board should not         be owed any ­­ any ­­ any deference under ­­ under two            different theories.               One is that the criminal lenity rule should       apply. The second is that the long­standing principle         of construing lingering ambiguities in deportation      statutes in favor of the alien should also be applied.                      And with regard to those rules, Chevron is        not a rubber stamp. Chevron tells us that there are            certain circumstances when ­­ when deference should be        applied to boards' decisions and, if those circumstances        are not met, then the board is ­­ is not supposed to be             given deference.              And in ­­ in this particular situation, both        of these principles that I've just mentioned, they're        statutory tools of construction. And statutory tools of         construction are supposed to be applied at ­­ at Chevron          step one. And therefore, the agency should not be owed           deference.             Unless there are any further questions, I       reserve rebuttal time.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Ms. Goldenberg.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELAINE J. GOLDENBERG                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. GOLDENBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the court:                Section (a)() indicates that    violations of State and foreign law should be considered         aggravated felonies along with violations of Federal       law. It was enacted against the backdrop of multiple          doctrines across multiple areas of the law in which a          jurisdictional element drops away when a Federal crime         is being compared to a State support crime.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All these examples you       gave me in your brief, either it's clear explicitly that          jurisdiction was excluded by the statute or the nature         of the offense gives jurisdiction or the Assimilated        Crimes Act, it makes sense, because the whole purpose is          that it's ­­ that Federal ­­ that a State law is going             to apply when there isn't a Federal law. So applying            jurisdiction makes no sense.                            MS. GOLDENBERG: Our point ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But ­­ so I don't take          much from your arguments, which is the fact that it          drops away in other sections. Congress didn't just say          it dropped away here.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, our point isn't that        each one of those is exactly analogous. It's that there           are so many different places where it drops away and          that that's very telling. And of course, the purpose of           this statute is to capture people who are particularly         dangerous who shouldn't be ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: But I ­­ I thought ­­ I            agreed with that when I came in. And ­­ and then I              thought, my goodness. Of course. It's an explosives          crime. My God. Blowing up a building or a person, if               anything's an aggravated felony, that must be.                   Then the first words out of his mouth, your         friend's mouth, were, have no fear, read on, because         there is a section that makes it an aggravated felony to            commit a crime of violence. And "a crime of violence"            is very broadly defined. So any human being who commits           an explosives violation where that's a State law         violation will fall within the definition of aggravated        felony because they will have committed a crime of          violence.             So now, if that's right, I'm left with only         half the problem I thought I was left with. And the              half I'm still left with is, if we follow your          interpretation, what we will suddenly do is put into the          category "aggravated felony," which forbids the attorney       Alderson Reporting Company Official general to exercise her discretion and keep the person         here even when she wants to, though the Mor case isn't a            problem, because after all, she doesn't have to keep him          here. All right?                  We put in every tax fraud state, every      racketeering, gambling. I mean, you know the list. And            it includes an awful lot of trivial stuff. So now I            have removing the attorney general's discretion when she        wants to keep the thing here ­­ keep the person here in            a whole lot of trivial stuff, if I accept your           definition.             And if I accept theirs, I don't have the           problem I thought I had, which was that people who            commit very serious explosive crimes are not in the         category "aggravated."                                      So what is the answer to that?       MS. GOLDENBERG: I ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't think of it until          I heard his first argument.                 MS. GOLDENBERG: I disagree with, I think,          both halves of that.                And let me start by talking about why I         think it remains true, despite the crime of violence         provision and other parts of the aggravated felony        provision, that Petitioner's approach is radically      Alderson Reporting Company Official underinclusive.             First of all, it's important that we're not        just talking about arson here. We're talking about all          of the different described­in provisions where there is        a Federal jurisdictional element. And so there are many          things that it is clear would never be picked up by           other parts of the aggravated felony that ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: I have the list in front of           me, thanks to my law clerk. And I couldn't find            anything on that list which either wouldn't fit within         crime of violence or would be so terrible to leave out.                       MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, there are a couple of          different examples. And I also think it's true ­­ and I             don't want to leave this on the table ­­ that not all            arsons would qualify as crimes of violence. So I want            to get to that as well.                  But the things that would be left out and         that would not be picked up by other parts of the           aggravated felony provision under Petitioner's view      would be a number of really serious child pornography          offenses if they were prosecuted by a State or by a            foreign sovereign, including possessing child     pornography, transporting child pornography, putting out      a notice saying that you want to receive or exchange          child pornography. None of that would be picked up by           Alderson Reporting Company Official anything else in the provision.                 Petitioner says in his brief that the sexual        abuse of a minor, generic offense, would pick that up.           But it wouldn't pick up any of those things that I just             described, although, it might pick up some kinds of         child pornography offenses: Gun possession offenses,       being a felon in possession of a firearm, being a            fugitive from justice in possession of a firearm. A lot             of really serious gun possession offenses also, if        prosecuted by a State or prosecuted by a foreign           sovereign, would not be picked up. And Petitioner         actually doesn't contend otherwise.                So it is an underinclusive approach. And        that's true even with respect to arson, because under         the crime of violence provision, that has to involve use          of force against the person or property of another. A           number of State arson offenses would cover arson against         your own property. And this is a categorical approach.           So if a ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't ­­ I don't          understand. Your argument is we have to interpret this          thing to be as expansive as possible?                   MS. GOLDENBERG: No. It's ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, you know, if         Congress wanted to cover all those things, it could have          Alderson Reporting Company Official used the language it used elsewhere, which says, you         know, except ­­ except for the jurisdictional element.        But it ­­ it didn't say that.                               MS. GOLDENBERG: It ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ what do you do         about Federal statute that ­­ that ­­ that makes arson          of a Federal building a crime?                                MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, in that case ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: Does ­­ does that mean that         all state arson statutes are picked up, whether it's of          a Federal building or of ­­ of the corner grocery store?                       MS. GOLDENBERG: No. I think you'd have to           engage in an analysis at that point about whether that          element was a purely jurisdictional element or whether         it had some substantive force to it. That's not an           analysis ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: That's ­­ that's the key        you ­­ you ­­               MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, I think        if ­­ if the board were going to undertake          the key is   that analysis, which it hasn't done with respect        to anything  besides interstate­commerce jurisdictional    which are classic jurisdictional elements.                 But if the board were going to        elements, undertake that analysis, I think it would look to the           model penal  Alderson Reporting Company Official code definition that the Chief Justice pointed to        earlier. And that is the distinction between the harm          or evil sought to be prevented and the legislature's         power, jurisdictional power, to regulate that harm or        evil.             And in the case that you mentioned, I think          that might very well be a substantive element, because          Congress could be making a determination that if there          is something particularly pernicious, particularly     culpable, particularly in need of deterrence about arson        with respect to Federal property, which Congress really        specially wants to protect. But I don't think you can            say that about the interstate­commerce jurisdictional      element, which this Court has recognized ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: Why ­­ why is that?                    MS. GOLDENBERG: ­­ is a term of art.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't ­­ go ahead.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito.                  JUSTICE ALITO: Thank you.                 Following up on that,though: But why isn't        that true here, in light of the ­­ the Court's decision           in Jones?              MS. GOLDENBERG: The Court's ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Didn't the Court's ­­ didn't        the Court's decision in Jones interpret the reference to         Alderson Reporting Company Official interstate commerce to be something more than just a         jurisdictional hook, but rather a substantive       requirement that limited the scope of this particular        statute to more severe instances of ­­ of examples of          the crime?              MS. GOLDENBERG: I don't think so, because         the analysis in Jones was against the backdrop of         constitutional­avoidance principle. And the Court said       there might very well have been constitutional problems        with interpreting the statute more broadly. I think          the ­­ the best comparison is between Jones and ­­ and           Russell. And you can see there that the         interstate­commerce element is not doing substantive      work. If ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I ­­ I don't know           why you say that, if it has to have substantive work,           otherwise it wouldn't be in the statute.                               MS. GOLDENBERG: Well ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It ­­ it is picking a         crime that only Congress would prosecute, which is        following up on Justice Alito's point, substantive       because it's more serious. It has ­­ we have to protect            people who are affected from interstate travel, or that         affects interstate travel. You could ­­ even following         the model penal code, you could still call this         Alderson Reporting Company Official substantive.             MS. GOLDENBERG: I don't think so. And          again, I think the comparison between Jones and Russell          makes this point. In Russell, the Court said that the           offense was something that could be prosecuted by the         Federal government because it was arson of a rental          property which was used in interstate commerce. In         Jones, it was arson against a private nonrental         property. And that was said to fall outside the scope           of Section (i).               But I don't think you can say that there is           something particularly pernicious or culpable about      arson against a rental property versus arson of a          nonrental property. I think ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Why ­­ why have to subject         the Federal courts to ­­ to this ­­ this new distinction           between a jurisdictional element that's substantive and        one that isn't substantive, just jurisdictional? Why ­­        why should I do that? I mean, if it's an element, it's               an element. And if Congress really wants to eliminate          the jurisdictional element, it can ­­ it can say so, the           way ­­ the way it did in some other statutes.                                  MS. GOLDENBERG: I think ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: And if it doesn't say that,         you know, don't bother me. Isn't ­­ isn't that a           Alderson Reporting Company Official sensible way to handle this?                 MS. GOLDENBERG: I don't think so, Your         Honor. I don't think it's possible to draw a negative             inference from those other statutes. Congress obviously        can get at the same meaning using different forms of          words in different statutes in the U.S. Code.                    And what's very important about the statutes       the Petitioner has pointed to that expressly say that         the jurisdictional element should be taken out is that         they don't have an analogue to the penultimate sentence         in this case, which shows Congress's intent in the         aggravated felony provision, that State offenses and       foreign offenses count, along with Federal offenses, as        aggravated felonies.              And so I think once you got that penultimate          sentence in there, it may very well be that Congress no           longer feels any need to put in language that's         equivalent to the language of those other statutes. And          that ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Is that really,      Ms. Goldenberg, the only textual basis for your        position? You know, your brief does a good deal about            the difference between "described" and "defined," which       the Petitioner has suggested is ­­ is ­­ is not a very             good distinction, because the "defined" only refers to        Alderson Reporting Company Official actual statutory definitions.               So are you still relying on that? Are you          relying on anything else in the statutory text beyond         the penultimate sentence, or is the penultimate sentence        really the statutory basis for your argument?                   MS. GOLDENBERG: No. We're certainly still        relying on the "described­in" language and the       distinction between that language and other language       that Congress chose to use elsewhere in the aggravated         felony provision. It's just that we think that it's          important that when you look at the meaning of         "described in," it be read in light of the penultimate          sentence, in light of the purpose of this provision, in          light of the irrational patchwork that would be created         by Petitioner's view. So I think all those things           inform how you would understand "described in" but with         respect to the question of whether "defined in" in this          provision was just used to refer to dictionary        definition­type statutory provisions. I think that that         is true. As a descriptive matter, there are only a            couple of "defined in" provisions of the aggravated        felony statute, and they do refer to other statutes that          say the word X means Y.                   But that's not true throughout the U.S.       Code, which was Petitioner's original submission. There        Alderson Reporting Company Official are lots of places where Congress has used "defined in"          to refer to offenses and to mean exactly what follows          but nothing else. And one very telling example is          Section (n) which actually refers to Section (i),        the provision at issue in this case, by talking about          offenses defined in this chapter.                 So Congress had at its fingertips language       that it could have used to refer to these Federal          criminal provisions if all it had meant to do was to           say, look, we want you to use exactly what comes after           this and nothing else. And there's actually another         distinction as well as the "defined in" language in the          statute, and that's in Subsection (p), which is found on          A ­­ page A of the appendix to the government's brief.           There, Congress uses the words "in violation of," an         offense which is in violation of a particular Federal          statute.             The upshot of Petitioner's position is that       any time there's an interstate­commerce jurisdictional      element in any of the Federal provisions that are         referred to, only a violation of the Federal statute,          only a Federal criminal prosecution and conviction will         count as an aggravated felony, because no State crime,         no foreign crime is ever going to have interstate         commerce as an element.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             If that's what Congress had meant, if it had         meant to restrict it to violations of that Federal         statute, then, again, it had language at its fingertips         that it has used elsewhere in this provision that would          have allowed it to do that.                  And there's one other aspect of the       statutory text that I'd like to mention, and that's just          a particular example of a place where Petitioner's         reading doesn't make sense in a ­­ in a particular            context, in the statute. And that's Subsection (j)         which is on page A of the appendix to our brief, and            that's offenses described in several Federal provisions,       one of which is RICO. RICO has in it          interstate­commerce elements. And then at the end of         the provision, there is one of the limitations that         Congress puts in sometimes, and the limitation is that         the offense has to be punishable by more than one year.                       Again, under Petitioner's view, only actual      violations of the Federal ­­ the Federal RICO statute         and an actual Federal prosecution and conviction under        the Federal RICO statute would ever count under        Subsection (j) as an aggravated felony.                  But if that were true, there would have been         no reason for Congress to have included that last clause          there because Federal RICO convictions are always       Alderson Reporting Company Official punishable by more than a year. It says so right in the              RICO statute. They're punishable by up to years. So            it must be ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't understand what you         ­­ say it again.                                                    MS. GOLDENBERG: Okay. I'll try.       So it's Subsection (j).    JUSTICE SCALIA: Got it.     MS. GOLDENBERG: And it is an offense        described in ­­ and I'm just referring to the first          Federal statute that's listed there.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Can you give         me the number again?                MS. GOLDENBERG: It's page A of the        appendix to the government's brief. And I should say           when this provision went into the aggravated felony        statute, it was only RICO and not these other statutes          that follow in Subsection (j) that were listed. So it           says an offense described in Section of Title ,          which is RICO, for which a sentence of one­year          imprisonment or more may be imposed.                  And what I'm saying is you can always impose         a sentence of one year or more as an abstract matter           when you have convicted somebody of a Federal RICO          offense. And so it can't be that just because there's           Alderson Reporting Company Official an interstate­commerce element in the Federal RICO       statute, that, therefore, State and foreign convictions       all drop away and the only time someone is an aggravated           felon under (j) is if they have been convicted of a           Federal RICO crime.               If that were right, then there would have        been no need for Congress to include that language at          the end.                          JUSTICE SCALIA: I see.      MS. GOLDENBERG: That's there clearly      because Congress wanted to pick up State and foreign         versions ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Right, right, right.      MS. GOLDENBERG: ­­ of the crime, and to         then drop away, as Congress does sometimes, to sort of          more minor versions of those crimes where there are         different sentencing and penalty schemes in place.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Of course he's ­­ he's not         arguing that ­­ that all ­­ all Federal jurisdictional         requirements have to be one of the elements. He's only           saying that where ­­ where the statute itself recites         the jurisdictional element. Does RICO do that? What          does RICO say?               MS. GOLDENBERG: Yes. RICO does recite an         interstate­commerce element. It does.     Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: The basic point is I        made an effort to count these. I accept                      counted ­­   your argument there are about ten of these sections         that ­­ you know, you ­­ you couldn't use that as a            limitation. But if I look at those ten individually, I            will discover that I ­­ Congress did want to pick up            State crimes there or they don't use exactly        jurisdiction language like evade a tax imposed under         this title.                          MS. GOLDENBERG: Yeah.    JUSTICE BREYER: And it isn't really going        to be the anomaly I thought it was. That's your point.                         MS. GOLDENBERG: Yes, that's one of my        points, certainly. There are, I think, different          places in the aggravated felony provision, if you look         at actually each of its little subsections, and some of          them have two or three subsections. And by my count,           about nine of them have an interstate­commerce       jurisdictional element. And so it's not that the         penultimate sentence would be superfluous in      Petitioner's view, but it would start doing work in this          very odd way for only about half of the aggravated          felony provision, and that would just be a very          strange ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: It wouldn't be strange if        Alderson Reporting Company Official those were things that covered offenses that it makes         sense not to want to put in ­­                                                       did, but ­­                          MS. GOLDENBERG: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ to the definition.       MS. GOLDENBERG: And I don't think you ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: I thought that some of them          MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, no.     JUSTICE BREYER: The tax one, for example,        the fraud ­­ tax fraud, but he uses different language.                      MS. GOLDENBERG: Yes. No, I think as to           many of them, as with respect to the arson offense at           issue here, it would make sense to pick up State and           also particularly foreign crimes. I don't want foreign          crimes to get left out of this discussion because I          think it's very important and very important to Congress         when dealing with the kinds of people who are going to           be covered by the aggravated felony provision that if         they had committed a sufficiently serious foreign crime,         that that would get picked up. And, of course, foreign           crimes are never going to have an interstate­commerce        jurisdictional element in them.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you deal with his         lack of uniformity argument? That is, some crimes         will ­­ under State law, the same conduct will be          Alderson Reporting Company Official labeled by some States a felony, other States a          misdemeanor, and you get a lot of these lesser­type          offenses swept up into the provision that doesn't allow         for cancelation of removal?                MS. GOLDENBERG: That's not a feature of the          board's interpretation in this case. That's just a         feature of the aggravated felony provision that it        sometimes sweeps in things that the States characterize        as misdemeanors. And that's very well­recognized both        by the board and by the courts of appeals. This is a             Federal term of art, aggravated felony, which is used to          show that certain immigration consequences should attach       to someone.              And so the fact that a State        idiosyncratically or for its own reasons attaches a        particularly low penalty to something that's set forth        here is well­recognized not to be a reason to keep it            out of the aggravated felony provision.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: But I believe that        Mr. Guadagno's point was that this is ­­ it's a reason            why Congress may have used the language that it did,          rather than, say, just arson. Right? That it wanted ­­           that it understood that there was a wealth of very minor            arson crimes out there in the States, that it wanted to           exclude those. And the way it excluded those was          Alderson Reporting Company Official essentially by saying, no, it's got to be the Federal          offense.             MS. GOLDENBERG: I think that would be,         again, a sort of strange roundabout way to exclude them,           and to move it back through the crime of violence          provision, it would be a lot of work. What Congress            could much more easily have done is just to put a           limitation right there in (e)() as it did in many other           provisions that said you have to have a crime that ­­           for which you're imprisoned for at least a year, or a            certain value of property has to be affected.                    And Congress did that, not only when it was         describing ­­ I'm sorry, generic aggravated felonies,       but also it did it in some of the "described­in"          sections like Subsection (j) that I was talking about          earlier. So that, I think, would be the way that            Congress would have approached it.                 At the same time, I don't think there's         anything at all strange in thinking that Congress didn't         want to exclude even things that are more minor as          arsons go on a scale of arsons on the view that arson is              a really serious crime. It is aggravated in every sense           of that word.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this one ­­ this one         wasn't ­­ I mean, his ­­ his crime, he got one­day jail             Alderson Reporting Company Official time and five years of probation. So it falls on the            lesser side. Given your argument, is there any way that           a person in his situation could get a cancelation of           removal?                         MS. GOLDENBERG: No.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So he's just stuck ­­       this is absolute? Even when it's a one­day jail time, a             lesser crime, there's no ­­ you're really locked into no          means to obtain cancelation of removal.                  MS. GOLDENBERG: That's right that he can't        obtain cancelation of removal, and that's consistent       with Congress's intent in putting the aggravated felony        provision into place, which was to constrain the        attorney general's discretion and to make it so that the          attorney general was locked into certain conclusions.                   And that was because Congress thought that       the way that the whole cancelation of removal process         was working before the aggravated felony provision went        into place was it wasn't working well. Too many people           were being allowed to stay, and too many people were          having their removal canceled. And Congress expressed        very clearly in the legislative history that it didn't         like that, and it wanted to constrain the attorney         general's discretion.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going to          Alderson Reporting Company Official say, of course, the attorney general may decide not to          subject the alien to removal in the first place, right?                      MS. GOLDENBERG: That's true, yes.      Although, aggravated felony is a ground for removal.                     But also, I don't want to lose sight of the           fact that just because this Petitioner's sentence was        one day and five years of probation does not mean that           he committed a minor crime of some kind. We actually            don't know what the conduct was. It's not in the           record.             JUSTICE BREYER: But the only thing you've        been able to think of, my guess is, that gets around his            argument that arson and explosives will be covered by         the crime of violence is that: What if a person sets             fire to his own property?                 Now, when would a person set fire to his own           property? When he wants to commit fraud. And here we            have a provision that puts fraud within it. And           moreover, it has the limitation of $,. So         therefore, serious fraud crimes will fall within this        other section.              So not even the case that you've really        brought up is ­­ actually needs this provision to         prosecute State explosives crimes, because either      they're against other people's property, in which case        Alderson Reporting Company Official they fall within crime of violence, or they're against         your own property, in which case they are a specie of            fraud over $,.               MS. GOLDENBERG: I'm not sure that       necessarily works under the categorical approach because       it would depend what the person was actually prosecuted         for in State court, and if they were prosecuted not for           fraud, but simply for arson, and it was a provision that            said ­­ that included arson against your own property,         then I think you wouldn't fall into either one.                      But there's actually another reason that I       didn't get to before why I think some arsons might not            be crimes of violence. And there's actually just some          uncertainty around this, but after this Court's decision        in Leocal, people are continuing to wrestle with whether         recklessness would count as a crime of violence. I           think there are some, at least, forms of recklessness         that are picked up by the substantive elements of         Section . Malicious arson would include deliberate        indifference to the possibility that there is going to         be damage, so there might be some slippage there as          well. Although, as I say, I ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: So what do you think about         this? I mean, I ­­ I think I dread the suggestion, but                 when I got into that, I thought, God, there is no way to               Alderson Reporting Company Official avoid just doing this section by section and saying,         what did Congress want, section by section. And then          sometime ­­ you know, and then if we did that section by            section, maybe it would be satisfactory to say, you         know, let them prove the jurisdictional hook in the ­­         in the deportation proceeding.                That gives the attorney general considerably      more discretion. She can do it if she wants; she           doesn't have to do it if she doesn't want to.                      MS. GOLDENBERG: Although I hesitate to        object to a helpful suggestion, I actually think that           the answer here is to drop out the jurisdictional         provision entirely and not to do that for a couple           different reasons.                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, we ­­     MS. GOLDENBERG: First of all, I don't think          it works for foreign crimes. So in a foreign crime            situation, you can't come in and provide proof that it          had an interstate commerce element because there's not        really an equivalent to that on the foreign side.                     And so I just think there is a whole serious            set of crimes that Congress wanted to include as to          which that approach wouldn't function.                 It would also really multiply the difficulty       of the proceedings and make them much longer and harder.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I do think the language here is a little            different here than the language that the Court was         looking at in Nijhawan, where this $, limitation        was in the aggravated felony provision itself and it was          worded in a particular way that the Court seized on.                         I ­­ I ­­ so I just don't think that           analysis necessarily carries over here.                 But again, I think that all of the various          signs that you would use to interpret the statute ­­         and ­­ and by the way, four of the courts of appeals            that have addressed this have said the statute is         unambiguously clear. It means what the board said it          meant. I think that ­­ that all of those signs are in              place and so you should be talking ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Can I ­­ can I go back to             your ­­ to your argument about Subsection (j)?                                MS. GOLDENBERG: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: Are there State RICO       offenses for which a maximum ­­ the maximum term of           imprisonment is less than a year?                   MS. GOLDENBERG: I don't know the answer to          that, but I think there might be ­­ there might be such             offenses and there might be foreign offenses like that         as well. And I haven't been able to canvas that whole             area, obviously.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I still think that's the only        explanation for that limiting language at the end of ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Are there State or foreign        RICO offenses at all?                MS. GOLDENBERG: I ­­ I ­­ I ­­ honestly, I              don't know the answer to that, but I think there might            well be.              JUSTICE ALITO: There are State ­­ there are         State RICO statutes, but RICO is a ­­ is a ­­ is              regarded as a very serious crime. It seems strange to            have a ­­ a RICO misdemeanor. I've never heard of such              a thing.              MS. GOLDENBERG: I mean, I seized on the           RICO statute, but actually the very next provision in J,          which is Section , the same analysis would apply.         Section is a statute that has an interstate          commerce element in it. It has to do with gambling and            transmitting information for gambling interstate     commerce. And it is punishable by up to two years when            it is prosecuted federally and there is a Federal          conviction.             So the same analysis would work there as        well, and that's something where I think it's pretty          clear that there would be State analogues to the         substantive elements of that crime. There would be         Alderson Reporting Company Official foreign analogues to the substantive elements of that        crime as well.                   I did want to pick up on one other thing       that Petitioner said in his presentation, which is, why         didn't Congress just use the generic definition of arson         here?             for that.              And I think there are a number of reasons           For one thing, I think it would have been          underinclusive because it wouldn't have included the       explosive offenses that are set forth in the Federal         statute very likely. Or it's possible that courts would          have reached that conclusion.                For another, I think it would have        entailed ­­ and I know this Court is familiar with the            process ­­ it would have entailed coming up with what          the elements of that generic offense are, and that can          be difficult. I think it could be especially difficult           in the arson context where there are states that are          sort of all over the place and that has moved away from            the classic common law definition of burning of a         dwelling place.              And so I think there are very good reasons          that Congress had when it found a Federal criminal          provision that had the substantive elements that it        Alderson Reporting Company Official wanted to simply refer to that Federal criminal        provision using the looser language of described in, in         light of the penultimate sentence, and that's something        that would ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I can't square this with         the categorical approach. I ­­ I ­­ you know, we've             been very clear. The categorical approach says, every         element of a crime that has to be proven to a jury has               to be included in the State offense. But now you're           saying it's every categorical element that's not       jurisdictional.             Where do you get that from?                  MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, I think the thrust of          the categorical approach is that you don't look at the          particular conduct that the person engaged in. You look          at the elements of the crime that they were convicted          of. And then you compare it to something that Federal           law tells you to compare it to.                   And I think that is a question of statutory           interpretation, what it is that you're supposed to be         comparing it to, that the Federal law is telling you is           the proper comparator.               And here, that's the question we're      answering. I mean, that's the question about what          described in means. About what it means in light of the            Alderson Reporting Company Official penultimate sentence.                 I don't think there's anything in this     Court's categorical­approach cases that would preclude      the interpretation that we're putting forth here today.        I just think it hasn't a risen in exactly this way            before.             But again, this ­­ the important thing about        the categorical approach is that you don't look at the          Petitioner's particular conduct here. As I say, it's          not even in the record what his conduct is. All that we             know is that he committed a felony under New York State            law that was punishable, my understanding is, by up to          seven years in prison.                            And that's the only information we have.       And then we have to look at the elements of          the New York statute that he was convicted under and          compare them to the offense described in Section (i).                     To the extent that the Court thought there        were ambiguities, we would ask for deference to the         board here. But we don't think there is ambiguity. We            think that, as the courts of appeals have said, that          there is one reading of the statute to which all signs           point, and that's the reading the Court should adopt.                                 If there are no further questions ­­      JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the board's original       Alderson Reporting Company Official decision was the other way, and it wasn't till the          circuit came ­­ came out, and then the board went in           line with the circuit so that the board read it ­­          doesn't that dilute the strength of the board's current         position, that it was not its original position?                    MS. GOLDENBERG: I don't think so. I mean,            it is true that the board changed positions, but it knew           that it was doing it and it gave reasons for doing it            and it gave a lot of reasons in its ultimate decision in              that are not reflected in the original decision         that the board doesn't seem to have considered in the          original decision.              So I just think it's the ­­ the         Vasquez­Muniz decision from that has an analysis        very similar to the analysis of the courts of appeals          that have found the statute unambiguous, have walked        through here in looking at, not only at the described­in          language itself, but at all the other signs about what          the statute means. And I don't think it should be a             negative that the board revisited it and came to the          correct conclusion.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Am I not remembering         this right? But wasn't there a change in position in            Chevron ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ itself?      Well, there you go.    MS. GOLDENBERG: There you go.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I wasn't                                                       misremembering.                         MS. GOLDENBERG: Thank you.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Guadagno, you       have four minutes remaining.                MR. GUADAGNO: Okay.            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW L. GUADAGNO                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. GUADAGNO: Congress could ­­ could have        utilized generic arson. Throughout Title XVIII there        are references to ­­ to arson. Both briefs talk about           the Federal "Three Strikes" law. Within the Federal         "Three Strikes" law is actually a definition of arson.          Congress could have ­­ could ­­ could have referred to          the definition of arson in that provision.                   In provision (K) of the aggravated felony       provision, it ­­ it discusses, first generically,       managing a prostitution business, and then it refers to          Title XVIII offenses regarding transportation of ­­      of ­­ of prostitutes.                Congress could have said arson, and then ­­       and then referred to Title XVIII U.S.C. (i). It          Alderson Reporting Company Official could have combined both generic arson and a reference          to ­­ to ­­ to explosive devices.                   With regards to the comment about not all        State arson offenses being crimes of violence because        some would involve personal property, that issue has        been resolved by the Board of Immigration Appeals since         . Our brief ­­ our reply brief mentions a case from             the board called Matter of Palacios where the board held          that damaging your own property would ­­ would        constitute ­­ burning your own property through arson        would constitute a ­­ a ­­ a crime of violence.                         With regards to the comments about ­­ about        "defined in" with regards to the INA, "defined in" is          used consistently to ­­ to refer to a definition, and           the congressional drafting manuals all indicate that       "defined in" should ­­ should be referring to ­­ to a           definition.             And my final point is that what we're        seeking here is ­­ is cancelation of removal,        discretionary relief, and that ­­ that Congress would        not have wanted to deprive individuals who have been         convicted of minor offenses or less serious offenses of         such discretionary relief and would want them to have a          chance to demonstrate ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What do you do with ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official if we rule your way, that it won't address the child           pornography possession laws or that it won't address        some of the explosion laws?                 MR. GUADAGNO: As I said before, there ­­         there is overlap and ­­ and that they're very likely ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I want to know where          the overlap is for the child pornography.                   MR. GUADAGNO: There ­­ there is ­­ on that          one, I don't think there is ­­ there is any question            about that because there is a Second Circuit case ­­ I            believe it's called Ouch v. Holder, where ­­ where the          government did not pursue the child pornography under ­­        under the provision my friend is referring to. It was           pursued under ­­ under sexual abuse of the minor. So ­­           so that ­­ that is ­­ there is at least one case out             there where ­­ where that is the way that the government           pursued one ­­ one of these cases.                   you.             If there are no further questions, thank       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,      Mr. Guadagno, counsel.                           The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company : : a.m : : able : : above­entitled : ambiguity : ambiguous : amicus : analogous : analogue : analogues : absolute : abstract : abuse : : : accept :, : Act : : action :, actual : : : addition : address : :, addressed : : : : analysis : :,,, : : : : :, anomaly : answer :, : : : : adopt : agency : aggravated :, appeals : answering : anybody's : anything's : : : : : : APPEARANCES appendix : :, :, : :, : :,, : : : :,,, : : : appears : : : : :,, : : :, :, :, : : : : :, : :,, :, :, apply : : : : : : : application : applied : : :, : applying : : Official OfficialPage  :, authority : argued : authorize :, arguing : : avoid : : argument : : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : back : : : : : : : : backdrop : : burning : briefs : broad : broadly : aware : awful : burglary : brought : : building : : :, : : B arguments : Arizona : armed :, arson :,,, basic : basically : : : basis : : : bear : bears : : :,, :,, : : :, : : : behalf :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : best : :,, : :, : : :,, :, :, :,, : Blowing : board : : :, beyond : : BIA : big : blow : believe : : :, : :, : art : : asking : aspect : Assimilated : Assistant : associated : :, :, : : : :,,,, :,, : : boards' : bother : Breyer : : :, :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : business : C C : : call : called : : calls : cancelation : : :,,, : canceled : canvas : capture : Career : carries : case : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, cases : : : categorical : :,,, :,, : : :,,, : categorical­appr... : A allowed : : argue : : ambiguities : : : : arsons : :, applies :, : Ashwan :,, board's : : agree :, agreed : ahead : : alien : : Alito :, : :, : :,,, :, : approach : : Association : : :, :, : :, : : :, attach : : : assumption : approached : attaches : attorney : : : :,, : : Alito's : : area : areas : allow : categories : categorization : category : brief : :, :, : : : : : : : certain :, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : : come : : : Official : : : :,, : : :, :, :, : : Congress's : : : congressional : : comes : coming : comment : comments : commerce : : : :, : : : : : : connection : : consequences : : : : considerably : commit : commits : committed : : : : certainly : : challenge : chance : change : changed : chapter : characterize : Chevron :, : : Chief :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : common : comparator : child : :, compare :, :, : :,, choice : choose : chose : : circuit :, : circumstances : compared : : comparing : comparison : : complete : : : : concerned : concluded : : conclusion : cite : classic : : classified : clause : : clear : : :, : : : : Congress :, : : : : : :, conclusions : conduct : : : Page  count : : : :, : counted : counts : couple : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : criminal :, : course : : : : : : :, : : criteria : court :, : : critical : :, : : : : : considered : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, consistent : : :, consistently : Court's :, constitute :, :, : constitutional : : constitutional­av... courts : : : : : : : constrain :, construction : cover : : : : construing : contend : :, : context : : create : : covered :, : : continuing : convicted :, : : : : : : conviction : :,,,, : :, : : : : created : crime :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : :, : :, : crime­of­violence : crimes :,, :, : culpable : : current : DD :D.C :, damage : : damaging :dangerous :day : : deal : : dealing :dealt :, : decide :decision : : :, : :,,,, decisions ::defendant :: :defendants :deference :, :, : defined ::, :, :,, : :, definition :: : : : : :, :, :, definition­type:clearer : : : clearly : : clerk : client : code : : : : : colleague : Colorado : combined : convictions : : : corner : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :,, : :,, : : : : correct :,,, :, : : :, : :,, :,, : :, : correctly : counsel : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, : :,,, : :, :,, : : : : :, elements : : :, excluded : : : : excluding :, :,, : exclusions : exercise : existed : : : : : : :, : expansive : :,,,, explanation : explicitly : :, : : : : explosion : :,, : explosive : : eligible : : eliminate :, : : eliminated : :, enable : enacted : engage : engaged : enhancement : entailed :, entire :, : entirely : equivalent : : especially : ESQ :, :, : essentially : establishment : evade : evil : :, :, explosives : :, :, :, expressed : : : expressly : extent : F f : fact : : : : : facts : fall :, :, : : : :, falls : familiar : : fatal : favor : fear : feature :, Federal :, Page  : :,, : : :, : : : : : : :,,, :,,,, :, :, :,, : : : : : :,, :, federally : feels : : : : : felonies : :, : : : : : : : : : felons : felony :,, : : : : :,, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : :, : : : : final : find :, : fingertips : : fire : :, firearm :, :, discusses : discussion : definitions : deliberate : demonstrate : dispute : Department : disregard : distinction : depend : : :, depending : deportation : : : : : : : : deprive : described :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, :, : doctrines : doing :, : : : : : :, dollars : doubt : drafting : draw : draws : : : : dread : described­in : describing : descriptive : despite : determination : deterrence : deviation : devices : dictionary : difference : different : drop :, : dropped : drops :, : dwelling : E e : : :, : : earlier : : : easily : : :, :, :, : : : :, easy : effort : :, : : : : either : : : : : ELAINE : : : element : :, difficult :, difficulty : dilute : directly : disagree : : disavowing :, discover : discretion :, :, : discretionary : : :, : : : felon : : : example : : :, :, exactly : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : :,, :,, : : :,, :, : : : exchange : exclude : examples : : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,,, : :, :,, :, : :,, : fix : firearm's : first : : : : : : : : : fit : five : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official follow : : GINSBURG : Guadagno : : following : : :, follows : forbids : force : : foreign : : : : : : : : : :,, : :,, God : : going : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : give : given : : gives : : giving : : go : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : Goldenberg : : :,, : : :, : :,,,, : : :, :,, :, :, :, :, :, : :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, :, : Guadagno's : guess : gun :, H half :, : halves : hand : :,,, : :, : : :,, : :, :, :, :, : : handle : happen : :, :, harder : : :, harm : :, :,,, : : :, : : :, :, :, : : :, :, hear : heard : : hearing : held : helpful : hesitate : history : Holder : honestly : : goodness : government : : : : Honor : : : : : : hook : : : Forget : forms : : forth : : : found : : : four : : fraud : : : :,, :, friend : friend's : front : fugitive : full : function : further : : : G :, general :, : : : : : general's : : :, Page  intent : : : interested : interpret : : : interpretation : : : : : interpreting : interstate : : : : : : :,, : : : :, interstate­comm... : :, : : : : : : :, : : invalid : involve : : : involved : involving : : irrational : issue : : : J j : : : :, :, : : : : jail : : Johnson :, : Joint : Jones : : :, :, :, JORGE : jurisdiction : : : : : : : I identical : idiosyncratically : ignore : ignored : : illogical : immediate : immigration : : important : : : : : : : : : impose : imposed : : imprisoned : imprisonment : : INA : include : : : : included : : : : : : includes : including : : inclusions : indicate : indicates : : indifference : individual : : : individually : individuals : : : inference : inform : information : : instances : instinctive : intend : :, intended : : GOLENDBERG G : gambling : : good :, : : : generic :, : government's hooker : : : hooks : : greatest : human : grocery : ground : : hundred : :, :, : : :, : : generically : generics : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : law :, :, : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : :, laws :, Lawyers : leave :, leaves : left : :, : : : Page  : : : :, : : : : : :, :, meant : :, looked : : :, : looking :, : mens :, : : : : :, looser : LORETTA : lose : lot :,, : mentions : mention : mentioned : : : : : : :, merely : : : : : : met : : lots : low : Luna : : Lynch : : legislative : legislature's : lenity : Leocal : less­serious : lesser :, lesser­type : light : : Malicious : :,, : managing : : : : M million : minimum : minor : : :, : : : : : : : : : misdemeanors : : major : : minutes : making : misdemeanor : :, :, : : : :,, : :, jurisdictional : Justice's : keep : :,, K KAGAN :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : K : : :,, :, :, : : : :,,,, :, :, : : : :,, : : : : kidnapping : :, : : :, : : : : : KENNEDY : key :, killing : kind : : : : : kinds : : knew : : know : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : jury : : justice : :, :, :, : : :,, :,, :, :,, : :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : :, : : :, : : :,, L : :, : :,, :, : : : : :,, :,, :, :,,,, :,, : : : : :, :, : :,, :,,, : : :, : : : :, :, : : : labeled : lack : language : : :,, :, : : : : :,, : : :, :,,,, : : : :, :,, :, : : : : : :, : : : L limit : : limitation : mandatory : misremembering manuals : match : model : : : : : : material : : matter : :, modification : : limitations : : : : : Mor : : : moral : morning : multiple : : matters : :, move : :, : : limited : limiting : : MATTHEW : mouth :, line : lines : lingering : list : : : maximum :, moved : mean : : : : : : :,, multiply : :, :, : : : N : : : : : : N :, : : : locked :, long­standing : meaning : longer : : look : : N.Y : National : listed :, : little : : means : : nature : murder : :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : problem : : : offenses :,, part : particular : :, : : :, : : :, places : : : : : particularly : :,, : : : : :,,,, :,, :, :,,,, : :, : : : : :,, : : :,,, parts : :, point : :, process : :,, : : : : : :,, : : : penalty : :,, : : : : : : proof : proper : : : : : : : property : : plain : play : please : : patchwork : penal : : : : :, : :, problems : : proceeding : proceedings : : pointed : : points : pornography : :,,, : :,, poses : position : : : : : : :,, positions : possessing : possession : : :,,, : oh : : : penultimate :, okay :, : : :, :,,, :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : people : : : : : : : people's : pernicious : : person : : :, : : :, : : personal : Petitioner :, omit :, once : one­day : : one­year : ones : : operating : opposed : oral : :, : : : :,, Ouch : outside : : overlap :, overturned : owe : owed :, :, : :,,, : :,, :, :,, prosecute : : prosecuted : :, : :, : prosecution : : prostitutes : prostitution : protect : : prove : : proven : : provide : provision :, :, :,, : : :,, : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : : necessarily : : : : : necessary : : need : :, : : : : needs : negative : : never : : : : : : nevertheless : new : : :, Nijhawan : nine : nonrental :, normally : noted : notice : Notwithstanding : November : nullity : : :, number : O O : : object : obstruction : obtain :, obviously : : : : : original : possibility : possible : : proved : : :, : : power :, :, : :, precise : :, : preclude : present : : presentation : presumed : Petitioner's : : :, : :, : : : pick : :,, : pretty : : : : P p : : p.m : odd : offense :,, : : : : : : page : : : : : : : : : :,, Palacios : : : : paragraph : : : : : : : : prevented : : :, : principle : : : : : picked :,, : : : : principles : : prison : private : probation : picking : place : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : :,, : : : : :, provisions : : real : :, : :, :, : : punishable : :, : : purely : purpose : : :, : : : pursuant : pursue : pursued :, put : : : : : : realized : really :, : : : : : : : : : : :, reason : : :, : :, : reasonable : reasons : : :, :, rebuttal : : : receive : : puts : : received : putting : : receiving : : Q recite : recited :, : Official regards :,, regularly : regulate : relate : related : relates : relating : : relationship : relief : :, rely : relying :, :,, remaining : : remains : remember : remembering : removability : removable : : : removal : : :,,, :, : removing : : recites : recklessness : qualify : : question :, : : : : :,, recognized : : : render : rendered : record : : rental :, refer :, : reply : questions : : : quite :, R R : racketeering : radically : rape : rea :, :, : reached : : : : reference : : references : referred : : :, referring : : require : : : : required :, : : requirement : : :,, : : : : requirements : : : : refers : : : : reaction :, read : : reflected : regard : regarded : : : : regarding : reading :, : regardless : requires : : requiring : reserve : residual : resolved : respect : : : : : Page  Respondent : : : : SCALIA : :,, : :, :, : :, :, :,, : : restrict : revisited : RICO :,, :, :, :, :, :,, : :,,,, right : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : rise : : risen : ROBERTS : scheme : schemes : scope : : : second :, : : section : : :, : : : : : : : : :,,,, : :, : sections : : : : see : : : : : : : : : : : : seeking : :,, : roundabout : rubber : rulable : rule : : rules : Russell : : : :, : :, : seized : : sense : : sensible : : sentence :, : S S : : satisfactory : saying : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : says :, : :,,, : : : : :, : scale : :,,, :, :, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, :, : : : : sentencing : serious : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : set : : : : sets : Alderson Reporting Company seven : severe : sexual : : stamp : start : : state :, : Official : :,,, : : :, : strength : strike : stay : step : stop : store : strange :, :,, :, :,,, : :,, :, :, :, :, : : : : :,, : : : Strikes :, :, : : : : : : : : : : subject : : submission : : : :, submitted :, :, : : : subprovision : stated : states :, : strong : stuck : stuff :, : : : : : :,,, : Subsection : :, :, : : subsections : : substantive : : : : :,,, :,, : : :, suddenly : statute :, : : : : : :,, : :, :, : :, : :, :,,, : : : sufficiently : : : :, : : : suggested : suggesting : :, :, :, :, suggestion : : :, :, :, : :, :, superfluous : suggest : support : : : : : show : : showed : shows : : : : side : : sight : signs :, : : similar : : : similarity : simply : : single : situation : : : : : slippage : sole :, solicitor : : somebody : : somewhat : sorry : : sort : : : : : Sotomayor :,, :,, : :,, : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : sought : : : : sound : sovereign : : specially : specie : specific :, square : swept : T T :, table : take : : taken : takes : talk : talking : : : :, : : : tax : : : : technical : tell : : telling : : : tells : : : : ten :, term :, : terms : terrible : text : : : textual : thank : : : :, thanks : : that,though : theft : : theirs : theories : theory : thing : :, : : : : :, : things :,, : :,, :, :, :, : : : : Page  :, :, : : : :, :, :, :,, :, :, : :,, : :,, :,, : :,,,, :,, : :,,, : :, :,, :, :, :,,, : :, : thinking : third : thought :,, : : : : : : three :, : : :, till : time : : : : : :, title : : : : : :, today : token : tools :, Torres : : transmitting : transportation : transporting : travel :, treat : treated : : treaty : trivial :, true : : : : : : : : : : : thrust : statute's : statutes : : : : : :,, : : : statutory : : : suppose : supposed :, : : : : sweeps : Supreme :, : think : : sure : : : : : : :,, Alderson Reporting Company Page  : : : : (i) : : : : : : : (n) : Official : Vasquez­Muniz we're : :, years : : try : trying : Tuesday : tunnel : turpitude : two :, : : : : U U.S : : : U.S.C :, : : ultimate : unambiguous : unambiguously : uncertainty : underinclusive : : : understand : : : understanding : understood : undertake :, uniformity : unique : United :, : : upshot : use : : : :, : : uses : : usually : utilized : utilizes : V v : : : : : value : various : : : venue : :, versions :, versus : view : : :, : :, : : : : we've :,, : : : : : wealth : : well­recognized violation : : : : : : :,, violations :, :, violence :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, W walked : want : : :,, : : :, : : :, : : : wanted : : :, went : : : wish : wondering : word : : worded : words : : : work :, : : : : : working :, works : : world : : worry : : worst : worth : wouldn't : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : wrestle : write : writes : wants :, : wrong : : : : Washington :, wasn't : : x :, : X : :, : way : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, We'll : XVIII :,, Y Y : yeah :, : : year :,,, : : : :, : : : : : : York : :, Z : , :,, : : : ,­requirem... : :, : : : () : (a)() : : : : ­ : : : (a) : (b) : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : A : : : : : : A : :, Alderson Reporting Company 