Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  AMERICOLD REALTY TRUST,              :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          CONAGRA FOODS, INC., ET AL.            : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, January ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MICHAEL D. POSPISIL, ESQ., Kansas City, Mo.; on behalf            of Petitioner.  JOHN M. DUGGAN, ESQ., Overland Park, Kan.; on behalf of             Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MICHAEL D. POSPISIL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   JOHN M. DUGGAN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL D. POSPISIL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Americold Realty Trust v. ConAgra         Foods.             Mr. Pospisil.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL D. POSPISIL                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. POSPISIL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  The issue before the Court today is whose        citizenship ­­ citizenship controls for purposes of       diversity when a trust is a named party to a lawsuit.                          We believe, based upon over years of        jurisprudence from this Court, the answer is the        trustees. We believe a bright­line rule is appropriate          in this case, that in a lawsuit involving a trust, just             as with a trustee, the trustee should be the party of            interest. And we should compare it to the ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why should we get to that         question if, when this case began, even if you looked          only to the citizenship of the trustees, there was no          complete diversity?  MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, that ­­ that is                     correct. Alderson Reporting Company Official             However, we do argue ­­ and we argued in the          Tenth Circuit; it was briefed ­­ upon whether or not we           could dismiss the ­­ the ­­ the spoiling nondiverse         parties. That issue was briefed under Evergreen case,         and it was briefed before the Tenth Circuit; however,         the Tenth Circuit did not address that issue.                    Respondents bring it up in their brief now;        however, our position is that this Court should address         the issue that's taken, that it granted cert on, and          send that issue back to the Tenth Circuit for review.                      What the Tenth Circuit held here, the issue        that we appealed on, was to look at the beneficiaries as           opposed to the trustees. And we would submit to you           that that's just not supportable under common law, and         it provides results in an unworkable test that is going          to create more confusion than looking at the trustees.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: At common law, the trustees        could sue, couldn't they?                            MR. POSPISIL: They could, Your Honor.       JUSTICE SCALIA: And these trustees could       not sue, could ­­ can they?                              MR. POSPISIL: They cannot, Your Honor.       JUSTICE SCALIA: Because of a new creature         created by Maryland law.                MR. POSPISIL: That's correct,     Alderson Reporting Company Official Justice Scalia. Maryland law has created a statutory          trust, a real estate investment trust.                   However, our position is that just because       that trust can sue and be sued as an entity, that does            not change the analysis. There still has to be somebody           we look to, some real people that we look to to           determine whose citizenship controls.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, this new entity is        called a trust, but why is it more like a traditional             trust than it is like another unincorporated, artificial        entity, like an L.L.C.?                MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, it's more ­­ it's         like a trust because there are two attributes that a           trust have, that have historically had. There is a          separation between legal ownership, and beneficial or       equitable ownership. We have it in this case.                     If you look at Maryland law, they define        REIT as an unincorporated business trust in which        property is acquired, held, managed, administered,      controlled, invested, or disposed of for the benefit and         profit of any person who may become a shareholder. That            distinguishes between legal ownership and equitable      ownership.             The next step we look at is that the common          law, when that's the situation, when you have a trust,           Alderson Reporting Company Official you look and see did the trustees have the customary          power to control, to manage, and to oversee the assets.          Also including to control ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: So who ­­ who owns ­­ who          owns these assets under Maryland law? Is it the          trustees, or is it this ­­ this new corporation­type         entity?                         MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE SCALIA: That's the entity that can        sue, and I assume that that's the entity that owns the            property.             MR. POSPISIL: It can be both, Your Honor.         Under Maryland law ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: And ­­ and the trustees are         sort of in the position of managers ­­                               MR. POSPISIL: Your ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ just ­­ just as though         you ­­ you hired a ­­ a CEO.                      MR. POSPISIL: I would disagree, Your Honor.         Under Maryland law, the assets of a real estate          investment trust can be held by the trustees, or the          trust in its entity.                Again, I don't think that makes the ­­        changes the analysis at all. It ­­ it's still what           citizenship we would look to.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             Trustees ­­             entity?                                                 JUSTICE SCALIA: It can be owned by the         MR. POSPISIL: It can be.      JUSTICE SCALIA: Or ­­ or the trustees.        MR. POSPISIL: That's correct, Your Honor.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mean in ­­ in         one case, or you can have a different type of trust?                                                            MR. POSPISIL: In one case.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In one case.       MR. POSPISIL: In one case, Your Honor.        And I will say this, Justice Scalia, that no          statute in the country that we have found has ever held           that the legal ownership goes in the name of a trust            beneficiary. The ownership is always in the name of the           trust or the trustees. It is never held in the name of             the beneficiaries.              And we think that is controlling here for        the reason that ­­ Navarro is pretty clear on this.          When you have a trustee that has absolute control, you           don't look at the beneficiaries. If the ­­ if the           trustee has absolute control and legal ownership of        trust assets, that's where you look to. That was          exactly what happened in Navarro.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: That was a trustee who had          Alderson Reporting Company Official the authority to sue, right, in the trustee's own name?                      MR. POSPISIL: That is correct, Your Honor.        And that ­­ that is what happened ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: And that's not the case        here.             MR. POSPISIL: That is what happened in        Navarro.             However, the trust in Navarro was a       Massachusetts trust, and it could have sued in its own          name as well.               And the way that Navarro was framed by the         lower court when they decided the opinion was the         district court held that, for purposes of a business          trust, we look to the citizenship of the beneficiaries.         This Court ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: But didn't ­­ didn't ­­       Carden treated Navarro as a case where the suit was           against the individual members, the individual trustees,       trustees as individuals, not the trust.                  MR. POSPISIL: That's correct, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: So I thought Carden was         trying ­­ was set up ­­ if you're a corporation, that's            one thing. If you're any other kind of association, we           look to the members, the shareholders. I mean the ­­           the limited partners as well as the partners. Just          Alderson Reporting Company Official drawing a clear line between corporations on one side,          all other associations, and ­­ with the ­­ with the          added notion that, if Congress wants to make it         different, Congress can do that.                 MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, we believe what        Carden did is Carden tells us if you're not a          corporation, if you're another entity but not a        corporation, we need to look behind the curtain, so to          speak, and look to somebody else to see whose         citizenship controls.              Carden did not involve a trust, didn't        involve ­­ did not involve trustees, and did not involve          trust assets or trust beneficiaries. That's why Navarro         did not control in Carden, and why Carden does not          control in this case.                Carden tells us the first step we have to do          is we have to look through the trust. We have to look             to somebody. Carden dealt with a partnership. And in            terms of a partnership, relying on a long line of cases,             Carden said that for partnerships, we look at all the          members.             Well, there are no members in a trust.         There are no members. At common law, a partnership was            owned by members. They had a legal ownership of that            partnership and the assets.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             That just didn't exist at ­­ at common law         with trusts.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, this is not a        traditional trust, because this is shareholders and not        beneficiaries.             MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It ­­ it's a very         different sort of concept. So now you're asking us to           come and place trustee law above our general rule, that          you're either a corporation or you're not.                    MR. POSPISIL: Justice Sotomayor ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And only the corporation       can have a place of business or an ­­ a place of              incorporation.             MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, we ­­ we admit         that the nomenclature is "shareholder." That's what's        used in the Real Estate Investment Trust Act in         Maryland.             However, that's not to be equated with       another business entity. It's a shareholder is what          they are called, but still they are the beneficial         owners. The ­­ the ­­ the definition I read to you of a               REIT under Maryland law makes clear that the        shareholders own ­­ that the trustees own the property         for the benefit ­­ or the trust, for the benefit of the            Alderson Reporting Company Official shareholders.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought the       shareholders owned the property. They had the legal         interest in the law.                MR. POSPISIL: No, Your Honor. No. It's          either the trust or the trustees under Maryland law.                     So Carden gets us halfway. The next thing         we need to do is look at Navarro, and Navarro tells us            if it's management and customary to control these        assets, we look to the trustees.                    I would tell the Court that the trustees in        this case are very identical to the power of the          trustees in the Navarro case. If you look at our           petition for writ, and the appeal, on the page of the           appendix, page , that's the amended statement of trust         for Americold Realty Trust.                In Section . on page , it defines the         board of trustees and what their powers are. "Under          this Trust" ­­ this is a quote ­­ "the business and            affairs of the Trust shall be managed under the         direction of the board of trustees, and the board shall          have full, exclusive, and absolute power, control, and        authority over any and all property of the Trust. The           board may take any action as, in its sole judgment and           discretion, is necessary or appropriate to conduct the        Alderson Reporting Company Official business and affairs of the Trust."                  That is almost identical to the language       used to describe the trustees in Navarro. Importantly,         in Navarro ­­ this is a quote from Navarro as well ­­            "The Court has never analogized express trust to        business entities for purposes of diversity      jurisdiction." Navarro realized that they were       separate.             And Carden realized that it was separate,       too. In Carden, this Court specifically held that the          real party in interest test that was adopted and used          for Navarro was unique because it was the common law's          dealings with trustees, which just didn't exist in        Carden.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought that the        distinction in Carden was quite plain, that Carden was a          case against the individual trustees, not against the        trust. Carden did say that.                  MR. POSPISIL: Carden distinguished Navarro;      that's correct, Your Honor. That is correct.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: On the ground that the        suit there was against the individual trustees, not the         trust.             MR. POSPISIL: That's correct. However,       Carden did not decide that issue because, again, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official trust was not at ­­      there was not a trust issue in        Carden. However, if you look at Navarro, what Navarro          did is even though the trustees were the named parties,          Navarro Court went ahead and looked, and said let's look          at not only the trustees and what their power is, but           let's look at the beneficiaries. Shall we look at them           as well? There's , of those.                    And the Court specifically said that is      irrelevant. We do not look at the , beneficiaries          of this trust. So the Court didn't have a trust as a              party in front of it, but it went ahead and took the            next step to say, look, who do we need to look at? Do              we need to look at the beneficiary owners, or the          trustees?             And that same analysis applies here. And it         doesn't matter if the Trust is the named party or the           trustees. The decision is still going to be the same.           A decision has to be made at who you look to.                                   We would submit ­­   JUSTICE KAGAN: I thought that one of the          virtues of Carden was that it just set up very          categorical, bright­line rule. Everything that's an       artificial legal entity that's not a corporation ought         to be treated in the same way. Doesn't matter what you            call yourself; you can put trust in the title, or not           Alderson Reporting Company Official put trust in the title. If you're an artificial legal           entity that is not a corporation, that's subject to the           rule of Carden.               And there's something, too, just doing that       in that bright­line, categorical way, so that we don't         have to look at the thousands of different variations         among legal entities and decide which fits in which box.                      MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, Carden dealt with        a partnership that had members. Again, there are no          members in a trust. So if we export the language used             in Carden to say you have to go ­­ look at the members             because they're who you really look at, well, the         closest thing to a member of a trust is going to be the               trustees; it's not going to be the beneficiary.                    Let's look back at common law. When a         partnership ­­ before they could sue or be sued in their           own name, a partnership always had to have ­­ the           members of that partnership had to bring the cause of          action.             Now let's look at the common law for a trust           before a trust could be sued or sue in its own name. In               those circumstances, the trustees were in charge of the         litigation. It was the trustees that brought that         lawsuit.             So to the extent that Carden sheds any light         Alderson Reporting Company Official on what is a member and what is not a member for the               trust, we submit that the most analogous thing is that          the trustee is the equivalent to a member for a           partnership. The problem with the Tenth Circuit's rule         looking at all the beneficiaries, that's going to be a          problem that is so unworkable that in certain        circumstances you're not even going to be able to tell          who is a beneficiary.                 For example, some trusts, like a charitable        trust, don't even have beneficiaries identified.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why should it matter as        long as it's not a corporation?                   MR. POSPISIL: Because, Your Honor, again,       we go impact to how trusts have been treated separately          and distinctly, as a historical matter, for hundreds of          years. A trust has never been held to be equal to a              business entity.              There are basically three different     categories: There's a corporation; there's an        unassociated ­­ unincorporated association, excuse me;      and there are trusts. And they are different.                     But the beneficiary analysis used by the       Tenth Circuit, again, not only it would be hard to          identify who some beneficiaries are, but we have        sometimes ­­ look at Navarro. There were ,         Alderson Reporting Company Official beneficiaries in that trust. As ­­ as one of the amicus            points out ­­              one?             JUSTICE SCALIA: How many are there in this         MR. POSPISIL: There are between and        , Your Honor.               JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that ­­ you know, how ­­         how many are ­­ are there normally in these special          Maryland trusts?              MR. POSPISIL: To be a Real Estate         Investment Trust for purposes of Federal taxation       benefits, it's got to be at least at .                                             JUSTICE SCALIA: At least a hundred.        MR. POSPISIL: At least .      JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you know of any that ­­         that are more than a thousand?                                           MR. POSPISIL: Oh, yes.     JUSTICE SCALIA: Really?    MR. POSPISIL: Yes, Your Honor. If you look          at the amicus that was filed by NAREIT, they point out           that there are some publicly traded REITs that have tens          of millions of shareholders or beneficiaries. And        they're not only all across the country; they're all         across the world.               And so a lot of these shares of REITs are           Alderson Reporting Company Official also traded on a daily basis. So you can have a             beneficiary of a Real Estate Investment Trust that :          o'clock this morning I could be a beneficiary, : I'm            not; I sold my interest. How are you ever going to             identify who the beneficiaries are at any given time?                     This Court has made clear, specifically for       jurisdictional purposes, that we need a simple test that          courts can use that says we don't need to look behind ­­           dig down deep in the weeds. Let's just look at the            case, figure out who do we look to. And the proper way             to do that is the trustees.                  In this case, there's five trustees. It's        very easy to find out who those trustees are. All you            have to do is go to the Maryland ­­ excuse me ­­           Maryland Secretary of State, and you can look up and          find the Declaration of Trust and you're going to see          who those five individuals are. There's no place, ever,          to look, prior to extensive discovery, which is going to          be time­consuming, to find out who the beneficiaries        are. That's just ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, why should ­­ I        mean, it ­­ it is the person who's invoking diversity          jurisdiction has to show the diversity, and if they         can't, then you sue in State court.                   MR. POSPISIL: That ­­ that's an option,        Alderson Reporting Company Official Your Honor. However, the purpose of a diversity          jurisdiction is to get a neutral playing ground for ­­          for companies and for businesses of all types to have an           unworkable test that, at the front end, would make it          almost impossible for a litigant to even make that          decision ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's true of       partnerships; it's true of LLCs; it's true of a wide           variety of legal entities.                 MR. POSPISIL: That's true, Your Honor. And        partnerships are controlled specifically by Carden.      However, I would submit that there's not going to be as            many partners as there's going to be trustees and         beneficiaries, potentially, for ­­ especially for a Real         Estate Investment Trust.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it ­­ is it a          pertinent consideration in terms of the impact on        Federal jurisdiction? I mean, this is standard,         run­of­the­mill commercial dispute about a commercial       accident. And adopting one position would limit the         number of times that such disputes would be brought in          Federal court. The other one will expand it. Is           that ­­ I mean, does Americold really feel that it's not            going to get a fair shake in the Kansas courts in this             case? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. POSPISIL: Yes, Your Honor. They ­­        they believe, like a lot of businesses do, that they           have more neutrality in a level playing ground in a           Federal court, not only in Kansas, but all across the          country. Wherever ­­ Americold has different        locations, with ­­ with deep ­­ cold storage; excuse me.          They're all across the country. They can be sued          anywhere.             And under the rule the Tenth Circuit has put         forth, they're never going to be able to go to Federal           court. It's just never going to happen. It's almost           going to be a near impossibility.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe that's a       problem for ­­ for Congress as ­­ as the problem of           corporations was. You know, Congress adopted a special          rule for corporations, and maybe it ought to adopt a          special rule for real estate investment trusts.                   MR. POSPISIL: Congress always could, Your       Honor. However, I don't think they have to in this            case, because I think this Court's opinion in Navarro,          coupled with Carden, provide the answer.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any       definition of what the common law trust was? I'll ­­          I'll give you the ones I understand, and you tell me how             you don't.  Alderson Reporting Company Official               I thought in a common law trust, the        trustees had legal title. They owned the assets. They           could be sued individually, and ­­ and they could sue in           their own names.               In this REIT, as I understand it, the assets          are in the name of the Trust, not in the name of the             individual trustees, and it is the Trust that sues or          can be sued, not the individual trustees.                               Am I wrong about those ­­      MR. POSPISIL: You are wrong in the second         point, Your Honor.                                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right ­­     MR. POSPISIL: Yeah.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ so go ­­ I'm right on          the first part.               MR. POSPISIL: Yes. The ­­ the ­­ the point           that ­­ that you're incorrect is under Maryland law with          this statute, the property of a trust can be held in the             name of the trust itself, or the trustees.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have a section         for that? I'm going to look it up, so.                      MR. POSPISIL: Okay.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Because that's not how I        originally understood things, but ­­ that's all right ­­                    MR. POSPISIL: Okay.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ you can give it to me          on rebuttal.              MR. POSPISIL: Justice Sotomayor, it's the       Maryland Code of Corporations and Associations Section       ­(). And that provision ­­ it's also on page           of our reply brief, the yellow brief. And that statute,           that provision says: "A REIT may hold and dispose of           legal title to property either, quote, in the name of          the trust or in the name of the trustees."                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Thank you.                 MR. POSPISIL: So we ­­ we believe the         proper test is ­­ is a combination between Navarro and           Carden and we should look at the trustees and it doesn't           matter whether or not the real estate investment trust         can sue on its own behalf or has to sue through the            trustees. It's all clear that the beneficiaries of the          trust never have legal ownership; so, therefore, we        should never look to them.                 If the Court has any other questions,       otherwise I'll remain my time.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Duggan.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN M. DUGGAN                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. DUGGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         Alderson Reporting Company Official please the Court:               We urge the Court to adopt and reaffirm its         bright­line ruling announced in Carden that artificial       entity associations sued or suing in their own names         must measure their diversity citizenship by all of their         members, which would include those persons who own a         beneficial interest in the entity.                 In this case, that would be the shareholder        members of a REIT who are in perfect accord with the            limited partners' ownership interest in Carden.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would you describe       beneficiaries as a member ­­ member of a trust? I mean,               as you articulate it. I think what's different than           this, and Carden sort of gets you past the trust. But            you then have to still make a choice: Okay. We're not              going to look at the trust. Do we look at the trustees             or the beneficiaries? And I ­­ I don't know if I'd call               beneficiaries members of a trust.                  MR. DUGGAN: Mr. Chief Justice, I think it's          important to understand that there is a very significant          distinction between a shareholder of a REIT and a           beneficiary of a common law traditional trust.                    As set forth in the appendix to the        petition, page , which is the Declaration of Trust for          Americold, the actual shareholders have personal      Alderson Reporting Company Official property interest in the shares. They do not have any           interest in the property of the trust entity, and they          have no right to compel any partition, division,        dividend, or distribution of the trust property.                   And that makes them uniquely different than       a common law beneficiary who actually has an equitable         ownership interest in the trust property.                  Under common law traditions, the trustee      holds the legal title to the asset but only for the           benefit of those persons who are named as beneficiaries.         And those beneficiaries have equitable rights in the        property that's legally nominally in the name of the         trustee.             Here the shareholder members, as we describe       them, only have an interest in the personal property of          a certificate of ownership, very much like the limited         partners in Carden.               In Carden the limited partners didn't have       an ownership interest in the assets of the entity. It           had a certificate of ownership as a limited partner.                       In those two instances, Mr. Chief Justice,       this limited partner in Carden and the trustee member,         or the beneficiary member in this case, are virtually         identical. They do two things: They invest money in an            artificial entity and receive a certificate of        Alderson Reporting Company Official ownership, and they periodically vote on important       matters that affect the entity.                 identical.             They are, in most instances, virtually      So in my view ­­ and I think this case rests            upon defining a clear rule, a clear rule that says when             you have an artificial entity, we're going to measure by          those persons that I consider to be the beneficial          owners.             And I'll tell you why that's important:       Because that is consonant with the rule announced by         this Court in Chapman, Great Southern, Bouligny, and        Carden.             Chapman v. Barney, the doctrinal wall case,       those persons that were deemed to be members were the          persons that were the stock owners of the joint stock          company under New York law.                 In Great Southern, again a limited       partnership case, were those persons that had an        economic interest in the entity.                 And the same rule applied in Carden.                   If we are to adopt Americold's position in        this case and now suggest that the board of trustees          that do not have an economic ownership interest in the          entity itself controls, we're going to open the        Alderson Reporting Company Official floodgates of uncertainty for the under ­­ for the lower          courts.                         And I'll tell you why.     The Court has never explicitly addressed a       limited liability company, and they're common throughout       the United States. Limited liability companies can call         their boards of managers boards of trustees. And in          certain instances under those uniform laws, both the        general partnership law and the LLC law, managers can         hold property in trust for the entity just like the          trustees in this case can hold property in trust for the           entity.             At the end of the day, if we're going to now           say it's the board of managers that are called trustees          that we look to, everyone's going to analogize in the          circuits that haven't decided the LLC question: I'm         much more like the board of managers in Americold and          much different than the limited partners in Carden. And          it's going to create uncertainty.                 Our rule, the bright­line rule, is very       clear. When an artificial entity is sued or being ­­ or            suing in its own name, we look to the members, which in            this case constitutes those persons that own the        beneficial interest in the entity, the shareholder       members, just like this Court did in Chapman, Great         Alderson Reporting Company Official Southern, Bouligny, and Carden.                And I think it's important to understand in         our view Navarro never decided the question: Did in          fact a trust constitute an entity and who the members of            the entity were?               Navarro stands for the limited proposition,      as suggested by Justice Ginsburg, that in fact we look          to those persons that had a right to sue.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: And in this case you        couldn't sue the trustees individually, right?                  MR. DUGGAN: That is correct. In this case,          under Maryland law, the trustees, even if they are the          owners of the property in trust for the entity, still          have no authority under the statute to bring suit nor do           they have the ability to be sued.                   The entity itself, Americold Realty Trust,      has admitted in this Court and in the Tenth Circuit that           it is the successor in interest to the corporation that          my client's, ConAgra Foods, entered in to a contract          with. I had no choice but to sue the entity. When the               entity is sued, the doctrinal wall of Chapman v. Barney          is in play: Are you a corporation or are you an             artificial association?              In this case they're an association. We        measure by those persons that have an ownership interest         Alderson Reporting Company Official in the artificial entity, the shareholder members, not        the board of managers.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Duggan, do you think        it's possible that we took a bit of a wrong turn in ­­              in Carden? In other words, that, in fact, all of these            entities should be treated like corporations and that        the strongest arguments on the other side, you know, are          really those arguments. And those arguments fly in the          face of Carden but that ­­ but they're really arguments          about why ­­ why not treat these just like a          corporation?             MR. DUGGAN: Well, Justice Kagan, I agree,         and I think the Court said in Carden that our decision            is precedent bound and perhaps even unresponsive to        policy considerations, but it is indeed Congress's       prerogative to change the law.                 And indeed, Congress has spoken. Congress       spoke in , and Congress said, we've legislated        against this backdrop of Chapman v. Barney, Great        Southern, Bouligny, Carden, and Navarro, and we reached        the decision ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: If we ­­ if we made the          law in the first place, why should we say, well, we made            it, but we're not going to fix it? Let Congress fix it.                         MR. DUGGAN: Well, because I think Congress         Alderson Reporting Company Official has fixed it, and Congress has recognized, specifically        with class action lawsuits, that they would treat        associations the same as corporations if they are named         as a party in a class action lawsuit in the             amendments to Section .                  And they specifically said, if you are an      unincorporated association, we're going to look to your        place of incorporation and your principal place of        business for purposes of diversity jurisdiction in class        action lawsuits. But they did not say if ­­ with regard            to every other garden variety commercial dispute like        the one we have here today, that that rule would apply.                       And Congress is capable of speaking.      They've spoken post Carden in . And they've made it           clear that those doctrinal walls of Chapman v. Barney         should remain in play as announced by this Court but          with the limited exception of class action lawsuits.                    So if the court took a wrong turn in Carden,           Congress has affirmed it only to the extent that it has           announced a rule that applies to associations for policy          reasons in class action cases.                 JUSTICE BREYER: The problem, just from the        point of view of the common sense of it, is you have an             organization that has, A, the organization; B, the        trustees; and C, the shareholders.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             So applying Carden, what you would say ­­       and Navarro: If you sue the trustees, you look to their            citizenship. But if you sue the trust itself, you don't           look to the citizenship of the trust; you don't look to           the citizenship of the trustees. You go beyond that and           look to the citizenship of the members.                     I mean, that seems odd. Why do you look to          the members or the shareholders, or the ­­ or the          beneficiaries where you sue the trust itself but you         don't in the identical situation where the law of the          State allows you to sue the trustees? I mean, that            seems such a sport, such a ­­ a fluke.                        MR. DUGGAN: But it is the sport that's         played even with regard to limited partnerships,       Justice Breyer, because in the instance where in a         limited partnership a general partner who is managing         the affairs of the entity breaches a duty to a third             party and the entity itself also is responsible for a          breach of duty, a party can sue both the general partner            and the artificial entity. And if the general partner          happens to be an individual, you measure by his natural          citizenship and you measure the entity by virtue of who          the members are.               And people make tactical reasons every day       in the United States about who to sue and who not to            Alderson Reporting Company Official sue. In some instances, they may choose to sue the           general partner because they want to get into Federal         court and they don't want to sue the entity, but they'll           take their risks on suing only one of the parties that's           liable, or they may sue all of them. But they have to             satisfy the rules applicable to each one of those         particular parties that may be responsible.                    I think the other thing that's important      here is that the ­­ the argument suggested by the          Petitioner is that we look to the control test, a test            of those persons that are in control, and this Court has           implicitly and expressly rejected that test.      Specifically, the Court rejected it in Carden. But more          implicitly, if you look at the Chapman v. Barney case,          Barney was a plaintiff in the case, brought the suit as            president of the New York Stock Company, and he had the           absolute right under New York law to control the         litigation and bring the claim.                 But the Court never looked to the control of         the litigation by Barney as a reason why it should           measure the citizenship of the entity. It looked to all           the owner members of the company. And this Court ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it the Petitioner's       position that the Real Estate Investment Trust is more         like a trust than an LLC, than a limited partnership?            Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. DUGGAN: I think it's made that         suggestion to the Court, but in our ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ and if that is         their position, what would your response be?                               MR. DUGGAN: Our response would be ­­       JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why ­­ why is an REIT more          like a limited partner than it is a common law trust?                         MR. DUGGAN: There's two primary reasons,       Justice Kennedy. The first one is, this is an          artificial entity. And the entity can hold the assets,          and it's managed by a board of trustees, some of whom            may or may not hold the assets of the entity in trust.            But that's no different than a ­­ a general partner of a              limited partnership. They can hold assets ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me        that's a wash because what you describe is a common law             trust as well, so I'm ­­                                         MR. DUGGAN: Precisely.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: That sounds like a wash.         MR. DUGGAN: In my view, the one market         distinction between their assertion here and a common         law trust is this isn't a common law trust. It is an              artificial entity. And if in fact their trustees can          hold assets for the entity, then maybe they are acting          as trustees and maybe they can bring certain claims.         Alderson Reporting Company Official But our bright­line rule is this.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ a common law trust          exists in nature? That's the common law?                                entity.                         MR. DUGGAN: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it's not an artificial        MR. DUGGAN: It's not an artificial entity.        JUSTICE KENNEDY: Because we know it and        love it so well or what?                  MR. DUGGAN: Well, it's been around since        the Middle Ages, as I understand the brief of Winston           Wong, the amicus in the case. And from that vantage           point, common law trust entities have never been        recognized as entity status with capacity to sue and be          sued as an entity. The trustees who are the legal           nominal owners of the assets bring the claim. That's a           significant distinction. But just as importantly, the        beneficiary shareholders of a REIT have no equitable         interest in the assets of the artificial entity because         the very Trust declaration itself provides it's merely        personal property. They are so much like the limited          partners in Carden that it's striking.                  But just as importantly, I think, back to         the point I was making, the Court expressly rejected the           control test in Carden and said, quote, "real persons to          Alderson Reporting Company Official controversy test" and, quote, "which parties have       control over the subject of the litigation" have never         guided our reasoning with regard to who are the citizens          of an artificial entity. And in fact they can't point           to one single case by this Court where this Court has           ignored the citizenship of the beneficial owners of an         entity and instead substituted in a board of managers.                      And indeed, if that were the holding of the         Court today, the Court would be reversing itself from         hundreds of years of precedent where it ­­ it chose in           Chapman, Great Southern, Bouligny, and Carden to look to         the ownership of the members and the artificial entity.                     One final point with regard to difficulty in        measuring these entities.               It was suggested that there might be       thousands of members of a REIT. Well, that very well            could be true. But there also could be thousands of           limited partners in these sophisticated limited      partnerships that are being used for real estate        transactions. Just because there are a lot of owners of            an artificial entity association doesn't seem to weigh        heavily enough to create the ambiguity that you would         under ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Look ­­ look at the other         odd thing in writing this opinion your way. You say,           Alderson Reporting Company Official well, this isn't really like a trust. I mean, it is              sort of a trust, but there are important differences.          They can sue and be sued. The trust itself can hold the             property, and the beneficiaries do not have an equitable         interest. And because they don't have an equitable         interest, it's more like a private association or,         et cetera, in Carden.                 But, of course, that means that we look to        their interest. We look to their property. We're          basically having them as part of the necessary parties         because they have a property interest, the very people          we just said that this is a different kind of           organization because they lack an equitable interest in        the property.              MR. DUGGAN: But that's no different than        what we do in limited partnerships under Carden. We          simply look at the limited partners for purposes of         measuring diversity. They're only important to the        extent that they're required for measuring.                  The final point is, there was an argument        that said, well, you know, REITs are publicly traded and          that is true. But the NAREIT brief, the amicus brief           points out that nearly percent of all REITs ought to           be corporations. And most publicly traded REITs are         corporations. And indeed, Maryland REITs can choose the         Alderson Reporting Company Official corporate form of incorporation, and they would be        measured simply by the principal place of business and         their state of incorporation.                Just because a few REITs choose to be         associations doesn't seem to justify creating      uncertainty in the doctrinal wall framework that's been        announced by the Court and now have people trying to          analogize to a board of managers instead of the owner           beneficial members.                  I have nothing further unless there's more    questions from the Court.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I just have one         question on the Safeway and Kraft business. In the          Tenth Circuit, you can ­­ you advised the court that you           thought they were dispensable, nondiverse parties, but       they hadn't appealed. And before this Court, you agreed          to dismiss another dispensable, nondiverse party. And        then your brief comes in and you say, well, I've changed           my mind. They're not dispensable. It ­­ I wonder why.             It seems a bit of sharp practice.                    MR. DUGGAN: Well, I think ­­ I think, Mr.            Chief Justice, that if in fact that's a question that           still remains if you affirm ­­ or if you reverse and say            that we measure by the trustees, it should be remanded          to the Tenth Circuit for them to make a determination.           Alderson Reporting Company Official In the first instance, it was raised by the Petitioners          for the first time, as I understand it, in their merits            brief that Kraft and Safeway were properly dismissed.                    We improvidently took the wrong position in       front of the Tenth Circuit, and we don't think Newman          Green supports that position. And I think the Court can            review Newman Green and look at it and say, well,          really, are they dispensable parties or not?                   And I think, quite frankly, if in fact the          Court adopts a ruling here that says we measure by the            board of managers instead of the owner members, then it          would be appropriate to remand back to the Tenth         Circuit, not only to decide the case on the merits,          which they didn't decide, but also to make a         determination as to whether Kraft and Safeway really        truly are dispensable or not.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So just extend the        litigation even further than it's ­­                             counsel.                         MR. DUGGAN: Unfortunately, perhaps.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Thank you,        MR. DUGGAN: Thank you so much.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Pospisil, you       have eleven minutes remaining.            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL D. POSPISIL      Alderson Reporting Company Official                ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. POSPISIL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                   I'd like to start off by addressing      Justice Breyer's comment about gamesmanship. You're       absolutely right. What difference does it make if the          Trust is sued or the Trustee is sued? We're still           looking at Trust assets. It doesn't make ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: His point really is that        this is sort of like a trust but not very much. And              indeed, the key point, to me, is that the shareholders          here have no beneficial interest in the property.                    MR. POSPISIL: And that's the second       argument I wanted to make, Your Honor. There are two            statutes, two statutory cites that I want to give to the            Court, and one of them I read already. Under Maryland            Code of Corporations and Associations ­(c), the       definition of REIT is as follows: "An unincorporated         business trust in which property is acquired, held,        managed, administered, controlled, invested, or disposed      of for the benefit and profit of any person who may           become a shareholder."                Second provision: Missouri ­­ or Maryland       Code of Corporations and Associations, ­(e): The        definition of a business trust is "a REIT engaged in           Alderson Reporting Company Official business in which property is acquired, held, and        managed for the benefit of shareholders."                  JUSTICE BREYER: And then you say in the         section shareholders shall have no interest in the        property of the trust.                MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, if ­­ if        anything, that ­­ that distinction makes this even        further removed. Why ­­ why would those shareholders,         if they have no interest whatsoever, why would we ever          even look to them? That makes even more sense ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know. I didn't           write ­­ I didn't write Section ; your client did.                       (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: That's what it says, so how         are we supposed to take that?                  MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, I ­­ I would say            that the statute obviously is ­­ is what controls here.          I mean, because we want to have a rule that's across the             board for all trusts. And if you look at the statute of             Maryland, the statute language I just said definitely         creates an equitable interest in shareholders ­­ bless        you ­­ for a Real Estate Investment Trust.                     There is another point that Respondents      made; I'd like to point out, is that they said there is            no case in which this Court has looked to anything other           Alderson Reporting Company Official than beneficiaries when you're involved in a case with a           trust. I would submit there ­­ there's two responses to            that.             Number one, there is a case that we cited in           our brief. It's called Thomas v. The Board of Trustees           of the Ohio State University. In that case, the Board           itself was sued in its own name. It was the party. It              was allowed to be sued by the Ohio laws. It was a case               that involved adverse possession with some property       that ­­ that the ­­ the students and the university          owned. There was an issue of jurisdiction, whether or          not there was diversity.                The court looked, not to who the       beneficiaries of that board of trustees were; the court         looked to the trustees that sat on that board. That's           who they looked to. They weren't a party to that            action. The court nowhere looked at the beneficiaries.         You're not going to see that ­­ that language at all in            that case.                          And the second case, this Court ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I don't ­­ who ­­           who ­­ who was the party? Who was the defendant in that             case?             MR. POSPISIL: It was Board of Trustees of         the Ohio State University.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SCALIA: You say the trustees were        not a party?                itself ­­             MR. POSPISIL: That's correct. The board        JUSTICE SCALIA: You separate the board of        trustees from the ­­ from the trustees?                   MR. POSPISIL: No. The ­­ the board of          trustees, it would be like the equivalent of a trust.           You look at the trust. Okay, well, who do you look to?             Do you look to who the beneficiaries of that are, or do            you look at who controls them?                  And what the court did in that case is they          looked to who controlled ­­ looked to the members of          that board.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Is ­­ is that standard with         ­­ with common law trusts? Can you sue either the           trustees or the board of trustees?                  MR. POSPISIL: Your Honor, when I say "board          of trustees," I'm talking ­­ that was a unit. That was             a specific entity. It was called the board of trustees.           It was an entity that was created under Ohio law.                      JUSTICE SCALIA: When you have a bunch of          trustees, aren't they normally referred to as the board         of trustees?              MR. POSPISIL: That's true, Your Honor.       Alderson Reporting Company Official However, this was a specific provision under Ohio law          that allowed that entity itself to be sued or sue in its            own name. And what the court did is it looked behind            the curtain ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: There's a special statute        that ­­ that allowed the board of trustees ­­                    MR. POSPISIL: That's correct, Your Honor;       that's correct.              Another case, more recently, where the court       did, in fact, look to something beyond the        beneficiaries, is Navarro, of course. Navarro did look         at the beneficiaries. It said we're going to look at           the beneficiaries, but that's not going to control.                    And I realize that a trust was not the named            party there, but the court ­­ it would ­­ it would have            been superfluous for this Court to even look at the          beneficiaries if that was not an issue.                   The court knew that it's going to be        trustees or the beneficiaries. And they specifically        said, the , beneficiaries, we don't look at.                                                                    We believe the same rule should apply here.        If the Court has no other questions, we ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. I do have one.          MR. POSPISIL: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose I wanted a list.          Alderson Reporting Company Official I ­­ I wanted a list, a synthesis of which Bogert or ­­               or Scott on trusts has as the characteristic of the          traditional common law trusts. And then I'd like, over          in the other column, the characteristics of your        organization.                         MR. POSPISIL: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: And now what do I read? I            ­­ I don't think you can list them now. Is there              something I can read just to get an idea of that?                                    MR. POSPISIL: Yeah.    JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe they are identical.       Are you going to say they're ­­                  MR. POSPISIL: They are ­­ they are        identical. And I can lay them out for you.                       Let's go on the left side. The left side,          you're going to have traditional trusts. You're going         to have a separation between legal ownership and         equitable ownership.              Let's look on the right side. Let's look at          a real estate investment trust under Maryland law. You          have legal ownership, which is either in the name of the           trustees or the trust, and you also have equitable         ownership, and then shareholders.                And I'll go back to those two statutes that         I ­­ that I cited to you earlier, Your Honor.           Alderson Reporting Company Official             So those were the attributes that exist in a         common law trust, and they're also the attributes that         exist with a Maryland real estate investment trust.                     If the Court has no other further questions,        we would request that the Court reverse the Tenth         Circuit.                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official OfficialPage  A allowed : :, allows : ambiguity : amended : a.m : : : ability : able : : above­entitled : amendments : Americold : : : : : : : : assets :,, : asking : assertion : asset : absolute :, : : : : beneficiaries : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : briefed :,, :, : : bright­line : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,, :, : : :,, : :,, :,, brought : : : bunch : business : : : : : : bring : : beneficiary : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :,,, :, : association : : :, : : : associations : : : absolutely : accident : accord : acquired : : : Act : acting : action : : :,,,, : actual : added : address :, addressed : addressing : administered : : admit : admitted : adopt : : : adopted : : adopting : adopts : adverse : advised : affairs : : : affect : affirm : affirmed : Ages : agree : agreed : ahead :, AL : ALITO : Americold's : amicus :, : : analogize : : analogized : analogous : analysis : : : : announced : : :, : answer : : appeal : appealed : : APPEARANCES : appendix : : applicable : applied : applies : : apply : : applying : appropriate : : : benefit : : businesses : : : :, : :, : : : : : assume : attributes : :, benefits : beyond : : C : : : call : : bit : : C authority : : bless : : board :,, B B : back : : : : : backdrop : Barney : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :,, :,,,, : : : : boards :, :, based : basically : Bogert : Bouligny : : : : : bound : box : breach : breaches : Breyer : : : called : : : : : capable : capacity : Carden :, : :,,,, :, : : :,,,, :, :, :,,, : : : :,, : :, :, : : :, :, :, : : : : : : : basis : began : argue : argued : argument : : behalf :, : :, : : : : :, :, : : : : : arguments :,, : articulate : artificial : : : : believe :, : : : : beneficial : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, case :,, : : :,,, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : Breyer's : brief : :, : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company :,, : : :,, :, : : : : :,,,,, : : : :, cases : : categorical : : categories : cause : CEO : cert : certain : : : certificate :, : : : cited : : cites : citizens : citizenship :, : : : : : : :,,,, : : City : claim : : claims : class :,,,, clear : : : : : :, : : cetera : change : : changed : changes : Chapman :, column : client : client's : closest : Code : :, cold : : : : combination : : : : come : characteristic : characteristics : charge : charitable : Chief :, :, : :, :, : :, :, : : : choice : : choose : : : chose : Circuit :,,, : : : : :, :, : Circuit's : circuits : circumstances comes : comment : commercial : : : common :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,,, :,, : : : companies : : company : : :, compare : compel : complete : ConAgra : : : Official Page  concept : conduct : confusion : Congress :, : : : country : : decision :, :, coupled : : :, declaration : : : considerations defines : defining : Congress's : consider : consideration : : deemed : deep : : defendant : :,, : course : : court :, : :,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :,, define : :, : :, : :, : : definitely : : : : definition : :, :, : :, :,, : : : : :,,, determination :,,, : : :, :, : :,, determine : : : : difference : differences : :,,,, :, different : : : : : : : : : : : :, consonant : constitute : constitutes : contract : control :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : courts : : controlled : Court's : : describe : : create : : : created : : : difficulty : dig : direction : disagree : discovery : discretion : dismiss : : creates : creating : creature : curtain : : customary : : dismissed : controlling : controls : : : : : : controversy : corporate : corporation : :, :, : : : : :, : corporation­type : corporations : :, : : : : : :, correct : : : :, : :, : : :, counsel : D D : :, :, : D.C : daily : day : : dealings : dealt : : decide : : :, dispensable : :, :, dispose : disposed : : dispute : : disputes : distinction : : : : : distinctly : decided : : distinguished Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  :,,,, :,,,, :,,, :, : : : : : : fair : Federal : give : : : given : go : : :, :, : : : : : :, : distinguishes : distribution : district : diversity :, : :, : : : : : dividend : division : doctrinal : equal : equated : equitable :, :, : :,, : :, equivalent : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : : :, :, :, : : :, :, : : goes : going : : :, :, :,, : hundred : :, :, hundreds : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, :,, I idea : identical : : granted : Great :, : : : Green :, ground : : : guided : H halfway : happen : happened : : : happens : hard : : : : : :, identified : identify : : ignored : impact : : implicitly :, important : :, : : :, importantly : :, impossibility : impossible : improvidently : include : including : incorporation : : :, incorrect : individual :, :, :, : individually : : individuals : : instance : : instances : : : : feel : figure : filed : final : : find :,, first : : : : :, fits : five :, fix :, fixed : fly : follows : Foods : : : form : forth : : found : framed : framework : frankly : front : : : : : : doing : drawing : Duggan : : especially : ESQ :, :, : :,, : estate : : : :,, : :,,, : :,, : : : : : : : : : : floodgates : : : : fluke : : : exist : : : duty :, E E : :, earlier : easy : economic :, either : : : : : eleven : engaged : entered : entities : : : : : : et : : Evergreen : everyone's : exactly : example : exception : exclusive : excuse : : : :, exists : expand : explicitly : export : express : expressly : : extend : entity :,, : :,, : : : : : : :, : extensive : :, :, :, :, :, :, :,,, : :,, : :, face : fact :, : : F extent : : full : further : : hear : : : G G : gamesmanship : garden : general : : :,, : : Ginsburg : : heavily : held : : : :, : : : : : : hired : historical : historically : hold : :, :,,, : : :, : : : holds : : : holding : Honor : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : :, : law's : laws : : lawsuit :, : : lawsuits :,, lay : left :, legal :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : :, legally : legislated : let's :, : : : : :, level : liability :, liable : light : limit : limited : : Page  : :, : :, :, :,, : : : : :, :,, Massachusetts : :,,,, matter : : : :, : :,, :, : : : : :,, matters : :, : : :, :, :, : :, :, : : : : :,,,, :, :, means : : :,, measure : : : :, :,,, :,,,, measured : :, : :, : : : measuring : mean : : looked : : :, : :,,, :, : :, member : : :, :, :, looking : : members :, : lot : : : love : lower : : :,,, :,,, :,, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : merely : merits :, MICHAEL : :, : : M :,,, : :,, M : : : : : : making : : : : manage : : : : managed : : :, interest : : : : : : :,,, : :, : :, : :,,, : : : :, invest : invested : : investment : :, :, :,, : : : : : :,, : : : :,,,, :,, : :, :, : :,, :,, : :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : justify : : : invoking : involve :,, Kagan : : K : involved :, involving : irrelevant : issue : :,, :, : : : : J January : JOHN : : : joint : judgment : jurisdiction : :, Kan : Kansas : : : Kennedy : :,,,, :,, key : kind : : knew : know :, : : : : : : Kraft : : : : :, : : L jurisdictional : L.L.C : lack : jurisprudence : language : Justice :,, line :, list : :, litigant : litigation : :, : : : : : :,, :, :,,, :, Laughter : :,,, : :, :,, : : : : : : :,,,, : :, :, :, law :,, : :, :,, LLC :, : market : : :,, :, :, : :, : :, : :, LLCs : locations : long : : look : :,, : :, : : : : : Middle : management : millions : managers : mind : :,,, : minutes : : : : Missouri : managing : Mo : money : Maryland : : morning : : :,, :, : : :, : : : name :,, N N :, : Alderson Reporting Company :, :, O :,, :, O : : : : : : : o'clock : obviously : odd : : named : : : : : Oh : : Ohio :,, : : Okay :, names : : NAREIT : : : : : : ones : open : opinion : : natural : nature : Navarro :, :,,, : :,, :,, :,, :, opposed : : : : option : : :, oral : :, : : : : : organization : : : need : : : Overland : Official Park : part : : particular : parties : : :, : : : : partition : partner :, :,, : :, partners :, : :, : : : : Page  : Petitioner's : Petitioners : place :,, practice : precedent : : Precisely : : : : prerogative : : : plain : plaintiff : play : : played : playing : : please : : president : pretty : primary : principal : : prior : private : problem :, :, : profit : : : point : : : : : proper : : : :, : :, :, properly : property : : partners' : partnership : :,, : :,, : : : : points : : policy : : : : position : : : :, : : :, :,,, :, : : :,, : :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, party :, : Pospisil : :, : : : provision :, :,,, :, proposition : : : :, provide : :, :,,, provides : :,, : : :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :,,,, purposes : : :, :, :, :, : :,, : :, :,, : : : : : publicly : put : : : purpose : :, Q question : : : :, questions : possession : possible : post : potentially : power : :, quite : : quote : : : : : : : : powers : : Alderson Reporting Company near : nearly : necessary : : : :, neutral : neutrality : never : : : :, :, : : : : : new : : : : :, Newman :, nomenclature : nominal : nominally : nondiverse : :, normally : : notion : number : : : : : partnerships : originally : ought : : : oversee : owned : : : : : owner : : :, : :, : :,, : : people : : : : : owners : : percent : :, : : :, perfect : periodically : ownership :, person : : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : : : :,, owns :,, P P : page : :, : : : : personal : : : persons : : :,,, : :, : : pertinent : petition : : Petitioner :, :, : : : : : Scott : second : : Sotomayor :, Official Scalia :,, : :,,, :,,, : :,,,, : : : :,, : : : Secretary : section : : : : :, see : : : : send : sense : : separate :, : separately : separation : : set : : : shake : shareholder : :, :, : : : : shareholders : Page  stock :, : sold : sole : somebody : : : storage : striking : sophisticated : strongest : students : sort : : subject : : submit : : :, : : : : : :,, submitted :, : :,, sounds : Southern :, : : : speak : speaking : special : : : : specific : : specifically : : : : :, : : substituted : successor : sue :, : : : :, : : : : :,, :,,,,, :,,, : : : : sued : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, :, : spoiling : spoke : spoken : : suggest : sport :, standard : sues : : suggested : : R R : raised : reached : read : : :, reaffirm : real :, : remanded : removed : reply : request : required : Respondents : : : : : : : : response :, responses : : : : : : : responsible : : : : : : rests : results : reverse : : reversing : realize : realized :, really : : : :, : review : : right : :, :, : : : : Realty : : : : : : : : reason : : reasoning : reasons : : : rebuttal : : : receive : recognized : : referred : regard : : :, REIT : : rights : risks : ROBERTS : : : : : : : : :, : rule : : : : : :,, :, :, :, :, : : : : stands : :, :, : : : start : : : : :,,, : state :, : : :, rules : : : : :, ruling : : run­of­the­mill : S REITs :, :,,, : rejected :, S : : Safeway : : : : relying : remain : : sat : remaining : remains : remand : satisfy : says : : : : : shares : : sharp : sheds : show : side : : : :, significant : : simple : simply : : single : situation : : : : : : statement : States :, : : status : statute : : : : : :, : statutes : : statutory : : step : : : suggestion : suing : : : suit : : : : superfluous : supportable : supports : Suppose : supposed : Supreme :, synthesis : T T :, tactical : take : : : Alderson Reporting Company taken : talking : taxation : tell : : : : : : traded : : :, traditional : : tells :, : tens : Tenth :,,,, treat : : : :, traditions : transactions : :, : : :, :, : terms : : test : : : : : : :, : : Thank : :, :, : : thing : : : : : : things : : think : : :, :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, : third : Thomas : thought : : : : : : thousand : thousands : :, three : time : : : time­consuming : times : title : : : : : today : : treated : : : : true :,,, : : : truly : trust : :,, :,,,,,, :, :, :,,, :, :, :, :,, : :, :, :,,, :,,, : :,,,, :,,,, :,, : : :, : : : :,,, : :, :, :,,, :,, :, :,, :, : :, :,,,, :,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, trustee :, :,, : : :,, : trustee's : trustees :, :,,, : Official Page  unit : : : whatsoever : university :, wide : weigh : :,, :,, uniquely : :, : went :, : :,, United :, : weren't : :,, : :,, : :,, : Winston : :, :, unresponsive : wonder : : : : unworkable : Wong : words : :,, :, world : : : : urge : :,, : use : writ : write :, : : : writing : :, :, : : : v : : : wrong :, : :,,, :,,,,, :,,, :, : : : : : : : : : : V trusts : :, : : : : : : :, trying : : Tuesday : turn : : two : :, : :, : : type : types : U unassociated : uncertainty : : : understand : : : : : : understood : Unfortunately : uniform : unincorporated :, : : : unique : vantage : variations : variety : : view : : : : virtually : : virtue : virtues : vote : W wall : : : walls : want :, : : wanted : : : wants : wash :, Washington : way : : : : : We'll : we're : :, : : : : : : we've : weeds : X x :, Y Yeah : : years : : : yellow : York : : : Z ­(e) : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : : : . : : :, : ­(c) : ­() : : , :, : : Alderson Reporting Company 