 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ROBERT MONTANILE,                   :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE               NATIONAL ELEVATOR INDUSTRY           HEALTH BENEFIT PLAN.                 : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: PETER K. STRIS, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of             Petitioner. GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curiae, supporting         Petitioner. NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE PETER K. STRIS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   GINGER D. ANDERS, ESQ.          For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   NEAL K. KATYAL, ESQ.        On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   PETER K. STRIS, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, Montanile v. The Board of          Trustees of the National Elevator Industry Health       Benefit Plan.              Mr. Stris.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF PETER K. STRIS                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. STRIS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  In this ERISA case, a fiduciary has sued a          beneficiary to establish and enforce an equitable lien        by agreement.              As this Court has repeatedly acknowledged,      an equitable lien is enforceable only against specific        property and its traceable product in the defendant's        possession.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Stris, there's some       fuzziness about the facts in this case, and maybe at the           outset you can clarify them.                 Different figures are given about how much       money from this settlement was actually delivered to        your client. And also, what did your client do with it?            Did he put it with his general assets, or did he keep it             Alderson Reporting Company Official in a separate fund?                 questions.                         Maybe you can start by answering those       MR. STRIS: I think I can, Justice Ginsburg.           So I ­­ I want to start with what's in the             record, and then I want to add some color that I think              will provide context.               So as far as what's in the record, there was          a genuine issue of ­­ of material fact on how much           dissipation there was. One thing that's clear from the          record is that ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Before we get to       dissipation, how much did he receive?                  MR. STRIS: Yes. So that's clear, he         received over time, after all expenses were out, about         $,.                         record.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: .    MR. STRIS: I think that's clear from the          What's also clear procedurally ­­ and this       is important, and this is Page of the Joint          Appendix ­­ is that he took the position in opposing          summary judgment that he has very little of the money          remaining, and he cited a declaration and an attached          sheet that I admit are confusing.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: And ­­ and this $,,        did he put it in a general account or was it set aside              in a specific account?                 MR. STRIS: It is nothing in the record to          indicate that, but I think as far as the rules work, it             wouldn't matter because the rules for equitable lien by         agreement, the tracing rules, are actually very robust,        Justice Kagan. And so as equity evolved, you cannot          dissipate money by putting it in its own account and          spending it. Something called the "lowest intermediate        balance rule" developed to prevent against precisely the        kind of mischief that we would reasonably worry about.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But Mr. Stris, it does        make a difference, because if he just put it, say, in            the bank account where he had all of his other money,           then how ­­ how could we say that he spent all of the             proceeds on childcare and living expenses? If you have          one mixed pot, how can we say, oh, yes, this came from            the settlement and not from his general funds?                    MR. STRIS: It's a very fair question,         Justice Ginsburg. And there ­­ there are settled         tracing rules at equity, and it worked as follows:                     If you took money and it was cash and you          put it in a bank account, what was presumed was that,            unless your total cash assets dipped below the amount         Alderson Reporting Company Official that you got, that the spending that you did was not out            of that, the creditor's rights were not impaired.                      So the only way we would prevail on      remand ­­ I want to be clear about the modesty of the             position that we're taking here. The only way we would           prevail on remand is if he got the money and he spent it             down ­­ all of his money, not just the settlement but           all of the cash that he had ­­ down below the ­­ the             amount of the settlement.                                        That's why this is very important.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, what ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I ­­ I don't           know if it's the right Latin phrase or ­­ "pro tanto" or            something. I mean, you would lose ­­ it ­­ it ­­ it              doesn't have to spend it all the way down. Whatever is            left would be subject to tracing.                  MR. STRIS: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice, that's        correct. But the point I was trying to make is, there             is a big difference between the way equity worked, which           was to have a sensible rule below its intermediate          balance, and what I view as the extreme swollen asset           theory, that never was applied at equity, that my friend          Mr. Katyal is advocating.                Under the swollen asset theory, if you get        new money in the future, if you spend below the lowest           Alderson Reporting Company Official intermediate balance but then you start earning income,        people can come and garnish your wages. So the ­­ the            point that I'm making here is that the equity         lien­by­agreement remedy is actually far more robust       than one would think if one read the briefs of the other            side.             agreement.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Equitable lien by      Was there an agreement ­­ do you think        there's an agreement here because of the Plan?                    MR. STRIS: I think the ­­ that issue, we've           lost. So I mean, you know ­­ I think that's another              important point, Justice Kennedy. We hear a lot about a            promise­breaking by beneficiaries. And that happens.       And those are legitimate concerns. But from where I'm          sitting, I see a lot of cases where there's           promise­breaking by fiduciaries, where they take a       reimbursement provision that's preempted in an insured       plan and then try and enforce it, or where they try and            enforce a provision that doesn't apply by its own terms.                       So when we're thinking from the perspective       of, is this a sensible rule that is consistent with the            broad purposes of ERISA, I think it very much is because            if you take the ability of fiduciaries to reach the          general assets of participants ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Just as a background        matter, when we left, as I understand, Great ­­         Great­West, we left ­­ left the issue open. If the           beneficiary receives a check that by mistake is three          times more than it should be, but he may think it's a            bonus, he may not understand; he spends it all. Is           there an ­­ or is there a legal action that the Plan can              take to recover that money?                 MR. STRIS: Yes. If ­­ if ­­ if I could not              answer it yes or no for a minute, and I promise I'll              come back to a yes or no. I think it's a very important                 question, because this happens all the time in the         pension context.              So the first thing I'm going to tell you is          that usually when that's the case, there is an error on           the part of the Plan. And our view is even if there             were no remedy, that it's not consistent with the         purposes of ERISA or the way historical equity practice         worked to make the participant the insurer of that type          of error.              Now, there are remedies, and here's what       they are under ERISA. The first one is a set­off            remedy. And in exception II C of the Great­West           opinion, you ­­ this Court made that very clear.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: For future payments.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. STRIS: Against future payments. And ­­        and that's used repeatedly in pension and disability        cases ­­             available.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose that weren't      MR. STRIS: Okay. So if that's not         available, if ­­ if you have a case where there's           outright fraud ­­ and I don't think that's your ­­ your            fact pattern. But if you have a case where there is             outright fraud ­­ and I've seen these, where a         participant receives money because they claim that       someone is still alive, but they're actually dead, I         think that there is a remedy there, because in terms of            outright fraud ­­                          JUSTICE KENNEDY: In law.     MR. STRIS: Well, the second prong of Davila         wouldn't be satisfied.               So ERISA does not ­­ ERISA's broad       preemptive sweep does not go so far as to stop plans           from policing outright fraud.                Now, the more difficult issue is your       question ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.                MR. STRIS: ­­ which is, what if there's not          outright fraud? What is ­­ what is the obligation of           Alderson Reporting Company Official the beneficiary who gets that check and knows it's three          times, you know, what I got, like, this can't be right.            You know, if ­­ if the beneficiary is a bad actor and             says, you know, I'm going to get one over on the Plan,            and I'm going to keep this money, and I'm going to spend            it, in the rare case where that person was of limited           means and they spent the money down and it was          dissipated, I think unfortunately, I would have to say           that I ­­ I think a plan would not have a remedy. But                  the reality is that's a very rare case.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: And ­­ and ­­ and because         State law, legal remedies are preempted by ERISA?                    MR. STRIS: Yes. That's essentially ­­       that's essentially the regime.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is that a position that's         generally accepted, or is this an arguable point?                    MR. STRIS: From the perspective of this        Court's cases, or ­­ or ­­                             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes. Yes.      MR. STRIS: Well, I mean, I think the ­­ the             letter of your cases ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I thought         Great­Western had left that open.                 MR. STRIS: Yes. So I think that's fair.           The letter of your cases does not bind ­­ does not bind            Alderson Reporting Company Official us here. I'm ­­ I'm not making a pure statutory stare             decisis argument, but if ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm just asking, is there        a rule in the courts of appeals, or in the ­­ in the             legal system generally, or ­­ or are they divided on          this, or just nothing written on it?                   MR. STRIS: Well, in the context of ERISA,         how you would rule on this case would determine that          issue. And so the ­­ the circuits are split. That's            why I think the issue is very important. This is not             just a subrogation matter. This is an issue that will            have dramatic impact in the pension and the disability         context as well.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if ­­ if        you prevail here and are representing a fund, what would           you advise them to do so they don't confront this result           in the future?               MR. STRIS: Yes. It's ­­ it's ­­ it's a           good question. And I do advise funds. And I think that               there is a simple answer, which is funds that are           responsible and sophisticated will do exactly what       they've always done. And this is a very important           point: Funds are always worried about dissipation.        Health insurers have always been worried, and here's        why. Alderson Reporting Company Official             The ­­ the mine run of individuals who get a          large tort settlement ­­ this is just a reality of           life ­­ they're effectively judgment­proof except for       that tort settlement. So the remedy doesn't matter. In           other words, even if you had a compensatory damages          remedy in most cases, once that money is spent, you've          got nothing. So what health insurers and plans have          done since well before Great­West and has continued to         do it after Great­West is, when a medical claim is           submitted, they investigate it carefully. And they look         and flag the ones where there is likely a tort ­­ there             could be a tort recovery. They monitor them carefully,           either internally or through outside subrogation agents.       And they act promptly.                And, you know, I'm not going to say it's not          a dance, because we see a lot of litigation in this area             because there is a lot of money passing through, but           plans have faced this problem since before Great­West.        These policy arguments about how this is a concern about           dissipation were made in Great­West. And I just think           they're ­­ they're substantially overrun.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When you say "they        act promptly," what do they act promptly to do? And is            it always the case that they can act promptly enough?                      MR. STRIS: No. The ­­ you know, whatever          Alderson Reporting Company Official rule you pick, there will be cases where we don't like           the result on both sides. I can give you examples on             the ­­ on the other side as well. But ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, presumably in       the ­­ in the hypothetical, your ­­ your opposing         counsel will be advising the recipient to, I ­­ I           suppose, spend it right away, because then there won't         be anything left; it will have been dissipated, or put          it in different accounts, or ­­ or commingle it with,          you ­­ you know, a variety of things. And I'm just             wondering if the solution you're advocating is going to         make life a lot more complicated and expensive for the           funds, which is, of course, contrary to the idea of          preserving the assets.               MR. STRIS: I ­­ I understand that point.           I ­­ I think the answer is, no, not in any meaningful             way. And ­­ and here's why. You ask what you do.             Well, you write letters, and you put people on notice of           your lien. And a lot of people are affected by that,             lawyers ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do ­­ how do you put          people on notice? That's a ­­                               MR. STRIS: Pardon?    JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's a legal concept.        A letter is one thing. But how ­­ what is ­­ what is              Alderson Reporting Company Official necessary? What is the action necessary? Is it going           into court and say, enjoin this person from spending any          of that money?               MR. STRIS: Here's what plans do, and here's         what plans should do: They ­­ they write a letter. The              minute they find out there's a settlement, they contact;          they ask to be paid. If they're not paid immediately,           they say put this money in escrow because we have a           dispute. If the person says no, you have a pretty good             idea that you might have a problem, and you go into            court.             And this is a perfect example with regard to          Mr. Montanile. There was six months of negotiation,         several letters where it was said, hey, if ­­ if you           don't ­­ if we don't decide by this date, we're going to            distribute the money.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How ­­ how do you         find ­­ how does the Plan find out that there's been a            settlement?             MR. STRIS: Well, they ­­ they find out in          many ways. So a lot of cases actually result ­­ include             where there's large dollars amounts, and a lawsuit is          actually filed.              But in cases where no lawsuit is filed,        there's traditional ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. The        lawsuit between who and whom?                             MR. STRIS: A State court lawsuit is filed.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mean by the        beneficiary to recover ­­                                                   MR. STRIS: The tort.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ the tort claim?        MR. STRIS: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And how is the Plan         notified of that?               MR. STRIS: Well, because of the risks that         we're talking about right here in this dialogue, plans         are very sensitive to making sure that the minute that          there's a potential subrogation recovery, they write        letters to everyone: To the participant, to the         participant's lawyer, to the tortfeasor, the      tortfeasor's lawyer, the insurer. And they say we have          a lien, and please notify us if anything happens.                                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do they, heavily?      MR. STRIS: In some cases they do some; some          cases they don't. That's ultimate ­­                  anyway?             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But they say they do,        MR. STRIS: Well, I've ­­ I've seen both.         Look, I ­­ I don't actually think it's a pretty             Alderson Reporting Company Official controversial point. There are some people, no matter         where they're sitting, that misbehave. And so I have           seen participants who break promises absolutely. And        also, I've seen plans that are trying to enforce         provisions that are not enforceable.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would it basically,       ignoring the impact of that letter by a beneficiary, be           a basis for the sort of fraud action you were talking           about earlier?              believe ­­             MR. STRIS: No. I don't think so. I            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So the ­­ the        beneficiary, even the beneficiary's counsel gets a       letter saying, by the way, we have a lien on this, you             know, good luck. I hope you recover a fair amount. But               if you do, make sure you put it in a separate account.             Make sure you notify us.                 And ­­ and if the beneficiary or the lawyer         just ignores that, that's not a basis for fraud?                      MR. STRIS: It would depend on the facts of          the case. You know, I ­­ merely ignoring the letter,            I'm not so sure. But I guess I keep coming back to the                same point. This is a legitimate problem. I don't mean              to ­­ to demean that at all, but this has always been a             problem. And because of the fact that most people who           Alderson Reporting Company Official have these moneys are of limited means, the compensatory         damages remedy is ­­ is of very little help.                        And so plans came to this Court in     Great­West and said, oh, well this is going to be a           disaster if there's a present possession requirement.        And yet, it hasn't proven to be the case because people           in their circumstances act promptly, and in most        instances, they're able to protect their rights.                               JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stris ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: This may be where the law         leads us. But in your brief, you try to make the            argument that this is equitable in the ordinary sense of          the word. And I don't understand that. What sense does             all of this make?                MR. STRIS: Okay. So that's a fair point,           but I ­­ I would put it a little bit differently. What                I would say is that I think a fair­minded policymaker            could certainly pick the rule that we're describing.        I'm not going to get up here and tell you that it's the             rule that I would pick, but I think a fair­minded             policymaker could ­­ and particularly, Justice Alito,       when you appreciate that it's a rule that's going to           apply to all cases, not just subrogation. I think the            case for this as a policy matter becomes much stronger           in the pension context.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             The reason I make that point is I know that            I'm running up against this counterintuitive view that        how can our ­­ how can our position, even if it's what            the cases say, even if the unbroken line of history          means this, how can it not be totally at odds with           the ­­ the core purpose of ERISA? And I think it's not.              It may not be the better policy in your view, but it's            certainly one that is consistent with the spirit of         ERISA, and so the decision that needs to be made is:           What is this line of cases that this Court has decided?           What did they say?                And I think repeatedly from Great­West to        Sereboff, you reiterated in CIGNA that in nonfiduciary        cases, a lien is not equitable relief unless it's          against property in the defendant's possession. You        have adopted a historical test.                  And so unless applying it here is so        obviously at odds with the purposes of ERISA, I think           that applying that test, the unbroken line of        authorities tell us that the rule is you can only          enforce these liens against specific property or its        traceable product.                          If I could reserve.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Anders.  Alderson Reporting Company Official               ORAL ARGUMENT OF GINGER D. ANDERS       ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                           SUPPORTING PETITIONER              MS. ANDERS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               If I could just start with Justice Alito's         question about what ­­ what sense this framework makes,         in limiting available relief to equitable relief in        ERISA, Congress, I think, contemplated that there        wouldn't be a remedy for plan breaches in every case.           And so the framework this Court developed was to         distinguish between equitable relief on the one hand and         things like damages that, clearly, Congress didn't mean        to include in the relief that would be available.                     And so ­­ I think it's been true since          Great­West when this Court interpreted equitable relief       pretty narrowly that a beneficiary will have an         incentive in some cases to structure a settlement in          order to avoid paying reimbursement to the Plan. But          it's also been true since Great­West that because of         that, plans have a need to counter those incentives by           diligently protecting their rights.                And so I think the way that the Court rules           in this case is not going to affect the existence of           those incentives on the part of beneficiaries or the         Alderson Reporting Company Official need for plans to be diligent. So I think it's            important to keep in mind here that the only reason this           issue comes up in this case is that the Plan wasn't           diligent, that the Plan waited for months when it knew          that it had a reimbursement claim, and that that was           being disputed. It didn't seek an injunction. It          didn't file suit.               So yes, I think this is a situation that is            unlike the mine run of cases where we see that plans           since Great­West have developed measures that they can        take in order to protect their rights.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Anders, in      Great­West, the government filed on the side of the         Plan. What led the government to shift its position?                      MS. ANDERS: I think in Great­West, I think           we were taking a somewhat broader view of equitable          relief than the court ended up adopting in that case.          And so as we get here today, we've taken this position           because we think it is absolutely the logical        consequence of Great­West and Sereboff together.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: So you took your position        because of Great­West?               MS. ANDERS: That's absolutely right. In        Great­West, the Court said that when the funds are not          in the beneficiary's possession, the Plan cannot enforce        Alderson Reporting Company Official an equitable lien ­­ cannot get equitable relief against         the Plan. And it relied on equitable authorities that          said, quoting, "If the property or its proceeds have         been dissipated so that no product remains, the        plaintiffs may not enforce a constructive trust or         equitable" ­­                         thought ­­                         JUSTICE ALITO: Probably what ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You thought ­­ you        JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you thought       Great­West adopted a ­­ a narrower understanding of what           equitable meant in this context than you thought was         appropriate.             MS. ANDERS: I think at the time we were           arguing for a broader understanding. But as we ­­ as we             come here today, of course, nobody has ­­ has argued          that Great­West or Sereboff should be overturned, or        Mertens, for that matter. And so we think the          consequence of those two decisions is that there will         not be relief in a case in which the Plan participant            has dissipated the funds.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But would you ­­ say,        what is the government's position on commingling?       There's no ­­ the beneficiary gets the check, puts it in           Alderson Reporting Company Official his bank account, together with whatever else he has in          there. So how do we tell if he's dissipated?                      MS. ANDERS: I agree with my friend that the           commingling rule at equity, I think, reflected the fact          that once funds have been dissipated, the lienholder can         no longer collect. So the way it worked was that if you             had funds in your account that ­­ and you spent them,           that at first it would be presumed that you were          spending your own money.                But ­­ but once you got down below the         amount that ­­ that was originally subject to the lien,          the lienholder would only be able to enforce against         whatever remained in that account even if it wasn't         sufficient to satisfy the lien amount.                  So it's basically the same dissipation rule       that applies in cases that don't involve commingling.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Why can't ­­ in a case          where there's no time problem ­­ forget the delays and          so forth ­­ but like this one, the Plan sue the lawyer?            I mean, if there was $, and the lawyer received          , ­­ but he certainly received it with notice.         It's not any kind of good­faith purchaser ­­ why can't          they get it back from him?                  MS. ANDERS: I think there may be situations          in which the Plan could sue the lawyer.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: Why couldn't they normally       in my situation?                           MS. ANDERS: I think they probably could.         JUSTICE BREYER: All right. If they could,         then doesn't that solve the problem for them because         lawyers will be awfully careful not to dissipate the         funds if, in fact, they're going to be subject to the           lawsuit?             MS. ANDERS: Well, I think that's right, and          I think lawyers also have ethical rules that ­­ that          prevent them from ­­ from dissipating funds ­­                   JUSTICE SCALIA: But wait a minute. I mean,            if they can get it from the lawyer immediately, why          can't they get it from the lawyer at ­­ at the end of             the day? I mean, do you mean that ­­ that the ­­ the               fund can get back not only what the beneficiary         receives, but also what he has paid his lawyer?                     MS. ANDERS: No. I just mean that ­­ that            if the funds are in the lawyer's possession, the lawyer          is the agent of ­­ of the ­­ of the beneficiary, I think              in that situation, equity would permit the plaintiff,        the lienholder to trace that ­­ that lien amount.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: To ­­ to get the whole         amount from the lawyer, right, so leaving the lawyer         without his fee?   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. ANDERS: Yes. I ­­ I think that could             be correct. I mean ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought in most States,         the lawyer has a lien on the fee. His lien is prior ­­              I may be wrong. His ­­ his lien, the lawyer's lien is             prior to the ­­                                       JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah.    MS. ANDERS: I think ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: That has to be or nobody         would take these cases.                (Laughter.)             MS. ANDERS: That may be correct. I         don't ­­ I don't think this situation has come up very            much. But I ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see why it would          be. There is a fund. The fund belongs to person X.              The lawyer knows it belongs to person X. Nonetheless,          the lawyer takes $, out of the money that belongs          to person X and gives , to the client.                        I assume the client is more likely to spend        money down than the lawyer, because lawyers tend, in         general, to have a larger bank account than poorer          clients. So therefore, I do not see why they wouldn't            sue the lawyer.               But they aren't, so there's something I       Alderson Reporting Company Official didn't understand; hence, I am asking the question.                     MS. ANDERS: All right. Well, I don't think           ­­ I don't think it's come up very much, but I do think               it's possible that in some situations, plans may be able          to sue the lawyers. They can sue other ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: I think it must depend on          how the agreement reads, and I can't imagine the          agreement wouldn't ­­ wouldn't require the beneficiary       to turn over the net. Not the gross, but the net            recovery, what ­­ what he receives after paying legal         fees.             MS. ANDERS: Well, I think a lot of these            plans are going to disclaim a common fund or ­­ or ­­            you know, they're going to disclaim their ­­ their ­­         any obligation to have the attorneys' fees counted        against them. So the ­­ the person is not ­­                                  amount ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: I'm ­­    MS. ANDERS: ­­ going to ­­ the entire         JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ thinking in my mind ­­        MS. ANDERS: ­­ but just to ­­ just to make           a ­­ a broader ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: There is a model. There is           a ­­ two diamond rings belonging to a trustee. They end             up being given to the cousin. The lawyer has them in            Alderson Reporting Company Official his safe. I do not believe that no matter what the             agreement between the cousin and the lawyer, the lawyer         can take the diamond ring that belongs to somebody         else ­­ and he knows it ­­ and put it in his pocket, no              matter what the agreement.                MS. ANDERS: Right. He's not a bona fide           purchaser for value in that situation.                  But I think the Plans do have many other          remedies in these situations. They can trace against ­­         against any third party who takes the ­­ the property          with notice of the lien. They ­­ they could monitor the            litigation. They can intervene in these suits. They          can seek injunctions. These are all things that the          Plan here did not do.                 And just to ­­ to pick up on a point that my             friend was making, I do think that this is a situation             in which reasonable policymakers could differ. There        are legitimate concerns on both sides. It is absolutely          a legitimate concern that in some cases a plan may not            be able to recover even if it has diligently protected          the rights. But ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: All ­­ all of those         things you say ­­ all of those things you say the Plan            can do, though, are ­­ are a lot more complicated than            simply saying they should be able to recover that to          Alderson Reporting Company Official which they're entitled under the agreement. And when         you get into ­­ we've noted before that we try to avoid            complicating the procedures in this area, for the simple         reason that nobody has to set up one of these plans.           And if they don't know, you know, how much it's going to            cost in advance and all of them just say, well, it's not            worth it, and if I've got to go and file injunctions or            this or that every time somebody makes a ­­ has a tort              recovery, you know ­­ but I'm not going to do it. I             won't set up one of these plans.                   MS. ANDERS: Well, I think ­­ I think an            important point, Your Honor, is that no matter how the          Court rules here, the Plans are going to have those          obligations and they're going to have those burdens,        because Great­West permits beneficiaries to structure      their settlements to avoid paying reimbursement to the        Plan.             So because of that, ever since Great­West,       Plans have taken these measures and ­­ and they will          continue to take them even if the Court rules for          Respondents.             JUSTICE SCALIA: What are the concerns on        the other side, which you have mentioned and ­­ and          which your ­­ your friend also mentioned? What are          they? Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. ANDERS: So one concern, as you said, is          that ­­ that whatever rule the Court announces, it's         going to apply in the pension and disability benefit         context too. And in that situation, the Plan may be           making overpayments to beneficiaries over a long period         of time. And the beneficiary may spend the money          without knowing that she's going to be responsible for         reimbursing it later, or ­­ or that it's not her money           to spend in a sense. And so in that situation, I think               a policymaker could be concerned that ­­ about a plan           being able to go ­­ go back months or years later and ­­            and get reimbursement from the beneficiary.                  So I think, you know, this is really a          question for Congress. But what Congress could do is it           could weigh that potential against the downside to the         Plan, the fact that, since Great­West, they have ­­ they          have had these obligations, they have needed to        diligently protect their rights, and, I think, in the          mine­run of cases, they've been able to do so.                     So I think those are the things that         Congress could weigh in looking at the policy ­­ policy          concerns on either side of this.                  And that's why we think those concerns       really shouldn't drive the analysis here. The ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Anders, could I ­­ could          Alderson Reporting Company Official I shift gears a little bit and ­­ and just ask: The              test that we've set up is whether a remedy is typically            available at equity. And there's been some        back­and­forth, I think, about what that means.                                What does it mean?    MS. ANDERS: I think "typically available in         equity" meant remedies that were considered to be        equitable in nature. And so it certainly did not          include, as this Court said in Merten, the type of ­­          Mertens, the type of ­­ relief, such as deficiency         judgments or lien destruction damages, that that Court        thought of as legal to the end of the ­­ the time of the              divided bench.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Katyal.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF NEAL K. KATYAL                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. KATYAL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                              Three things are undisputed.    First, that Montanile signed a form saying,        quote, "I agree to reimburse in full the Plan from any           settlement."             Second, the Plan provides that such funds       are, quote, "Assets of the Plan not distributable to any          Alderson Reporting Company Official person without the Plan's written release."                  And third, under Sereboff, that the Plan       would have an enforcement claim under (a)() if        Montanile still possessed the funds.                 What we're disagreeing about is whether      Montanile's decision to commit a second wrong of         spending the Plan's money himself has made him        judgment­proof. And the answer is no for a very simple            reason: When a right under equity has attached and a            defendant then knowingly frustrates that equitable      claim, it is absolutely part of equity to permit that          claim. This reflects the cold reality that the         defendant took actions that blocked an otherwise valid        claim in equity.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I have no idea           where you think this lien attached. Do you think it           attached at the fund, immediate ­­ the whole ,, or          the amount of that , that ended up in his pocket,           or that , minus what, if anything?                   MR. KATYAL: So it ­­ it's ­­ Barnes says          that the ­­ that the lien attaches at the moment that he            is ­­ that he has gotten title to the thing. He gets             title to the thing when there is a $, settlement.           Settlement, of course, that we didn't know about, but         that he nonetheless did.    Alderson Reporting Company Official Our only ­­  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your position is at                                that moment it goes to the lawyer, it's his money, all           ,. You're entitled to whatever ­­                  on it.              MR. KATYAL: To a ­­ to a lien of $,             And so our claim is not that we have some          general remedy at law that we can get compensatory         consequential damages or punitive damages. It's limited        by the lien itself.                And that is the rule in equity, that when         someone frustrates a valid claim in equity by taking          actions to dissipate the fund, you can get ­­        recover the value of that fund. You can't recover more           than that. So this is the bitter with the sweet that            when ­­ when you make an equitable claim like this, you           have to be limited by all the rules of equity.                      So in addition to that, Justice Sotomayor,       we couldn't, for example, try and attach the asset, try          and attach and file a lawsuit, until he actually took           possession of the funds.                JUSTICE BREYER: So I ­­ I found a list. On               this list I have, one, there is the fund, , in it.             It belongs to the company, not to him.                    Now, he takes the fund and he begins to         Alderson Reporting Company Official distribute it with the aid of his lawyer. Some of the            money goes to the lawyer. If that money is still there,            I imagine you could get it.                    Some of the lawyer's goes to his bank      account. If, in fact, that bank account has not gone,           from the time he put it there to the time you sue, below             $,, you can get it. Indeed ­­ and if it has gone             below, you can still get it even if there's a penny, but             you can only get the penny.                  If he has taken the , out of it and          given it to a person with knowledge, for example, his           wife or children, and it is in their bank account, I           guess you could get it.                 And indeed, if they have got and bought with         it some tangible item that you can trace it to, I guess             you can get it.                But what we could not find and, in fact, if          you can't find any of those, you could still sue him           under State law, under State fraud statutes, and recover         in damages. That's at law. And maybe you can do it             even under such a remedy where it's much more mixed up            than the other side was prepared to give you credit for,           in which case, you have State law remedies at law.                      Now, what I could not find is a case           embodying the theory you are now advancing, that he         Alderson Reporting Company Official simply gets the damages even where he doesn't have any          of the remedies that I just mentioned.                    MR. KATYAL: So ­­ so first of all, we're          not advancing that theory, Justice Breyer. You cannot         get ­­ we're not advancing a damages theory whatsoever.          All we're saying is that you can recover the value of           the lien itself when someone frustrates an equitable        claim that otherwise exists.                And we point to three different traditions       in equity that permit you to do that: substitutionary          monetary decrees, deficiency judgments, and swollen      assets. All of those reflect the basic idea that          someone shouldn't profit from their second wrong, their        wrongdoing of dissipating a fund.                  So look, there is a ­­ they're absolutely         right. The general rule is that you can't recover from           general assets. That is absolutely right. But there's          an urban legend that ­­ that I think the briefs try and             spin around that rule, to say that that general rule          encompasses a situation when someone acts wrongfully to         dissipate a fund, as to which someone has a claim.                        And that circumstance, Justice Holmes's     opinion in Otis says, he says, if the complaint, quote,          "seeks the recovery of an identified fund, that        complaint will not fail because the fund is gone and          Alderson Reporting Company Official misappropriated by the defendants. Rather, under those        circumstances, the plaintiff has a right to compensation         as alternative relief."                           That's not damages ­­   JUSTICE SCALIA: That would be wonderful, if        he said "has an equitable right to compensation." I          mean, you know, that sounds like cleanup to me.                     MR. KATYAL: No, it's not, Justice Scalia.        I think it's not, for several reasons.                   Number one is, of course, in that case, the         entire fund was gone. So if it were cleanup          jurisdiction, there had to be something to pend to.         There had some ancillary jurisdiction, some equitable       claim. There had to be some fund that was still           remaining in order for there to be something to pend to.           There wasn't there. The entire fund was gone.                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Is ­­ is ­­ is that the          requirement?                         fund there.              MR. KATYAL: Well, I think that otherwise ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: There has to be some of the          MR. KATYAL: Otherwise, Your Honor, there       wouldn't have been any reason ­­ there is a requirement           that, in order for ­­                JUSTICE SCALIA: There was an equitable       Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction, so long as the person had possession of         the fund at one point.                             MR. KATYAL: I don't think that there's ­­         JUSTICE SCALIA: And then ­­ and when the         suit is completed, it's discovered that all of the fund          is gone.              MR. KATYAL: No, your Honor. If ­­ if their           argument is right, and this is something that Judge         Posner has said, for example, in ­­ in describing this          in the Medtronic case. In order for ancillary         jurisdiction to exist, there has to first be a valid           equitable claim. And then, for the convenience of the          parties, you can resolve a legal claim.                    In Otis there was no equitable claim under        their theory, which ­­ which is, you ­­ you know, if the            fund is gone, there's no lien that it's attached. It's           gone. It's dissipated.                So ­­ and then it also say, you know, it's a           remarkable that they say that all of these cases are          cleanup jurisdiction.              JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. If ­­ if ­­ if          there's no equitable cause of action for them, why is          there for you?               MR. KATYAL: Because we think that the        proposition that they're trying to say is wrong, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official idea that when you dissipate a fund, you lose your           equitable claim.              Our point is that is ­­ that's generally        true; not true in a circumstance when a defendant           frustrates an otherwise valid equitable claim.                  JUSTICE SCALIA: So ­­ so you ought to be          able to bring suit in equity without asserting that the          person ever had the fund in his hands.                    course.             money.             MR. KATYAL: Well, you can't do that, of         JUSTICE SCALIA: You say, he owes me the         MR. KATYAL: You can't do that, of course,         as Knudson says. And ­­ and that's a standard rule.            We're not here ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: You're saying even if you        know the person has dissipated all the funds, you can          sue for the equitable lien, even if you know the funds           are all gone?               MR. KATYAL: Correct, Your Honor. As long         as that was a knowing dissipation, that that's what          happened. And that's what the substitutionary momentary        cases ­­                         JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any cases?        MR. KATYAL: Sure. Otis itself is a case           Alderson Reporting Company Official that does that. Justice Homes's opinion, Justice Story         has a description of other cases in his treatise.          Our ­­ our brief talks about the Baxter case and the ­­           and the Bank of Marin case. These are the closest           analogue to this case, because they're not the general         rule about can you recover from general assets; they're         about the specific rule, can you profit from your         wrongdoing when an equitable lien by attachments is ­­        or an equitable lien by agreement is already attached.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It has to be pretty         easy for you to protect yourself, doesn't it, as soon as           at some suitable time after the injury you do write a           letter to the person and say, look, you need to know           that if you sue somebody, the money is ours, and because           we have these rights of subrogation, or let us know if           you're going to, and we'll show up in court with you           and ­­ and ­­ and help you?                   Where ­­ see, I guess it would probably be          pretty easy to ­­ to monitor it yourself. I mean, the             court's computerized dockets, you just punch in       "Montanile," and ­­ and whenever that pops up on the          docket and you find out right away. It's certainly long           before the case is resolved. It ­­ it doesn't ­­          I mean, I ­­ I think your friend has ­­ has a              significant point that it's actually not as hard as it          Alderson Reporting Company Official might appear.              MR. KATYAL: So ­­ so three things, Your         Honor. First, we're not grounding our argument in the          policy of things. We do think that the policy          consequences are ­­ are important, but we think that if          the test is what's traditionally available in equity,        these three specific lines of authority that we're        pointing to answer that question.                 But as to the policy concerns, we think        exactly as you said to my friend on the other side.           There are two big problems with that. Number one is           Plans don't get noticed about when settlements occur.        In the amicus brief from NASP explains most auto         accidents, for example, are settled without any public        record, without any lawsuit being filed whatsoever. So         you can't exactly type it into Westlaw or something like          that. So that's one problem.                  The other is that it becomes very expensive        for Plans to monitor this stuff. And Plans are, you           know, some for profit entity. Every dollar that you          spend that the Plan has to spend on monitoring or          writing these letters or filing lawsuits or filing TROs         is a dollar that is taken away from innocent Plan           beneficiaries, people who have done ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. I mean,         Alderson Reporting Company Official that's the point we have made in our precedents, but it           can't ­­ you can't carry that so far that otherwise you           would say, well, the Plan always wins.                   MR. KATYAL: Right. I'm certainly not        trying to do that. All I'm saying is that the policy            arguments here, I do think, are substantial and have          weight. The amicus briefs, before you say, over a          billion dollars each year is recovered through these        reimbursement actions. And ­­ and if you adopt their          plan, then as you were saying as to my friend, you're           going to just tell the client ­­ you are ­­ telling the            Montaniles of the world, spend that money right away.         Settle the case at :, and by : spend all the           money. And in that circumstance, then Plans are out of           luck. Innocent beneficiaries, that means, are out of         luck, and people like Mr. Montanile get a double          recovery. And equity is not so brittle. There is no            tradition in equity that supports this idea.                   As, Justice Alito, you were saying, how       could this make any sense? It didn't make sense at           equity. Equity has always been more flexible than that.          It's always recognized the idea that people shouldn't be         able to profit from their wrongdoing, and that rights         have remedies, and avoiding formalistic distinctions.                  And speaking of formalistic distinctions,     Alderson Reporting Company Official the Solicitor General's rule is as formalistic as it         gets because they say you can get the remedy out of           general assets as long as the lawsuit is filed in time           for ­­ the lawsuit is filed ­­ is filed at a time when              there was possession of the fund. That is ­­                     JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Katyal, equity itself       is a formalistic distinction. I mean, to ­­ to argue             that ­­ that we shouldn't make formalistic distinctions        in trying to figure out whether particular relief is         equitable relief or not, I don't ­­ that's         incomprehensible to me.               MR. KATYAL: Well, Justice Scalia, as       Justice Frankfurter says, equity, quote, "assures      mechanical rules and depends on flexibility." Every        equity treatise ­­ look at Pomeroy, for example, of         Section . All the other treatises say ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: Pomeroy doesn't ­­ doesn't       support you as ­­               MR. KATYAL: I think very much ­­                    JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ Pomeroy's quotes are       contrary to what you ­­                MR. KATYAL: ­­ very much it does. There is           not a quote from Pomeroy or from any of the other            treatises that deal with this situation when someone is         trying to profit from their second wrong, when there is          Alderson Reporting Company Official already an equitable lien by attaches.                  And, you know, for example, Pomeroy, just on        the flexibility interchange, were saying, Section ,       "Equity has followed the true principle of contriving        its remedy so they shall correspond both to the primary          right of the injured party and to the wrong by which           that right has been violated. It has therefore never          placed any limits on the remedies it can grant either          with respect to their substance, their form or their         extent, but it's always preserved the elements of        flexibility and expansiveness so that they can be        modified to meet the requirements of every case."                                And this is a perfect example ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't know         that you can read our precedence in this area to say           that they're very flexible. I mean, Sereboff, the          difference between equitable lien for restitution and       equitable lien by agreement, you ­­ you know, you can          get, you know, deficiency judgments as opposed to legal         judgments, and whether one's sort of an adjunct to the          equitable action or freestanding. It's an area where         the ­­ the equity rules strikes me as very technical.                      MR. KATYAL: Well, they are technical when        it comes to that first question, is there an equitable          claim in the first ­­ first instance. And so Knudson,           Alderson Reporting Company Official for example, says no, because there's no possession of         the fund. Sereboff says here there is possession;         therefore, there is.                We don't quibble with any of that. Here as         this case comes to the Court, everyone agrees ­­ that's          the third point I made at the outset ­­ everyone agrees            there was an equitable lien by agreement. The only          thing we're disagreeing about is whether or not by         spending all the funds we've lost our remedy.                    And with respect to that question, they have        general precedents which say you can't go after general         assets. We agree with that. The relevant question is,           when someone has wrong ­­ when ­­ when ­­ when a valid             equitable lien by agreement attaches and then someone        acts to dissipate that, can they profit from their         wrong.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ­­ the essence of        Great­Western ­­ I don't know if I'm reading it rightly           or not. I'll certainly be corrected by the author and           dissenters if I'm not. But it seemed to me that they're            basically saying, whatever remedy you have has to be an          equitable remedy.                          MR. KATYAL: Right.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The most that I read         about a substitution decree or deficiency decree is that          Alderson Reporting Company Official it's an ancillary jurisdiction to issue those.                    Is that consistent with saying it's     equitable? Isn't it just a legal claim that equity           sometimes permitted an ­­ an equitable court to        exercise, but wouldn't it still be legal ­­                   MR. KATYAL: Right. Justice ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ and not within ­­       within the ­­ the scope of ERISA?                   MR. KATYAL: Justice Sotomayor, this is,       again, part of the urban legend that ­­ that's being          developed around this. There is no case that says that           a substitutionary monetary decree is a legal judgment or          is ancillary. To the contrary, cases that we're citing          such as Baxter and Otis suggest that it is an equity not            in that. And ­­ and indeed, if there's any doubt about            this, I ­­ I suggest that you'd have to say it's equity,              because the tradition for ancillary, which was pendent        jurisdiction was, if an equity court was going to decide          a legal claim, they had to label it as a legal claim             because of the Seventh Amendment reasons, because       otherwise, they might, you know, there's ­­ there's all         sorts of jury trial issues that come up.                    So that's why the tradition for cleanup       jurisdiction was to label those claims specifically to        say, okay, first we're going to solve our ­­ our          Alderson Reporting Company Official equitable claim, and now we're going to turn as part of           our pendent jurisdiction ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm still a little bit         confused by all of this. In my mind, you get money when             somebody gives it to you. And I ­­ I know that a lawyer                 is an agent, but the agent is keeping a piece of the             money. You can still go after the client for the piece            the lawyer took?               MR. KATYAL: So with ­­ with respect to         the ­­ the lawyer piece is much more complicated. And           this goes to Justice Breyer's question. I mean, there's           actually a circuit split on this question about can you           go after the lawyer, and the reason why you may not be            able to go after the lawyer is the lawyer is not a party              to the underlying agreement.                And that's what I think the Eighth Circuit         says in contradistinction to others. And so that's ­­         that ­­ that it is ­­ that is not a great remedy. And,               of course, it requires the lawyer to be on notice of the            Plan and all the reimbursement obligations and the like.                     Under equity, Justice Sotomayor, I think the        idea is that when someone has made a valid promise to ­­            for these funds, such as here, Montanile knew that he          was playing with house money. He knew that these          weren't his ­­ this wasn't his money; it was the Plan's           Alderson Reporting Company Official money from the start. And then he goes and spends that            money on other things. Yes, you can go after his           general assets to recover that spending on other things.                     And that is something amply supported by       these three different traditions in the case law. Those          are the closest analogs to what's going on here when          someone has dissipated and frustrated a ­­ an action          that ­­ that otherwise existed.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you say again, when        does the lien attach? Is it when the tortfeasor pays ­­           gives it ­­ the check to the lawyer, or is it when the             beneficiary actually gets the ,?                 MR. KATYAL: Well, I don't think that the          answers are clear on that, but I do think it's when            he takes ­­ I think the most this Court has said it's             when he takes title to the thing. And presumably, he           takes title to the thing at the moment that the check is            given to the lawyers.                Now if, at that moment, Justice Ginsburg,       say the bank account of the lawyer was hacked and the           $, settlement was gone, our view is his general         rule then kicks in. In that circumstance, we cannot          recover. The only thing we're saying is that when a           defendant knowingly dissipates a fund as to which         someone else has a claim, it's in that circumstance that           Alderson Reporting Company Official the exception ­­ as Justice Story called it, that         peculiar exception applies to try and basically make        sure that he isn't profiting a second time from his           wrongdoing.             That's why the claim is a very limited one          at equity. It's just a ­­ it's a ­­ and again, it's               only limited to the amount of the lien. You can't go            more than that. You can't have punitive damages and the           like, and it's encumbered by all the defenses in the          equity. We have to take the bitter with the sweet, so            laches and unconscionability. All of that would be         standard defenses that are available to such an action.                     Now, my friend on the other side has said,         well, this is going to reach disability situations.        Absolutely not. I mean, I think you have a variety of               amicus briefs before you that say that there's a         specific statute, (a), which prohibits liens against       Social ­­ Social Security Disability overpayments. He        says it's going to reach pension overpayments. Again,         that's not our rule. Our rule in ­­ in those ­­ in             those circumstances, a pension plan is overpaying a         beneficiary.             And if the beneficiary spends that, well,       that's not something that they're knowingly dissipating.       That's very different than a circumstance like this in          Alderson Reporting Company Official which someone is dissipating a fund as to which they ­­           someone ­­ as to which the Plan has an underlying lien           against. And that's why it's a ­­ it's a very limited              rule. It's one that tracks the tradition at common law.           Both Otis talks about misappropriation, and Baxter talks        about wrongful dissipation when someone has a valid lien          against you. And as well, the Orr case, for the swollen            assets theory and the like.                 Now, my friend on the other side says in his          brief, well, then why in the world are we spending so           much time ­­ are all these equity cases spending so much           time on tracing? And our view is very simple on that.            Tracing makes a lot of sense. In the lion's share of             cases, tracing becomes very important because you don't        have a defendant who is acting wrongfully and knowingly          dissipating a fund. And so the Plan or whoever the            trustee is wants to ­­ wants to go after general assets           but then can't, unless they can trace them to a specific            asset.             Tracing is just a lien­priority doctrine.       It's nothing more than that. The Restatement that my          friend cites on the other side that is cited in Knudson           in Section is as clear as day. It just talks about             lien priority. It doesn't say that there is no claim if            general ­­ if ­­ if someone dissipates a fund. It says             Alderson Reporting Company Official that they are not entitled to lien priority. That is           it.             And look, we agree with that. We're not         here trying to say we have a priority over other           asset ­­ over other creditors. We're just simply saying          we are to use the language of the Restatement, a          "general creditor."              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you don't have        priority over other creditors. So if Mr. Montanile owes          somebody money, he ­­ it's all right if he takes money           from the fund and pays that debt?                   MR. KATYAL: Well, we are then ­­ you know,          as long as we can't trace it in a world of no tracing.              So there's obviously some funds here that we may able to           trace, because as the interchange with Justice Ginsburg        was suggesting, it's not totally clear what was spent         and what isn't.               But with respect to the rest, yes. I mean,           we have to take the bitter with the sweet, and that           means we are a general creditor out of general assets.           It's not like we get first priority over those assets,          which is why this remedy is at best a second­best one            for us. I mean, the ideal is, of course, to prevent             someone from dissipating the funds altogether.                  And we do think, if this Court recognized,        Alderson Reporting Company Official as I think most of the circuits have, that we have a             cause of action here, then I think it would deter people            from engaging in the kind of behavior that Mr. Montanile          did.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just want to be clear:          I understand your position and your answer.                   Fund has ­­ has a claim for reimbursement         from the accident proceeds. Accident proceeds put into         the bank account of the Plan beneficiary, the injured,         the person who was injured in the accident. He also has            another creditor.              creditor?                                     You're ­­ you stand evenly with that       MR. KATYAL: So if ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Was that your answer?       MR. KATYAL: Well, it is in the situation of          a dissipated fund. So obviously, if we can trace ­­ and            this is why tracing is still important.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's ­­ it's your        example. The case is settled at : in the morning.           At : in the morning, it's in the bank account.                                  MR. KATYAL: Yes.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Nothing has been spent,       but there's a creditor. And the creditor's claim is           equal to the Plan's claim, and there's only enough money          Alderson Reporting Company Official for one.              What happens?                          priority.             MR. KATYAL: Well, Justice Kennedy ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I thought you would have         MR. KATYAL: I would if ­­ it sounds like we            could trace that fund. That is, the fund hasn't been           spent in that circumstance.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's traceable. It's in        the bank account.               MR. KATYAL: Right. So then ­­ and that ­­          that's exactly right. So we would have priority over          that $,, in that circumstance, over other       creditors.             My only point is if we're in the        Montanile­like situation in which he has ­­ let's say he          spent down that entire fund and there's another creditor         who also ­­ Montanile owes money to. Once that happens,           we are ­­ we can only recover just like the other           general creditor. And that's what the Restatement says.         That's all it says.                It does not say that if a fund is          dissipated, that there is no claim anymore. That would          be contrary to the whole idea as Justice Alito's         question was, about what equity is all about. That          Alderson Reporting Company Official makes ­­ that makes no sense.                  An equity is not that brittle, Justice       Scalia. I understand that there are traditions in          equity and there are certain rules. But at the end of            the day, there ­­ it was never that formalistic and ­­          and ­­ and have the idea that someone could profit so           much from their wrongdoing in frustrating an equitable        claim that otherwise exists.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But it seems, Mr. Katyal,        that you are relying on remedies that really developed         very late in equity's life. In other words, you know,           equity was going along, and there were these very formal          rules distinguishing it from the legal world. And then          as it progressed, there were ­­ people thought we need          some cleanup authority, or maybe even people just        thought these rules aren't working in the way that we          want them to work. So equity got a little bit less             equitable as it approached the merger with law.                    But that, I think, is not really what we've          meant when we've said we're looking to things that are          typically equitable. You know, not like the last throes          of equity as it was becoming a legal system.                      MR. KATYAL: So, Justice Kagan, I'd spot you         that with respect to swollen assets, you know, which         does come around in the s, and so maybe there's an           Alderson Reporting Company Official argument there. But ­­ but for example, substitutionary         monetary decrees, Justice Holmes's opinions in ,       exactly the same year as Barnes, the Chief Justice's         opinion that was the foundation for Sereboff. And         indeed, it has a tradition that goes back to          Justice Story's treatise, which cites earlier cases        even still.                          So I don't think that we're relying that.         JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you take the ­­ the         deficiency judgments, which, I take it, was a rule was            needed to give equity that authority, because everybody        thought equity didn't have that authority.                  MR. KATYAL: Well ­­ well, even if you can          make that argument about deficiency judgments, which       I'll respond to in a moment, you can't make it about            substitution or monetary decrees, which is a distinct         body in equity.               And with respect to that, in ,       absolutely. This Court promulgated Equity Rule ,        which allowed for deficiency judgments. But I think the           fact that they had to issue a rule doesn't somehow make            it a law claim, as my friend says. I mean, after all,               Rule , promulgated in , was a rule about          preliminary injunctions. And I certainly think        preliminary injunctions were available in equity, and,       Alderson Reporting Company Official you know, the fact that there was a rule about it didn't             somehow convert it into a law claim.                    So I think the very fact that this Court          issued a rule called Equity Rule is suggestive of the            ­­ of the fact that this is a tradition in equity.                        Now, look, if there's some doubt about this,        if there's some doubt on the traditions, and they've         got ­­ I don't think they have a single case, but even              if you thought they did, that said that we were          prohibited ­­ that we were prohibited from making these         claims at equity, I think you should err on the side of             recognizing the claim.               Why? For three reasons. One, because as         the Solicitor General's brief in Sereboff said, the        point of ERISA is to try and give effect to written           plans and their determinations. And if there's doubt         into the ­­ as to what the equity tradition is, you           should read it in light of trying to enforce Plan terms.           That is the pages and of their brief. It is             consistent with the way this Court approaches, for        example, Title VII cases and the like.                   The second is that, again, all we're seeking        here is a remedy. We're not trying to get more than             what would have been otherwise available at equity.        Our ­­ our view is that when someone frustrates an          Alderson Reporting Company Official otherwise equitable claim, we can only try and reinstate         that claim. You can't get more from it because of their            second wrongdoing. So I think we're giving effect to           what equity is all about.                    And then, third ­­ and this goes back to      your last question to Ms. Anders, you said, you know,          what was ­­ what was the ­­ what does "typically          available at equity" mean? And you know, that test          comes from Mertens. Mertens isolates three examples of         what was traditionally available as equity ­­ at equity:         mandamus, injunction, and restitution.                Now, if you look at mandamus, for example,        there are precedents from this Court making ­­ that ­­         that suggest that equity ­­ that equity didn't recognize         mandamus. You know, this Court twice in the nineteenth          century in Hine and Downs both said that ­­ said that           twice.             And I think that's a good textual clue that           when there's doubt as to whether something is actually         traditionally available at equity or not, you should err         on the side of recognizing it as traditionally        available, as this Court did in the foundational Mertens         test.             We're not quibbling with Mertens. We're       simply saying we're at least as strong as to whether          Alderson Reporting Company Official something was traditionally available at equity as       mandamus. Because in mandamus, two cases from this         Court suggested it wasn't traditionally available, and       yet, the Court still, in Mertens, used that as one of           its three examples.               If there are no further questions.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Stris, you have four minutes remaining.                  REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PETER K. STRIS                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. STRIS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                    I'd just like to make two brief points. The          first one is that the historical authorities are        unquestionably on our side. And it was interesting         hearing my ­­ my friend Mr. Katyal go straight to the           substitutionary monetary remedy. I want to say a couple            things about this:               First, if you look carefully, the exact       argument he's making was rejected by the holding of this          Court in Great­West. This is Section II C of the            Court's opinion. It's kind of a lesser­known part of           the opinion.              The ­­ the argument was made that a        beneficiary of a trust commits that second wrong that he           was talking about when they get a loan contractually and           Alderson Reporting Company Official refuse to pay it back. And what this Court said is, no,             that's not typically available in equity. And, you         know, it's precisely the distinction that he's trying to         now push upon you to squeeze this remedy through.                     So let's look at the substitutionary      monetary decree cases he talks about.                  Not a single one of them involves an         equitable lien by agreement. They ­­ they don't involve          an agreement. They're restitutionary cases. So that's         also interesting to me that he criticizes our side         talking about the ­­ the Restatement of Restitution,        Section , whereas we talk about Pomeroy. We talk          about Jones on liens. We talk about the Person case.           It's an case on page of the Blue brief. It's an              equitable lien by agreement case.                 dispute.             The historical authority here is beyond      And ­­ and I guess the last thing I'll say           on this is look at the Shafer's Appeal case. It's one            of his lead cases on page , note . It says that             substitutionary monetary relief is legal.                 So I ­­ I think if you look at the cases,             not that I would wish that upon anyone, they ­­ they            really do not even credibly support the proposition        historically. Alderson Reporting Company Official              So where does that leave us? I mean, I          think I was honest from minute one when I got up here.              The only reason that you would contort the standard that          you've developed ­­ let's be honest; you know, spot me          this ­­ you have to believe our position is         fundamentally inconsistent with the purpose of ERISA.       If you do, then I have a problem.                      But here's where we're at. Mr. Chief        Justice, you made a very strong policy argument about          why my rule is no good. With respect, I think I could               make a very strong policy argument about why         participants who prove a clear bad­faith breach by a          plan should get consequential damages. I could make          that argument. I think I could make it very            persuasively. But that's not what we're here to do.          We're here to apply the historical test.                   So let's end, essentially, with, I think, a         key concession that Mr. Katyal makes about the        disability context.              So if you look at this case and you say,          well, all this subrogation, I don't know. These          arguments that the Plans have ways to protect        themselves, maybe they're right, but maybe they're       onerous. And, you know, I'm just not sure if it's going            to add to the cost of plans.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Go look at the disability cases. Because I         was stunned when Mr. Katyal got up here and said, oh,           well, the disability cases are different, like this        doesn't extend to them. He filed a cert petition with            respect with this Court in the Bilyeu case, which was          one of the circuit split cases that's here. Half of the            circuit split cases involve the disability context.                   So I'll end with this: What does that tell          you? The fact that you look at these disability cases           and you see that money is being advanced and it's being           spent before the lien even attaches, and yet they're         made part of the circuit split, and in this case          Respondent is not willing to defend that as a policy           position, I think what it tells you is that fair­minded           people could disagree as to where you want to place the           risk.             And so when we go and look at this and we           think about it in terms of burdens, if there is any           reasonable position, as you look at this, that a rule           that says you can essentially go after general assets,         means that some meaningful number of fiduciaries will        abuse that to assert rights they don't have or to delay,           then I think you need to go with the clear line of             historical authorities.              Thank you.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, counsel.       You say he filed a cert petition. Is that on behalf of              the same client this year?                 MR. STRIS: It's not on behalf of the same          client, no. But it ­­ it shows that the disability           cases are governed by precisely the same legal rule,         since for him to suggest that the legal rule that you're           going to decide here would not also ­­ also apply in           disability cases, flies in the face of the precise         position he took when he filed the cert petition ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm just       trying to ­­                          MR. STRIS: ­­ in the Bilyeu.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Are you saying that,        because he represented a different client and took a          position in that case, he's somehow bound by that here?                      MR. STRIS: Oh, no, no. Certainly not.         What I'm saying is we have a circuit split. And half of              the cases are subrogation, and half of them are         disability. So the Court's recognized that the legal         principle in this case will not only apply in         subrogation cases but they'll apply in disability cases.                    And Mr. Katyal recognizes that because he       represented a party in one of those cases.                     So my ­­ my point only is, don't accept the          Alderson Reporting Company Official representation that the rule here can somehow be        confined to subrogation cases.                            Because, as an empirical matter, it cannot.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I would be         surprised by the proposition that lawyers are somehow        collaterally estopped if they take a particular position         on behalf of one client from taking a different position           in a different case.                 MR. STRIS: No. Most certainly that's true.         And perhaps I've miscommunicated.                We have a circuit split which led to the          Court granting this case, and all of the cases purport          to resolve the same question presented. Half of them          are in the subrogation context; half of them are in the           disability context. So I don't ­­ I don't see how one              could credibly take the position that you can decide         this case and it would not affect the mine run of           disability cases, because they're part of precisely the        same circuit split. It's the same issue.                                            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: : Angeles : announces : answer : : : : : :, A :, advise :, advising : advocating : a.m : : : ability : able : : : :, affect : : :, : : : : agent : :, : above­entitled : agents : : : agree : : answering : answers : anymore : anyway : agreement : : Appeal : appeals : appear : APPEARANCES :,, :, :, : : : :, : :,, : agrees :, aid : Alito :, : applies : : Appendix : applied : : absolutely : :, : : :, : : abuse : accept : accepted : accident :,, accidents : account :,,, : : apply : : : : : :, : : :, Alito's : : : : : :, : :, : alive : allowed : alternative : altogether : applying :, appreciate : approached : accounts : acknowledged : Amendment : approaches : appropriate : act :,,, area : : amicus : : : Page  assets : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : : Assistant : assume : assures : attach :, : : :,, : : : : : Barnes : : basic : basically : : : : basis :, Baxter : : : becoming : attached : : begins : :, : : attaches : : : : attachments : attorneys' : author : authorities : behalf :, : :, : : : : : : : behavior : believe : : : belonging : : : : belongs :, authority : : :, : auto : available :, : : : : bench : beneficiaries : : : : : : : :, : beneficiary : : :, : : : : :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : avoid : :, avoiding : awfully : B back : : beneficiary's : : benefit : : : : : : : best : : : : better : back­and­forth beyond : big : : billion : Bilyeu : : bind :, bit : : : background : bad : bad­faith : balance : : : bank :, : : bitter : : acting : action : : : : : : : : actions : : : actor : acts : : add : : addition : adjunct : admit : adopt : adopted : : adopting : advance : advanced : advancing : : : : : amount : : : :, :, : : : amounts : amply : analogs : analogue : analysis : ancillary : :, arguable : argue : argued : arguing : argument : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :,, arguments : Anders : : : : aside : : :, :,, : asking : : :, :,, assert : :,, :, asserting : :, : : :, : : asset :, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : blocked : Blue : Board : : body : bona : bonus : bought : bound : breach : breaches : break : Breyer : : : : : :, : : Breyer's : brief : : : : : : : : briefs : : : : bring : brittle : : broad : : broader : : : burdens : : C C : : : : Cal : called : : : careful : carefully :, : carry : case :,, : :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, comes : : : : coming : commingle : :,, : :, : : : circuit :, :,,, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, :,,,, : : : : : : : circuits : : circumstance : commingling : commit : commits : circumstances : common : :, : Page  contact : contemplated : context : : :, : : : : : :, continue : continued : contort : contractually cases : : :,, : : :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : :,,, : :,,, :, :,,, :,, cash :, : cause : : century : cert : :, certain : certainly : : : : : : : : : : check : : : : cited : : cites : : citing : claim : : company : compensation : contradistinction : : : compensatory : contrary : complaint :, contriving : completed : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : :,, complicated : :, : : :, : : : : :,, : : : : : :, complicating : computerized concept : concern : : : : claims : : clarify : cleanup :, : : : clear :,,, : : concerned : concerns : : : : : : : : : concession : : : : confined : : : confront : clearly : confused : client :, : confusing : : : : Congress :, :,, : :,, : : : controversial : convenience : convert : core : correct : : : : corrected : correspond : cost : : counsel : : : : : : : : counted : counter : counterintuitive : couple : course : : : : : : : : : :, Chief :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : : : : : : clue : : : : cold : : : : :, : : collect : :, :, clients : closest : : collaterally : color : come : : : : : : : childcare : children : CIGNA : consequence : court :, : : consequences : consequential : : considered : consistent : : : : : constructive : : : :, : : : :,,, :, :, : :,, : : : : : : : :, :,, : Alderson Reporting Company :, : : defendant :, : : : : disagree : Official :, court's : : defendant's : disagreeing : : : courts : cousin : : credibly : : credit : creditor :, : defendants : defenses :, deficiency : : disaster : disclaim :, discovered : : : : dispute : : :,, disputed : dissenters : dissipate : : delay : :,, : delays : : delivered : creditor's : : demean : creditors :, downside : dramatic : drive : E E : :, earlier : : earning : easy :, effect : : effectively : : criticizes : curiae : : : D Department : depend : : depends : describing : : description : destruction : D : : : : deter : D.C :,, damages : : : determinations : : : determine : : : :, developed : : : : : : : Eighth : : either : : dissipated : : : dissipates : : :, : elements : : : : Elevator : : embodying : : : : empirical : encompasses : encumbered : ended : : enforce : : : : : : : : : dissipating : : : : : : dissipation :, : : : : : Page  :,, :, : :,, : :, equity :, : : : : : : :, :,, : :, : : : : :,, : :, :, :,,, : :, : : : :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :, : : equity's : ERISA : : :, : : : :, : : : : : dance : date : Davila : day : : : dead : deal : debt : decide : : : : decided : decision : : decisions : decisis : declaration : decree :, : : decrees : : : defend : : : : distinct : : : distinction : dialogue : diamond : : differ : difference : : : : distinctions : : : distinguish : distinguishing : different : : distributable : : : : : : :, distribute : : differently : difficult : diligent :, diligently : : : divided : : docket : dockets : doctrine : dollar :, dollars : : dipped : disability : : double : : :, : :,,, :,,, doubt : :, : : Downs : enforceable : : enforcement : engaging : enjoin : entire : : ESQ :,, : ERISA's : err : : error :, escrow : :,, essence : essentially :, : : entitled : : : entity : equal : equitable :, : : establish : estopped : ethical : evenly : everybody : evolved : exact : : : : : :,, : :,,, : : : : : : :, :, exactly : : : :,, : : : :, : : example : :,,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : : : : examples : : : filed :, : : : : :, : : : filing :, exception : : find :,,, :,, : first :, : : : : : :,, : : : : flag : flexibility : :, flexible : : flies : followed : follows : forget : form : : formal : formalistic : : :,, : fundamentally : funds : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : :, : : :, further : future : : : : fuzziness : : exercise : exist : existed : existence : exists : : expansiveness : expenses : : expensive : : explains : extend : extent : extreme : F face : faced : fact : : : : : : :, : :,, : facts : : fail : fair : : : : fair­minded : : : far : : : : : fee : : fees :, fide : fiduciaries :, : fiduciary : figure : figures : file : : : Official full : fund : : Page  : :, : : : Great­Western : : : : : : : : :, : : : give : : :,, : :,, : given : : :,, : :, :, : : : :,, : :, :,, go : : : : gives : : : : giving : : gross : grounding : guess : : : : : H hacked : half : :, :, :, : hand : :,, : : : : hands : :,,, goes : :, : : : : hard : happened : happens : : : :, going : :,, health : : : : : : : hear : : : :,, : : : hearing : heavily : :, :, help : : :, :, : : : hey : Hine : : : : historical : :, : : : good : : : : : historically : : : : : : G G : forth : found : foundation : foundational : garnish : gears : four : framework :, general : : Frankfurter : fraud :,,, : :, : freestanding : friend : : good­faith : governed : :, : : gotten : : :,, :, : : government : : :, :, :, : : : government's : : history : holding : Holmes's : : Homes's : honest :, Honor : : : : : General's : : : : :, : : generally : : frustrated : frustrates : : : : : frustrating : : : genuine : GINGER : : : Ginsburg : : :, :, : : : grant : granting : great : : Great­West :, hypothetical : hope : house : :,,, : : :, :,,,, : :, :, : I idea : : : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company : : ideal : identified : ignores : ignoring :, II : : imagine : : immediate : immediately : : impact : : impaired : important : : : : :, : : : : : intermediate : : : internally : interpreted : intervene : investigate : involve : : : involves : isolates : issue : : : : :,, : : : : issued : issues : item : incentive : J incentives :, include : : Joint : :,,, : :, : : : :,, : :, key : kicks : kind : : : : knew : :, know : : Official : :,, : :,,, :,,, : : : :, : :,, : : :,, :, :, :,,, :,, : : :,, :, : :, :,, :,, : : : : : :,, : :,,, :,, :,, :, : : :, :, :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, : :,, : : : : : : :, : :,, : :,, K :, :,, knowing : Justice's : K : : : Kagan :, : : :, : Katyal : : : income : incomprehensible : inconsistent : indicate : individuals : Industry : : injunction : : injunctions : : :, injured : : : injury : innocent : : instance : instances : insured : insurer : : insurers : : interchange : : interesting : : Jones : Judge : judgment : : judgment­proof : : judgments : : :, :,, jurisdiction : : :,, :,, : : :,, : : : :,, :, : :,, : : : :,,, : : : : : : : :,, :,, :, : : : : : jury : Justice : :, : :,, : :,, :, : :, :, :,, : :,, : : : : :, : :,,,,, :, :, : : : : : keeping : : :, :,,,, Kennedy :, : keep : : : :,, : knowingly : : : : knowledge : knows : : : Knudson : : : L label :, laches : language : large : : larger : late : Latin : Laughter : law : : : : : :,, : : : : Page  : lawsuit :, :, : : : :, lawsuits : lawyer :, : :,, :,,,, : :,, :, : :, : :, :,,,, :, :, lawyer's : : : lawyers : : : : : : : lead : leads : leave : leaving : led : : left : :,, : : legal : : : : : : : : : :,,, :, : :,, legend : : legitimate : : :, lesser­known : let's : : :, letter :, : : : :, : letters : : : : lien :, : : : : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  : :, : : : notify : : notified : moneys : monitor : : : : November : number : : : monitoring : : :,, Montanile : : : : O : : : O : : : : : obligation : : : : Montanile's : Montanile­like : : obligations : : mind : : : mine : : : mine­run : : Montaniles : months : : : morning : : : N N :, : narrower : narrowly : National : : nature : NEAL : : : obviously : : : occur : odds :, oh : : : : okay : : : once : :, : one's : onerous : ones : open : : opinion : : : : : : necessary :, need : : opinions : : : : opposed : needed : : opposing : : needs : negotiation : net :, never : : oral : :,, : : : order : : :, : nonfiduciary : Otis : : miscommunicated NASP : lien­priority : lienholder :, making : : M Official looking : mentioned : : Los : lose : : lost : : lot :, :, Mertens : : : merely : merger : Merten : :, : : : : lowest : : luck : :, : : : minus : : : : minute : : : : : mandamus : :, :, minutes : Marin : material : matter : : : misappropriation misappropriated : : : : : : : : misbehave : : : : mischief : : mean : : : : : : mistake : : : : mixed : : :,, : model : : : : modesty : : : : modified : : : : moment : : :, : : : :, : momentary : meaningful : Monday : :,, : : :, :, : : : : : :,, :, : : :,, : :, : lien­by­agreement : : liens : : : life : : : light : limited : : :, :, : limiting : limits : line :,, : lines : lion's : list :, litigation : : little : :, : : : living : loan : logical : long : : : : : : longer : look : : : means : : : : : : : meant : : : measures : : : : : : : : mechanical : : :,, medical : : :,, Medtronic : : meet : monetary : : :, : :, money : : : new : :,, :,, nineteenth : : : :, :, :,, normally : : :, :, : : :, : : :, :,,, : noticed : note : noted : notice :, ordinary : originally : Orr : : : : ought : outright :,, :, : : : outset : : outside : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : plans : :, : : Page  possible : proceeds : : perfect : : period : permit : : : :, : : pot : : : :, potential : :, : : :,, : practice : :, : : :, precedence : precedents : : :, product : : : profit : : : : : : : permits : permitted : person : :, please : : playing : : : : : profiting : precise : progressed : precisely : : prohibited : :,, : : : : :, : : : perspective : : persuasively : : : : PETER : :, : : : : : participant : : : : petition : : : participant's : Petitioner :, participants : pocket : : point : :, : : preempted : : preemptive : : : : :, : : : : preliminary : : : : : : : : : : present : prepared : : pointing : points : policing : presented : preserved : preserving : presumably : : :,, : policy : : : : phrase : pick : :, : :, :,, : : presumed : : : : : : policymaker : pretty : : : :, : prohibits : promise : : promise­breaking :, promises : promptly :, :, : promulgated : : prong : property : :, : : proposition : : : protect : : : : : primary : principle : overpaying : overpayments : :, overrun : overturned : owes : : : P P : page : : : : pages : paid :, : Pardon : part : : : : particular : : particularly : parties : party : : : : passing : pattern : pay : paying : : : payments : : pays : : peculiar : pend :, pendent : : penny :, pension : : : : : :, people : :, : :, : : : : : policymakers piece :,, place : placed : plaintiff : : Pomeroy :, plaintiffs : plan : : : Pomeroy's : : position : : : :, :, poorer : : : : pops : : :,, : :, :, :, : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : possessed : : : : possession : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, :,, Posner : : : : : prevail :, : prevent : : protected : protecting : prove : proven : provide : provides : prior :, priority : : provision :, : :,, :, provisions : pro : public : probably : : punch : : problem : punitive : : purchaser : : :, : : : pure : : : purport : purpose : : purposes : : : Plan's :, : : : : : problems : : : : procedurally : : :, procedures : Alderson Reporting Company Official push : put : :,, :,, : : : : : : puts : putting : Q question : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : questions : : quibble : quibbling : quote :, : :, quotes : quoting : R R : rare :, reach : : : read : : : : reading : reads : reality : : : really :, :, : reason : : : : : : : reasonable : : reasonably : reasons : : : REBUTTAL : : receive : received : : remained : remaining : relying : : : receives : : : : recipient : recognize : recognized : : : recognizes : recognizing : : record :,,, : : recover : : : :, :, : :, : : : : recovered : recovery : : : : : : reflect : reflected : reflects : refuse : regard : regime : reimburse : reimbursement : : : : : : : : reimbursing : reinstate : reiterated : rejected : release : relevant : relied : relief : :, :,, : :, : : :, : : : remains : remand :, remarkable : remedies : : : : : : : : : remedy : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : repeatedly : : : representation : represented : : representing : require : requirement : :, requirements : requires : reserve : resolve : : resolved : respect : : : : : : : : respond : Respondent : : : : Respondents : responsible : : rest : Restatement : : : : restitution : : : restitutionary : result : : : right : : : : : : :,, : : : :, :, : : : :, :, : : : :, : rightly : rights : : ring : rings : risk : risks : ROBERT : ROBERTS : : : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : :,, :, robust : : rule : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : :,, :, :,, : : : : : rules :,,, : : : : : : says : : : Page  : : : : : : : :,, run : : : running : S S : : safe : satisfied : satisfy : saying : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : Scalia :, :, : : :,,,, :, :, :, :, :, : scope : second : : : : : : : : : second­best : Section : : : : : Security : see : : : :, : : : seek : : seeking : seeks : seen : : Alderson Reporting Company Official :,, : :, spot : : squeeze : stand : standard : : : stare : start :, : : : State : : :,, Page  : : : T :, : : : take :, : : :, substance : substantial : substantially : substitution : : : : : : : :, :, taken : : : : : substitutionary : : : : : : : takes : : : :,, : talk :,, talking : : States :,, : sue :, : : : suits : summary : support : :,,, :, suitable : : :,, : : : : :,, : :,, : : : : supported : : :, supporting : :,,,,, :, :, :,, :, : : : : : :, :, : : sued : sufficient : suggest :, : : suggested : suggesting : suggestive : suit : : : supports : suppose : : Supreme :, sure : :, : : : : surprised : sweep : sweet : : : swollen :, : : : system : : T talks : :,, : tangible : tanto : technical :, tell : : : : : : telling : tells : tend : terms : : : : test :, : : :, : textual : Thank : : :, :, : : theory :, : :, : : thing : : : :, : :,, : things : : :,, : : :, : : : : think :,, : :,,,, : :, sense :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : situations : : : : sensible : : sensitive : separate : : Social :, Sereboff : six : Solicitor : : : : : : : : : : solution : solve : : set : :, : somebody : set­off : Settle : settled : : : : : : : : settlement : : :, :, :, : : :, : settlements : : sort : : sorts : Sotomayor : :, :, :, :, sounds : : speaking : specific : : : : : : : Seventh : Shafer's : share : sheet : shift : : show : shows : side : : : : : : : : : : : : spending : : : : specifically : spend :, : : : :, :, :, : : statute : somewhat : soon : statutes : sophisticated : statutory : sorry : : stop : Story : : Story's : straight : strikes : Stris : :, sides : : signed : significant : simple : : : : simply : : : : single : : sitting : : situation : : : : : : : : : : : : spends : : : spent : : : : : : : :, : spin : spirit : split : : strong : : : stronger : structure : : stuff : stunned : subject : : : submitted : :, subrogation : Alderson Reporting Company : : : unbroken :, : : : unconscionability : :, : traceable : tortfeasor's : total : totally : : trace : : : :, :, tort :,,, :, :, : : : tortfeasor : : :,, :,, : :, :, :,, : : :, :,,, : :, :,,, : :, :, :, :,, : : :, : :, :, : :,, : : :, :,, : : :, : :,, :,, :, : :,, : :,, tracks : tradition : :, : : :, traditional : traditionally : :,, : : :,,, : : : : tracing :, : traditions : : : : treatise : : thinking : : third : : : : : thought : : :,, : : : : : : : three : : : : :, : : : : throes : time : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, times : : title :, : : : today : : treatises :, trial : TROs : true :, : : : : trust : : trustee : : Trustees : : try :, : : :, : : : : trying : : : : : : : : : : : turn : : twice :, two : : Official : :, type : :, : typically :, : : : U ultimate : : underlying : : understand :, : : : : : understanding :, undisputed : unfortunately : United :,, : : unquestionably : urban : : use : usually : V v : : valid : : : : : : : value : : : variety : : view : : : : : : : : VII : violated : W wages : wait : : waited : want :, : : Page  wants :, Washington : : : : worry : worth : wouldn't : : : : : : : : write : : wasn't : : : : : :, way :,,, : : : : : writing : : : : written : : : : ways : : we'll : : we're : : wrong : : : : : : :, : wrongdoing : : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : : : wrongfully : :, :, :, :, : wrongful : : X we've : : : : : :, weigh :, weight : weren't : : Westlaw : whatsoever : : wife : willing : wins : wish : wonderful : wondering : word : words : : work : : worked : : : : working : world : : : : worried :, x :, :,, Y Yeah : year : : : years : Z : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : ­ : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : : s : : , : : : : : : : : : : : : , : : : (a) : , : :,,, :, : : (a)() : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 