 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  TIMOTHY TYRONE FOSTER,               :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          BRUCE CHATMAN, WARDEN.               : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, November ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: STEPHEN B. BRIGHT, ESQ., Atlanta, Ga.; on behalf of            Petitioner. Appointed by this Court.      BETH A. BURTON, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Atlanta,           Ga.; on behalf of Respondent.     Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE STEPHEN B. BRIGHT, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   BETH A. BURTON, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   STEPHEN B. BRIGHT, ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Foster v. Chatman.                     Mr. Bright.           ORAL ARGUMENT OF MR. STEPHEN B. BRIGHT                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. BRIGHT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The prosecutors in this case came to court        on the morning of jury selection determined to strike         all the black prospective jurors.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Bright, maybe       you could address first the ­­ the question we raised on           Friday with respect to which court certiorari should be         directed to.                          MR. BRIGHT: Yes, Your Honor.      We filed this petition originally certiorari      to the Supreme Court of Georgia. And of course this           Court in Sears v. Upton had issued certiorari ­­ this is           in ­­ to the Supreme Court of Georgia in a similar             situation.             It appears to us, from looking at this over         the weekend, that R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company v.        Durham County, which the Court has decided in eight ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official in , the Court said that, unless there was positive          assurance that the decision was not a ruling on the           merits, then the writ went to the State supreme court.                         And the Georgia court, while it has rules     and statutes and its own opinions that are not totally          in harmony with one another, the rule, nonetheless, is         that a certificate of probable cause, which is what was           denied in this case, is to be granted if there is           arguable merit to the case.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think that        affects the scope of our review? In other words, are we            addressing just whether there's arguable merit to the        claim or are we addressing the claim on its own merits?                       MR. BRIGHT: Well, I ­­ I think what this            Court has done in ­­ in all these cases is apply Yist v.             Nunnemaker to look through to the last reasoned        decision, and that would be the decision of the habeas          corpus court. In Georgia, typically the habeas court         rules, an application is made for certificate of        probable cause to the Georgia Supreme Court, and that is          often denied summarily. It is denied summarily as it          was in this case. It was denied.                    JUSTICE SCALIA: I really don't understand        that. You ­­ you say we would be reversing the Georgia            Supreme Court, not the ­­ not the habeas court, right?          Alderson Reporting Company Official And ­­ and all that the Georgia Supreme Court held is           that there ­­ there ­­ is that there was no arguable           basis for ­­ for its accepting review.                   So if we reverse that decision, we ­­ we         tell the Georgia Supreme Court, you're wrong; there is         an arguable basis for your accepting review. So we          ought to remand to that court, requiring them to accept          review, it would seem to me.                  How can we reverse them on ­­ on an issue          they ­­ they never considered?                 MR. BRIGHT: Well, that's what happened in        R.J. Reynolds. I mean, there you had almost an           identical situation where you had an intermediate       appellate court that had ruled, and then you had the          North Carolina Supreme Court denied review. And the         question was, do you issue the writ to the intermediate          appellate court or to the North Carolina Supreme Court?         And ­­ and this Court decided, and Justice Blackman,         writing for the court, said, "We want to give         practitioners" ­­ "We want to end the confusion about         this."                         And so it goes to the State supreme court.         There is no difference in our situation here        and the situation that R.J. Reynolds ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but you're saying in         Alderson Reporting Company Official that case or in other cases? And if so, which other            cases that, in that situation, we, nonetheless,       addressed the reasoning of the intermediate court? Is         that what you're saying?                MR. BRIGHT: You ­­ you did in Sears v.          Upton, a case out of Georgia, U.S. in .            That was certiorari to the Supreme Court of Georgia, but          it came up on exactly the same posture of our ­­ our            case.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is there an argument that        the petition for certiorari could go to the trial court?                        I mean, our statute says that it goes to the         highest court in which review could have ­­ could have          been had, I think is the ­­ the statutory phrase, in            which sounds like the Georgia Supreme Court.                   On the other hand, as Justice Scalia said,        they haven't really directed their attention to the        issues before us.                 I ­­ I ­­ I'm not sure to me that it's an            option to ­­ to go to the superior ­­ to the Georgia            trial court.                          incorrect?             MR. BRIGHT: Well, let ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Or ­­ or is that        MR. BRIGHT: Well, what this Court has said,         Alderson Reporting Company Official both in the R.J. Reynolds case and then that was          followed in Grady v. North Carolina last year ­­          case, this year, in which, once again, there was an          intermediate court decision denied by the ­­ the North         Carolina Supreme Court.                 I mean, I can remember all the way back to          . There was Thompson v. Louisville, where        certiorari was to the police court in Louisville,        Kentucky, because no court in Kentucky could take the         case because the fine was less than $.                    But I think these cases, much more recent,         decided by the Court and this year ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're putting together      two rules that you say we've established. One is          Justice Blackman said, to end the confusion, the        petition should be addressed to the Supreme Court.                    And then you said, we have cases. Look         through cases. If ­­                            MR. BRIGHT: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ the Supreme Court has        said just "denied," nothing more than "denied," we look         back to the last reasoned decision.                  Those are both decisions of this Court, and        that's what you're relying on.                 MR. BRIGHT: Well, and ­­ and they're not         Alderson Reporting Company Official mutually exclusive. This Court can look back through to          the last reasoned decision in making its decision in         this case, and I believe that's what it should do. But             at the same time, the Court's opinions appear to us, on           the quick research we did over the weekend on this, that           R.J. Reynolds and ­­ and the subsequent case say that          certiorari would issue to the Georgia Supreme Court.                    And ­­ and we listed it that way, and then          when the case was docketed here, it was listed that the           lower court was the superior court of Butts County.                     JUSTICE ALITO: What if the State supreme        court wrote a short opinion and said, We're not going to            determine whether there was, in fact ­­ the only issue          we're going to determine is whether there's any arguable         merit to this? And then you say that the whole issue of             whether it was a correct application in Batson is ­­ is            the issue that we have to decide?                   MR. BRIGHT: I ­­ I ­­ I think in             R.J. Reynolds, I think that's this Court's law, yes.                      JUSTICE ALITO: Could I ask you another ­­ a           question about another preliminary issue before you get        to the ­­ the ­­ the underlying question in the case?                       The Superior Court said, on page of the         Joint Appendix, that the issue of the Batson violation         was not reviewable based on the doctrine of        Alderson Reporting Company Official res judicata.              And then it later said, and this is of          the Joint Appendix, that it will review the Batson claim          as to whether Petitioner has shown any change in the          facts sufficient to overcome the res judicata bar.                    Now, if you put those two together, you        could argue that the superior court decided only a         question of State law, namely, whether the situation        here was such that there could be review of the Batson           claim.                         What is your response to that?      MR. BRIGHT: Well, the State doesn't argue        that. And I think the reason for that is because the             Court said, we're moving ­­ the Court is going to          address step three of Batson. And it said, Foster's          Batson claim is without merit.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but is it question        of Federal or State law as to whether or not the           Petitioner has shown a change in facts sufficient to          overcome the res judicata bar? The one ­­ the page            language that Justice Alito quoted, is that ­­ is that a           State law question or ­­                                        MR. BRIGHT: That's a State law question.         And here ­­  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. BRIGHT: ­­ the Court decided it, but         I ­­ I point out, Justice ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, if it's a State law          question and they resolved it against you, what do you          have to ­­ then what do you have to argue?                                  MR. BRIGHT: No, no, no.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I think you have to say          it's a Federal question.                 MR. BRIGHT: No. In order to decide it,          the ­­ this is exactly like Ake v. Oklahoma, where the           court, the Oklahoma court had to decide the Federal         question in order to decide whether it had jurisdiction         over the issue.               And this Court held in Ake that, where the         court has to decide the Federal issue ­­ and it did in            this case. It clearly decided the Federal issue and          felt that the ­­ found that the Batson claim had no           merit. So it is decided, the Federal issue, and there's           no contest about that in the ­­                  JUSTICE SCALIA: Explain to me why deciding        the Federal issue was essential to its deciding the         State res judicata issue.                MR. BRIGHT: Because it ­­ it ­­ it framed          the question as being that it would look at the          Ake v. ­­ excuse me ­­ they would look at the Batson v.             Alderson Reporting Company Official Kentucky claim and that, if there was merit to that          claim, then the court would grant the writ on it. On            the other hand, if it found that there was not merit on            it, then ­­              JUSTICE SCALIA: There ­­ you think it was         saying whether there's res judicata or not depends on         whether the new claim has any merit?                   exactly ­­             MR. BRIGHT: I think ­­ I think it's           JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a very strange        application of res judicata, it seems to me.                                MR. BRIGHT: Well ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought it was whether         there ­­ there were changed facts sufficient enough.                    MR. BRIGHT: Well, the Georgia law is that         you can bring an issue that's been litigated already         before direct appeal.                                       JUSTICE SCALIA: Right. Right.      MR. BRIGHT: In habeas, if there are ­­        JUSTICE SCALIA: Even ­­ even ­­ right.        Even if it would, you know, produce a different result,           right?             MR. BRIGHT: Right. If the ­­ if the facts           are such that it would produce a different result,          right. Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Bright, did the       court, in your judgment, do de novo review? Didn't it           say that it did ­­ basically, it was going to do step            three of the Batson charge ­­ challenge?                   MR. BRIGHT: Yes, that's exactly what the        court said, yes.               the merits.  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that's a ruling on                     MR. BRIGHT: I think ­­ I think the court            said the Batson claim is without merit. That seems like           a ruling on the merits to me.                   (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it ­­ I think it          said after ­­ after redoing ­­                 MR. BRIGHT: After considering these other       facts. And we think there was some legal errors made           there. But yes, after considering these facts, the         court said that the claim was without merit.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: The court said that it        would reach step three again on the basis of the new           evidence presented, and so they did it all over. And I            guess that's ­­ we must take that as what happened.          They did not apply a res judicata bar.                     MR. BRIGHT: No. I mean, in Ake this Court            said, when the resolution of the State procedural law         Alderson Reporting Company Official question depends upon a Federal constitutional ruling,        the State law prong is not independent of the Federal          claim. And this Court has jurisdiction. That's on page            of United States.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I don't want to         belabor the point too much, but you ­­ are you arguing           that Georgia res judicata law is this: If someone comes           up with any new fact, the ­­ the ­­ the thinnest new            fact, that is sufficient to wipe out the res judicata          bar and allow the court to get to the merits of the            claim? Is that your argument? That's your         understanding of Georgia res judicata law?                  MR. BRIGHT: That's not my understanding.       My understanding is the evidence has to be sufficient         enough that the court does what it did in this case and            rule on the merits of the issue. And that's what           happened here. This was not a matter of just adding one             more leaf to the basket.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: And we really want you to         get to the merits, but why is that ­­ in conjunction           with ­­                         MR. BRIGHT: We will.     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ with Justice Scalia's       question, why is that an issue of Federal law?                     MR. BRIGHT: Because the court decided the        Alderson Reporting Company Official Batson issue to decide the underlying State law issue.         And I think Ake is pretty clear on this, and I commend              it to the Court's attention. We didn't ­­ it wasn't ­­           since the State had raised this, either in their         opposition to cert or in their brief, it's not briefed          before this Court, but I think that's the deciding case           on this.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thanks, counsel. I        think we have your argument on the point. Thank you.                                   MR. BRIGHT: Okay. Thank you very much.         If I could just say what happened here was          that the prosecutors had identified the      African­Americans by race, they had rated them against        each other in case it came down to having to select a            black juror.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: The prosecutors said the       reason for concentrating on the black jurors was that         you had informed them you would present a Batson          challenge, and therefore, it was necessary for them to         see if there was a race­neutral ground for disqualifying          that case.              MR. BRIGHT: Right. Two answers to that,         Justice Ginsburg.                I mean, what the lawyers did here was these        lawyers have practiced here for a long time in Rome,           Alderson Reporting Company Official Georgia. They said the prosecutor always strikes all         the blacks from the jury. That's been the historic          practice. We think they're going to strike all the          blacks on the jury in our case. But last year the            Supreme Court of the United States decided Batson v.         Kentucky, and we asked the Court not to let that happen           in this case.               Now, of course, if the prosecutor is willing        to avoid a Batson challenge, they could have not          discriminated. That would have been the first thing to          do.             But ­­ but secondly, with regard to the        information that's collected here, it doesn't seem like        it's information just to exercise strikes when they say,         if it comes down to having to take an African­American,          Ms. Hardge, or in another place, Ms. Garrett, might be          okay. And the district attorney himself said Marilyn         Garrett has the most potential of the black prospective         jurors.             In other words, the blacks were taken out of         the picture here. They were taken and ­­ and dealt with            separately. And over the weekend, the jury ­­ the          questioning ended on a Friday. And the judge said, all            right. Over the weekend, you've got your chance to          decide who you're going to strike. And they knew          Alderson Reporting Company Official exactly who they were going to strike because the ­­         the ­­ the jurors are listed in order. The State goes            first, and if it accepts a juror, then the State           accepts, and that juror is on. There's no going back.           There's no backstriking or there's no striking people        here and there.               They developed three strike lists. And one        of those strike lists was a list headed "Definite NOs."           These are the people absolutely are not going to be on           this jury. There are only six jurors listed on the list            of "Definite NOs," and the first five are        African­Americans. The sixth is a juror who made clear           during the voir dire process that she could not impose          the death penalty under any circumstances. The State         moved to strike her for cause. The judge probably erred           in not granting that strike. But even she ranked behind           the black jurors in terms of the priorities that the          prosecution had for ­­ for striking.                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, at this ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Bright ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ at the time,        Mr. Lanier said they weren't striking the ­­ the jurors          because of race. They were striking them because they          were women. And I guess three ­­ three out of the             four ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official             (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ African­Americans      were ­­ who were struck were ­­ were women. How does            that ­­ and then that explanation is just kind of fallen           out of the case.                            How ­­ how does that affect the analysis?        MR. BRIGHT: Well, he ­­ he did accept         women, though, as ­­ as well. If ­­ bear with me a ­­              just a moment.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Court had not yet        held that Batson applies to ­­                 MR. BRIGHT: The Court had not held in JEB          that Batson applied to women, but the Court did say in           JEB that, of course, it could be used as a pretext,            women, for striking on the basis of race.                    In this case, the prosecutor struck three       white jurors, and then he struck the three black jurors,          women, the three black women and the three white women.          The final ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. ­­ Mr. Bright,       Mr. Lanier ­­                          MR. BRIGHT: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ answered yes when he        asked ­­ when during the ­­ during the trial when he was            asked whether he had done ­­ I don't know if it ­­ oh,              Alderson Reporting Company Official no, it was on the motion for a new trial hearing ­­            whether he had done the same extensive background check         on all the jurors, white and black.                   Did you find any evidence of that extensive        black background search?               MR. BRIGHT: No. The only ­­ what that's          talking about ­­ and ­­ and the investigator said this          in his deposition, was the color ­­ race­coded colored         list, those first four lists you have in the Joint          Appendix in which the blacks are marked with a "B" and            are highlighted in green with a marker up at the corner            saying green designates black.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So ­­ so your ­­ your         understanding of that statement was that all ­­ he had          only done an extensive search on the blacks on the list?                       MR. BRIGHT: Well, it's clear, Mr. Lundy had         prepared a ­­ a list, notes in which he talked about             just the black jurors in ­­ in the case. And I think              the State concedes in its brief that the focus was on           the black jurors.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: During the trial, did       defense counsel, when he made his initial Batson        challenge ­­ not in the papers, but at trial ­­ did he            again say that this was part and parcel of the          prosecutor's pattern?  Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. BRIGHT: He didn't say that, but I point           this interesting thing out. When they discussed the         Batson motion before trial, there was never a suggestion          that there wouldn't be a Batson hearing. Everybody knew           what was going to happen, that all the blacks would be           struck, and then they'd have a hearing after that          happened. But the defense had basically put their         motion in writing and relied upon that throughout the         jury selection.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I was just surprised        that we didn't hear about this preparation for a Batson           hearing until ­­              MR. BRIGHT: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the habeas.                  MR. BRIGHT: The ­­ the defense lawyers at         trial did move for the prosecution's notes. And the          prosecution opposed that. They're very strict in not ­­         not giving up their notes. Then when the prosecutor          testified on the motion for a new trial, he did           something I've never seen a lawyer do before. He cut a             bargain, sort of, with the judge and the lawyer saying,          I will testify, but only if I don't have to show them my              notes.               I mean, basic rules of evidence are you       testify and rely upon notes; the other side can see the           Alderson Reporting Company Official notes. But here, these notes were guarded until ,          when we obtained them through a Freedom of Information          or what they call Open Records Act in Georgia.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: The prosecutors said that       you ­­ they said, we never ­­ we never wrote or           authorized or relied on those notes. And you didn't          call the prosecutors to test the veracity of that         assertion.             MR. BRIGHT: No, but all the prosecutor        talked about were the color­highlighted notes. Each        prosecutor filed an affidavit which are in the ­­ in the           Joint Appendix at . And all they said was, we didn't            highlight it in green, and we didn't tell anybody else          to highlight it in green. And then Mr. Lanier says ­­           and I don't have anything else to say beyond what I said              at the Batson hearing and the motion for a new trial.            Mr. Pullen said ­­ the only other thing he said is, I            didn't use those green­highlighted lists in choosing the        jury; but, of course, that's just the first few pages.                      What's damning about this is not so much        that, but the "Definite NOs" list, the misrepresentation        to the trial court that Ms. Garrett ­­ that they wanted           Ms. Garrett. That's what they told the trial court.          And the trial court relied upon that in denying the          Batson motion, that this showed their openness to        Alderson Reporting Company Official having ­­ Ms. Garrett was on the "Definite NO" list.          She was on each of the strike lists. Ms. Garrett was            never in the running to be on this jury.                     But they represented to the court that       because another African­American, Shirley Powell, was      excused for cause ­­ there were five African­Americans        in the venire at the start when they got ready to           instruct the jury. But one said, turns out I know            somebody in the family. She was excused for cause. And            the prosecutors said ­­ made it ­­ implied clearly that          had it not been for that, that extra strike, that          Ms. Garrett would have sat.                 At the same time ­­ and they're still        arguing this both ways, that they both wanted her and          didn't want her ­­ they give eleven reasons for why          Ms. Garrett would not be a good juror. That she's            impudent and she doesn't respect the court. If you          believe all the things they said about her, they would          never want her as a juror.                   But those things, I would submit, are not         really valid in terms of ­­ in terms of the reasons,           because the reasons they gave here, many were        demonstrably false and not supported by the evidence,        including reasons they gave about Ms. Garrett. They         were inconsistent, some were completely incredible, and       Alderson Reporting Company Official they applied to white jurors ­­ some of these reasons          applied to white jurors who had the same characteristics         as the African­Americans who were struck.                  And then lastly, and what's so important       under Miller­El, they didn't question the jurors about        the reasons for striking them. They gave reasons for          striking, and one question would have cleared up some of          these. And Miller­El says that the failure to engage in           any meaningful voir dire about whatever your reason is,         is evidence suggesting that the explanation is a sham          and a pretext.                                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Bright ­­     MR. BRIGHT: And ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ I have found some         circuit courts who have a rule on appeal or on habeas            which is if they can find one legitimate reason for          striking a juror ­­                            MR. BRIGHT: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that's enough to       defeat a Batson challenge. Do you believe that's an           appropriate rule? Are you suggesting a different         approach to the question?                MR. BRIGHT: Well, it can't ­­ I ­­ I would             suggest it ­­ it can't possibly be. Because this Court           said in Justice Alito's opinion in Snyder v. Louisiana         Alderson Reporting Company Official that where the peremptory strike was shown to have been          motivated in substantial part by race, that it could not          be sustained. And ­­ excuse me ­­ I ­­ I would suggest               to you, it shouldn't even really say substantial.        Because if this Court, as it said so many times, is           engaged in unceasing efforts to end race discrimination        in the criminal courts, then a strike that ­­ strikes           motivated by race cannot be tolerable.                  And, of course, as ­­ as pointed out here in          the ­­ in the amici, this is a serious problem, not just             in this case, but in other cases where people come to           court with their canned reasons and just read them off.          That happened in this case, where one of the reasons          that was given was just taken verbatim out of a ­­             two of the reasons given were taken verbatim out of a          reported case. So you don't have the reason for the           lawyer in this case. He said my personal preference.          It wasn't his personal preference. It was the personal          preference of some U.S. attorney in Mississippi who gave         that reason, and then it was upheld on appeal by ­­ by            the Fifth Circuit.               But I ­­ we would suggest that the standard          is at least what Snyder says, because when you have          both ­­ you can always have, as Miller­El recognized ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, in ­­ in response to         Alderson Reporting Company Official Justice Sotomayor's question ­­                           MR. BRIGHT: Right.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ if the prosecutor       argues a laundry list of reasons for striking the black           juror and some of those are reasonable and some are          implausible, how should the Court approach the Batson        analysis?             MR. BRIGHT: I think the Court looks at          which reasons are pretextual. I think the fact that           there is a laundry list suggests in and of itself that            the Court should scrutinize the reasons very carefully,        should be suspect of the reasons. Because otherwise,         what the Court is going to do is just simply encourage           prosecutors or any party in a case, since Batson applies           to everyone ­­ is going to encourage a party to just            give as many reasons as possible and hope that one will           be acceptable. And in this case ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Don't you think this is ­­        this is a case­by­case thing? Suppose there's one          reason that's a killer reason? Like this ­­ this           individual has numerous prior felony convictions, all       right? And then the prosecutor says in addition, and          this ­­ this person didn't ­­ he looked down at the           floor in answering the questions and didn't seem to         pause and didn't seem to understand some of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official questions.             So under a circumstance like that, couldn't        the Court say, well, the one ­­ there's one reason here           that would ­­ that is clearly a justification for a           peremptory strike? We don't have to determine whether         there's evidence that the person was looking down at the          floor.             MR. BRIGHT: Well, of course, Batson says,        and the subsequent cases say, you look at all relevant          circumstances. It may be if all the circumstances that          are there, the ones you said, then you would come to the            conclusion that of those two reasons that there was a          valid reason.              But I would suggest that where you have         indicia like we have here, I mean, we have an arsenal of             smoking guns in this case.                 JUSTICE SCALIA: A lot of those smoking guns          were in the original decisions by ­­ by the Georgia          courts. It seems to me what ­­ what you would have to             establish to reverse the Georgia courts is that the new          smoking gun, assuming that all the rest were not enough          to demonstrate a Batson violation ­­ the new smoking          guns would tip the scale. Isn't ­­ isn't that the           issue ­­             MR. BRIGHT: Well, when the ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE SCALIA: ­­ that the Georgia courts       MR. BRIGHT: When the ­­ when the new                     decided?             smoking gun tells you that the prosecutor misrepresented        facts and gave reasons that were absolutely false,        demonstrably false reasons, and those are not clear        before, but you have that now, I mean, Batson turns on            the feasibility of the reasons. It turns on the          credibility of the prosecutor.                JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but all ­­ all I'm         saying ­­ and you seem to be agreeing ­­ is that it is             not the overall Batson judgment that's before us but         rather the judgment that the ­­ that the new evidence          did not suffice to create a Batson violation where none           existed before.              MR. BRIGHT: No. Our position is that when          you look at the new evidence with all the evidence at           trial, that all relevant circumstances considered      together, considering that a lot of these reasons we now           know from the notes, we now know from the notes that           there were misrepresentations with regard to these       reasons.               I mean, the Georgia Supreme Court ­­ just as        an example, Justice Scalia ­­ upheld the strike on         Ms. Garrett on two bases: That she was a social worker             Alderson Reporting Company Official and that her cousin had been arrested for drugs. She           was not a social worker, and secondly, the prosecutor          didn't find out until after trial about her cousin's         arrest, so it couldn't have possibly been a reason for           the strike.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you saying in answer        to Justice Scalia that when you had the notes, those          notes cast doubt on some of the prosecutor's        justifications in the first round?                 MR. BRIGHT: They ­­ they do that, and ­­         and they show misrepresentations to the court, and they         show an overarching goal of separating out the        African­American citizens, treating them differently and      then putting them on this list of "Definite NOs."                     JUSTICE KAGAN: And Mr. Bright, just to make         sure I understand, all the notes in the prosecutor's          files were new; is that right?                                          MR. BRIGHT: New. New to this case, yes.          JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes. Okay.      MR. BRIGHT: And there were three people:        It just involved the two prosecutors and the        investigator who put those together.                             I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Burton.  Alderson Reporting Company Official              ORAL ARGUMENT OF BETH A. BURTON                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MS. BURTON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:                 I believe there are two important factors in       this case when reviewing the entirety of the evidence.         One is Petitioner bears the burden of establishing        clear ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I ­­ I'll ask you as           well to address the certiorari question first.                   MS. BURTON: And ­­ and respectfully, I        disagree with Petitioner's counsel on this issue. I         believe Norfolk & Western Railway v. Hiles, which is          this Court's opinion, indicates that ­­ or states that         if there is an issue raised in the lower court and it is             raised in the State's highest court, in this case, the          Georgia Supreme Court, but the Georgia Supreme Court        denies discretionary review, then it is before this        Court on certiorari from the lower court. So ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the problem is I        don't think this is discretionary review. The Eleventh         Circuit found it's not under Georgia law. Read its          opinion. It seems pretty grounded in the stated law of           Georgia.             MS. BURTON: Yes, Your Honor, and that is ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official that's a pretty hot­button issue I know right now in the             State Federal courts in Georgia. But our position in          that ­­ in that ­­ those cases and in ­­ I think there              was a case before this Court on rehearing on that same            issue ­­ is that Georgia statute ­­ the Georgia statute          specifically says that is a discretionary appeal. The           Habeas Corpus Act made it a discretionary appeal, I           think, because the Georgia Supreme Court was just        getting inundated with appeal after appeal.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: And has the Georgia Supreme        Court ever ­­ ever said anything one way or the other as            to whether it's discretionary or not?                  MS. BURTON: In two of their cases, Reed v.          Hopper, which is S.E.d , and Smith v. Nichols,          which is S.E.d , . They both state those as            discretionary. But they have not ­­ they have not          answered a ­­ a certified question on that issue.                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you give me the ­­        the Reed v. ­­ what?                 MS. BURTON: Yes, Your Honor. S.E.d         . That's a case.                   JUSTICE SCALIA: Are certified questions      available in Georgia? Could ­­ could we certify a          question to the Georgia Supreme Court?                  MS. BURTON: I ­­ I believe you can, Your            Alderson Reporting Company Official Honor.             JUSTICE BREYER: You did ­­ we ­­ I ­­ I ­­             we looked at ­­ I looked at the statute. The statute             says in a habeas case, State habeas, that the Georgia           Supreme Court must review it. It says it must review it            unless it's without merit. I forget the exact words. I             was looking for them.                                        MS. BURTON: Well, the ­­ in State habeas ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: Do they state that?       MS. BURTON: Well, in the State habeas, I         think it's ­­ ­­                           JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MS. BURTON: ­­ the statute takes State        habeas cases out of other appellate review and makes         that just discretionary. The Georgia Supreme Court ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, wait, wait, wait.       Then I've been looking at the wrong place.                    You heard your brother here say ­­ he quoted         some words. I don't remember the exact words, but they            were exactly what I'd read, and it was from a statute in             Georgia.                         MS. BURTON: Well, it's ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: And the Georgia statute       said ­­ I just can't find it in my book here. Sorry.              The Georgia statute said they shall review the case         Alderson Reporting Company Official unless it's without ­­ it's totally without merit.        Something like that.                 I ­­ does that ring a bell?                               I'm saying?                          words?             MS. BURTON: Well, there is ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Does it ring a bell, what          MS. BURTON: It ­­ it does ring a bell.           JUSTICE BREYER: Or what are the exact        MS. BURTON: I ­­ I ­­ I do not know the               exact words. But I believe the ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The exact words are        that a certificate of probable cause will be issued when           there is arguable merit.                            JUSTICE BREYER: Yes. That's it.       MS. BURTON: But I believe that's Rule of           the Georgia Supreme Court.                doesn't ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Right. Right ­­ that        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think it's        ­­. Or if there had been compliance with that,          right? Okay.               this case?              JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Does that govern        MS. BURTON: I ­­ I believe the statute           Alderson Reporting Company Official would trump it.               JUSTICE BREYER: Does the word that he ­­        that the Chief Justice just read from Georgia law govern          this case? The answer is yes or no.                     MS. BURTON: I ­­ no, I believe it's           discretionary.             case.                         JUSTICE BREYER: They do not govern this        MS. BURTON: I believe the State ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. What, in your        opinion, is the Georgia statute that says that those         words you just held do not govern this case?                     MS. BURTON: I believe it's ­­ and ­­ and           correct. I ­­ I'm certainly open to correction.          ­­ states that State habeas is taken out of other          appeals, which are normally directly appeals, or       prisoner appeals, and they are discretionary.                              JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Thank you.       JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I ­­ I suppose          that ­­ that ­­ that a court could have a discretionary             view but could provide by rule that, in the exercise of           our discretion, we will grant any of these unless it's          patently wrong.              Could ­­ couldn't ­­ and ­­ is ­­ maybe         that's what's happened here. And if ­­ if you use your            Alderson Reporting Company Official discretion to enact a rule which says you will take           cases of a certain court, does ­­ does the taking of            those cases still remain discretionary?                 That's a nice question, isn't it?                   (Laughter.)             MS. BURTON: I think the ­­ I think the            taking of the case does remain discretionary. If they          find it has arguable merit, it is discretionary. And ­­          and the two cases I cited specifically reference ­­                                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, why would we ­­       JUSTICE SCALIA: You've ­­ you've just       decided that you will uniformly exercise your discretion        in a certain way.                                         MS. BURTON: Correct.    JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but I ­­ maybe I'm           misunderstanding what you're saying. You're saying       there is no such uniform determination that they will         exercise their discretion in a certain way, that they          are insisting upon their discretion being discretionary.       Is that correct?               (Laughter.)             MS. BURTON: That is ­­ that is my         understanding. Because these ­­ this ­­ this law         applies to not just, obviously, death­only cases but the         Alderson Reporting Company Official multitude of non­death­only cases.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm so        confused I can't even ­­                 (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The State habeas process       is different than the regular appeal process.                   MS. BURTON: That's correct.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: On the regular appeal       process, they look at each case ­­ each case with          discretion.             MS. BURTON: On a direct appeal process,         it ­­ it ­­ and certainly a capital case, it is            mandatory review.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay. In State habeas        they have a rule, an internal rule that says, we'll take            every habeas case unless it's ­­ has no arguable merit,          right?             MS. BURTON: I ­­ if I may rephrase: I             think the rule says that they will take a case if it has              arguable merit. Generally they would not take ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In the positive.                  MS. BURTON: Right, right.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what would lend us to         believe that they didn't look at the merits and say          there was no arguable merit? That they just said, we're           Alderson Reporting Company Official too busy. We don't care if there is arguable merit.                                   Do you believe they did that?      MS. BURTON: I would never ­­ I would never            say they were too busy to take the case.                                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What?       MS. BURTON: But ­­ I said I would never say             they were too ­­ that that would be the reason.                      But I think they would say, we've looked at          this case ­­ because they do have the records before          them ­­ and we don't see arguable merit to take this up.                        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So that is a decision on          the merits. There is no arguable merits.                    MS. BURTON: I think it is a fine ­­ there             is no arguable merit to the application that there has          been error below.                                                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay.    MS. BURTON: If that makes it any clearer.         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Now it's clear.      JUSTICE KENNEDY: And in your view, cert        should have been granted to the Georgia Supreme Court?                     MS. BURTON: I believe in my ­­ I believe it             should have been granted to the State habeas court         because of that discretionary review and because I        believe that this Court has said, in Michigan v. Long,          that if it's ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: All right.     MS. BURTON: ­­ if it's unclear, it comes                                 from the State habeas court.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I just ask one more          quick question about this.                            MS. BURTON: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: You ­­ you made reference ­­        this is an issue that's being litigated in the Georgia          courts, is that right, in the Eleventh Circuit?                                                                                            MS. BURTON: That is correct.      JUSTICE KAGAN: This precise issue?      MS. BURTON: This ­­ this issue.       JUSTICE KAGAN: Thank you.     MS. BURTON: To ­­    JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ what issue is that?         MS. BURTON: The ­­                (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it ­­ is it the issue of           which court the certiorari should be directed to?                                MS. BURTON: Well, I ­­ I ­­ it's ­­ it's ­­             JUSTICE SCALIA: The issue of what? What is          the issue that is being litigated?                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I'll ­­ I'll ­­ am I          right that the issue that is being litigated is whether          the Supreme Court review, in cases like this, is         Alderson Reporting Company Official discretionary or not discretionary?                                        MS. BURTON: That is correct.      JUSTICE SCALIA: All right.     MS. BURTON: And in those cases, obviously,        it's coming up from Federal court. So we're dealing          more with Elst and Richter ­­ Harrison ­­ Harrington v.          Richter in ­­ in a ­­ in a sort of a different scope of                 things in that regard.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: And this question is in        both the Georgia Supreme Court and in the Eleventh         Circuit?             MS. BURTON: It is ­­ it is currently in the           Eleventh Circuit. I don't believe we have a case            pending now in the Georgia Supreme Court on that         particular issue. But I ­­ I do believe it's up ­­             there is an issue up here in a case, Jones v. Chatman,             where it is they've asked for rehearing on the issue ­­                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think this would be         an appropriate case for us to exercise our discretion to          certify the question to the Supreme Court?                   MS. BURTON: We would certainly like an        answer from the Georgia Supreme Court on that issue. I           think ­­ I think the Eleventh Circuit would like that           as ­­ as well. I think it would clear up both State and               Federal law for ­­ for a number of things.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's a statute that        permits the ­­ the Georgia Supreme Court to accept         certified questions. Do you know anything about the         history of requests for certification?                 Some states have such a process, but the         State supreme court rejects the question.                  MS. BURTON: I do not, Your Honor. And I ­­             I apologize for that.                JUSTICE SCALIA: What ­­ what if we hold in          this case that it is not discretionary review, and then,          in these cases that are pending, the Georgia Supreme         Court says it is discretionary review? Who wins?                     (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SCALIA: Is it ultimately a question         for us or for the Georgia Supreme Court?                    MS. BURTON: I think it's ultimately a         question for the Georgia Supreme Court as to what ­­         what their law is, what the State law is.                                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?    JUSTICE KAGAN: Me too.     Can I ­­ can I go to the merits? Is that ­­              is that all right?                            people ­­ MS. BURTON: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. Unless other       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Okay.             Look. You have a lot of new information          here from these files that suggests that what the         prosecutors were doing was looking at the       African­American prospective jurors as a group, that        they had basically said, we don't want any of these          people. Here is the one we want if we really have to             take one. But that there ­­ the ­­ all the evidence            suggests a kind of singling out, which is the very           antithesis of the Batson rule.                 So, you know, I mean ­­ well, isn't this          as ­­ I'm just going to ask you: Isn't this as clear a              Batson violation as a court is ever going to see?                       MS. BURTON: I don't think it is. And I            think, because these notes that we have, they don't         undermine any of the findings that were given by the          prosecutor in his strikes, particularly of Mr. ­­       Mr. Hood and Ms. Garrett.                 They certainly can be interpreted in two       ways. In ­­ in our response brief to this Court ­­ we             don't know when we say, you know, this is why these           highlights are there. There is a reasonable         explanation, just as Mr. Foster is given speculation in         his arguments. We don't know.                  But when they're ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: What is the reasonable       explanation?             MS. BURTON: The reasonable explanation in       this case is, four months prior to trial, as was          previously argued, Batson had just come out. Batson is          new. Four months prior to trial, defense counsel files          a motion and says, the strike of any black juror, we're           filing a Batson challenge. Two weeks prior to trial, he            says ­­ he files a motion and says, I'm ­­ there's            racial disparity in jurors. And that's the ­­         that's the list that's challenged, the . There is          racial disparity of black prospective jurors on that        list.             The day of trial, he re­files that. So I          would be more surprised, quite frankly, if there wasn't         some sort of highlighting, or if ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, the       argument you're making here ­­                            MS. BURTON: Exactly.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ is that ­­ is that the          reason he highlighted all the black jurors in green and          thus said black ­­ what about the black jurors and did           all these different things was because he was preparing         a defense in case of a Batson challenge.                     MS. BURTON: Correct.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Now, if that's         correct, why this is ­­ is this the first ­­ is it ­­            was this argument made before your main brief in this          case?                         Yes or no?               and ­­                         MS. BURTON: And it was not ­­       JUSTICE BREYER? It's been several years.       MS. BURTON: And it was not. And that's ­­          JUSTICE BREYER: It was not.      So if that had been his real reason, well,         isn't it a little surprising that he never thought of           it ­­             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ or didn't tell anybody       until you raise this argument in your main brief?                     MS. BURTON: And ­­ and I ­­ I would ­­ I              would say that's on State habeas counsel. We relied on           our res judicata bar throughout State habeas; and then         after that, basically defended the factual findings of        the State habeas.               JUSTICE BREYER: All right. It seems to me          you have two arguments.                One is this argument that he never thought        of, apparently, or at least never thought to tell you          Alderson Reporting Company Official until quite recently. And the other, after years, and          so it's hard to believe that's his real reason.                     And then there's the second argument that he        had about different reasons. And at least some of           them could be valid. Okay.                  Now, if my grandson tells me, I don't want          to watch ­­ I don't want to do my homework tonight at             : because I'm just so tired. And besides, I promised            my friend I'd play basketball. And besides that,         there's a great program on television. And besides          that, you know, I really ­­ my stomach is upset, but I             want to eat spaghetti. And so he's now given me five            different reasons.                          What do I think of those reasons?        MS. BURTON: Well, in this case ­­ and         again, I think this is ­­                              JUSTICE BREYER: One may be valid.       MS. BURTON: Correct, and the other ones        also may be ­­                           JUSTICE BREYER: Which one?     MS. BURTON: Well, they all may be valid,         but they all may not be as strong as ­­ as the ­­ as the               first one. But in this case, I think the important            part ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, wait. The point is         Alderson Reporting Company Official he gave different reasons. And the very fact that he            gives different reasons ­­ and many of them are          self­contradictory, obviously not applicable, totally     different from ­­ you know, that's why I used my           grandchild's analogy. All right?                 And so I would say my answer to my          grandchild is, look, you're not too tired to do your          homework. And I think any reasonable person looking at           this would say, no, his reason was a purpose to           discriminate on the basis of race.                              Now, tell me why I'm wrong.      MS. BURTON: I think because you have to          look at the time period this was done. This was done            not ­­ you know, a year after Batson came out. And even              throughout the transcript, people ­­ defense counsel and        the prosecutor says, we're ­­ we don't really know where          Batson is going.               So in this case, the prosecutor, dealing       with Batson for the first time, the first time in          history anybody has had to put strikes on the record.                      JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he's simply wrong. He         puts down, if it comes ­­ if it comes down to having to             pick one of the black jurors ­­ was it Ms. Garrett? ­­           might be okay.               MS. BURTON: And that's ­­ that's Mr. Lundy.         Alderson Reporting Company Official That's the investigator.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: So it ­­ it ­­ it ­­ well,           but that seems to me to undercut the argument, well,          they're just feeling their way and so forth. They've ­­          they've made a mistake ­­ they've made a mistake of ­­            in Batson. Sure it was new; but they're wrong.                      MS. BURTON: Well, first let me say, I think           that's why there was a laundry list because he was just            espousing every reason he had. But with regard to          Mr. Lundy's, notes, and that was the investigator who         said if we have to choose a black juror, she may be the              best one.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: Who was responsible for       the definite no list?                MS. BURTON: The definite no list, nobody ­­        the only person that was asked about that was Mr. Lundy,           who was deposed and said he could not identify who wrote           that list. So we don't ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: There are only three       possible choices.              MS. BURTON: We ­­ right. We know it came           from the D.A.'s office.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it ­­ and it        exists ­­ the paper exists. It says "Definite NO."                      MS. BURTON: Correct. And I don't think          Alderson Reporting Company Official that is ­­ I don't think that was a ranking of jurors,              because when you look, they did score jurors throughout.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there were five       African­American jurors ­­                          MS. BURTON: Correct.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ on the definite ­­       well, one of them was Garrett ­­ this ­­ as was pointed            out. They said, if we have to have one, let it be             Garrett. But Garrett then shows up on the definite no           list.                         MS. BURTON: Correct. And ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Were we told that the        only three people who did the investigation on Batson         were the two prosecutors on the case and Mr. Lundy? So            if Mr. Lundy says I didn't make that list, it has to be              one of the two prosecutors.                 MS. BURTON: It has to be one of the two           prosecutors, and one was not there on the day it was           struck ­­ the jury was struck; only Mr. Lanier was. But            if that's not Mr. Lanier's thought process of this         definite ­­ this definite no list ­­ and I don't see            that that gets you to clear error in the striking of           Mr. Hood or Ms. Garrett.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you do with        other ­­ I mean, it just ­­ it seems an out­and­out            Alderson Reporting Company Official false statement. The reason that's given ­­ one of the           reasons for Garrett's being struck is that her cousin         was arrested. But then the prosecutor doesn't know that          at the time of the voir dire. He doesn't know until            after the voir dire that the cousin was arrested. So           how could it possibly be a reason at the time of the             voir dire?              MS. BURTON: And I don't think the record          bears that out. These notes ­­ the highlighted notes          that Petitioner wants to say, these were used during         voir dire, these were using during the strikes, in those          notes ­­ and this is at Joint Appendix page ­­          Angela is written out beside Ms. Garrett's name. In          Mr. Lundy's notes where he said he wrote down things he           knew prior to the strikes, prior to voir dire of what he            knew about individual jurors, he wrote down as to         Marilyn Garrett, Angela Garrett is a cousin. So ­­ and            then, Mr. Lanier testified ­­                court ­­ JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Didn't the habeas                  JUSTICE ALITO: Did Mr. Lanier testify ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ provide an excuse and        say ­­ I'm sorry.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, you.      Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Didn't the habeas court       accept that he didn't know at the time of trial, but he            just knew that Lundy didn't want her?                   MS. BURTON: The ­­ what the ­­ the habeas          court actually credited the fact that Mr. Lundy had         advised trial counsel that Angela Garrett should be        struck.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was his       explanation for why the prosecutor didn't know about the         prior arrest, correct?               MS. BURTON: No, I think the ­­ I think the             State habeas court credited that as one of the facts of           the strike.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That Mr. Lundy didn't       want her.              MS. BURTON: Excuse me, I ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That Mr. Lundy didn't       want her. He never credited or never said that he knew            this ­­ that he knew about the arrest.                    MS. BURTON: Mr. ­­ actually, Mr. Lanier        testified twice, though, that he was aware at the time          of jury selection that he knew about ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Lundy did, but the        prosecutor didn't.              MS. BURTON: Well, no. In the motion for a           Alderson Reporting Company Official new trial that Mr. Lanier ­­ the prosecutor testified         and said, I knew during voir dire; Mr. Lundy told me            that. That's at Joint Appendix and , that he           knew ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, didn't he also       testify ­­ this is on of the reply brief ­­ it has             come to our attention since the trial of this case that           Angela Garrett was arrested?                MS. BURTON: It says on ­­ on that page of           the ­­ on that part of the transcript, which I ­­ I             cannot explain to you in ­­ in contrast to in the notes,            it is noted that she is the cousin prior to the jury            selection, unless that means ­­ and I've read it several          times ­­ since that time she's been dismissed from her          job. Again, it's unclear as ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: What about the ­­ what about         the giving a reason for dismissing her that she was           close in age to the defendant?                              MS. BURTON: When ­­ and the ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: She was in her s. He was            or .               MS. BURTON: And when he initially       strikes ­­ when Mr. Lanier initially explains his        strikes, he does state her age, so he is not trying to            say she's . He states her age as . And throughout,             Alderson Reporting Company Official the overall theme was, we don't want younger jurors.         We're looking for older jurors closer to the age of the           victim, age .               So I think ­­ you know, maybe ­­ I know it's             not ­­ not the most articulate framing of it, but I           think it's more of a generational, she was younger. And            that, the age, I don't think was a make­or­break factor.            Working at Head Start with underprivileged children, a        make­or­break factor; a similarly situated white juror        also struck for that same purpose.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: But ­­ but Ms. Burton, I         mean, wouldn't you agree, in a lot of these Batson           cases, you'll have purported justifications, which they       could support a valid peremptory strike, right? But          that the question for a court is, well, but did they            support this valid peremptory strike? In other words,         what was the prosecutor thinking? Batson is a rule           about purposeful discrimination, about intent.                 And so it doesn't really matter that there        might have been a bunch of valid reasons out there, if            the ­­ if it was clear that the prosecutor was thinking           about race.                          You agree with that, right?     MS. BURTON: I think if his intent was to           strike based on race.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, if his intent was to         strike based on race, it doesn't matter that he could          have had a different intent that would have supported a           good peremptory strike. And so the question of whether,          you know, someone or other might have been properly         struck by ­­ by a prosecutor isn't really the question.           The question is on the total amount of evidence before          us, including all these prosecutors' notes, what was        going on with respect to each of these peremptory         strikes.             And then you have to deal with not just, oh,          it could have been this or it could have been that, but            you have to deal with all this information that what it           really was, was they wanted to get the black people off           the jury.              MS. BURTON: And ­­ and I don't think these           notes show that. What the notes show, again, with          Ms. Hood ­­ Mr. Hood and Ms. Garrett, they're         contemporaneous notes taken at the time of trial as to          each of these jurors, are the reasons they struck them.          I mean, there's no derogatory comments within those        notes.             JUSTICE SCALIA: Where ­­ where there are,        you know, other reasons that are plausible but could be          phony, surely it's the ­­ it's the judge that hears the           Alderson Reporting Company Official testimony who's best able to judge whether asserted        reasons are phony reasons or not; isn't that right?                     MS. BURTON: Yes, Your Honor. And ­­ and I           don't believe that ­­               JUSTICE SCALIA: It's sort of hard for us to          do it on a cold record.                               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but that's ­­      JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean, it's harder. It's          harder, not impossible, but harder.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: And Justice Scalia raises,       of ­­ of course, a good point in the mine run of cases,              but not in a case where all the evidence of intentional            discrimination was not before the judge at the time.                     MS. BURTON: And ­­ and again, I don't think           there's ­­ I don't think there's clear error here on           these notes of racial discrimination. Their strikes are         sound as to Mr. Hood. You would not want Mr. Hood on             the jury regardless of his race, based on his reasons.          The what ­­ reason that he gives a laundry list, like I             said, may well have been because we're in , and          you're just putting out everything you can because        you're not exactly sure what you're supposed to do.                     Well ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why weren't the notes       turned over earlier?   Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. BURTON: The ­­ the notes were not         turned over earlier, although it was brought up in the          motion for a new trial in November, right after the           trial in . And the prosecutor, Mr. Lanier, says, I           will ­­ said, I will give my notes to the court to look              at en banc if defense counsel will do the same.                      Defense counsel chose not to do so. That         issue was raised on appeal to the Georgia Supreme Court,          direct appeal. The Georgia court ­­ Georgia court found          it was work product; it didn't have to be turned over.                       When we got to State habeas proceedings,       they found an open records request under Georgia law.         And they were immediately turned over. I ­­ I don't             think there was any argument about it at that point.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What did they do with        the failure to ask Ms. Garrett any questions about the          issues that troubled the ­­ troubled, for example, her         cousin's arrest. There's an assumption that she has a          relationship with this cousin. I have cousins who I           know have been arrested, but I have no idea where           they're in jail. I hardly ­­ I don't know them. So ­­               but he didn't ask any questions. Doesn't that show          pretext? I don't ­­ I'm not going to inquire because            she might get off the hook on that.                    MS. BURTON: Well, I think a number of           Alderson Reporting Company Official times ­­ and I know this Court's precedent on not asking            questions is particularly in voir dire as to people.         But as to a number of issues, I think when you're in              voir dire and you're asking questions, you don't        necessarily care what the answer is because with regard         to Mr. Hood, if he had said, yes, I have a son that's               been arrested, it's not going to bother me a bit that            you prosecuted my son.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, stealing hubcaps,      in my mind, is decidedly different than murdering people         or attacking them the way this case was ­­ this case was            about. I ­­ I can imagine a ­­ why can't you imagine a                 father saying, it was stealing hubcaps ­­                  MS. BURTON: And he ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ he should have been        punished?             MS. BURTON: And he may well have, but it's          a risk I don't ­­ the prosecutor ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's what the record       supports.             MS. BURTON: Well, it's a risk the         prosecutor didn't have to take. I ­­ if you have            somebody ­­ and, as I said, Mr. Hood could very well            have said that, very well have meant that, never have          been lying. But in my mind, I'm thinking, he's going to            Alderson Reporting Company Official get back there and he's going to think, oh, I don't know             about ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: I ­­ I want to ask you a             different question before your time is up. And I'd like           you to respond to the question that Justice Alito         initially asked.                          MS. BURTON: Okay.    JUSTICE BREYER: And that is, is there an         independent State ground here? Now, you're familiar        with the record.                           MS. BURTON: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: And I read on page of           the ­­ of your record the decision. And the first           paragraph supports your ­­ the view that you would like          to hold, I think, that this is based upon res judicata,            which is a State matter.                  And then there is the paragraph that was        read to you on page and where the judge says,            "The reason that I reach that conclusion is because the           notes and records submitted by Petitioner failed to        demonstrate purposeful discrimination on the basis that       the race was the basis." Okay? That sounds like Batson            to me.              And then he goes on to say, "And in addition          there is no good reason given, now or then."         Alderson Reporting Company Official             And then he concludes, "Accordingly, the      court finds the renewed Batson claim is without merit."                     So if I read just that paragraph, I would           think the reason that the judge found in your favor is           he decided the Batson claim in your favor. He didn't           have to. He could have gone on some other ground, but            that's the ground he did go on.                   But at worst, why isn't it ambiguous? And         if it is ambiguous, then why don't we take, you know ­­           I think it's what's in the ­­ Long, you know, all those            cases. If it's ambiguous, then aren't we required to          assume that the judge went on the Federal ground? Okay?                       Now, that's both Alito's question. It's       what I think is the hardest point for you to overcome.            And I want to hear your response.                    MS. BURTON: I actually agree that it's         unclear. I think ­­                 isn't it?              JUSTICE BREYER: Well, that's the end of it,         MS. BURTON: It is ­­ it is the end of it.            I think it's unclear.                            The other ­­ one other issue ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: What do you think is Georgia         res judicata law?               MS. BURTON: I think res judicata in ­­ in           Alderson Reporting Company Official Georgia, if you have new facts or new evidence ­­                     the window.              JUSTICE ALITO: The res judicata goes out        MS. BURTON: Then you ­­ then the court gets          to look at the issue and go beyond. And I think in this               case ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I didn't         hear that. Then this Court?                  MS. BURTON: In ­­ in ­­ in this case, once           you have new facts or new evidence, if the Court in this            case finds that they can review the evidence anew and a           new review is had, then I think you are beyond that bar.                         JUSTICE SCALIA: I ­­ I don't understand          what you've just said. Say it again.                    MS. BURTON: Okay.                (Laughter.)             MS. BURTON: If you have ­­ if the issue has           been decided on direct appeal and you cannot go back to           it ­­ a superior court obviously can't overturn the          State's highest court. But when you have new evidence,          such as in this case, and it is strong evidence, that           the court feels like it has to go ­­ it has to look at              that evidence ­­ and in this case it did ­­ then I think              you are beyond the res judicata bar.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Yes, I mean, I think that           Alderson Reporting Company Official that's exactly how the decision is framed, right?        Because the decision talks about claims that are not         reviewable due to res judicata. It lists many, many,          many claims, and then it lists a whole bunch of claims            that are procedurally defaulted. And then this is in a           separate section, the Batson issue, and it's in a         section that's with ­­ with all the other claims that          there are merits determinations being made about.                   And the court is very clear, first sentence,        last sentence. First sentence: "The court finds the          prosecution did not violate Batson versus Kentucky."                   Last sentence: "On the merits the person,        the" ­­ "the" ­­ "the Petitioner loses."                   So ­­                                     MS. BURTON: As much as I would like it ­­           JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ it is ­­      MS. BURTON: As much as I would like it to            be an adequate and independent State law ground, I'm not          sure I clearly have that here ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: What do you make of the         statement on , "As a preliminary matter, this court          notes that, as cited by the Respondent, the following         claims are not reviewable based on the doctrine of         res judicata"? And the first one it lists is the Batson            claim. Does that suggest maybe the court had two          Alderson Reporting Company Official reasons for what it did? It's barred by res judicata,           and it would fail even if it were not.                                 JUSTICE KAGAN: No. But that ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I'd like the ­­ I'd         like counsel's answer ­­               (Laughter.)                         JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sorry.     MS. BURTON: Yes, I think it ­­ if ­­ if            anything, it is an alternate ruling.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: But doesn't Georgia have       the rule ­­ Georgia, the supreme court has said, Georgia          law allows claims to be revisited on habeas when new          facts have developed since the time of the direct appeal          because a claim that is based on facts that did not            actually exist at the time of the direct appeal, which          is this case, is essentially a different claim. That's           what the Georgia Supreme Court said.                              MS. BURTON: Yes.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: New facts is essentially       a different claim.                           MS. BURTON: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You may be right or wrong         as a matter of conclusion law, but that's the law of            Georgia.             MS. BURTON: That is the law.       Alderson Reporting Company Official                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MS. BURTON. Thank you.     Mr. Bright, you have two minutes remaining.                REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHEN B. BRIGHT                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. BRIGHT: Thank you. Very quickly, let         me first say that with regard to what Justice Alito          quoted that it's just come to our attention since the          trial of the case that Ms. Garrett cousin was arrested.          That was on May the st. That was after the death            verdict had been returned in this case.                   Secondly, if you look at the Joint Appendix        on page and where they give the reasons for           striking Ms. Garrett, there is no mention of her cousin          whatsoever in there. That's the time when she should          have been mentioned, after the strikes were made. And          yet there is no mention of that at all.                     So I don't think there's any way ­­ and then           six months later, there is a motion for new trial, and            now the prosecution is adding new reasons that it didn't          give at the Batson hearing.                 It's saying she was a social worker. She          wasn't a social worker. It's saying her cousin was           arrested. They didn't know that at the time they struck           the jury. They said she's low income, taking another          Alderson Reporting Company Official thing out of United States v. Cartlidge. But you can't           add reasons on into perpetuity. The reasons are the          reasons articulated in ­­ in Miller­El, and the        prosecutor has got to stand or fall on the reasons.                      With regard to the questions, I ­­ I just           want to make one quick point on that because there's not           much time. But with regard to Ms. Garrett and Martha           Duncan, who were both teachers aides, who were at         schools that were literally right in the same        neighborhood ­­ Ms. Duncan had kindergarten students;       Ms. Garrett was Head Start ­­ no questions: What kind           of children do you have, Ms. Duncan?                     I mean, Ms. Duncan, if you look at the ­­        they also said familiarity with the neighborhood.       Ms. Garrett lived, like, or miles away.         Ms. Duncan lived ­­ her ­­ her school was yards            away, and she lived a half­mile from the school.                      Both of them answered that they weren't       familiar with the area where the victim lived. Now then           some more questions after those answers would have        provided a difference. But instead, Ms. Garrett is          treated as a liar, and Ms. Duncan is accepted and           actually serves as a juror in this case.                     And there are other examples, with Mr. Hood        particularly, with regard to the child. If you had          Alderson Reporting Company Official asked: What about your child who was arrested? He was            put on probation ­­ he was ­­ $ of ­­ can I have just               a second? ­­ $ restitution, and he went off to the ­­           this is in the record ­­ went off to the Navy, served            his country honorably, got an honorable discharge, and        came back. That ­­                                        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : able : above­entitled : ambiguous :, allow : allows : alternate : : absolutely : : accept : : : : : amici : amount : analogy : analysis : : anew : Angela :, : : acceptable : accepted : accepting :, accepts :, Act : : add : adding : : answered : addition : answer : : : : : : : : : address : : : answering : answers : : addressed : : antithesis : addressing :, anybody : : : adequate : apologize : advised : apparently : affect : appeal : : affidavit : : :,,, African­American :,, :, : : : : :, : : African­America... appeals :, Official Official: apply : : Appointed : approach : : appropriate : : attorney : : : authorized : available : avoid : aware : area : arguable :, : B : :, : B : : : : :,, :,,, : : back :, : : : : : argue :, : argued : argues : arguing : : balance : argument : : banc : background :, backstriking : bar :, : : : : : bargain : barred : based : : : : : : : bases : basic : basically : : : : basis :, : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : : arguments : : arrest : : : : arrested : : : : : : :, : arsenal : articulate : articulated : asked : : Page  : :, : :, : bear : bears : : behalf :, : :, : : : belabor : believe : : : :, : :,, :,, : :,,, :, : : bell :,, best : : BETH : : : beyond : : :, bit : black : :, : : : : :,, :, : :,,,, : : : Blackman : : : : : : : age :,, :,, agree :, : agreeing : aides : Ake :,, : : Alito :, : : : : :,, : : : : : : : appear : APPEARANCES : : : : blacks :,, : :, : basket : book : bother : : : : basketball : : : Batson :, : BREYER :, appears : appellate :, : Appendix : : asking :, asserted : assertion : : : : assume : : : applicable : application : assuming : assumption : assurance : applied : : : : : Atlanta :, attacking : attention : : : :,, : : :, :, :, :, : :,, : : : : : :, :,, : : :,,, :,, : : :, :,, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, :,, : :, :, : : brief : : : :, : briefed : Alito's : : applies : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official :, : cert : : certain :,, certainly : : : : certificate :, : certification : certified :, : certify : : certiorari :, : :, : : :, : Page  : cited : : citizens : claim :, : conjunction : considered : : considering : : : :, : :,, :, constitutional : :, :, contemporaneous : :,, : claims :,,, : : contest : contrast : convictions : corner : clear : : : : : : : : corpus : : : : : correct : : : cleared : clearer : clearly : : : : close : closer : cold : collected : color : color­highlighted : colored : come : : : : : comes : : : :, coming : commend : comments : Company : concludes : conclusion : : : confused : confusion : : :, : : : : : : : :, : correction : counsel : : : : : : : : : :, : : counsel's : country : County : : course : : : : : : : court :,, : :,,,, : :,,,, :,,, : :,,,,, :,, :, :,,,, :,,,,,, : :,,, :, :,, :,,,, : :,,, :, :, :, : :, :, : :,, Bright : :, :, :, :, : C :,,,, : : :,, busy :, :, : : Butts : : :,,, :,,,, C : : :,,,, :,, : call :, : : : :,, : : :,, : :,, : :, : Carolina :, : :, :,,, :,, canned : capital : care : : carefully : :, Cartlidge : case :, :,, challenge : : check : : : : : : :, charge : Chatman : : :,, :,, :,,, : : :,, challenged : :, :, chance : : :,, change :, : :, changed : : : : characteristics : :, :, : :,, : :,,,, :, :, : : : Chief :,, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : :, : :, bring : brother : brought : BRUCE : bunch : : burden : Burton : : : :,, : :,, :,,, :,,,, :,, :, : :,, : :,, :, :, :,,,, :,,, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :, :, :, :, :,, : : : : : :, :,,, : :,,, circuit : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : :,, cast : :,,, : :, : : :, :, : :, : : case­by­case : cases : :, circumstance : circumstances cause :, : : :, child : : children : : completely : choices : compliance : concedes : choose : choosing : concentrating chose : : Alderson Reporting Company Official decide : :, determine :, : :, : : determined : developed : decided : : : : :, : : : difference : : : : : : : docketed : doctrine : : doing : doubt : drugs : due : Duncan :,, :,, Durham : different :, : : : : :, E :,, : : : : E : :, : decidedly : deciding :, : decision :,, : :, :, : : : differently : : dire : : :,,,, : :, earlier : : eat : efforts : eight : either : eleven : : : : Eleventh : : : :,, directed : : Elst : decisions : : defeat : defendant : defended : defense : : : :, : :, definite :, : directly : disagree : discharge : : : : discretion : :,,, :,, : : : :,, discretionary demonstrably en : enact : encourage :, explanation : ended : : : : engage : : : engaged : entirety : erred : error : : extensive :,, extra : F Page  :,,,, : exact :, : :, exactly : : : : : : : : : example : : examples : exclusive : excuse : : : : excused :, exercise : : :, : exist : existed : exists :, explain : : explains : :, : :, :,, : : : : :,, :,,, :,,, : : : : : :,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :, : :,, : :,,, : :,,,, : :,, : :, : : courts : : :, : : : cousin : :, : : : :,, cousin's : : cousins : create : credibility : credited :,, criminal : currently : cut : D Court's :, : defaulted : direct : : : : demonstrate : : denied :,,, : :,, :, :, :, : :,, :, errors : :, : :, :, espousing : ESQ :, :, : denies : denying : depends : : deposed : deposition : Deputy : derogatory : designates : D : D.A.'s : D.C : damning : day : : de : deal :, dealing : : determination dealt : death : : death­only : determinations : : discriminate : discriminated : discrimination : : : : : discussed : dismissed : dismissing : disparity :, disqualifying : district : : essential : essentially :, establish : established : establishing : Everybody : evidence : : : : : : : :,, : : : : fact : :, : : : factor :, factors : facts :, : : :, : : : : :,, factual : fail : failed : failure : : fall : fallen : false : :, : Alderson Reporting Company familiar : : familiarity : family : father : favor :, feasibility : Federal : : : : four : : :, framed : : framing : frankly : Freedom : :,,,, Friday : : :,, : :, : friend : Official : : : :, :, : : : :, give : : : : : :, given :, :, : : : Page  gun : : guns :,, homework : : H habeas :,, Honor : : : : : : : : : : honorable : : :,,, honorably : : : : Hood : : :, : : :,, : :,, : : :, :, :, : G goal : gives : : giving : : go :, : : :,, half­mile : hand : : happen : : G : Ga :, Garrett :, :, :, :,, : goes : : : happened : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : hard : : :, : : harder :,, hardest : : :, : : : Hardge : harmony : :, : Harrington : Harrison : going :, : good : : : : : : : : : : : : govern : : Head : : Garrett's :, General : Generally : generational : Georgia :, :, :,,, :, Grady : :,,, : : :, : : : : :, :,,, :,,,,, : :,, :, : :, : : :,, :,,, :,,, : : :,, :, : : grandchild : grandchild's : grandson : grant : : granted : : granting : great : green :, :, : green­highlighted headed : hear : : : : heard : hearing : :, : : : hears : held : : :, : highest : : : highlight :, highlighted : : : getting : Ginsburg :, : :, : : : ground : : highlighting : :,, : grounded : group : guarded : guess : : highlights : Hiles : historic : history : : hold : : hook : hope : Hopper : hot­button : hubcaps :, I idea : identical : identified : identify : imagine :, immediately : implausible : implied : important : : : impose : impossible : impudent : including : : income : inconsistent : incorrect : incredible : independent : : : indicates : indicia : individual : : information : : : : : informed : feeling : feels : felony : felt : Fifth : filed : : files : : :, filing : final : find : : : : : findings : : finds : : : fine : : first :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : five : : : : floor : : focus : followed : following : forget : forth : Foster : : : Foster's : found : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company initial : initially :, : inquire : insisting : instruct : intent :, :, intentional : interesting : intermediate : : : : internal : interpreted : inundated : investigation : investigator : : :, involved : issue :, :, judgment : :, judicata :,, : :, : :,, : : : : :, :, : jurisdiction : : juror : :, : :, : : : : : : jurors : : : :,, : :, :,, :, : : : :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :,,,, : : : jury : :,, : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : : :,,,, : : : :,, Justice :,, : : : :, : Official : : : : kindergarten : knew : : :,, : Kentucky :, :,,,, : :,,, killer : :, :, kind : : :, :,, :,, : :,,, :, :, :,,,,, :,, : :, :, :, :,, know : : :,, : :, :, :,, : :, : :,,, :,,, :,,,, : :,, :, :, : : : : :,,, :, : :,, :, Lanier : : : : : :, :, : : : :,,, : : :, :,, :,, : Lanier's : : : : :, : : : :,,, : :,, : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : language : L lastly : Laughter : : :, : : : : : : laundry :, : : Page  leaf : legal : legitimate : lend : liar : list :, :, : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : : listed :, :, lists :, : : : :, : literally : litigated : : :, little : lived :,, : long : : : look : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : looked : :, : looking : : :, : : : issued : : issues : : : J jail : JEB :, job : Joint : : : : : : : Jones : judge : : : : : : : : : K justification : justifications : : :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, :, :, :, :,, : KAGAN : :,, : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :,,, : :,, : :,, :,,,, :,, : :, :, :, : : :,, :, :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : KENNEDY : looks : loses : lot : : law : :,, : : : : :,, : : : : : : Louisiana : : :, Louisville :, : : : low : :,,, lower : : lawyer :, : : : : lawyers :, : Lundy : : : :, :,,,, Alderson Reporting Company :, Norfolk : making : : misunderstanding normally : mandatory : Marilyn : : North :, :, option : NOs :, : Official once : : : : : : :,,, ones : : :, :, open : : :, : Page  : people :, : : : : : : : :, openness : opinion : : peremptory : : :, :, :, : opinions : : opposed : opposition : : oral : :, : period : permits : perpetuity : person : : : : : order :, : personal :, original : originally : ought : out­and­out : Petitioner :, overall : : overarching : overcome :, :, : :, : : : : : petition : : : : nice : Nichols : non­death­only : : noted : notes : : :,, : :,, : : :,, : : : :,, : :,,,, :, :, : : November : : novo : number : : : numerous : Nunnemaker : O O : : obtained : obviously : : : : : Lundy's : : lying : M main :, make­or­break minutes : misrepresentation : misrepresentations : : misrepresented : Mississippi : mistake :, : moment : Monday : months :, marked : marker : Martha : matter : : motion : :, morning :, : : : : : : : mean : : : : :, :, : : : : : : motivated :, : :, move : : : : moved : : : : moving : : meaningful : means : meant : mention :, mentioned : merit :, : multitude : murdering : mutually : N N :, : name : : : :, Navy : necessarily : : :, : :, : necessary : :,, : :, : neighborhood :, merits :, : : :,, : :, : :, Michigan : miles : Miller­El :, : : mind :, mine : never : :, :, :, :,, :, : :, : new : : :, : : : :, :,, : :, : : overturn : P P : page : : : : : : :, : pages : paper : papers : paragraph : : : parcel : part : : Petitioner's : phony : : phrase : pick : picture : place : : plausible : play : please : : point : : : : : : : : : pointed : : police : position : : positive : : possible : : possibly : : : posture : potential : Powell : practice : : : office : oh : : : okay : : : :, :, : : : : party :, : : : patently : : : : pattern : : : particular : particularly : Oklahoma : : older : pause : penalty : pending : Alderson Reporting Company previously : prior : :, : : : provide : practiced : practitioners : precedent : precise : preference : :, preliminary : : preparation : prepared : preparing : present : presented : pretext : : : pretextual : pretty : : : : :, : : priorities : prisoner : probable :, : probably : probation : problem : : procedural : procedurally : proceedings : process : : :,, : : produce :, product : program : promised : prong : properly : prosecuted : prosecution : : : : prosecution's Page  : :, : remember : : :, : : renewed : rephrase : reasonable : : :, : reply : reasoned : : reported : : reasoning : reasons :, represented : request : requests : requiring : res :,, : :, :,, required : :,, : :,,, : :,,, : :,, :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,, REBUTTAL : :, : :,, : : :, :, :, : research : reserve : resolution : resolved : respect : : : : recognized : record : : : : : : : records : : respectfully : respond : Respondent : : : : : : redoing : Reed :, reference : : regard : : responsible : response : : : : : : : : :,, regardless : regular :, rehearing : : rejects : relationship : relevant : : relied : :, : rely : relying : remain :, remaining : remand : rest : restitution : result :, returned : reverse :, : reversing : review : :,, : : :, : :, :,,, : : : :, :, reviewable : :, reviewing : revisited : Official : questions : : : : :, :, :,, prosecutor :, : : : : :, :, : : quick : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : quickly : quite : : quoted : : : R prosecutor's : :, R : R.J : :, : :, prosecutors : :, :, : : : race : : : :,, : :,, : :, prosecutors' : : : : prospective : : provided : Pullen : punished : purported : purpose : : purposeful : : put : : : : : puts : putting : : : Q race­coded : race­neutral : racial :, : Railway : raise : raised : : :, : raises : ranked : ranking : rated : re­files : reach : : read : : : : : :, : question : : ready : : : : : : : : :, :, :,, real : : : :,,, really : : :, :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : :, :, : reason : : :, :, :, :, : : : : : : questioning : Alderson Reporting Company Official Reynolds : : says : : : : :, Richter :, right : : :,,,, : : : :, : : :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : sham : : : : Shirley : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : : : scale : Scalia : : short : show : : : :, : showed : shown :, : shows : side : similar : similarly : simply : : : :,, :, : :,, : : : : singling : : :,, situated : : :, : :,, : situation : : Page  sound : sounds : : spaghetti : specifically : : speculation : stand : standard : start : : : : : : :, :, strikes :, : : : : : :, : : : striking :,, : : : :, : : : strong : : struck :,, : : : : : : : :, : state : : : :,,,, :, : : :, :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : subsequent : :, : students : submit : submitted : :, : stated : statement : : : states :, : : : : : : : statute : :, substantial :, suffice : sufficient :, : :, suggest : : : : : suggesting : : :,,,, : : : suggests : : : suggestion : : Snyder : : State's : : social : : :, : : six : : sixth : Smith : smoking :, :, : :, somebody : : son :, sorry : : : : : : ring :,, risk :, ROBERTS :, : : : : : : Scalia's : : :, :, : : school :, schools : scope : : score : scrutinize : search :, Sears : : second : : secondly : : : section :, see : : seen : select : selection : : : : self­contradictory : sentence :,, : separate : separately : separating : serious : served : serves : Rome : round : rule : : :, : : : : :, : : : ruled : rules :, : : ruling : :, : : run : running : S S : : S.E.d :,, sat : saying : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : sort : : : : statutes : statutory : SOTOMAYOR :,, : :, :, stealing :, :, :, step : :, : : : STEPHEN : :, : : : :,,, :, :, stomach : strange : :, : strict : : :, :,,,, strike : :, : :,, : :,,,, :, :, : : : Sotomayor's : summarily :, superior : : : : : support :, supported : : supports : : suppose : : supposed : supreme :, :, :,, Alderson Reporting Company unceasing : unclear : : :, undercut : underlying : : undermine : underprivileged : understand : : : : understanding Page  : :, W wait :,, : want :, : : :, :, :,, :,, : : : : : wanted : : : :,, : : wants : WARDEN : uniform : uniformly : Washington : United :, : wasn't : : : : way : : : : : treated : upheld : : watch : treating : upset : trial :, : :,, : Upton : : :, :, use : : :, : : :,,, :, :, : :, : : V v : :,, : we're :, : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :,, we've : : : :, : weekend : : :, : : : ways : : we'll : : valid : : :, weeks : : :, turns : :, twice : two : : : :,, : went : : : :, venire : veracity : weren't : : : : : : verbatim :, Western : : : : : : : : :,, victim : : view : : : : verdict : versus : whatsoever : white :, : : : : :,, : Thanks : theme : they'd : :,,,, : : :,, : : : : :, :, : :, : : : thing : : :,,, :,,,, : :, sure : : things :, :, : : : : : Official : :, :, : times : : : TIMOTHY : tip : tired : : Tobacco : told : : : : : : : : surely : surprised : : surprising : suspect : sustained : T T :, take : : : : : :, :, : : : taken :, :, : : : : totally : : transcript : tolerable : tonight : think :, : : :, : : :,, : total : :,, :, : : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, :,,, : :, :,, : : :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, :, :,,,, trump : trying : :,,, : : turned : : troubled :, takes : talked : : talking : talks : teachers : television : thinnest : tell : : : Thompson : thought : : thinking :, : : tells : : terms : : : test : testified : : : : testify :, : : testimony : Thank :, :,, : three : :, :,, : :,, : : : time : : typically : TYRONE : : violate : violation : : : : :,, : : :, : : : ultimately :, U.S : : U : : : women : : :,,,, : voir : : :,,,, :, : willing : window : wins : wipe : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  word : words : : :,, : :, : : : work : worker : : :, Working : worst : wouldn't : : writ : : : writing : : written : wrong : : : :, : : wrote : : : :, X x :, Y yards : year :,, : : years : : Yist : younger :, Z : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : :, : : :, : ­­ : :, : : : : :, : : : : : st : : : : : ­­ : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : s : : : : :, :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 