Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  LESTER RAY NICHOLS,                  :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: DANIEL T. HANSMEIER, ESQ., Kansas City, Kan.; on behalf            of Petitioner.  CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on       behalf of Respondent.   Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE DANIEL T. HANSMEIER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   CURTIS E. GANNON, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   DANIEL T. HANSMEIER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case No. ­, Nichols v.         United States.              Mr. Hansmeier.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL T. HANSMEIER                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. HANSMEIER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                Until three weeks ago, a sex offender who         moved to a foreign country was not subject to any           Federal registration requirement in the United States       unless and until he returned to the United States.         Below, the Tenth Circuit nonetheless held that it is a          Federal crime for a sex offender who moves to a foreign             country to fail to ­­ to report that move. The Tenth            Circuit was wrong for three overarching reasons. First,         SORNA's text does not include a requirement to         unregister.             Second, SORNA's statutory history reveals     that if Congress wanted to include a requirement to          unregister, it would have done so just as it did before           SORNA's enactment. And finally, a requirement to         unregister is unnecessary because all jurisdictions       Alderson Reporting Company Official require sex offenders to unregister. Failure to do so          is a violation of the jurisdiction's law and not Federal           law.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: That would be true of        Kansas law in this case. It would have violated the           Kansas law. Is that true?                  MR. HANSMEIER: He had an ­­ he had a          requirement to tell Kansas of his departure, correct.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: How does it work       normally? Say a person under SORNA leaves Kansas and           goes to Illinois and registers in Illinois. Is there          any obligation, one, for him to register or deregister         in Kansas, and does Illinois have an obligation to         notify Kansas?              MR. HANSMEIER: Correct. So what happens in         practice is that SORNA sets minimum Federal standards.        And those minimum Federal standards are supplemented by        the States, the additional, more stringent requirements.       One of those more stringent requirements is the        obligation to unregister, and, yes, Kansas has that        obligation.             So in your hypothetical, Justice Ginsburg,      that individual has to unregister in Kansas under State         law, and when he gets to Illinois, that's the Federal          requirement to tell Illinois ­­ to register, to update         Alderson Reporting Company Official the registration in Illinois because that's the       jurisdiction where he resides. And in Illinois under         (b)() will tell ­­ will tell Kansas of the ­­ of           the move.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: And this is in addition        to the ­­ the other venues.                  MR. HANSMEIER: If there are any, correct.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: So it would be both        Federal and a State requirement. But in one case, it's            on the SORNA person and the other, it's the other State.                                               MR. HANSMEIER: I think that's correct, yes.         JUSTICE ALITO: Under ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What sense does it        make if you have Federal law that says we're going to           add this ­­ these ­­ these sanctions when you violate          the ­­ the State law? And in the one case, if you don't              register, you're triggered and State law says, well,        you've got to unregister too. But if you unregister ­­          if you don't unregister, that's not included under the         Federal law? Why would ­­ why would Congress draft a           law like that?               MR. HANSMEIER: Well, I ­­ I think they           would have done that because ­­ and if you look at the            legislative history, I think this is somewhat clear.         What Congress was concerned about were missing sex        Alderson Reporting Company Official offenders not at initial registration but when ­­ when         the sex offender crossed State lines. So ­­ so by ­­ by             requiring registration when you get to the jurisdiction,        that ­­ that was the aim because that's when offenders          were going missing.               Now, the ­­ the departure jurisdiction would       be a relationship between ­­ very much a relationship           between the State and its citizens. And that ­­ that's           played out if you think of a State sex offender who            could live in Kansas. And if he were to have a Federal              requirement to unregister in Kansas, that's actually not        enforceable under SORNA because the travel has to come         after or before he's ­­ he can't register.                    So if Mr. Nichols were a State sex offender          and ­­ he's only committed an offense when he leaves          Kansas. And that doesn't ­­ and that's a problem if            we're saying that there's a Federal requirement to         unregister in ­­ in the departure jurisdiction. Now,         that may work for Federal offenders, but I think the           idea is that there are Federalism concerns underlying        SORNA. And those Federalism concerns come into play         when an individual crosses State lines, and that's the         minimum requirement in SORNA.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but there's no        problem to require him to register, but all of a sudden            Alderson Reporting Company Official there is a problem to require him to unregister?                      MR. HANSMEIER: Well, it's not a problem.         It's just SORNA left it to the States.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They left the       unregistering to the States but not the registering?                    MR. HANSMEIER: Not a ­­ not the updating          the registration in a new State, correct.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm curious. You       responded to Justice Ginsburg that he did violate State         law. Could the United States have asked for an          extradition based on the State law violation? Is this a           permanent hole or did they just pick the wrong law to           seek extradition under?               MR. HANSMEIER: Well, Justice Ginsburg's      example was interstate travel.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, no, no. I'm saying,         they asked him to be ­­                 MR. HANSMEIER: But you're talking ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ returned from ­­      where had he fled to? Philippines.                   MR. HANSMEIER: Mr. Nichols moved ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Under the SORNA      violation ­­             MR. HANSMEIER: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ could they have asked        Alderson Reporting Company Official for him to be returned under the State law violation?                      MR. HANSMEIER: There's actually a provision        in SORNA, I think it's ­­ , which requires           Federal ­­ the marshals, Federal officials to assist the         States in enforcing the registration requirement.                                          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So is that a yes?         MR. HANSMEIER: I think yes.       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So really what we're       talking about is that they asked for the extradition         under the wrong law.                MR. HANSMEIER: I think that's exactly        right. And ­­ and Mr. Nichols was also on Federal           supervised release, so there was a connection there that          ­­ the connection to the Federal aspect of it was his ­­           was his supervision.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Did leave ­­ did leaving        the country without notice violate the terms of his         supervised release?              MR. HANSMEIER: It did. And he was ­­ his           supervised release was revoked. He ­­ he received a          ten­month sentence for that. And then they still         prosecuted him Federally, and he got another six­month        sentence.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Are you ­­ it's mentioned        in one ­­ one of the briefs ­­ I don't have the             Alderson Reporting Company Official reference to it ­­                           JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah.    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ at hand. What would         happen if he decides he's ­­ and this is all just within            the United States, no foreign travel ­­ he decides that          he wants to move to the West Coast, so he checks out of             Kansas. But he's not sure where he wants to live, so he             drives to Washington, Oregon, California, takes two       weeks. What would the requirement for registration be         there?             MR. HANSMEIER: Right. Well, I think it          gets a little confusing with the interstate travel         because we don't really address it because there is a          jurisdiction. There is an arrival jurisdiction. I         think under our rule, what (c) says is that you          don't unregister. You ­­ you register in the arrival          jurisdiction. Now, there may be ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the arrival      jurisdiction is not your residence yet. He doesn't know          what it's going to be. He's just there two days. And             he's going to go two days, and he's going to look           around.             MR. HANSMEIER: Well, I ­­ I think SORNA           doesn't do a good job of this. The definition of ­­            they define "resides" as the location of one's home or          Alderson Reporting Company Official the location where one habitually lives. And so I do            think that SORNA does not do a good job of this, but I'm              not sure that that wasn't unintended. Because if you          think about the ­­ the ­­ the window, the         three­business­day window ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.                MR. HANSMEIER: ­­ that ­­ that actually        creates a system where an individual is not on the           registry for a certain amount of time. If you think of             a change of name, which you have to report, if you have            three business days to do that, there is going to be up            to five days where that registry is inaccurate, and         that's just the way it is.                  So I think, although we might not want to          admit it or ­­ but the ­­ the reality is that SORNA            actually creates these gaps by allowing offenders some        period of time to register. And I think Congress did            that because it knew the States could supplement SORNA.         These are just minimum standards.                 JUSTICE ALITO: You have a textual argument         that I ­­ that I understand, but one of the arguments             you mentioned at the outset was that an examination of          the legislative history shows that Congress intended to        produce the sort of result that was produced here, and I           wonder if that's really a plausible argument.        Alderson Reporting Company Official             If you're correct, then two things happen;       at least two things happen. One, Kansas retains on its           record an inaccurate ­­ inaccurate information about the        presence of a sex offender, which can have a lot of             adverse consequences for a lot of people. I don't see             why Congress would have wanted that to remain.                     And do you really think Congress was      unconcerned about the United States exporting pedophiles       to the Philippines or to other countries? Do you think           that ­­ that they were not concerned about not only the           human rights implications of that, but our relations        with other countries?               MR. HANSMEIER: Well ­­ well, I think if you           look at the legislative history, there ­­ there's        nothing to indicate that ­­ that SORNA in had          anything to do with international travel. And I think           the new legislation is important in this regard, because         whether ­­ I don't ­­ I don't know that I said              "intended." If I said that, I didn't mean it. I think                the ­­ the history of it shows more or less that in            , each State had a registration system. One year           later, Congress required departure notification,     required unregistration. By , that had happened in         all the jurisdictions.               So I think what I mean by the "statutory           Alderson Reporting Company Official history" is that that's ­­ that's an indication why         there was no unregistration requirement put in SORNA,        because it existed in all the jurisdictions.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if I could then come          back to Justice Ginsburg's hypothetical of someone like        your client who moves from Kansas to Illinois, what, in          the language of the statute, would prevent that person         from going to the registry office in Kansas before         departing and reporting there that he was moving to         Illinois and his new address in Illinois would be         whatever it would be? Why does that not fit under this            ­­ under the language of the statute? Or would you           agree that it does?                MR. HANSMEIER: Well, I would agree that         there's nothing that prevents him from doing that, and I          would agree that he should do that under State law,          but ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you ­­ if you agree          to that, then I don't see why ­­ why there is a             difference between that situation and the situation       where the ­­ the person leaves Kansas and goes to the           Philippines.             MR. HANSMEIER: Well, what ­­ but I don't          agree that it's a ­­ it's sufficient or a Federal            requirement to do it before. That ­­ I think that's the             Alderson Reporting Company Official distinction I would make ­­                                         JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it not be ­­        MR. HANSMEIER: ­­ it's not a requirement.         JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it not be        sufficient under U.S.C. (c)?                 MR. HANSMEIER: Well, because that provision       is still going to require ­­ and the government, I          think, agrees with this. There is still a ­­ the ­­ the              requirement is to report in the arrival jurisdiction.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it says, "shall not,        later than three business days after each change of         residence, appear in person in at least one jurisdiction         involved pursuant to subsection (a) and inform that        jurisdiction of the change of address."                  So prior to leaving, he is within the period         of not later than what ­­ than three business days after           the change of residence. And at that time when he goes            to the registry office in Kansas, he is residing in          Kansas. So he falls within subsection (a).                    MR. HANSMEIER: Well, this is on ­­ the text          is on page A of the blue book. I think ­­ I think                what's ­­ the blue brief. I think what's important           is ­­ is if you looked directly above subsection (c) to           subsection (e), I think this is what you're really          saying Congress did. Subsection (b) sets forth two         Alderson Reporting Company Official subsections, the first of which begins with the word         "before." The second of which begins with the phrase          "not later than three business days after."                   So I think if Congress had meant to do          something structurally similar in subsection (c), it       would have done it, but it didn't. Instead, it just did            "not later than three business days after." And ­­ and           I think the change is a trigger, and I think that's ­­             that's key, and it's similar to subsection (b)() where         the trigger is being sentenced. And ­­ and so that           event has to happen, that occurrence has to happen         before you report it.                And so in subsection (c), until the change        happens, you can't really report it and satisfy this         provision.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But now, under current       law, under the change ­­                 MR. HANSMEIER: Right.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ is it ­­ it's clear         that anyone under SORNA who leaves the country ­­                    MR. HANSMEIER: Right.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ has to give notice ­­                    MR. HANSMEIER: Right.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ to the jurisdiction       from which he departs.    Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. HANSMEIER: Correct. And the       JUSTICE GINSBURG: So they're talking about                   statutory ­­             only the people who were ­­ were pre ­­ pre­ people.                       MR. HANSMEIER: We're talking about a very         small subset, I assume, unless the Federal government         were to go out and indict a bunch of people who have             traveled prior to February th for this.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: What bearing on your       argument does the last sentence at the bottom of (a),          the last sentence of C have? That jurisdiction, in           other words, the jurisdiction where he registered, shall        immediately provide that information to all other       jurisdictions in which the defendant is required to        register. Here, there were none.                  MR. HANSMEIER: Well, correct. And ­­ and         typically, there may not be. But that ­­ that language,           I think, captures the defendant ­­ for instance, where         we come from, a lot of people live in Kansas and work in              Missouri. That ­­ that sentence would capture that         situation where there is a ­­ or a ­­ an ­­ an              employment jurisdiction that's different than a      residence jurisdiction. Then the employment      jurisdiction would notify the residence jurisdiction or       vice versa.  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: My question was, does ­­       does this have significant relevance to your argument        here?                                     MR. HANSMEIER: Does it help?      JUSTICE KENNEDY: Yes.    MR. HANSMEIER: I ­­ I don't think it ­­ I             just think it's how it's ­­ I don't know that it helps.             It's ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a reference to         a form that everyone under SORNA signs that acknowledges         a requirement to register on commencement change,       termination of residence, and give days notice before         traveling outside the United States.                                         Nichols signed such a form, did he not?         MR. HANSMEIER: He did.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: And what you're saying is        that that form has no operative effect, the fact that he           didn't do what he ­­ what he undertook to do in the form             is not a Federal offense.                  MR. HANSMEIER: Well, what I'm saying is        that that's a State form. That's actually the State of            Kansas. So SORNA is implemented by the States. So each            State ­­ there's not some Federal form for sex offenders          to sign. There are no Federal registration offices.         There are no Federal officials who do these things.         Alderson Reporting Company Official This is a local thing. A lot of it is county sheriffs.               It would be a State form. Every State would have a             different form.                 So what you are referring to, those are     quotation summaries of Kansas law, and not Federal law,         because if you're in Kansas, you have to ­­ you are           required to register, to update your registration as        required by Kansas law, which is much more in­depth than          Federal law. And so that's where that language comes          from.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it's the same       register, that is ­­ you said there's no separate         Federal entity. So all these requirements in SORNA         would be satisfied by informing the State office. Is          that ­­             MR. HANSMEIER: Well, I'm saying, in       practice, that's what has to happen. There's no Federal          person you can tell. You register with the State          people.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I find interesting the        new legislation. As I see it, it's getting away from            where you reside or anything else. It just says if           you're going to travel to a foreign place, you have to            tell the United States, correct?                 MR. HANSMEIER: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there anything in       that ­­ in that law that requires the U.S. to tell the            State the person's left ­­ that they've left?                    MR. HANSMEIER: I think there is a provision           for that.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I didn't ­­ I didn't          have a complete chance to go through it.                      MR. HANSMEIER: I don't know that that        provision made its way into the ­­ the government's         supplemental brief.              Yes. I think at ()(a), if I'm reading this           correctly, there's an implementation provision.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the problem at issue        here has been completely resolved by new legislation?                    MR. HANSMEIER: Oh, I think that's        absolutely true. I think if there ­­ whether there was            a gap or not, whether it was intended or not, the bottom            line is that it's gone away. And there ­­ there's no            reason to take an atextual interpretation of (c).                      I ­­ I do want to mention something this         Court said in Reynolds, because I think this Court is on            the same path as us. Reynolds was the second SORNA case            that the Court heard. And there was ­­ there's a point             in Reynolds in which the Court is talking about the          defendant, and it says ­­ it says that he was in prison,            Alderson Reporting Company Official he was released, he registered in Missouri, but he moved          to Pennsylvania. And it says "without updating his         Missouri information," and then this Court puts in        parentheses, "as Missouri law required and without       registering in Pennsylvania." Then it goes on to talk          about how the failure to register in Pennsylvania is a          (c) offense. That's our position. And I think           this Court ­­ you said it in Reynolds. It had nothing            to do with the holding. But I ­­ I do think that's ­­               that's in this Court's mind, at least.                   And ­­ and I do want to note that the           government's reading defining the supplemental     jurisdiction is one where the defendant appears as a         resident on the ­­ on ­­ on a registry creates a really              weird situation where Mr. Nichols, when he lived in the          Philippines, because he still appeared on the Kansas        registry, under SORNA, he still lives there. He still          resides there. And that's just not right under the          statute and the way SORNA defines "resides." And it's          just not right as a matter of common sense. You don't             reside in Kansas when you actually live in the         Philippines.             And with that, if there are no further        questions, thank you.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             Mr. Gannon.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF CURTIS E. GANNON                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. GANNON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               SORNA required Petitioner to register and to       keep his registration information current. This is not         an unregistration requirement, but a requirement to keep         his registration current in the jurisdictions where he        was registered by timely giving notice of any change of          residence to at least one jurisdiction involved.                   And we disagree with Petitioner. We think        Kansas was a jurisdiction involved pursuant to        subsection (a) here, both because of the meaning of that          phrase, which is more capacious than just taking down         the phrase that appeared in subsection (a), and also         because it's reinforced by Section (b)().                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is it your position that        he was required to notify Kansas both that he was          terminating his residence and that he was moving to the          Philippines, or just that he was terminating his        residence?             MR. GANNON: Here it's just that he's        terminating his residence. He could have given        information about where he was going.      Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KENNEDY: But he was not required        MR. GANNON: But that is ­­ that is not what                       to?             he was being required to do here. He was being required            to keep his registration information current by saying        where he will ­­ where ­­ where he is residing, and he            will ­­ he is no longer going to be residing here.                                   The phrase that ­­   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I ­­ I think your answer           was clear, but I didn't understand it.                                            Would it ­­ in your view ­­      MR. GANNON: The ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ would it have been        compliant with SORNA simply to say I am leaving Kansas,           period?             MR. GANNON: That would have complied with        his obligation to keep his registration information       current with the jurisdiction involved, yes.                  The ­­ we do think that Section (a)()        allows him to report where he resides or will reside,          and therefore, he can report future information, and        therefore, the guidelines, promulgated by the Attorney       General in , says that normally when somebody's        moving from one jurisdiction to another jurisdiction, he        should tell Kansas, I am leaving Kansas and this is           Alderson Reporting Company Official where I'm going next, so Kansas can give that other          jurisdiction warning.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the ­­ the Philippines        is not a jurisdiction under the statute.                    MR. GANNON: That's correct. And so what we          think is key here is that Kansas is still a jurisdiction            involved pursuant to subsection (a). Congress didn't        say a jurisdiction described in subsection (a); it said          a jurisdiction involved pursuant to subsection (a).                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, all right.       How is that the case since subsection (a) refers to each           jurisdiction where the offender resides, is an employee        or a student? When he's in the Philippines, there's no            such jurisdiction covered by SORNA where he resides, is         an employee, or is a student.                   MR. GANNON: That's correct, Mr. Chief       Justice, but we think that that's not the only thing          that is pulled in by the phrase, "jurisdiction involved         pursuant to subsection (a)." He is required to register          while he's a registrant in Kansas. He's required to           keep ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But how is that ­­                    MR. GANNON: At ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where is under (a)        something that says it's the jurisdiction where you used         Alderson Reporting Company Official to be required to register?                 MR. GANNON: It's ­­ it's the part that says          he has to keep the registration information current.        And subsection (c) informs us what it means to keep the           registration ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But where ­­      MR. GANNON: ­­ information current. That's        further down on the page. This is page A of the            government's brief.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but he only        has to keep the registration current if there is a          jurisdiction where he ­­ covered jurisdiction where he        resides, is an employee or is a student.                                 MR. GANNON: Well.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Otherwise that      obligation is inoperative because there's no      registration place in the Philippines.                 MR. GANNON: Well, we ­­ we disagree that         Kansas is not a ­­ is not a jurisdiction involved. But              even if it were not such a jurisdiction, subsection (c)           requires him to give notice to at least one         jurisdiction. And as Justice Alito has already        explained ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well ­­     MR. GANNON: ­­ it is also the case here          Alderson Reporting Company Official that he could have complied with that by giving the          notice before he left Kansas ­­                                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, right.      MR. GANNON: ­­ when he was in dispute ­­         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he doesn't have        to comply with it until later than three business days          after there's a change.                                                     MR. GANNON: That's not ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So he ­­      MR. GANNON: He doesn't ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Shall not later than        three business days after each change? That's not true?                      MR. GANNON: It is true that he has to          comply with it not later than three business days. He           doesn't have an option of just not doing it. And so if             he can't comply with it on business day one or business           day two or business day three thereafter, then maybe he          should have complied with it by informing Kansas before         he left.              The ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, maybe he       should have. Maybe he should have. But he may also            have thought, when it says at least one jurisdiction         involved pursuant to subsection (a), and subsection (a)        says where he resides, then maybe there's no        Alderson Reporting Company Official jurisdiction involved under ­­                                       MR. GANNON: But ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ under the ­­       MR. GANNON: It does say where he resides.         But it also says he has to keep the registration          information current there. And we think that Section          ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Current where?     MR. GANNON: In ­­ in the jurisdictions        where he has been registered, where he is residing, and          ­­                                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But it is current.       MR. GANNON: ­­ and ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: It is current at all the         time in which he resides there.                  MR. GANNON: That is true. I ­­ I certainly             take the point. But we think that Congress is using a            more capacious phrase in subsection (c) when it says,         "jurisdiction involved pursuant to subsection (a)."      Kansas is inescapably involved because he has been        registered there. And we think that this is reinforced          by Section (b)() ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, then, you're just       reading pursuant to subsection (a) out of the statute.                     MR. GANNON: No. I'm reading it to mean          Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE KAGAN: Excuse me, Mr. Gannon.       It tells you exactly what it means to be a          something ­­                         jurisdiction involved. It means a jurisdiction involved         pursuant to a particular subsection which focuses only         on his current residence. And all the time he was a            current resident of Kansas, the registry was accurate.                    MR. GANNON: I understand that, Justice        Kagan, but our view is that this is not the same as            saying a jurisdiction described in subsection (a). It's          a more capacious word to say it's involved pursuant to          subsection (a).              We know that Kansas is involved here. And         Section (b)() makes it clear that Kansas continues        to be involved because that's the provision that says         that as soon as the new change in residence information          is conveyed to at least one jurisdiction, that        jurisdiction has to give it to every jurisdiction ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.                 MR. GANNON: ­­ from or to which the change          of residence occurs. So ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand ­­ I         understand your argument about (a)(), but how       many ­­ what's the ­­ the penalty for ­­ the maximum           penalty for violating this provision?     Alderson Reporting Company Official MR. GANNON: I ­­ I believe it's ten years.            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yeah. I think         MR. GANNON: ­­ for violating the Federal        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ ten years.       So you think somebody is supposed to look at                     It's ­­             it's ­­             provision.                         this and say, should I register? Obviously he doesn't           want to register or unregister, whatever it is. And he           says, okay, it says "involved," but that's different        than described in. And (a) says "jurisdiction where the          offender resides," and there's no place to register        where I currently resides. And then he's supposed to           say, ah, but (a)() says "resides or will reside."                     MR. GANNON: And ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's an awful lot        to ask a ­­ a layperson to parse at the penalty of ten               years for being wrong.                MR. GANNON: Well, there's ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: For a registration        violation.             MR. GANNON: It's ­­ it's also a State law           offense. And he signed notices, as Justice Ginsburg         pointed out, explaining that he had an obligation to         Alderson Reporting Company Official report the termination of his residence ­­                                          JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why wasn't ­­      MR. GANNON: ­­ to Kansas.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wasn't the State       violation pursued? So he's in the Philippines, and he's          extradited because on the government's reading of SORNA.        But he did commit an offense, it's conceded, under State          law.             MR. GANNON: That's true, Justice Ginsburg,       and that's going to be true in virtually every single          case of Section .                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why wasn't the      extradition sought under that which is clear and certain         instead of a ­­ a provision where there has to be a              strained interpretation?              MR. GANNON: Well, maybe we should have        sought that as well, but we did think we had a strong             Federal interest in this particular prosecution for       multiple reasons. He was a Federal sex offender. And            as the Court has already recognized, the United States         has a special interest in ensuring that Federal ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: In your interpretation.      Let's look at this. It's the word "involved." And           you're saying it means ever involved; is that right?                     MR. GANNON: No. It means involved at the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­­ at the point in time during the three business days           where the change in residence has happened and needs to          be notified. And so we ­­                              sentence ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: I see.      MR. GANNON: ­­ do think that the        JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, it doesn't        mean "ever involved," and it doesn't mean "now        involved." It means involved during the three business         days where da­da­da­da­da­da­da­da.                           MR. GANNON: It ­­ it means ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: And a person is supposed to          understand that.                          MR. GANNON: It ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: In fact, you're supposed to        read that into the silence.                             MR. GANNON: It means ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's, to me, a        little farfetched, would you say?                 MR. GANNON: No. I don't think it's          farfetched because I think that it means it's involved          ­­ it's a jurisdiction involved in the change.                     JUSTICE BREYER: It's a jurisdiction ­­                   MR. GANNON: It's a ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ that was involved.       Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GANNON: No. It's involved in the         change in residence because ­­                            JUSTICE BREYER: Ah.    MR. GANNON: ­­ we know he's changing from         Kansas to somewhere else. And so Kansas is inescapably          involved ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: I see. And ­­        MR. GANNON: ­­ in the exchange of        information.             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. I'm trying to         understand it. It is a jurisdiction that is involved in            a special way. It is a jurisdiction that used to be a              residence, and it is no longer a residence. And that            creates an involvement even after they're no longer a         residence.             You know, the more I explain it, the less I           understand it.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: That may be my fault,        but ­­             MR. GANNON: Well, perhaps it's mine as        well. But I think that it's involved because he is            still registered there as a resident. And we know that            the fundamental purpose of this law, in order to have a           sex offender registry, is to provide an accurate listing         Alderson Reporting Company Official of where sex offenders reside ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I'm firmly for purposes,       but this one is a ­­ a little tough, because as I read                it, literally, at all, I don't ­­ I don't get an             interpretation ­­ and you could do the same thing.         You're supposed to ­­ and you seem to be saying that.           Look, you said you're supposed ­­ they're supposed to         keep the registration current. Now, maybe there's a         requirement somewhere that says when you're thinking of        leaving, before you leave, you have to go tell the          people before you leave of where you're thinking of         going. So then I looked up what you have to have in              here, and it says the attorney general can have         regulations that would say something like I just said.          But I take it there are no such regulations. And I take               it when it ­­ it says, you know, the kinds of things you             have to report, I guess. You know, you could get            something like that out of it, but you're not arguing          that.             has ­­                         MR. GANNON: No, we're arguing that he        JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MR. GANNON: ­­ an obligation to ensure that         the information in the registry is current. That the          purpose of the registry is to enable to us to have a            Alderson Reporting Company Official listing, to have the jurisdiction have a listing of          where sex offenders reside, are employed, or are a         student. And it has failed in that purpose if it           inaccurately says he is living in Leavenworth, Kansas,        when that is the one place that he is not living.                       JUSTICE BREYER: So he's been living for         years in the Philippines where he is employed. He now           changes his employment and he goes to work in Thailand.                                              Now does he have to tell Kansas?       MR. GANNON: No, because ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it? I mean, Kansas           was once involved.               MR. GANNON: Because ­­ no. Because Kansas         was not a registration where he was listed as being           employed. If he were moving his job, his employer ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, what he's done is he's         lived in the Philippines for years, and now he's          changed his residence to South Korea.                                                      Does he have to tell Kansas?      MR. GANNON: No, Justice Breyer.      JUSTICE BREYER: But ­­    MR. GANNON: We believe that this       requirement is about updating the registration      information associated with his residence in Kansas.       And we think that Kansas remains involved. So long as           Alderson Reporting Company Official the registry says he is living in Leavenworth, Kansas ­­                                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Gannon ­­     MR. GANNON: ­­ and he has not yet given          notification to at least one jurisdiction, that that is         no longer true.               JUSTICE KAGAN: It seems to me that what         you're saying is that each of those offenders is         supposed to recognize the underlying purpose of the law,         which is to have accurate registries, and to do         everything he can to serve that underlying purpose. And          we would ­­ you know, it would be good if everybody did            that. But the text of the law is something different.           And if you look at this text of the law, there's just no             way that a reasonable reader reads that text and says it            requires me to provide departure notification when I        leave to another country.                MR. GANNON: Well ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: So you can say well, he's         supposed to keep it current, and ­­ and that's right.          He is ­­ he should keep it current, because we would all            like sex registry. But the statute provides very         specific details about what it means to keep it current,          and it seems to me he has conformed with every single           one of those requirements.                MR. GANNON: And we just don't think that's         Alderson Reporting Company Official true, because Kansas was a jurisdiction that he could          have informed while he was still a resident. That           doesn't even require this reading of ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: You know, he could have, and         he should have.                           under ­­                                     MR. GANNON: ­­ and that would have ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: But he didn't have to        MR. GANNON: ­­ but ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ this statutory language.       MR. GANNON: But it is subsection (c) that         provides the content for what it means to keep the          registration current, and it says you have to inform at          least one jurisdiction. He informed zero jurisdictions.        That's the problem here.                JUSTICE KAGAN: It ­­ it says he has to have           informed at least one jurisdiction involved pursuant to        subsection (a), and subsection (a) makes clear that the         only jurisdictions that they're talking about are the        jurisdictions in which he currently either lives, works,        or is a student.                 MR. GANNON: And that was true the morning         before he left Kansas and the morning he was going to           move out of his apartment. And he could have said ­­                       JUSTICE KAGAN: And that morning ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. GANNON: ­­ today is my last day in          Kansas; I'm a resident right now, but by the ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: That morning, everything was       current. And then when he left Kansas, he's not subject           to this statutory provision anymore.                 MR. GANNON: He is subject to the provision         that requires him to keep it current. He's given a           three­business­day grace period, but if he fails to        comply with it by the end of the three business days           anywhere, that's what we think the problem is. And so           we do think that ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: You ­­ you agree ­­                   MR. GANNON: ­­ he could have done it ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ that the problem has        been cured, prospectively.               MR. GANNON: I ­­ I ­­ I think that the new               statute captures this type of conduct, effectively,       incidentally, because the new statute actually talks       about a much broader category of conduct. It talks           about intended international travel. It doesn't ­­ it         doesn't talk per se about changes of residence, but it          does require you to report your itinerary and the         purpose of your travel. Therefore ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: So ­­                MR. GANNON: ­­ we would expect it to pick          Alderson Reporting Company Official up this information.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: So ­­ so who ­­ who is          left out under the new law that would be covered under           your reading of the old law?                  MR. GANNON: I ­­ I don't think any ­­ my             point is not that somebody is left out under the new           law. My point is that the new law captures many more            people.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm trying to find        out what is the effect ­­                             MR. GANNON: The ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ of ­­ of ruling one         way or another. It's a relatively small category, and           there is no problem, prospectively. Is that ­­                    MR. GANNON: Yes. And we ­­ we acknowledged          in our brief opposing certiorari that we thought that         this affected a small category of cases. That was, of            course, before the new statute took effect. And so we           do think that there will now ­­ this type of conduct           will now be captured under the new statute, but we don't           think that the new statute indicates that Congress did         not think this conduct was captured under the old         statute, because it is directed at a much broader          category of conduct.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understood ­­ I ­­          Alderson Reporting Company Official if I understood you correctly, there is still a category            of people under your interpretation today that would not         be covered under the new law, because you have to file           an itinerary, right?               MR. GANNON: Yes.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. Well, okay.        This person files an itinerary saying I'm flying to         the ­­ the Philippines. And if he takes up residence           there, then he's still violating the law, under your         interpretation?             MR. GANNON: Well, that would be true, Mr.         Chief Justice, except that the language that we're        talking about here is the new subsection. It would be           new (a)(), and it includes not just the itinerary,         but also, the offender has to report the means and          purpose of travel. And so we're expecting that the          purpose of travel, if it ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if his purpose is         I'm going to visit the Philippines, and while there, he          decides I'm going to set up permanent residence here,         then you would be able to prosecute him under this          provision, even though the new law doesn't cover it.                     MR. GANNON: Well, I think ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: His purpose is to        visit the Philippines. And while in the Philippines, he          Alderson Reporting Company Official decides to set up residence there.                  MR. GANNON: Well, then, I think that         would ­­ that would raise a separate question, and would           mean that because his purpose had changed, we would ­­         we would have to find out whether the attorney general's          time and manner implementation of this provision, which        is also authorized under the new statute, requires him         to report such changes in purpose after he's already in          the Philippines. And if so, and he doesn't say, well, I            thought I was here on vacation, but it turns out I'm            moving my residence, so that may well turn out also to           be a violation because he needs to report the purpose of            his travel has changed.                But my point is just that even though        Congress has now addressed intended international travel       and is expecting this to be reported in advance, as the           title of the new statute indicates, and therefore, we         wouldn't have to have this debate about whether this is          a jurisdiction in which he is currently residing when he          says, I intend to fly to the Philippines in days.            That debate would ­­ would be mooted out by the new           statute.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you ­­ you read         (a) as saying, where the offender resides or        resided, is an employee or was an employee, is a student            Alderson Reporting Company Official or was a student.                 MR. GANNON: I don't think that that's the          way we're reading the provision, Mr. Chief Justice.        We're saying that there are two obligations there: one          is to register and the other is to keep the registration           current. And if you allow the registry to have          inaccurate information, that when it ­­ where you look         up your current address and it's not your current         address, then you've violated that obligation. And we         think that subsection (c) provides additional      explanation as to what it means to keep the information          current.             And it says, you know what? You don't have          to give advance information, advance notice that you're        going to be changing your residence. You can do it up            to three business days thereafter. But you have to          inform at least one jurisdiction involved. And we think          that in that situation, especially because another       provision of the statute makes it clear that the         jurisdictions that are entitled to the information about        that change in residence include those from and to which          the change in residence is made, they get the         information. They are involved ­­                             JUSTICE KAGAN: That ­­    MR. GANNON: ­­ in ­­ in ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KAGAN: That is (b)? Is that         the one you're referring to there?                  MR. GANNON: That's correct, (b)(),      which is on a of the government's brief.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: But (b)() is      specifically an obligation that's placed on officials.       It has nothing to do with any obligations on offenders.                      MR. GANNON: That is true, Justice Kagan,        but what we think it reveals is that it is telling us            which jurisdictions are involved in the exchange of        information that is at issue in the change of residence.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: So but an offender is        supposed to look at a statute that places only an           obligation on State officials and to say, really? That          obligation applies to me as well?                  MR. GANNON: No. We think the offender is          supposed to look to the notices that he received, which          said he was supposed to provide notification of every         change of address. I think any reasonable person, when           told that he has to give notification of his change of           address, says, oh, if I decide I'm moving out of the            country, I don't have to tell every ­­ anybody, that           that ­­ that is actually contrary to a common­sense          reading of this provision. And we know that the notice           reinforces the idea that he does have to inform Kansas.          Alderson Reporting Company Official             Now, as Petitioner says, that's clear as a        matter of State law. We also think that it's ­­ that            it's part of the minimum requirements of SORNA, and we          don't think it's sufficient for the court to say, well,          Congress expected this to be a State law prosecution and           didn't want there to be a Federal law prosecution,          because that would be true of virtually every single         violation of Section .                JUSTICE BREYER: They might have, but it's        the language that's bothering people. And what ­­ I'm          trying to see if there is support for this word          "involved" which I hadn't really thought of.                    And ­­ and let's imagine he leaves Kansas.        He left on Monday. It's now Tuesday. So he doesn't            reside in Kansas anymore. He's now over residing ­­         he's not there anymore. So is Kansas still a          jurisdiction involved pursuant to subsection (a)?                              and I say ­­                            MR. GANNON: If ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: And your answer is "yes,"        MR. GANNON: If ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ okay. You mean any         jurisdiction that he ever ­­ no, you said it's not ­­ it            doesn't mean "ever." I said, does it mean involved           right now? No, you said it doesn't mean that, because           Alderson Reporting Company Official if it's involved right now, it isn't. You mean it was            involved two days ago?                And now you have a general definition of         that. And you mean it was involved because it was the            last jurisdiction in which he actually resided. That's         what you ­­ now, is that basically it?                    MR. GANNON: No, not precisely it. We mean          that it is involved because he has not told them, I am             no longer living in Kansas.                 JUSTICE BREYER: No, that can't be a reason          to be involved, because he didn't ­­ I mean, there are a             lot of people he didn't tell. I mean ­­                      MR. GANNON: They are involved because he ­­        he is on the rolls there as being a current resident.                                                JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.    MR. GANNON: So he has an obligation ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: In other words, where he is         on the rolls as being a current resident ­­ be careful,            because you run into Thailand, and you know, the ­­ the           guy moved years later ­­                 MR. GANNON: Except he's not going to be on          the rolls there.               JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, he will be on the rolls          in Kansas because they never took him off, and ­­ and           now it's years later. So you can't ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official                         MR. GANNON: And he violated ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Let's take what you mean.        And now ­­ now I ­­ I have an idea of it. What support                 is there for that? Is there support in a regulation?            Is there support in some previous case? Is there          support ­­ and I'm thinking focusing narrowly on your         interpretation of the word "involved."                 MR. GANNON: There is support in the        Attorney General guidelines to the extent that the        Attorney General ­­                          JUSTICE BREYER: Right.    MR. GANNON: ­­ guidelines adopted in        ­­ and we're not claiming Chevron deference to         them, but this has been our construction of the statute          all along.                          JUSTICE BREYER: Tell me where it is.        MR. GANNON: The ­­ the Attorney General        guidelines are reprinted at the end of our brief, and          they specifically say that he is obliged in order to          keep his registration information current, to ­­                              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the page, please?       MR. GANNON: This is at page a. It says,           "Even if he doesn't know where he is going next, he is            required to keep the registration information current by        informing the jurisdiction if he is terminating his        Alderson Reporting Company Official residence, employment or school attendance in the       jurisdiction." That's true in the domestic context.                    And then if you ­­ if you go on to page ,            it ­­ it articulates the same requirement in the context          of needing to keep the registration current in        jurisdictions where someone resides when you're moving       out of the country.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This ­­ this is not         an administrative law provision. It's a criminal         statute. The Attorney General's guidelines can't expand        a fair reading of what Congress made illegal under         Federal law.              MR. GANNON: We're not claiming that the        Attorney General has expanded the text of the statute,         Mr. Chief Justice. I'm just saying that this is the way            the Department of Justice has been construing the        statute since . Jurisdiction's implementing the       statute. Understand this, and they've been informing        sex offenders that they have an obligation.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And it's still       given ­­ given what I just said, my ­­ my answer is, so              what? So what if the Attorney General has been          construing this since, you know, ?                  MR. GANNON: If ­­ if ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You cannot do       Alderson Reporting Company Official anything to expand the words that Congress used.                    MR. GANNON: That ­­ that's ­­ if ­­ if you           disagree that this is a fair reading of the statute, I'm            not going to tell you that the guidelines make it a fair             reading of the statute. I ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What you're saying       is the Attorney General thinks it's a fair reading of           the statute.                          MR. GANNON: I'm ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so I should          think it's a fair reading of the statute.         MR. GANNON: Well, I'm also telling you that                    we think ­­               (Laughter.)             MR. GANNON: I'm ­­ I'm telling you that we          think we have good reasons for this construction, and         Justice Breyer asked if there's anybody who's ever        adopted this construction before, and I say, yes, the          Attorney General publicly did so in . All         SORNA­implementing jurisdictions were told this is the       way the Federal government reads the statute, and        they're supposed to inform sex offenders of this.                    In this instance, Kansas has informed      Mr. Nichols that he has an obligation to provide notice          when he is terminating his residence. They've gone         Alderson Reporting Company Official above and beyond what SORNA requires by always demanding         that he inform Kansas, even though SORNA, under our         reading, would allow him to inform any one jurisdiction         involved. We think ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to ­­ I        probably should know this, but Kansas requires him to         list any change, right? He has to unregister?                     MR. GANNON: He has to ­­ he has to report           any change in the residence information, yes.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right. What ­­ what         sort of language did they use?                  MR. GANNON: That their language does ­­ it         specifically says, "He must reregister any change or        termination of residence within three days to the        registering law enforcement agency or agencies where       last registered."              So that's the ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it says "where        last registered."              MR. GANNON: Where it specifically picks up        and says, you have to go back to where you last           registered, we think that goes beyond ­­ that's the way          in which Kansas law goes beyond SORNA, because SORNA         does not always require that.                 We think that in a situation like this,         Alderson Reporting Company Official SORNA effectively required that, because there's no       other place for him to have gone. But we also take            Petitioner's concession that SORNA permits him to comply        with the requirement to keep his registration current by         going to the office in Kansas.                  And it's the same form. There's no doubt         that it's possible for him to report the change in          residence there. The form says, what is your address?          And it has location start date and location end date,          and those can be reported in advance or after the fact.                       Our position is just that when SORNA gets        around to saying what it means to keep your registration          information current, you have to do that in at least one           place within three business days. And so we think that           that means he could do it in Kansas even the day after            he moved.              If you disagree with that, we still think it         also must mean at least, as Justice Alito was         explaining, that he has to do it ­­ he has to comply            with it by doing it while there still is one          jurisdiction. There's no doubt that Kansas was a         jurisdiction involved while he was still residing there.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I ­­ could I ask a            question, Mr. Gannon, of absolutely no legal       significance? Chalk it up to curiosity.       Alderson Reporting Company Official               Does the Federal government bring many of     these prosecutions? Because I might have thought that          when sex offenders leave the country permanently, the        attitude might be like, good luck and good riddance?                     (Laughter.)             MR. GANNON: Well, I ­­ I take the point,            Justice Kagan, but remember this is somebody who is not          just a Federal sex offender. He's on Federal          supervisory release. The notion that we have somebody         on Federal supervisory release, we're supposed to be        keeping track of him and making sure that he's not          committing other crimes. If ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: But you're not ­­ you're ­­        as I understand the requirement that even you say he's           subject to, it's just a requirement that says he's          leaving the State. It doesn't ­­ he's not required to           tell you where he's going in the world. He could be            going to the Philippines or any other country. So it           doesn't really help us in terms of, you know, helping          our allies deal with sex offenders.                  I'm just curious why it is that people ­­        why DOJ makes the decision to bring sex offenders back          to this country in such circumstances.                  MR. GANNON: Well, as ­­ as I said, he was a             Federal sex offender who was on Federal supervisory        Alderson Reporting Company Official release who appeared to be on the cusp of committing          additional Federal offenses in the Philippines, and so        we brought him back. And we do think that there's a            Federal interest in this case.                 But Section includes cases where      somebody is also violating State law, because by        definition, all of these registration requirements in       SORNA much of the time are also going to be violations           of State law.               And ­­ and so in this instance, the problem         is that the registry was inaccurate. It's supposed to          say where he's living.                JUSTICE KAGAN: I am right, right, that when          you say he had the responsibility to keep the registry          accurate, that's just to say he had the responsibility         to tell Kansas he was no longer in Kansas.                     MR. GANNON: That's right.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Even on your view, he had no          other responsibilities.              MR. GANNON: That ­­ that's ­­ that's the         applicable responsibility here. That's right.                  JUSTICE ALITO: In terms of ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How ­­ how do we ­­         how do we know ­­ I'm sorry. Go ahead, please.                       JUSTICE ALITO: In terms of Federal policy,        Alderson Reporting Company Official hasn't Congress, by the enactment of the new statute and          in other ways, evidenced a belief that the United States           should not be exporting its pedophile problems to other         countries?                         MR. GANNON: Yes, Justice ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: And countries like the       Philippines where the ­­ the Petitioner here went are         known places that are attractive to sex tourists who go          there to abuse young children and ­­ hasn't Congress         evidenced a concern about this both for the human rights           aspects of the problem and, also, I would think, for           relations with the government of the Philippines?                   MR. GANNON: Absolutely, Justice Alito. And        it ­­ it would have been a Federal offense for him to             have engaged in ­­ in sexually elicit conduct in the          Philippines.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. And I completely         understand that, Mr. Gannon, but even your own        interpretation doesn't get you the information ­­                  (Laughter.)             (Lights out.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I knew we should         have paid that bill.                (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KAGAN: My red light on the bench is          Alderson Reporting Company Official still working.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ does not get you the         information that you need in order to tell the         Philippines, look, you have a sex offender in your          midst.             MR. GANNON: That's ­­ that's correct,       Justice Kagan. The new statute does that as did the           supplemental guidelines that the Attorney General      adopted in under SORNA as additional information        that was required. That's not what's at issue in this           particular case.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's so interesting is       that regulation tells the States to do this.                    JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It doesn't tell the sex        offender that he's obligated to do it. It says the           States must do it.                MR. GANNON: It's ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm ­­ it's a little bit          odd.             MR. GANNON: It's true that the guidelines        were addressed. Both the guidelines and the        supplemental guidelines were addressed to implementing      jurisdictions. They were articulating the Federal       Alderson Reporting Company Official government's construction of the statute and ­­ and what         is required.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So now a sex offender is          supposed to understand what "involved" means and read a         directive to jurisdictions in your regulation and say,        ah, that includes me, too.                 MR. GANNON: Well, we ­­ we ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Jurisdiction is supposed      to do this, but now I've got to do something more.                       MR. GANNON: Well, but what the jurisdiction        was told is that it has to inform sex offenders that           they must do this, and that happened here. Kansas          informed him that he had to provide notice of any          termination or change in his residence. That's what was          required by SORNA.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What makes it a State as          opposed to a Federal crime? That's really what's at           issue here.              MR. GANNON: It ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understand it's a        crime.             MR. GANNON: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The question is which       kind of crime.               MR. GANNON: Yes. And in this instance,         Alderson Reporting Company Official Petitioner acknowledges it's a State crime. It is also           a Federal crime.                                       Mr. Chief Justice, May I finish answering?        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Briefly.     MR. GANNON: Under Section , because       he's a Federal sexual offender, there doesn't even need          to be independent travel. It's the violation of the          SORNA requirements that makes it a Federal offense.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Hansmeier, you have minutes                              remaining.          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DANIEL T. HANSMEIER                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. HANSMEIER: Sorry, Mr. Chief Justice. I         don't think I actually reserved time for rebuttal, so          thank you.                          thank you.  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay.     MR. HANSMEIER: I forgot to say that, but                        I would ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh.     MR. HANSMEIER: Justice Breyer, if I can ­­         I'll ­­ I'll be brief.                 On the guidelines ­­ this is actually a        direct quote ­­ the ­­ the ­­ according to the          Alderson Reporting Company Official Department of Justice, "A jurisdiction may require that        changes in registration information be reported by       registrants on a more stringent basis than the SORNA          minimum standards. For example, requiring that changes        of residence be reported before the sex offender moves         rather than within three business days following the        move."               I mean, that's our position. I don't ­­        there are other portions in ­­ in the guidelines that          direct jurisdictions to do this. But that ­­ but ­­ but            what the ­­ what the guidelines say right there is ­­ is            exactly what we say, that it ­­ it is a more stringent             requirement.               A few other points on the word "current." I         think if you ­­ if you look in the ­­ in the ­­ there's              a provision on in­person verifications where there is        requirements for a current photograph. That word         clearly doesn't mean a future. And I think that's            important to understand, that when you're talking about        current information, it's not future information. I        think Justice Kagan mentioned that a few times.                     On ­­ (b)(), again, that's ­­      that's language directed towards the jurisdictions.      That's not a requirement for the offender, and that's          how the former jurisdiction would be informed of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official change.                         And if there are no other questions.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled  matter was submitted.)   Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : : able : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : abuse : accurate : : : : acknowledged : acknowledges : : add : addition : additional : : : : address : : : :, :, : addressed : :, administrative : admit : adopted : : : advance : :, : adverse : agencies : agency : ago : : agree :,, :, : agrees : ah : : : ahead : aim : Alito : : : :, :,, : : :, :, allies : allow : : allowing : allows : amount : answer : : : answering : anybody : : anymore : :, apartment : appear : APPEARANCES : appeared : : : appears : applicable : applies : arguing :, argument : : :, :, : : : : : : : arguments : arrival :,, : articulates : articulating : asked :,, : : aspect : aspects : assist : Assistant : associated : assume : atextual : attendance : attitude : attorney : : : : :, :, : :, : Official Officialattractive : authorized : awful : Bb : :back : : : : based : basically : basis : bearing : begins :, behalf :, : :, : : : :, :, :,,,, : :, : : : : Cc : : : :: : :: : ::California :capacious :: :capture :captured :,captures :cases : :category :: :careful :case : : :,: : :: : :: :,belief : believe : : bench : beyond :,, bill : bit : blue :, book : bothering : :,, :bottom : : certain : :Breyer : : :,,,, : :,, : :, :,,,, :,, : :,, : :, : : : certainly :certiorari :Chalk :chance :change : ::, :,: : ::, :,:, ::, :,: :,,: : :changed : ::changes : :: :,changing ::checks :Chevron :brief : : : : : : : Briefly : briefs : bring :, broader : : brought : bunch : business : Page  Chief :, :: : :: :,,: :,,: :,,,: : :: :,,: : ::,, :: :,,: :,:,, :: :,,,:, :children :Circuit :,circumstances:citizens :City :claiming ::clear : :: : :: : :clearly :client :Coast :come :, ::comes :commencement:commit :committed :committing ::common :common­sense:complete :completely ::compliant :complied ::,Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official comply :,, : :, conceded : concern : concerned : : concerns :, concession : conduct :, :,,, :, : : : Court's : cover : covered : : : : creates :, : : :,, : crime : : :, :, conformed : confusing : crimes : Congress : : criminal : crossed : crosses : cured : curiosity : : :, :,, : : : : : : : : : :, curious : : connection :, current : : consequences : construction : :, : : doubt :, :, :, draft : : : : drives : : : : : E deal : debate :, decide : decides :, : : e : :, :, : : effect : : : effectively : : decision : defendant :, either : elicit : employed :,, employee :, : : deference : define : defines : defining : definition : : : Page  expect : expected : expecting : : explain : explained : explaining : : explanation : exporting : : extent : extradited : extradition :, : : F fact : : : fail : failed : fails : failure : : fair : :,, : falls : farfetched :, fault : February : Federal :, : :,, :, : :,, :,,, : : :,, : :,, : : : :, : : : : :,,,, :,, : : : : :, Federalism :, Federally : file : files : finally : : :, employer : employment : : : : enable : enactment : : enforceable : enforcement : enforcing : engaged : ensure : ensuring : entitled : entity : especially : ESQ :, :, : event : everybody : evidenced :, exactly : : : examination : example : : exchange : : :, : demanding : :, :,, departing : : :, : Department : : :,, : :, : departs : :,, : : :, : :, :,, departure : : : : : : : currently : : : deregister : described : : : details : difference : different : : : : direct : : directed : : D.C :, directive : da­da­da­da­da­... directly : disagree : : : :, : CURTIS : : :, : :, : : cusp : : correctly : : counsel : : D : D :, : construing : : content : context :, continues : contrary : conveyed : correct :, : : countries :, :, country :, : : : : : : :, county : course : court :, : DANIEL : : : : : date :, day :,, : : : : : : dispute : distinction : doing : : Excuse : existed : expand : : expanded : domestic : : days :, : DOJ : : :, Alderson Reporting Company find : : : : :, : :, :, :,,, :,,,, :, :, :, :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :, :,, : finish : firmly : first :, : fit : five : fled : fly : flying : focuses : focusing : following : foreign :, : general : : gap : gaps : : forgot : form :,, :,, : : :, former : forth : fundamental : further : : future : : : G : : : : : : : : grace : :, :, guess : :, : general's : guidelines : : getting : Ginsburg :,, :,, : : :,, : : : : guy : :, : : :,,, : :, : : : habitually : :,, : :, :, : hand : Hansmeier : H : : : : : : Ginsburg's : give : : G : Gannon : : :,,, : :, :, : :,, :, :, :, :,, given : : :,, : : :, :, :,, giving : : :, :, go : : : :, :, :,,, :,,, : goes : : : :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, :, :, : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : :,,,, :,,, : : : : :, :, : :,, :,, :, :, :, :,, : :,,, happen : :, :, : happened : : : hear : heard : held : going : : : happens : : Official : : : help : : :, : : : : helps : : :, : helping : history : : : :, : good : : : : : holding : : government : : : : : government's : : Page  indict : individual : : : inescapably : : inform : : : : : :, : information : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :,, :, : :, : : : : : :,, informed :, : : : : informing : : : : informs : initial : inoperative : instance : : : : intend : intended : : : : : interest :, : interesting : : international : : : interpretation : :, : :, : : interstate : : involved : :, : :,, : hole : home : human : : hypothetical : I idea : : : illegal : Illinois :,, :, :, : :, imagine : immediately : implementation : : implemented : implementing : : implications : important : : : in­depth : in­person : inaccurate : :, : : inaccurately : incidentally : include :, : included : includes : : : independent : indicate : indicates : : indication : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  : :,, :,,,, : :,, :,,,,, :,,, :, : :, : :,, : :,,,, : : : : involvement : issue : : : : itinerary : :,, J job : : : jurisdiction : : :, :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :, :, : :,,,, :,,, :,,,, : :, :,,,, : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, :, :, jurisdiction's : : jurisdictions : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : Kan : Kagan :,, :, :,, :,,,, : : :, :, : :, :, :, :, : :,,,, : :,, : : :,, :, : : :,, :, :, :,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, :,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, :, : :,, :,, : : : Justice : :, :,, :,, : : :,, :,,,, :,,, :, : :, : :, :,, :,,, :, :,,, Kansas : :,, :, :, : : : : :,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,,, :,,, : :,,, :,,,, :,,,, :, :, :, :, :,,,, :,, :, :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : keep :, :, : :,, :, :,, : : : : :,, :, : :,,, : :, :,,, :, : :,,,, :,, : :, : :, :, keeping : :, :, KENNEDY : :, : : :,, : :, : : :,,,, :,,,, :, : : : :,, :, :,, kind : kinds : :,,, :, : knew : : know : : : : : key : : K : :,, : : : : : : : Lights : : : : : : light : known : Korea : L language :, : : : : : : : : Laughter : : : : : : law :,,,, :,,,, :,, :, : : : :,, : : : : : :,, :, :, :,, :,, :, :, :, layperson : leave : :, : : Leavenworth : : leaves : : : : : leaving : : :, : : line : lines :, list : listed : listing : :, literally : little : : : : live : : : : lived : : lives : : : living :,, : : : local : location : : :, long : longer : : : : : : look : : : : : : : : :, : : looked : : lot :, : : : : luck : M left :, :, :, : : :, : March : making : manner : legal : legislation : : : legislative : : : LESTER : let's : : marshals : matter : : : : maximum : mean :, : :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, path : new : : :,, : :,,, : : :, meaning : means : :, :, :, offense : : :, : : : : : : : Nichols : : : : : : : :, : : : : offenses : : : : offenders : :, pedophile : : : : pedophiles : : :, :,,,,, : : : penalty :, : : : :,,, :,, : :,, : Pennsylvania : : :, : Page  play : played : please : : : : point : : : :, : : people : :, pointed : points : :, : : : : policy : : : : portions : period : : position : : permanent : permanently : : : : : : possible : practice : : pre : pre­ : precisely : :, : presence : : : : prevent : : person : : prevents : previous : prior : : :, : :, prison : : : :, probably : problem :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : problems : produce : :, :, produced : :, :, : : : promulgated : prosecute : :, : prosecuted : prosecution : photograph : phrase : : : : : : pick : : picks : place : : : : : : placed : places : : plausible : :, prosecutions : prospectively : : provide : : : : : : provides : : : provision : : Alderson Reporting Company meant : mention : mentioned : : : midst : mind : mine : minimum :, : : : : minutes : missing : : Missouri : :,, Monday : mooted : morning : : :, : move : : : : : moved : : : : : moves : : : moving : : : : : : : multiple : N N :, : name : narrowly : need : : needing : needs : : never : normally : : note : notice : : : : : : : : : : office : : : : offices : officials : : :, oh : : notices : : okay : :, notification : :, :, : : : : : : permits : notified : notify : : : notion : O O : : obligated : obligation :, old :, once : one's : operative : opposed : opposing : option : Petitioner's : oral : :, : Philippines : person's : Petitioner :, : order : : : :, : : : : Oregon : : :,, outset : : : : outside : obligations : : obliged : Obviously : occurrence : occurs : odd : offender :, overarching : P P : page : : : : :, : paid : parentheses : :,, : : : : parse : : : : part : : :, :, particular : :, : : : : Official Page  : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reason : : reasonable : : : : : : : :, :, : :, regulation : : : : :,, : : : :, :, result : retains : returned : : requirements : : : : : : : : : reveals : : revoked : publicly : pulled : purpose : reasons : : regulations : requires : : : : rebuttal : : reinforced : : : : Reynolds :, : :, : : : : : : : : : received : : reinforces : :,, : relations : :, : : recognize : recognized : record : red : reference : : referring : : refers : regard : register :, relationship :, relatively : release :,, :, : released : relevance : remain : : :, : remaining : : : : remains : remember : :,, : : : : report : : :,, : registered : requiring : : reregister : reserved : reside : : : : : : : resided : : residence : riddance : right : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, :, : : rights : : :, :, : :,, : :,, : : :, ROBERTS : :, :, : : : : :,, : :, :,,, :, :, :,,,, : : : : :, : :, :,,, : : : : :,, : :,, :, :, : : : :,,, : rolls :,,, rule : resides : : :, : :, : : :, :,, : ruling : : : : : :, run : : :, :, : : : : :, : : resident : : reported : : :, reporting : reprinted : require : : : : : : : : required :, purposes : pursuant : : :,, : :, :, : : pursued : put : puts : Q question : : : : questions : : quotation : quote : R R : raise : RAY : read : : : : reader : reading : : :, : : : : : : :,,, : reads : : reality : really : : : : : : : : :, registering : : : registers : registrant : registrants : registration : : :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : registries : registry :, : :, : residing : : : : : :, :,, : : :, : : : : resolved : responded : : :, requirement : Respondent : : : :,, :, : :,, : responsibilities : :, :, : :, : responsibility : S S : : sanctions : satisfied : satisfy : saying : : : :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : : : : says :, : sign : signed : : significance : : : : significant : signs : : : : silence : : : : similar :, : :, : :,, simply : : :,, : :, :, : : : : : :,, : : : : single : : situation :, : : : : six­month : small : :, Solicitor : somebody : school : se : second : : : : :, : Section : : somebody's : Official South : special : : specific : specifically : : :, standards :, : : start : State : :, submitted :, subsection : :,,, :,, : : :,,, : :, :, :, : :,, :,, : : : subsections : :, :,,, : :,, : : : : subset : sudden : :, :, :, : sufficient : : :, : :, : :, : : : : summaries : supervised :, : States :,, : supervision : :, : :, supervisory : : : : : : : : : : supplemental : :, statute :, : : : : supplement : :, Page  :, : : : : talks :, tell :, :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, telling : : : tells : : ten :,, ten­month : Tenth :, terminating : :, : : termination : : : : terms : : :, text : : :,, : :, : : : : : see : : : : : : seek : sense : : sentence :, :,, : sentenced : separate : : serve : set : : sets : : sex :, : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : :,,, : :, : : : sexual : sexually : sheriffs : shows : : somewhat : soon : SORNA :, : :,, :, : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : :,,, :,, : : : : : SORNA's :, : SORNA­implem... : : : : : :, :,,, :,, : : : : :,, : :,,, : : : textual : supplemented : Thailand : support : : : :,,, supposed :, thank :, :,, : thing : : :, :,, :, :, : : : things :, : : :, : : statutory : : : : : Supreme :, sure : : : system : : strained : stringent :, :, sorry : : sort : : strong : SOTOMAYOR :,,,, structurally : :, : :, student :, : : : :, :, :,, : : : : : subject : :, sought :, : T T : :,,, : : take : : :, : : : takes : : talk : : talking : : think :,, :, :,, :,, :, :,, :, :,,, : :,, :, :,, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :, :,, :, : :,, Alderson Reporting Company underlying : :, :, :, :,,, :, : : understand : : :,, : : : : :, three­business­day : : : visit :, :, : violations : virtually : : : : : : : : trying : : : : : :,, : :,, : : :,, :,, :, :,, : :, :, two :,, : : : : : : : :,, : : Tuesday : : turn : turns : thinking :, : type : : typically : thinks : thought : U : : : U.S : : U.S.C : three :, : unconcerned : time :, : : : : : : : timely : times : title : today : : told : : : : tough : tourists : track : travel : : : : : : :, :, :, : traveled : traveling : trigger :, triggered : true :, : :, : :, : : : : : understood : : undertook : unintended : United :,, : :, : : : : : : : unnecessary : unregister :, : :,, :,, : : : : : : unregistering : unregistration : : : update : : updating : : : use : V Official West : window :, wonder : v : : vacation : venues : verifications : word : : versa : vice : view : : : : : :, words : : : violate : : : violated : : : violating : : : : violation : : : : : : : : : W want : : : : : wanted : : wants :, warning : Washington :, : wasn't : :, : way : : : : work : : : : working : works : world : wouldn't : wrong : : : : x :, X Y Yeah : : : : year : years :,, :, :, young : Z zero : : : : : : : : : : : : : : (a) : : : a : : ways : We'll : we're : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : ­ : : (c) : weeks : : weird : went : (a) : (c) : : : Alderson Reporting Company Page  (a)() : : : (a)() : : : (b) : (b)() : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : a : : : : : : : : : A : th : Official Page  Alderson Reporting Company 