Official ­ Subject to Final Review           IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES     ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  ROBERT F. McDONNELL,                 :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          UNITED STATES.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: NOEL J. FRANCISCO, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf           of Petitioner.  MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,          Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE NOEL J. FRANCISCO, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                             ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   NOEL J. FRANCISCO, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, McDonnell v. United States.                     Mr. Francisco.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF NOEL J. FRANCISCO                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. FRANCISCO: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                The government argues that in quid pro quo        bribery, "official action" encompasses anything within      the range of official duties. In order to reach that           conclusion, it asks that you disregard a ­ decision of           this Court.              The government is wrong. In order to engage         in "official action," an official must either make a         government decision or urge someone else to do so. The           line is between access to decision­makers on the one         hand and trying to influence those decisions on the         other.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's the Sun­Diamond       case, the ­ case that you refer to.                    MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor, the       Sun­Diamond case, the ­ case. And I think what           Sun­Diamond confirms is that when an official simply        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review refers someone to another official, an independent       decision­maker for an objective decision, he hasn't       crossed that line into prohibited "official action."                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: I take it all parties         concede that the act of the university official to         undertake or not to undertake a research study would be           an "official action."               MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor. And the         question is: Did the Governor cross the line into          influencing officials to undertake that action and was        the jury properly instructed?                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell me the        posture of the case with reference to under Virginia         law, the government ­­ the Governor's authority or lack         of authority to tell the university, you will engage in          this research or you will not engage?                   MR. FRANCISCO: Sure, Your Honor. He ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is the state of the         law, and do ­­ do the parties agree on this point?                       MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I think that the          parties agree that the Governor at least had a bully           pulpit authority, but he had very little authority to         actually direct any university researcher to do       anything. And here I think one of the critical ­­ there             are two critical questions: One, was the jury told that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it even had to find that he tried to do that and here it              wasn't; and, two, did he in fact do that. And we would             assert that he clearly didn't.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Would it have made a        difference if the medical faculties had agreed to the         testing?             MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, if they had        agreed to the testing, I still don't think it would have            made a difference in terms of whether Governor McDonnell          tried to influence their decision on that, because he         didn't. And it still wouldn't have made a ­­ a            difference on the jury instructions because the jury        still wasn't instructed that it had to find that         Governor McDonnell tried to influence a particular        governmental decision, because it wasn't so instructed.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Francisco, could I       ask ­­ the line you're drawing between exercising        influence and providing access, just to sort of test         that with a hypothetical, suppose that somebody knew         that there was a ­­ a contractor who was going to award              a very large contract to one of two or three firms that            the ­­ that he was meeting with. And ­­ and a company              paid to make sure that they were on the meet list, to be             one of those two or three firms, in other words,          bribed ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. FRANCISCO: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ an official in order to                                 become one of those two or three firms from which that           was the pool from which ­­                             MR. FRANCISCO: Right.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ this billion­dollar      contract would emerge, would that be sufficient?                   MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I think that         probably would be "official action" because there the        only way you can even get a decision in your favor is by              being one of three people on that list. So being on            that list is a prerequisite to getting a decision.           Being denied ­­ denied on that list is a denial of the             decision, and that's an official governmental action.                   Here the jury wasn't instructed on any of        this. They didn't have to find that Governor McDonnell          tried to influence anything. Indeed, it would have been          required to convict under these instructions if Governor        McDonnell had called up a staff member and said, I'd           like to ­­ you to meet with this fellow, Johnnie          Williams. I don't really trust him. His product is a             little hinky, but you're the expert. So meet with the           guy and exercise your complete and unfettered judgment.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: Let me ­­ let me just change          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the hypothetical a little bit. Suppose that a Governor            is going to make a ­­ eventually going to make a            decision that will help either A or B and hurt either A              or B, and the Governor says, you know, I'm going to have            a preliminary discussion about this with members of my         staff. We're not going to come to any decision, but           we're going to talk about it. And whichever of you pays            the most money will be able to sit in on this staff            meeting. What about that?                 MR. FRANCISCO: Sure. Well, Your Honor, I         think I'd want to know, are there facts suggesting that          it really isn't just a payment to sit in on the staff             meeting? It's a payment to try to influence the           meeting?             JUSTICE ALITO: Just a payment to sit in.                      MR. FRANCISCO: To sit on the ­­ I think it            would violate a whole lot of other laws, but I don't             think, unless there was any kind of indicia that you          were trying to influence the outcome, you would cross         that line into prohibited "official action" corruption.                   After all, these laws are not meant to be         comprehensive codes of ethical conduct as this Court        said in Sun­Diamond. They're meant to target the worst          form of ethical misconduct, the corruption of official        decision­making. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: What if it's not just        sitting in? Maybe I wasn't ­­ I should sharpen this.             Supposed the party is allowed to speak and present its          point of view.               MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, again, the more        facts that you put on to suggest that it is more of an             attempt to influence the decision, it's not just a         meeting. I think the more likely you are to get to that              "official act" ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So tell me, what do we         do with the evidence in the case that the university          individuals who were assessing whether or not to do         these studies themselves felt pressured? There is both         testimony and documents in which the pros and cons of          accepting these studies was discussed.                 MR. FRANCISCO: Right.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And in the pro and con,         it was, the Governor really wants us to do this.                      MR. FRANCISCO: I ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The Governor is      pressuring us to do this. We just don't think it's a            good idea. They were honorable people, obviously. But          the point is, what do we do with the fact that they            perceived that he was trying to influence them?                    MR. FRANCISCO: I have two responses, Your         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Honor, a legal one and a factual one. Legally, you             still need to instruct the jury that it had to find that            Governor McDonnell tried to actually influence a       government decision. And here it wasn't instructed, so         they could have completely agreed ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But why? Isn't this ­­        I thought that this crime was taking money knowing that          it was being paid to influence an "official act." So           aren't all of these examples of "official acts" whether         they are or they aren't irrelevant? The question is,          what was his intent at the moment he took the money?           And why couldn't ­­               MR. FRANCISCO: Yeah.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ a jury infer at that          moment that he took it with the intent to commit an           "official act" the way Mr. Williams wanted it committed?                     MR. FRANCISCO: So again, Your Honor, two        responses. Even assuming that the jury could have         inferred it, you still need to tell them what an          "official act" is, that an "official act" is an attempt          to influence a governmental decision.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well ­­                MR. FRANCISCO: Understand ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ to study these       dietary supplements.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FRANCISCO: Well, to ­­ to actually, you         know, conduct tobacco commission­funded State studies,      but you still need to tell them what that is. But I'll             get directly to your question. Why is it that the           actual "official acts" are relevant? And that's because         both the district court and the courts of appeals'         opinions made clear.               Here in this case, the corrupt agreement       turned entirely upon, as the district court case said.         It hinged upon whether the five specific acts were, in          fact, "official acts," because in the absence of any         direct evidence of a corrupt agreement, the government's         argument was that you could infer one from the pattern          of actual "official acts" on the one hand and the          pattern of gifts and loans on the other and the temporal           connection between the two.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: And so is it your position         at page of the supplemental Joint Appendix ­­ the          instructions aren't numbered, which makes it a little         hard, but the judge instructs the jury that "official         actions" are set forth in the five paragraphs of the          indictment. And is it your position that at least some           of those are not "official acts"?                  MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor, and       certainly the five things that were proved in this case          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are not "official acts." And likewise, I don't think           any of those things, as they actually came into         evidence, demonstrated "official acts" because in none       of them did Governor McDonnell cross that line in trying          to influence the outcome of any particular decision.        And just as critically, the jury was never told it had           to find that. So the jury in this case, Justice           Sotomayor, could have completely agreed with our version        of the facts. It could have agreed that as we argued            very vigorously that the most that Governor McDonnell        did here was refer Johnnie ­­                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The matter ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, this gets back       somewhat to Justice Alito's hypothetical about arranging       the meeting, and we ­­ and we can up the ante to see             how ­­ how close the meeting came to be an ­­ an            "official act." But I ­­ I take it that at some point               your position is that a governmental ­­ that an          "official act" must be the exercise of governmental        power. Is that your position?                  MR. FRANCISCO: Well, Your Honor, it's       either making a decision on ­­ on an exercise of           governmental power, trying to influence it, as in the         Birdsall case, where the defendants there were trying to         persuade the grant of clemency.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             But if you're simply setting up a meeting so          that somebody can appeal to the independent judgment of         an independent decisionmaker and you're not trying to        put your thumb on the scale of the outcome of that           meeting, then that simple referral can't possibly be        official action. After all, government officials refer        friends and benefactors to staff members all the time in          order to avoid taking official action.                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do you ­­ do you concede         that there is sufficient evidence in this record ­­        let's say we accept your argument about the charge being          insufficient. But this could go back, and a jury could            be asked: Did the Governor try to influence a decision            on the part of the medical faculties?                   MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, we don't concede        there was sufficient evidence. But regardless, we ­­ we          also argue that the jury was improperly instructed on         this, which, Justice Sotomayor, goes to the point, I         think, you were making. If the jury was improperly          instructed, then you don't actually assume all of the         evidence in favor of the government. The question then          becomes: Could a ­­ would a properly­instructed juror           have been required to convict?                 Here, even if the jury completely agreed       with us, and they very well may have, under these          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review erroneous instructions they still would have been       required to convict, because under these instructions,       simply referring somebody to a meeting without trying to          influence the outcome of that meeting constitutes       official governmental action.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, suppose      arranging a meeting could be official government action,         if that were your job. In other words, you're not just            a secretary, but your job was to manage the Governor's          schedule. You decided who met with him, you decided          when, and that ­­ that's your job. That's ­­ so           anything that individual does, I suppose, would be an          official act.              MR. FRANCISCO: I think that's possible,        Chief Justice. Of course, in this case we don't have           anything like that. We simply have referrals to         meetings with other officials so that, at best, the         alleged bribe payor here, Jonnie Williams, can try to         persuade them to his cause.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, can I follow up on          that? Because what you just suggested, right, is that          you could ­­ suppose that there were a scheduler for a            Governor or for the President or whatever, and that         scheduler was selling meetings. So you would think         that's part of her job? And if I just understood you             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review correctly, that falls within the statute?                  MR. FRANCISCO: No, Your Honor. I think          that would be a very close case. That ­­ that would be              a very close case, because at the end of the day, if            you're not actually making a governmental decision or         influencing the outcome of an actual governmental       decision, I think you ­­ and Chief Justice, you might           actually be violating a lot of other laws, including the           separate provision in Section that prohibits you        from undertaking any act in violation of your official         duties in exchange for money, or U.S.C. , which           prohibits you from ­­ from taking anything from anyone         whose interests could be affected by the performance or         nonperformance of your duties.                But I think that the line has to be, and the            only line that comes out through the cases is, you're          actually either making a decision on because of the          government, or you're urging someone else to do so.         You're trying to pushing them in a certain direction.                      JUSTICE BREYER: It seems to me when you say          "urging" ­­ now, wait. See, I can go back to a lot of                different commission, the Brown Commission, the Senate       S, the language of the statute, and I read "official           action," something quite similar to the statute here, "A         decision, opinion, recommendation, judgment, vote, or      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review other conduct" ­­ perhaps other similar conduct ­­       "involving an exercise of discretion."                    So in this case, the official action we're     talking about is giving money to a group of people in            the university to conduct a study.                   Now, the Governor didn't do that. But a         person who tries to influence an official action and is          also in the government is also guilty. But wait.          That's the Indian case.                            MR. FRANCISCO: Yes. You're correct.       JUSTICE BREYER: But wait. The word        "influence" is too broad, because every day of the week          politicians write on behalf of constituents letters to        different parts of the government, saying, will you        please look at the case of Mrs. So­and­so who was          evicted last week? And that's so common, you can't pick           that up.              But then you use the word "urge." That's         not exactly a legal word. And what I'm looking for is a              set of words that will describe in both sides' positions          what we should write as the words that describe the          criminal activity involved in talking to or influencing        the person who does create the official act, like give a           pardon.             MR. FRANCISCO: Right.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: Like award a contract, like         vote, like ­­ et cetera. Now, those are the words that            I can't find, and I'd appreciate your opinion.                    MR. FRANCISCO: Sure, Your Honor. And I         think that the answer is that what district courts have          to do is understand the general rule, which I think at            some level has to be an attempt to influence, and then           flesh it out in a way that's appropriate to the facts of             the case.              JUSTICE BREYER: You want to use "attempt to         influence"? My goodness. Letters go by the dozens over           to the secretary of HUD, to the secretary ­­                    MR. FRANCISCO: Right.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ of ­­ of HHS, to the          secretary or the assistant secretaries, and they say, my         Constituent Smith has a matter before you that has been           pending for months; we would appreciate it if you          would review that and take action. And then the elected           official says to Smith, I did my best on this. And             Smith thinks, good, he's used his influence.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Right.                JUSTICE BREYER: A crime? My goodness.                     MR. FRANCISCO: Absolutely not, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Fine.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Absolutely not.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: You say "absolutely not."       That's what I thought that you would say.                                 MR. FRANCISCO: And I think that ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: So I want to know ­­ but           the words you used were "attempt to influence." And so           ­­ though I don't think that's the right word, and I            want to know what the right words are ­­                                MR. FRANCISCO: Sure.    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ in the instruction that        the judge is going to give. Not in your case ­­                       MR. FRANCISCO: Um­hmm.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ but in general.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Well, can I give you an          example from another case that, although I do think          instructions are generally tailored to the case, an        example ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Of course they are. But         you have to have the standard that will distinguish the          urger ­­             MR. FRANCISCO: Sure.                JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ from the one who does it          criminally and the one who doesn't.                  MR. FRANCISCO: And in the Ring case, I         thought that Judge Huvelle had some very useful        instructions ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Mm­hmm.    MR. FRANCISCO: ­­ where she wrote ­­ and                                 this is at page of the Joint Appendix ­­         "Therefore, 'official action' includes the exercise of       both formal official influence, such as the       legislature's vote on legislation, and informal official       influence, such as a legislature's behind­the­scenes       influence on other public officials in the legislative        or executive branches."               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, there we have it.        There we have it. All these letters going over, saying,           please look at Mrs. Smith's eviction notice.                               MR. FRANCISCO: And ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Mrs. Smith, who, by the        way, took me to lunch last week.                   (Laughter.)             MR. FRANCISCO: And I completely agree, Your         Honor, which is why in our proposed instruction ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: That won't do it. The one          you just read won't do it.                  MR. FRANCISCO: Well ­­ well, and that's why         in our proposed instructions, I think it needs to be           tailored further to the facts of the case. So in our            case we went on to say ­­ say merely arranging a           meeting, attending an event, hosting a reception, or         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review making a speech are not standing­alone "official acts."         Either you use it ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you use         that. The key to the word in there is "merely."                       MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE BREYER: Because sometimes it could.                   MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE BREYER: And somebody might have the        embarrassing question, merely when it can or merely when         it can't. Give me a little enlightenment.                     MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I think that the          answer is, if ­­ if the evidence shows that there was ­­           and I hate to go back to the word that I ­­ I know you                  don't like here, but if the evidence shows that there          really wasn't attempt ­­ an attempt to try to push the           separate decisionmaker that you're supposedly trying to       influence one way or another, but you really are just          sending it over for a meeting, and ­­ and that           independent decisionmaker is left to their independent       judgment, then you haven't crossed that line. But if ­­                      JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: The word ­­ the word that         Justice Breyer is concerned about comes from Birdsall,        with intent to influence their "official action." So we          can hardly fault the district judge for using in Ring          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the same words that this Court used in Birdsall.                     MR. FRANCISCO: I ­­ I agree, Your Honor. I             thought that Judge Huvelle did a very good attempt at           defining, because she actually went further than what I         just read to you, Justice Breyer. She continues along          the lines that we proposed in our instructions that,         quote, "Mere favoritism as evidenced by a public         official's willingness to take a lobbyist's telephone        call or to meet with the lobbyist, is not an 'official           act.'"             So I think that the idea is, Your Honor ­­ I            understand, Justice Breyer, that influence itself      doesn't totally solve the problem. But what district         court judges do is they then explain to the jury what           they mean by influence, and influence is not ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Where can we find the best         definition, in your view, of an "official act"?                    MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I think that the          best definition of an "official act" is ­­ is         essentially the one that I tried to articulate at the           outset. You need ­­ you need to either make a decision             on behalf of the government, or try in some way to use            your influence to pressure or urge or persuade or cajole          someone else who has governmental power to make a         decision on an action.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: I agree with Justice                                            Breyer. I just don't see the limiting principle in the            second part.              MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I think in many          ­­ in some cases, I think the limiting principle might           be difficult; it's not a perfect and precise         formulation. But I think in this case it's a           particularly easy principle, because here the jury       wasn't given any instruction on the line at all.                     So Justice Breyer, in your hypothetical,      sending that letter over is an "official act" under the          instructions as given and under the theory pushed by the          Solicitor General's office in this case because it is         the action ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: I'm ­­ I'm not sure ­­ I'm          not sure that's right. It seemed to me the "official           act" is exercise of governmental power to require        citizens to do or not to do something, or to shape the            law that can ­­ that governs their conduct.                    MR. FRANCISCO: I ­­ I completely agree with           you, Justice Kennedy.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Under your view, under the        hypotheticals that have been thrown around, the janitor        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review who gets the bottle of beer in order to clean your           classroom first, I mean, is that ­­ is that a           governmental act?              MR. FRANCISCO: Certainly not in my view,        but the government ­­               difference?             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what's the      MR. FRANCISCO: The difference is, one ­­       one is you're exercising power on behalf of the         government as a whole. So the janitor, for example, if            he's buying ­­ if he's using government money to buy          janitorial supplies and engaging in government      contracting, that's an exercise of governmental power.       If you're simply cleaning out a classroom, I don't think            you're exercising government power.                So, too, when you simply send somebody to        another official for an independent and objective       decision by that official, but you don't try to put your           thumb on the scales of that decision, you haven't         crossed the line.               And I think it's very important in a         criminal statute like this, because if you really do         think that a referral, just simply making a referral, is            "official action" that crosses the line into bribery, I         think you do have some very serious vagueness concerns         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with the Hobbs Act and on a services question ­­                                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure ­­ sure. It         depends on who's making the referral or the call, right?          In Justice Breyer's hypothetical, if it's a       congressperson calling somebody and saying, could you       look into this matter for my constituent, the person         should look at it, I suppose, and then ­­ and that's one             thing. If it's the President who calls and says, I want             you to look at this matter for my constituent, that          might exercise considerably more influence.                 MR. FRANCISCO: Two things, Your Honor.       First, you still do need to tell the jury that that's           what they have to find. And here, the jury was never            told in any way, shape or form that they had to find an             attempt to influence. So I think that is sufficient, in            and of itself, to, at the very least, require a new            trial here.              Under these instructions, as the government      itself seems to agree, any action within the range of          official duties constitutes official governmental     action.             So Justice Kennedy, in the letter being sent        over from a senator, since that is within the range of            official duties, that counts under the government's       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review formulation, and under the jury instruction as given,        since it is, after all, a settled practice of officials           to send these kinds of letters. That's why it was           incumbent upon the district court to draw some kind of          limit.             And here, the jury could well have agreed        with us that even though he was the governor of the           State, Mr. Chief Justice, he did not try to influence          the actual decision. He simply made the same type of           referral that he made day in and day out during this           administration where he simply sent a constituent to the          appropriate official ­­                          judgment.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Francisco ­­     MR. FRANCISCO: ­­ to exercise appropriate       JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ if ­­ you said something         before, and I might have misunderstood you. But do you            think that ­­ of the five listed "official acts," do you           think none of them meet the standards that you're         suggesting, or do you think some of them do and some of            them don't?              MR. FRANCISCO: Two answers. First of all,         we don't think that any of them meet the standard.                                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So let me ­­        MR. FRANCISCO: But secondly ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Go ahead, please.      MR. FRANCISCO: But secondly, the jury could        have agreed with us on that, given the evidence we put           further. And therefore, the erroneous instruction was        critical to this case, because even if they had agreed          with us, they would have been required to convict under          that erroneous instruction since ­­ take the healthcare        leaders reception. They could have concluded that that         was an "official act" and that was the only basis to           convict, and they could have agreed with our evidence on          everything ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. That ­­ that might be          right. It might be that ­­ that you still have a ­­ a               winning argument even if some of the five are fine.          But ­­ but if we could just focus on them for a bit. I                mean, for example, the third one ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: They're ­­ they're at page         of the ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: The .                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Middle of the appendix.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Contacting other officials      to influence Virginia State researchers to initiate       clinical studies. So that's the one that seems to me to            really fall within your own definition. Do you disagree          with that?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, I don't. And if           they had actually proved what was said in the indictment          in the case, I think that this would be a ­­ we'd be               making a different argument here. But the problem is,           they didn't prove that Governor McDonnell tried to        encourage anybody. The one ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: So on something like that,        your argument is a sufficiency argument?                               MR. FRANCISCO: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE KAGAN: Rather than this was ­­ this         is not an "official act"?                 MR. FRANCISCO: And ­­ and ­­ yes, Your         Honor. To be clear, we have two separate arguments          here. One is on the jury instructions where our          argument is that even if they agreed with all of our           view of the facts, they still would have been required          to convict, given these erroneous jury instructions.                   And secondly, our second argument is the       sufficiency argument. Even a properly instructed jury,         in our view, could not have concluded that Governor         McDonnell crossed that line.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, just to be clear,        you ­­ you said at the outset you don't think any of            these are "official acts," but then I thought I heard            you say that, third, contacting other government       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review officials as part of an effort to encourage State         research is not an "official act"?                  MR. FRANCISCO: That's the indictment, Your       Honor. If they had actually proved what was ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: What was ­­ Justice Kagan        is asking, is that an "official act"?                                           MR. FRANCISCO: If it actually ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: If it's true, but ­­       MR. FRANCISCO: If he had tried to        encouraged them to do it, yes. If they had proved that            he had tried to encourage them to do that, that would           have been an "official act."                 Our argument is that, first, the jury was        never properly instructed on that question; and second,        he never did in fact urge university researchers to do          anything.             And if I could just conclude, before        reserving the remainder of my time for rebuttal, at the          one event where he actually had direct contact with the          university researchers, Justice Kagan, this was the       luncheon held at the mansion. The ­­ all of the           witnesses who were there actually testified as to two         things with respect to the Governor.                  First, he simply asked neutral questions      that didn't try to push the researchers' decisions one         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review way or another. And secondly, the one time Jonnie          Williams asked him for something, support before Tobacco        Commission funding, he gave Jonnie Williams a very         polite no.              time.             Mr. Chief Justice, if I could reserve my         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Dreeben.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN                       ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT                MR. DREEBEN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  Petitioner seeks a categorical carve­out      from the concept of an "official act" for things like          meetings, phone calls, events, that, in his view, do not          further or advance or attempt to influence a particular          government action, but simply provide somebody with       access to the government.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, he's not ­­       he's not the only one. One ­­ there's an extraordinary           document in this case, and that's the amicus brief filed          by former White House counsel to President Obama, former         White House counsel to President George W. Bush, former         White House counsel to President Clinton, former White        House counsel to George H.W. Bush, former White House         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review counsel to President Reagan. And they say, quoting         their brief, that "if this decision is upheld, it will          cripple the ability of elected officials to fulfill        their role in our representative democracy."                  Now, I think it's extraordinary that those        people agree on anything.                (Laughter.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But ­­ but to agree         on something as sensitive as this and to be willing to           put their names on something that says this ­­ this          cannot be prosecuted conduct. I think is extraordinary.                      MR. DREEBEN: It may be extraordinary, Mr.        Chief Justice, but that doesn't make it correct. I          think it rests on several fundamental misconceptions       about what government actually does. And I think it's           important to pause and look at the implications of what          Petitioner's pay­to­play theory of government really is;       that people can pay for access, that they can be charged           to have a meeting or have a direction made to another             government official to take the meeting.                  It would mean, in effect, that if somebody        came to me and said, you know, I know you're having a             lot of college tuition issues. We can help you with           that. The criminal division is not giving us a meeting            on whether to appeal a case. Just call them and see if              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you can get them to take the meeting. And I don't             know ­­                                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: I don't know ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's ­­ it's       somebody in the government whose client comes to them         and says, we'd really like the Solicitor General's        Office to file a brief in our case. And then that             person calls you up and says, can you meet with          so­and­so? All he wants to do is sit down with you and             persuade you why you should file a brief supporting his           case.             MR. DREEBEN: But getting in the door, Mr.         Chief Justice, is one of the absolutely critical things.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is your answer,        yes, that that's a felony?                              MR. DREEBEN: If somebody pays me ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. That's the         quid ­­ that's the quid side of it.                                MR. DREEBEN: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm talking about       the pro side in the quid pro quo.                    MR. DREEBEN: Taking a meeting, yes, I think           taking a meeting is absolutely government action.                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: So if ­­ so if the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review President gives special access to high­dollar donors to        have meetings with government officials, that is a        felony?             MR. DREEBEN: Certainly not, Justice      Kennedy. And I ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why certainly not?                  MR. DREEBEN: Because the critical issue       there is whether the government can prove a quid pro           quo. And now we're moving into the realm of campaign           contributions, where this Court has given very strict        guidance about when a jury ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: It's not a campaign        contribution. What it is, is he takes him to lunch, and            an expensive lunch at that. Okay? Because the quid           side is not limited. The government has argued         continuously that in for a penny, in for a pound. Okay?              So we don't have the limitation on the quid side. We            have a possible limitation in frame of mind.                     And now we're looking to the quo side. And          you want to remove any limitation there. Okay?                     Now, why do I think that's a problem? Two            very fundamental reasons. And it's not because I'm in          favor of dishonest behavior. I'm against it. And we           have just listed some that is dishonest. My problem is           the criminal law as the weapon to cure it. And if the             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review criminal law is the weapon that goes as far as you want,            there are two serious problems. One, political figures         will not know what they're supposed to do and what          they're not supposed to do, and that's a general          vagueness problem.              And the second is, I'd call it a separation          of powers problem. The Department of Justice in the          Executive Branch becomes the ultimate arbiter of how        public officials are behaving in the United States,        State, local, and national. And as you describe it, for           better or for worse, it puts at risk behavior that is           common, particularly when the quid is a lunch or a           baseball ticket, throughout this country.                 Now, suddenly, to give that kind of power to         a criminal prosecutor, who is virtually uncontrollable,       is dangerous in the separation of powers since. So in           my mind ­­ right in this case, nothing to do with this            Petitioner, nothing to do with him, but in this case, is           a ­­ as fundamental a real separation of ­­ of powers            problem as I've seen.                And ­­ and I'm not quite certain what the         words are. They won't be perfect. They will leave some            dishonest conduct unprosecuted. They won't be perfect.        They will put some politicians at risk. But I'm          searching for those words because, as I said, this is a            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review very basic separation of powers problem for me.                                MR. DREEBEN: So ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: I appreciate your help on         what the right words are, and I'll tell you right now if            those words are going to say when a person has lunch and             then writes over to the antitrust division and says, I'd          like you to meet with my constituent who has just been           evicted from her house, you know, if that's going to          criminalize that behavior, I'm not buying into that, I         don't think.              So ­­ so I want some words that will help           with what I see as as knotty and complicated and           difficult and basic a problem as I can think of.                        MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, let me first        argue the position that I came here to argue, which is            that "official action" is not limited by some arbitrary         litmus test that was proposed by Petitioner that would         exclude things that he calls "access." I don't think           that that's the right way to look at it. I think that              the right way to look at this statute is to recognize           that it has multiple elements. We're talking about         multiple statutes. But the bribery offense has very         similar elements.              You first have to decide whether someone is        engaging in an "official act." Merely going to lunch is           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review not engaging in an "official act." There are         opportunities to engage ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: No, no one said it is. The           lunch with the Chateau Lafite wine happens to be the          quid, and ­­ and that's worth, like, a thousand dollars,           or , anyway. I don't go to those restaurants           anymore.             (Laughter.)                         that ­­             go ­­             MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: But ­­ but you understand        MR. DREEBEN: ­­ I ­­ I don't ­­ I don't              JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ side. It's the other         side of the equation.                MR. DREEBEN: I understand, Justice Breyer.        But what ­­ I would think it would be helpful for the             Court if I could lay out the multiple elements that are            at issue here because "official act" does not have to do           all the work. You do have to have somebody engaged in            their official capacity. You then have to have         something that they do within their range of official         duties, which going to lunch is not going to be.                      Third, you need a quid pro quo, which means          that the government is going to have to show that the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review person allowed themselves to be influenced in their        conduct by the thing of value that they received, which          is to say that somebody is basically saying, I'm going          to make a referral over to another agency for you only            if you buy me lunch. That is not honorable behavior,           and there are ­­                           JUSTICE BREYER: Of course it isn't.       MR. DREEBEN: ­­ many regulations that carve        out permissible gift situations and create the fourth        element issue that I think is an important protection,          which is mens rea.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: But the problem is, and as         you set forth in your brief correctly, you can imply an           agreement over time. You can imply a contract over           time. And if the lunch takes place first and there's ­­           there's no precondition on the lunch, but after the         lunch there is wink­wink, nod­nod, and the contact takes         place, it's clear in the standard criminal law that         there is a conspiracy there.                  MR. DREEBEN: So I agree with you ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: We're in agreement.                  MR. DREEBEN: I do agree with you, Justice          Kennedy. I think that's exactly the position that Your           Honor's opinion in Evans, the separate concurrence,       explained as a proper means of administering the quid          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review pro quo requirement as an intent to issue in a criminal            case. There is a very critical protection here. It's a             requirement of showing something beyond a reasonable        doubt to a jury. And if you have ordinary conduct            that's fully disclosed and in accordance with       regulations which do strictly limit when people can        receive lunches ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: I don't see what the         relevance of those regulations is. You say ­­ you say           there were certain safe harbors created by Federal        regulations. Those apply to Federal employees and        Federal officers. What do they have to do with a           Governor of a State or a State employee?                      MR. DREEBEN: Well, they don't, Justice       Alito. This case has been litigated on the submission          that Section informed the meeting of "official        action" for purposes of the Hobbs Act and the honest          services statute. And as a result, the parties have           engaged very heavily on the effect on Federal officials.         And I think that Justice Breyer's question was primarily          directed at them.                 I do think that there are different issues       that arise with respect to State officials, but the mens          rea requirements that I've been talking about are going         to be fully applicable ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, but how ­­ but you're         JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then this ­­ this                    asking ­­             doesn't answer Justice Breyer's basic question and ours.        You're going to tell the Senators, the officials with         the lunches, that, don't worry. The jury has to be           convinced beyond a reasonable doubt, and that's tough.                     (Laughter.)                         MR. DREEBEN: Well ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: That was your answer.       That was your answer.                MR. DREEBEN: Justice Kennedy, I do think         that the requirements of the criminal law in proving         something by beyond a reasonable doubt are a substantial           ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: What is it they're trying        to prove? Now, of course, this is a State case, not a              Federal case. It's a State official ­­ it's a Federal             law but a State official. I don't know. I've only been               peripherally involved in political campaigns, but my       peripheral convinces me that a candidate will go out and           he'll have lunch with hundreds of people, hundreds.        Everybody wants to give him lunch. Great. And ­­ and            he wants to meet as many people as possible. He wants            to be friendly. He might receive a raincoat. He might             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review receive all kinds of things. And at some point, it           becomes very dishonest.                           MR. DREEBEN: So ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: But that's a matter for         campaign laws.              Wait. Now, I've also been involved in the         Justice Department. And we would receive many, many         letters in the antitrust division. Have you looked into          such and such? I know perfectly well that that Senator            just wants to go back to the constituent and say, see, I            did my best. That's all.                  Now, you're saying to the jury, take those        facts I just gave you, and you look into the state of             mind ­­ the state of mind of which the amounts being           given will be somewhat indicative, of which the nature         of the letter will be somewhat indicative, of whether he          writes in personal writing at the bottom will be         somewhat indicative, and we're going to let you         people work out what was really in that Senator's mind.          I say that is a recipe for giving the Department of            Justice and the prosecutors enormous power over elected        officials who are not necessarily behaving honestly.                   And I am looking for the line. I am looking             for the line that will control the shift of power that I            fear without allowing too much honesty through this law.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review You know, other laws exist on the other side.                                 MR. DREEBEN: Well, Justice ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: That ­­ that's what I want          your view on.               MR. DREEBEN: Justice Breyer, I'm going to        push back, because I think that the line that Petitioner           has urged is one that is a recipe for corruption, not a             recipe for drawing a safe harbor for public officials.                      What he has basically urged the Court to        hold is that paying for access, if somebody does not put           a thumb on the scale of decision ­­ if I, for example,            tell the criminal division, take the meeting, make        whatever recommendation is in your best judgment, just        take the meeting, I can take money for that. And I             think the message that would be sent, if this Court put           its imprimatur on a scheme of government in which public           officials were not committing bribery when all they did         was arrange meetings with other governmental officials,       without putting, in his metaphorical way, a thumb on the           scales of the ultimate decision, would send a terrible          message to citizens. What ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what I think we're         looking for is some limiting principle. Now, you ­­ you           started to say something about campaign contributions ­­                   MR. DREEBEN: Correct.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ and I know that this case           doesn't involve campaign contributions. But certainly a        campaign contribution can be the quid, can it not?                     MR. DREEBEN: Certainly.                JUSTICE ALITO: All right. Well, gaining        access by making campaign contributions is an everyday        occurrence. And maybe it's a bad thing, but it's very            widespread. How does it ­­ how does that play out?                       MR. DREEBEN: So, Justice Alito, gaining       access and ingratiation and gratitude as a result of          campaign contributions is not a crime. When it's done           as a quid pro quo, it is. And that is not the ­­                          JUSTICE BREYER: That's ­­                MR. DREEBEN: That is not the ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: That's what I want, your         view.             MR. DREEBEN: That is not my view, Justice         Breyer.             JUSTICE BREYER: But, I mean ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Mr. Dreeben, if I could just          follow up on that.                If a ­­ a Senator writes to a Federal agency             and says, this union or this company is, you know,          critical to the economy of my State, and, by the way ­­           he doesn't say this, but, by the way, they are the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review biggest contributors to his campaign ­­ would you please         meet with them? What would not make that a crime? The              fact that the jury might not find beyond a reasonable           doubt that the reason why he was urging this meeting was           because these people, this entity, happened to be a very           big supporter? That would be the only thing separating          lawful from unlawful conduct there?                 MR. DREEBEN: Well, let ­­ let me say two          things in response to that. First, this Court has          addressed that very issue in the McCormick case. And it           is established that merely taking favorable action at or         around the time of the receipt of campaign contributions         is not sufficient to show a quid pro quo and is not a              crime.             Nobody doubts that if there's a quid pro quo          for a vote, something that I think Mr. Francisco is            prepared to concede is "official action," although I'm        not sure why since it doesn't personally exercise        sovereign power if a legislator casts vote as a          dissenting vote from a majority action. But nobody          disputes that that is a crime. Therefore, this Court           has already carved out evidentiary and instructional       safeguards that prevent against a jury inferring a quid           pro quo merely from the coincidence of timing.                    But I want to come back to something that is           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review even more fundamental, and that is the role of the First           Amendment in this case. Because Petitioner has sought         to wrap himself in the mantle of the First Amendment,          probably because the gifts that he received have nothing         to do with the First Amendment; they have to do with           personal loans and luxury goods.                 This is not a case about campaign        contributions. But when campaign contributions are at        issue, he relies very heavily on Citizens United while         ignoring a critical piece of Citizens United.                    This Court, in Citizens United, looked back       to the circumstances that prompted the Federal Election        Campaign Act in , and those involve circumstances        that were delineated in the Buckley decision in the         court of appeals.               And the Court specifically cited to those       practices. And what were those practices? They         involved the American milk producers paying $ million        in campaign contributions, spread out among a variety of          committees, to get a meeting at the White House. That's            all they did. They said, in order to gain a meeting             with White House officials on price supports, they paid         that money.              Other corporate executives testified that     paying money was a calling card, something that would          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review get us in the door and make our point of view heard.            And this Court said, on page of the Citizens United           opinion, "The practices Buckley noted would be covered        by the bribery laws, CEG U.S.C. , if a quid pro             quo arrangement were proved."                Now, of course, it's very difficult to prove        a quid pro quo arrangement, and that's why there are          campaign finance limitations on contributions to      candidates. But the Court had no doubt that paying for           access was a criminal violation. And so ­­                                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­     MR. DREEBEN: And that's what ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ if you have a         governor whose priority is jobs for his State, and         there's a CEO who's thinking about locating a plant in            his State, but he can only do it, he says, if he gets             tax credits from the State.                 So the governor is talking to him, and he         says, look, why don't you come down to my, you know,           trout stream and we'll go fishing and we'll talk about          this. And the governor does that. He has a nice day              fishing for trout, and they talk about whether they can          get tax credits, deferred taxes if the CEO opens his          plant in the State. Now, is that a felony, because            he's ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. DREEBEN: I ­­     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ accepted an                               afternoon of trout fishing, and he discussed official        business at that time?                MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so, Mr. Chief          Justice, but if you change the hypothetical and said         instead of an afternoon of trout fitting ­­ fishing,         I'll fly you out to Hawaii and you and your family can            have a vacation, and during that time we can go over my             policy ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought ­­ I          didn't think the government put any weight on the amount          of the quid; in other words, you know ­­ okay. I don't              know how much an afternoon of trout fishing is worth,          but I ­­ I gather you get ­­ you can be charged for that                and ­­ and pay for it.                    I thought that didn't matter. I thought it         was whether he was engaged in an "official act" under          circumstances in which a jury could find he did it           because of the gift.                MR. DREEBEN: Yes.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And ­­ and so if all          he's doing is talking about ways to get jobs for          Virginia, and he's talking with the person who's going         to make that decision from the private sector, based in          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review part on whether or not he gets, you know, tax credits,           it would seem to me that under your definition, that          governor is guilty of a felony.                   MR. DREEBEN: I'm not sure that he is guilty          of a felony. But the reason why I changed the             hypothetical to involve a larger quid is because the          implications of carving something out from "official       action" mean that it can be sold, and that it's lawful           to be sold. And when you change the trout fishing to a             trip to Hawaii, it becomes more nefarious, and the         message that it sends to citizens is ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: But that's the point. You         see, what ­­ exactly what the Chief Justice asked.         What's the lower limit, in the government's opinion, on         the quid? What? Tell me right now. What ­­ if you're              going to say $,, okay, I feel quite differently          about this. If you will say an afternoon of trout           fishing or et cetera, then I feel quite differently.          It's pretty hard to see the conduct being honest if you           exempt the campaign contributions and put it up        somewhere. But I didn't think that was the government's           position.                         MR. DREEBEN: It's not the government's ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: What is the government's       position ­­ what ­­ you tell me I'm wrong, in for a            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review penny, in for a pound. You tell me right now it is not               the government's position that the trout fishing       afternoon is sufficient to be a ­­ a quid. If you say               that, I'll feel differently about the case.                   (Laughter.)             MR. DREEBEN: It's tempting, Justice Breyer,       but I'm not going to ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Exactly.                MR. DREEBEN: ­­ exempt from the corruption        laws ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.                MR. DREEBEN: ­­ certain types of quids.        But ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: But now ­­                 MR. DREEBEN: ­­ Justice Breyer, you do need         to run this through all the elements of the offense. I            think what Petitioner is ­­ is saying, and I think some            of the Court's hypotheticals are suggesting the only        thing that really you could possibly do to remedy this          issue is to shrink the definition of "official action"         with no textual basis in , nor really, I think, any            common sense basis in the way that government actually         operates ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: You tell me ­­ that's why I          asked you at the beginning. And you ­­ in order to            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review be ­­ you say you're going to push back, and then you            complained about their definition. If I thought their          definition was so perfect, I wouldn't have asked you.          And ­­ and it's ­­ it's exactly ­­ you do ­­ you tell me              how to do this. And I'm not ­­ you say it sends a              terrible message. I'm not in the business of sending          messages in a case like this. I'm in the business of             trying to figure out the structure of the government.         And that's part of Separation of Powers, and I expressed           my concern.                          MR. DREEBEN: So I think ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: I dissented in ­­ in         Citizens United, so whatever that said there, but ­­                    (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: The ­­ the ­­ but the point          is the one I raised at the beginning that every single            one of us has raised. We're worried about ­­ because           like any other organization, the prosecutors too can be         overly zealous. That can happen. And so we need some            protection on both sides, even though the line won't be          perfect. And it will fail to catch some crooks. And it             will ­­ I mean, I understand that. And ­­ and I want to                 know your view. And it doesn't even ­­ it helps a            little, but not a lot, to say, well, meetings.                      MR. DREEBEN: So ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: That's too specific. I        want to know what your view is as to the language we            write in discussing the line.                 MR. DREEBEN: Well, I don't think you and I           agree on where the line should be, Justice Breyer. So           I ­­ I can't write language that is going to satisfy            you. You weren't even satisfied with Petitioner's        language, which requires that there be influence on some         other governmental decision. You suggested you thought        that was too broad.                JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, no. Well, yeah,         yeah, yeah, yeah.               MR. DREEBEN: You did suggest it.                   JUSTICE BREYER: I did ­­                  (Laughter.)             MR. DREEBEN: I think that it's too narrow.          I think that if the Court is going to reject the           government's submission, which is that when the governor        calls his Secretary of Health and says, take the meeting          with my benefactor, he doesn't disclose it's his        benefactor. Take the meeting so that that person can          have the preferential opportunity that other citizens       who do not pay will have to make his case before you. I              think that is "official action."                 Petitioner says it's not "official action"      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review unless he further sends the message, which I think on           the facts of this case was sent, he's trying to          influence the ultimate outcome.                If the Court is going to reject the        government's position in this case, then I think that a           fallback position for the government is when you have an          indisputed "official action," such as will the       universities of Virginia study a particular product, or         will the Tobacco Commission fund it, then when a public           official takes action to direct that decision, to        influence that decision, or to advance his benefactor's        interests with respect to that decision, that       constitutes the crime of bribery.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: There ­­ there is ­­                    MR. DREEBEN: Now ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Given the difficulty       that we're having in settling on what these words in the           statute mean, there is a ­­ an argument in the           Petitioner's brief that you have responded to in yours         that the statute is unconstitutionally vague.                  MR. DREEBEN: I ­­ I do not think it is             unconstitutionally vague. First of all, we're talking        here about multiple statutes. We're talking about Hobbs         Act extortion, which this Court previously construed in        both McCormick and Evans to be perfectly valid upon the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review proof of a quid pro quo when the official asserts that            his action will be controlled by a ­­ a thing of value              that he has received.                And now we're talking about the question of        what constitutes "official action" for the purposes of a         common law crime that goes back centuries and was         incorporated into the Hobbs Act.                 We're also talking about the honest­services      statute, which this Court in Skilling just six years ago          determined could be construed ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, yeah. "Could        be construed." I mean, there were, what, three votes to            find it unconstitutional? And the others say, well, no,          because you can narrow it in this way to the core           definition of bribery. And now maybe the ­­ the          experience we've had here, and the difficulty of coming         up with clear enough instructions suggests that the        caution the Court showed at that point was ill­advised.                     MR. DREEBEN: Well, I think it would be          absolutely stunning if this Court said that bribery and         corruption laws, which have been on the books since the          beginning of this nation, and have been consistently        enacted by Congress to combat both Federal, State, and         local corruption ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Would it be ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And ­­     JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ absolutely stunning to                               say that the government has given us no workable         standard?             MR. DREEBEN: Well, we have given you a         workable standard. It's the standard that comes from         this Court's decision in Birdsall, where the Court         said that things that government officials do under a         bribery statute much like this are covered as official         action, and they're not limited to things that ­­                    JUSTICE KENNEDY: Perhaps what you're      talking about is how evil the conspiracy is. It's not           evil to ­­ to fish or to have a bottle of wine, but it               is evil if you up the ante. Is that ­­ is that what              you're saying?              MR. DREEBEN: I think what I'm trying to          say, Justice Kennedy, is that it's going to be extremely          difficult for anyone to really believe that you could         buy a Governor's position on a multimillion­dollar tax          support for an afternoon of trout fishing. And that's          why those cases don't get brought. No one thinks about           them. It's not really even clear there is a quid pro             quo for ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask you a narrower           question, Mr. Dreeben?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                So one of the "official acts" here ­­ I'll      just read it to you. It's allowing Jonnie Williams to           invite individuals important to Star Scientific's      business to exclusive events at the Governor's Mansion.                    MR. DREEBEN: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: So that's essentially      hosting a party and allowing Mr. Williams to invite some           people. And why does that ­­ why is that an "official            act," in your view?                MR. DREEBEN: So, Justice Kagan, it wasn't        hosting an official party. We're talking about here two          events. One was a product launch hosted at the           Governor's Mansion where the Governor is basically       giving his credibility to a brand­new product. And the           invitations were critical to Jonnie Williams' plan to        sign up the universities to do the studies. He got to            pick ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: So here's, I guess ­­ I          mean, I guess, my question is this: The ­­ the            "official act," the statute, the definition, I mean,         requires that there be some particular matter, cause,        suit, proceeding, or controversy, correct?                 MR. DREEBEN: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: And if I understand the         theory of this case, the matter, suit, cause,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review proceeding, or controversy here is the attempt to get         the University of Virginia to do clinical studies of         this product; is that correct?                 MR. DREEBEN: It's narrower than our whole        scope of the charge, but it's essentially correct.                    thing?                         JUSTICE KAGAN: That's the gravamen of the        MR. DREEBEN: Correct.    JUSTICE KAGAN: So if you had just ­­ if ­­          if the indictment, and then the instructions that were         based on the indictment, had said the "official act" is          getting the University of Virginia to do clinical        studies, right, that reads very differently from the way         this indictment was structured. Because what this        indictment does is it takes a lot of different pieces of            evidence that might relate to that "official act" and         charges them as "official acts" themselves, so that the         party becomes an "official act" or calling somebody just         to talk about the product becomes an "official act." Do           you see what I mean?                    I mean, you know, this might have been       perfectly chargeable and instructable, but I guess        I'm ­­ I'm troubled by these particular charges and         instructions, which seems to make every piece of        evidence that you had an "official act," rather than         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review just saying the "official act" was the ­­ was the          attempt to get the University of Virginia to do         something that they wouldn't have done otherwise.                   MR. DREEBEN: So, Justice Kagan, what the        crime was here was the Governor accepting things of         value in return for being influenced and taking        "official actions" to legitimize, promote, and secure       research studies for Anatabloc and Star's products.       That's at Supplemental JA .                 It then alleges that he would do this as         opportunities arose in the course of his official        actions. And because he's the Governor and he has a           tremendous amount of influence throughout the      government, he appoints all the board of visitors of VCU          and UVA. He sets the budget. They know that he's an             important guy. He has lots of opportunities to do this           in different ways over time.                 And if you look at the pattern of what he          did, directing people to meet with Star's       representatives, arranging events at the mansion in       which Star could bring together its chosen guest list,         the doctors who it wanted to influence with the Star          people who were trying to influence it, the Governor is          taking every step he can do short of saying to UVA, do            the studies, which his chief counsel told him would be          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review inappropriate and wasn't going to do.                  So I ­­ I think that if you look at the             indictment the way that it's actually structured, it        talks about a person who, as opportunities arose, was          going to engage in "official acts." This is a theory of             corruption that Justice Sotomayor's opinion in Ganim in        the Second Circuit validated, and it was cited in         Skilling as a perfectly valid theory of corruption.                     And, therefore, the individual "official     acts" really form a composite window into Petitioner's         mind. Did he intend to allow his official conduct to be            controlled by the things of value that he received? And           taking them all together, even if the Court has trouble          with any individual one, they allowed a rational jury to           inference that, indeed, he did.                 And the only way that Petitioner could win,        if you agree with me on the sufficiency issue, is if you            conclude that jury instructions must exempt certain       types of official actions, like directing your Secretary        of Health to take a meeting, which is a very kind of              significant event in the life of a cabinet member and a            governor, or hosting an event at the mansion, can't         possibly count, because it somehow should be viewed as         social, when, in fact, what the Governor is doing is          allowing his benefactor to get all the people in the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review room who he wants to influence to do the studies.                      So in my view, there was nothing wrong ­­ if          I can complete the sentence ­­ in the way that the           indictment structured the crime in this case. The         "official acts" were exemplary. They were proved, and         the jury could properly find them.                  Thank you.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Francisco, five minutes remaining.              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF NOEL J. FRANCISCO                       ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER                Justice. MR. FRANCISCO: Thank you, Mr. Chief                     I have three basic points I would like to         make.             First, I'd like to start out with the        government's argument that a lot of the problems with          its theory are solved by the quid pro quo requirement.          Well, in fact, the gratuity statute, the Federal        gratuity statute, has the exact same "official act"        requirement, but no quid pro quo requirement at all.                     So what that means is that if you take         somebody to a fancy lunch with a ­­ I can't remember the               name of the bottle of wine you mentioned, Justice         Breyer, but if you took them to that fancy lunch to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review thank them for referring you to a meeting with a           mid­level staffer, even if there was no suggestion at         all that you were going to do anything other than call           that staffer and say, hey, can you take a meeting with            this guy, hear him out, and exercise your independent         judgment, that would be a violation of the Federal          gratuity statute.               And, indeed, under the government's broad     theory that anything within the range of official duties         counts, that means that if you took the person out to           that lunch as thanks for giving you a tour of the            Capitol Building, you would likewise have violated the        Federal gratuity statute, because there, there is no        quid pro quo requirement at all.                              Point two, Justice Breyer ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There is a difference        between someone saying, thank you for a decision you          made independent of the gift ­­ that's the Sun Growers          case ­­ and someone buying you an expensive lunch and          saying, I'm paying for this lunch, but make sure I get a             tour. You don't see the difference?                   MR. FRANCISCO: Not under the Federal       gratuity statute, Your Honor, because the Federal       gratuity statute is meant to prohibit thanking somebody        for giving you an "official act." And so if an           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review "official act" is, in fact, a tour of the Capitol           Building or a meeting with a staffer, then you have, in             fact, violated the Federal gratuity statute when you        take them to lunch as a thanks for that particular act.                          Second point, Justice Breyer, in trying to     figure out the right verbal formulation, the first point         I'd like to make is, if we can't figure out a proper             verbal formulation, then I think there are some ver          serious vagueness problems with the statute ­­                                          JUSTICE BREYER: It's Birdsall.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: It's Birdsall. Look, I        can ­­ I've read the Brown Commission Report. I've read           the Model Penal Code. I've read all these efforts to           get language. And I've looked at the present statute.          And I think I can limit that because the statute,            itself, seems to cover things like voting and contracts,         et cetera. But it's also true that a person who tries             to influence those things has committed bribery. I         think that's correct.                           MR. FRANCISCO: And ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Now, my problem is with        Birdsall and how do we write those words so that they do            catch people who are doing this dishonest thing without,         as I've said five times, allowing the government the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review freedom to go and do these ridiculous cases.                    MR. FRANCISCO: And ­­ and I think the D.C.           Circuit's en banc decision ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Not saying this is a        ridiculous one, by the way.                 MR. FRANCISCO: Understood, Your Honor. I        think that the right answer, you start out with the D.C.           Circuit's decision in Valdes. You look at that listing          of words ­­                          JUSTICE BREYER: Uh­huh.    MR. FRANCISCO: ­­ question, matter, suit,       cause proceeding. And those are actual decisions that         the government makes, the government as a whole, as a           sovereign. And then you say, are you making a decision            on that, if you're the final decisionmaker, or if you're          not the final decisionmaker, but because of your        official power, you have the ­­ the ability and the          authority to influence other decision­makers, then      you're ­­ are you doing that? Here are two          fundamental ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: What do you say to        Mr. Dreeben's argument that if we read this statute as          you are urging, then every government official can say,         you want to have a meeting? Pay me a thousand dollars.              The corruption that's inherent in the position that says         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it's okay to facilitate a meeting, it's okay to say,           I'll do it for you if you pay me a thousand dollars.             That's your view, that that would be okay?                    MR. FRANCISCO: Your Honor, and, frankly,       this was leading to my third point, which is, if there           is absolutely no way that ­­ if there's no indicia that           you're actually trying to influence the outcome, and it         really is just a meeting, yes. But that reflects the            fact that these broad and vague statutes are not         comprehensive codes of ethical conduct. There are lots         of other statutes that would prohibit precisely what you         are suggesting, Justice O'Connor, and you don't have to         interpret ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: That hasn't happened in       quite some time.               (Laughter.)             MR. FRANCISCO: Justice Ginsburg. I am         very, very, very sorry.                (Laughter.)             MR. FRANCISCO: Justice Ginsburg, my      apologies.             There are lots of other statutes that would        prohibit that precise conduct, and you don't need to         take statutes like the Hobbs Act and honest­services        statute. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what would ­­      Mr. Francisco, just take Mr. Dreeben's own example,        which is the example of somebody ­­ he's running a          business, and he's taking $, at a pop every time he            arranges a meeting with the criminal division for         somebody.             MR. FRANCISCO: Sure. There is a statute          that prohibits supplementing your public salary with       private money. So if you're essentially taking outside         money for the performance of your official duties,        that's illegal. That was discussed in the Sun­Diamond         case.             There is another statute that ­­ that       prohibits you from doing any ­­ taking anything from         anybody whose interests could be substantially affected       by the performance or nonperformance of your duties. So          that's another one. It would prohibit ­­ that would          prohibit it.              There is another provision of this bribery       statute that prohibits you from taking any action, not         just "official action" but any action in violation of         your official duties. So I think that might ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why aren't they any less        vague?             MR. FRANCISCO: Excuse me?     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why aren't they any less        vague? And what you're saying is that holding a          meeting, taking a phone call, having a party is not            illegal, that that is something that you're entitled to         do. So why would all those statutes be any less ­­                       MR. FRANCISCO: They may well be in certain         circumstances, but I think that the ones that are simply           saying ­­ for example, the civil service statutes that         simply say, you can't take anything from anybody who is          a covered person. That's not vague. It just says that            you can't take anything from anybody who is in your job.                       Most Federal government officials are very      familiar with that. That's why you really just don't          take gifts from anyone. The problem here is that we had            a State regime that was much less stringent than the          Federal regime, and the government wanted to use the         open­ended Hobbs Act and honest­services statute to fill        that gap in what they perceived is the State law.                        I would respectfully submit that that is an       inappropriate use of Federal power.                 Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Dreeben, could I invite you to return to          the lectern? Our records reflect that this was your          one­hundredth oral argument before the Court. You are         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the second person to reach that rare milestone this         century.               I distinctly recall your first argument in      January of . Throughout your career, you have         consistently advocated positions on behalf of the       United States in an exemplary manner.                  On behalf of the Court, I extend to you our           appreciation for the many years of advocacy and        dedicated service during your tenure in the Solicitor        General's Office and as an officer of this Court.                     We look forward to hearing from you many        more times. Thank you.                 The case is submitted.                MR. DREEBEN: Thank you.                 (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : ability : : able : above­entitled : : absence : absolutely : : : :, : : : accept : accepted : accepting : : access : : : : : : : :, : act : : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, :,,, : : : : :, : : act.' : action :, :,, :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, :, : :, : action' : actions : :, : activity : acts : :, :,, :, : : : : : :, : actual :, : : : addressed : administering : administration : advance : : advocacy : advocated : afternoon :, : : : : agency : : ago : agree :, : : :, : :, : : : : : agreement : : :, ahead : Alito : : : :, : :,, : Alito's : alleged : alleges : allow : allowed : : : allowing : :, : : Amendment :,, American : amicus : amount : : amounts : Anatabloc : answer : : : :,, : answers : ante : : antitrust : : anybody : : :, anymore : anyway : apologies : appeal : : appeals : appeals' : APPEARAN... : agreed :, : appendix : :, : : :,, : : applicable : apply : appoints : appreciate : : : appreciation : appropriate : :, April : arbiter : arbitrary : argue : :, argued : : argues : argument : :,, :, : : : :,, :,, : : : :, : : : arguments : arose : : arrange : arrangement :, arranges : arranging : : : : articulate : asked : : : : : : asking : : asks : assert : asserts : assessing : assistant : assume : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company assuming : attempt : : :, : :, : : : : : attending : authority : :,, : avoid : award : : B B :, back : : : : : : : : : : bad : banc : baseball : based : : basic :, : : basically : : : basis : : : beer : beginning : : : behalf :, :,, : : : : : : :, behaving : : behavior : : : : behind­the­sc... : Official ­ Subject to Final Review believe : benefactor :, : benefactor's :,,, : : :,,, :, calling : : : calls : : : : : : campaign : Breyer's : benefactors : : : : : best : : bribe : : :,, :, : bribed : : :, bribery : : :,,, : : : : : : : :, campaigns : : : better : beyond : :, : : big : biggest : billion­dollar : Birdsall : : : : :, : bit : : board : books : bottle : : : bottom : Branch : branches : brand­new : Breyer : brief : : :, : : bring : broad : : : : brought : Brown : : Buckley : : budget : Building : : buy : : bully : Bush :, business : :, : : : : :, :,, :,,,, : :, :, : :,, : buying : : :, : : : :, C :,,, C : : : : cabinet : :, : cajole : :, : call : : :,, : : :, : : : :,,, : :, called : :, : : cited : : citizens : : :, : : : : : civil : classroom : : clean : cleaning : clear : : : : : : clearly : clemency : client : clinical : :, Clinton : close : : : Code : codes : : coincidence : college : combat : come : : : : categorical : cause : :, : caution : CEG : centuries : century : CEO :, certain : : : : : : certainly : : :, :, cetera : candidate : candidates : capacity : Capitol : : charged : charges : : : : chargeable : : change : : : changed : charge : card : career : carve : carve­out : carved : carving : case :,, :, : : :,, :, : :, :, : : :,,, Chateau : :, : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : chief :, : coming : comes : : : : : : : : : :,, :, :, :,,, commission :, : :,, : :, commission­f... : : : :, :, commit : committed : :, : : : : cases : : chosen : Circuit : Circuit's :, circumstances : : casts : catch : : committees : committing Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : common : : : : company : : complained : complete : : completely : : : : : complicated : consistently : : conspiracy : : constituent : :, : : : constituents : constitutes : : : : construed : composite : comprehensive :, contact : : : con : concede : : : contacting : : continues : continuously : : concept : concern : concerned : contract : concerns : conclude : : : : : contracting : concluded : : conclusion : concurrence : conduct : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, confirms : Congress : congressperson : connection : cons : considerably : : contractor : contracts : contribution : : contributions : : :,, : :, : : : contributors : control : controlled : : controversy : : convict : : : :, : convinced : convinces : core : corporate : correct : : : : :,, : correctly : : corrupt :, corruption : : : : :, : : : counsel :, :,, : : : : count : country : counts : : course : : : : : : court :, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : : : :, Court's : : courts : : cover : covered : : : create : : created : credibility : credits :, : crime : : : :, : : : : : criminal : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : decision­maker : decision­make... : : decision­maki... : criminalize : criminally : decisionmaker : :, cripple : critical :, :, : : : : : : : critically : crooks : cross : : : crossed : : : : crosses : cure : DD :D.C :,, :, dangerous :day : : :, : decide :decided ::decision :, : :, :,, : : : :, :, : :,,, decisions : : : dedicated : defendants : deferred : defining : definition : : : : : :, : : delineated : democracy : demonstrated : denial : denied :, Department : : : : depends : Deputy : describe : : : determined : dietary : difference :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review easy : economy : effect : essentially : : : : established : : effort : efforts : either : :, ethical :, et : : : : : : : elected : : : Election : element : elements : : : : embarrassing : Evans : : events : :, : eventually : Everybody : everyday : evicted : event : :, : :, exist : : employee : employees : eviction : en : evidence : : : enacted : :,, encompasses :, : : :, extremely : encourage : : : exempt : : : exercise : :, : : : : : : : : exercising : expensive : : experience : expert : explain : explained : expressed : extend : extortion : extraordinary : :, : FF :facilitate :fact : : : :: :: :, :facts : : : :: :: :factual :faculties ::fail :fall :fallback :falls :familiar :different : : : : : : differently :, : : difficult : : : : difficulty : : direct : : : : documents : doing : : : : : dollars : : : donors : door : : doubt : : : : : doubts : dozens : draw : drawing : : : : : direction : directly : disagree : disclose : disclosed : discretion : discussed : directed : directing : Dreeben : : :,, : :, emerge : :, : : :, :,, :,, : :, : :,, :,,, : : : :, : :, :,,, :, : :, : : : :,, :,, :, : : : disputes : disregard : dissented : dissenting : distinctly : distinguish discussing : discussion : dishonest : : : : : Dreeben's : : : :, : engage : :, : : engaged : : : encouraged : district :, : : : : division : : : : : doctors : document : duties : : : : : enlightenment engaging : example : : : : : :, : enormous : examples : entirely : :, : entitled : : : : :, : exchange : exclude : entity : exclusive : equation : Excuse : erroneous : executive : :, : : E E : :, ESQ :, : executives : exemplary : :, Alderson Reporting Company evidenced : evidentiary : evil :,, exact : exactly : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : frankly : freedom : friendly : friends : fulfill : fully :, fund : fundamental : : : : : funding : further : : : : : G : : : : flesh : fly : focus : follow : : form : : : formal : former :, :,, formulation : : : : forth : : : : G : gain : gaining :, Ganim : gap : gather : general : : : : forward : fourth : frame : Francisco : :, :,, : :,, :, :,, :, :, General's : :, : :, : : : : : : :, :,,, : :, :,,, gifts : : :,,, :,, : Ginsburg : : : : :, : :, :, : : :,,, : :,, give : : :,, : :,, : : : : : : given :, : : gift : : : : : : : : : :, gives : giving : : : : :, go : : : : : :, : : : : : goes : : : going : :, :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : good : : : goodness : : :, : : :,, :, government's : : :,,, : : : : : governmental : : : :,, : :, : : :, : : : governor :, :, :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, :, Governor's : : : :, governs : grant : gratitude : gratuity : : :, :, : gravamen : Great : group : government :,, : : : : : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : Growers : :, : guess :, : :, : : : : : : guest : guidance : guilty : : : : favorable : favoritism : fear : Federal : :,, :, : : : : :, :, : :,, feel :, : fellow : felony : : : :, felt : figure : : : figures : file :, filed : fill : final :, finance : find :, : : : : : :, : : : : fine : : firms :, : first : : : :, :, : : :,, : : : : fish : fishing :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review family : fancy :, far : fault : favor : : :,, : : : : fitting : five :,, generally : George :, goods : getting : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : guy : : : H H.W : hand : : happen : happened : : happens : harbor : harbors : hard : : hate : Hawaii : : he'll : Health : : healthcare : hear : : heard : : hearing : heavily : : held : help : : :, : : : honestly : honesty : Honor : : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : :,, : :, : : :, : : : : : Honor's : honorable : : hosted : hosting : :, : house :, :,, : :, HUD : hundreds : : hurt : Huvelle : : hypothetical : : : : : : : helpful : helps : hey : HHS : high­dollar : hypotheticals hinged : : : hinky : Hobbs : I : : : : : hold : holding : honest : : idea : : ignoring : ill­advised : illegal : : implications : : honest­services imply :, important : : : : : imprimatur : improperly :, inappropriate : : includes : including : incorporated : incumbent : independent : :, : : : :, Indian : indicative : :, indicia : : indictment : : : :, :, : : indisputed : individual : :, individuals : : infer : : inference : inferred : inferring : influence : :,, : :, :, :,, :, : : :, :,, : :,, :, : :,, :, : instruction : January : : : : :, :,, : : : : influenced : : influencing : : : informal : informed : ingratiation : inherent : initiate : instruct : instructable : instructed : :, : : :, : : : : : :, instructional : instructions : : : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : instructs : insufficient : intend : intent :, : : interests : : : interpret : invitations : invite :, : involve : : : involved : : : : involving : irrelevant : issue : : : : : : : : issues : : J J : :, : : JA : janitor : : janitorial : job :,,, : jobs : : Johnnie : : Joint : : Jonnie : :, :, judge : :, : : judges : judgment : : : : : : : juror : jury :, :, : :,, : :, :,,, : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review knew : knotty : know :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : knowing : : :, kinds : : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : : :,, :, : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :, L lack : Lafite : language : :,, : : : :,, : : : : : :, : :, : K Justice : : :, :, : :, : :,, : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, :,,,, : :, :, : Kagan : : :, : :,,, : : : :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, :, : : : : :, :,,, : : :,,, :,,, :,,, :, : :, : : :, : :,, : Kennedy : :,, :, :, :,,, :, : :, : :, :, :,, :,,, :,, :,,,, : :, : :,, key : : :,, kind : : : : :,,, :,, : : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :,, large : larger : Laughter : : : : : : : :, launch : law :, : : : : :, : : : lawful : : laws :, : : : : : : lay : leaders : leading : leave : lectern : left : legal : : Legally : legislation : legislative : legislator : legislature's :, legitimize : let's : letter : : : letters : : : : : level : life : likewise : : limit : : : : limitation : :, limitations : limited : : : limiting :, : line : :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, lines : list : :, : : listed : : look : : :,, : :, : : : : : : : looked : : : looking : : :, : lot : :, : : : : lots : : : lower : lunch : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,, : luncheon : lunches : : luxury : M majority : making : : :, : : : : : : listing : litigated : litmus : little : : manage : manner : mansion : :, : : loans : : lobbyist : lobbyist's : mantle : matter : local : : : : : : locating : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : McCormick : : McDONNELL : mens : : mentioned : : : :, Mere : :, : :, : : :,, : :, merely : mean : : message : : : : : : : : : : : : :, met : :, messages : metaphorical means : : : : : MICHAEL : : : : meant :, mid­level : Middle : milestone : milk : medical : : meet : : million : : N N :, : name : names : narrow : : narrower : : nation : national : nature : necessarily : need :, : :, : : : : : needs : nefarious : neutral : never : : : mind : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, new : nice : : : nod­nod : minutes : meeting : : misconceptions NOEL : : : : : :, : :, : misconduct : nonperforma... : :,, misunderstood : : :,, :,, : :, moment :, : :, money : : :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, Obama : objective : :, O O : : O'Connor : noted : notice : numbered : Mm­hmm : Model : : : : meetings : months : morning : moving : multimillion­d... offense : : : : : : : obviously : occurrence : member : : : : members : multiple : : : office : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, ones : open­ended : : okay : : : : : : officer : officers : official :, :,, : :,, :, : :, : :,,, one­hundredth : :, :,, :,,, :, :, : :, opens : :,, operates : : :,, opinion : :, : :, : : :, : :, opinions : : :, opportunities : :, :,, : : :, : :,, : :, order :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, ordinary : : :,, organization : :, :,,, outcome : :,, : :,, :, : : : :, : outside : overly : :, : :, : : : : : : : oral : :, : : : opportunity outset : : : : official's : officials : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : P P : page : : : : : paid : : : paragraphs Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : pardon : part : : perfectly : : : : : : : performance : : :, particular : peripheral : : : : : : particularly : : parties :,, : parts : party : : : : : : peripherally : permissible : person :, : : : : : : : : : : : personal : pattern :, : : : : : : : : :, : points : policy : polite : political : : politicians : : pool : pop : position : : products : preliminary : prohibit : prepared : prerequisite :, : : : present : : President : : :, : : : pressure : pressured : pressuring : pretty : prohibited : : prohibits : : :, : promote : prompted : proof : proper : : properly : : : : : :, prevent : : : :, : :, : : previously : price : primarily : principle :, proposed : properly­instr... : : pause : pay : : : : : pay­to­play : paying : :, : : payment : :, payor : pays : : Penal : pending : penny : : personally : persuade : : : : positions : : Petitioner :, possible : : : possibly : : : posture : pound : :, : : : : : : : : : : Petitioner's : : : : phone : : pick : : piece : people : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : perceived : : perfect : pieces : place :, plan : plant :, play : please : : : : : : precisely : precondition producers : product : :, : : point : : : : : preferential : :, :, Alderson Reporting Company : : priority : private : : : : : pros : prosecuted pro : : : : prosecutor :, : : : : :, prosecutors : :, : : :, : : : : : protection : probably : prove : : : power :, : : :,, : :, : : : powers :, : : : practice : practices : : : precise : : : problem : : :, :,, : : : : : problems : : : proceeding : : : : : proved : : :, : : provide : providing : proving : provision : : public : : : :, : : pulpit : purposes : : push : : : : R R : : : : raincoat : raised :, range : pushed : pushing : put : : : : : : :, : rare : : reference : :, : referral : : :, : : : referrals : referring : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : record : records : refer : : research :, : : researcher : researchers :,, :, : : : : : : :, role : : researchers' : reserve : reserving : respect : : : respectfully room : rule : run : running : S S : : S : safe : : safeguards : rational : rea : : reach : : read : : : : :, : : : refers : reflect : reflects : regardless : regime :, response : regulations : responses : responded : Respondent : : : : :,, reads : Reagan : real : really : : : :, : : : : : :, relies : :, : remainder : : salary : satisfied : satisfy : reject : : restaurants : saying : : : relate : : : relevance : : : relevant : :, : : : :, rests : result : return : : : : remaining : realm : reason : : remedy : reasonable : review : ridiculous : : : representatives remember : right : : remove : : : :,, Report : :, : representative : : : : :,,, : : : : : : Ring : required : require : : : says : : : : :, : : :, :, : : scale : : scales : : schedule : scheduler : : : risk :, ROBERT : : : : : requirement :, : :, : ROBERTS : : : : : : :,,, : :, secondly : scheme : Scientific's : scope : searching : second : : : : : : : : :, requirements : : recognize : recommendati... requires : Alderson Reporting Company puts : putting : Q question : : : : : : : : : : : : : questions : : quid : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : : :, : quids : quite : : :, : quo : : :, : : : :,, :, : : :, : quote : quoting : :, : reasons : rebuttal : : : recall : receipt : receive : : :, received : : : : reception : : recipe : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : set : : : sets : setting : settled : settling : shape : : sharpen : shift : short : show : : : : secretaries : secretary : :,, : : Section : : sector : secure : see : : : : : : : : :, showed : showing : : : shows :, shrink : side :, :,, :, : seeks : seen : selling : Senate : senator : : : Senator's : Senators : send : : : sides : sides' : sign : significant : sending : similar : : : sends : : simple : : : : sense : sensitive : sent : : : : sentence : separate : : : : separating : separation : :, : : serious : : : service : : simply : : :, : :, : : : : :, single : sit :,,, : sitting : situations : six : Skilling : : Smith :, : : Smith's : so­and­so : services : : social : sold :, Solicitor : : : : solve : solved : somebody : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, somewhat : :,, sorry : sort : Sotomayor : :, :, :, : : : : : : : Sotomayor's : sought : sovereign : : speak : special : specific : : specifically : speech : spread : staff : :, : : staffer :, : standard : : : :,, standards : standing­alone : : Star : : submission : Star's :, start : : started : state : : : : submit : submitted : : substantial : substantially : : : : :,, suddenly : :,, :, : sufficiency : :,,, : : : :, sufficient : : States :,, : : : statute :, : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, :,,, : : :,, : statutes : : :, :, : : step : stream : strict : strictly : stringent : structure : structured : : : studies :, : : : :, :, : study : : : : stunning : :, : : : suggest : : suggested : : suggesting : : : : suggestion : suggests : suit :, : Sun : Sun­Diamond :,, : : supplemental : : supplementing : supplements : supplies : support : : supporter : supporting : supports : suppose : : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : : temporal : tempting : tenure : terms : terrible : : test : : testified : : testimony : testing :, textual : thank :, :,, : : :, :, : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :,, : :, : :, : : :,,, :,, : : : :, : :, : : thanking : thanks : thinking : thinks : supposed : :, supposedly : Supreme :, sure : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : T T :, tailored : : take : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : : : told : : : : totally : tough : tour :, : tremendous : trial : tried :,, : U U.S.C : : Uh­huh : ultimate : : : Um­hmm : unconstitutio... : :, : : : unconstitutio... : :, tries : : trip : trouble : troubled : trout :, uncontrollable : : :, : : understand : : :,, : : : : true : : trust : try : : : : : : : : understood : : undertake :, : undertaking : unfettered : union : trying : : United :,, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : tuition : turned : two : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : type : types : universities : : university : :, : : :, :, : unlawful : unprosecuted : upheld : urge : : : : urged :, urger : urging :, : : : theory : : : :, : : thing : : takes : : talking :, :, : : : : : : : : talk : :, things : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, think : : : : : : :, : : :, : : talks : target : tax :, : : taxes : telephone : tell :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, :,, : : :,, : : :, : :, : :,, : third : : : : thought : : : : : :, : : : thousand : : : three :, :, : : thrown : thumb : : :, ticket : time : : :, : : : :, : : : times : : timing : tobacco : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review use : : :, : :, useful : UVA :, : :, we've : : weapon : votes : voting : : wouldn't : : : wrap : Wednesday : write :, :, : week :, W W : : : wait : : went : : writing : weight : writes : : V v : : vacation : vague :, want : : whichever : White :, weren't : : : wrong : : : wrote : X x :, :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, widespread : Williams : wanted : yeah : : : : :, :, : : Williams' : wants : : :, willingness : years : : : : : :,,, : willing : Z win : window : wine : : zealous : Washington : :, wasn't :,, wink­wink : : Y : : : , : : : : : : : ­ :,, : : :, vagueness : : : Valdes : valid : : validated : value : : : : variety : VCU : ver : verbal :, version : view : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : way : : viewed : vigorously : violate : violated : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : violating : violation : ways : : : we'll : : : : : : Virginia : : : : :, : virtually : visitors : vote : : winning : witnesses : word :, , : : : : : : : : words : : : : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : work : : ­ : : : : : : : : we're :, : worried : : : workable :, : : :, : worry : : : worse : : : worst : :,, worth : :, : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 