 Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO,          ET AL.,                             : :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          FRANKLIN CALIFORNIA TAX­FREE         TRUST, ET AL.,                                   Respondents.           : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  and ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MELBA ACOSTA­FEBO, ET AL.,            :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          FRANKLIN CALIFORNIA TAX­FREE         TRUST, ET AL.,                                   Respondents.           : : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review APPEARANCES: CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioners. MATTHEW D. McGILL,    ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of         Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioners                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MATTHEW D. McGILL, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                          REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   CHRISTOPHER LANDAU, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioners                          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico v.          Franklin California Tax­Free Trust and the consolidated       case.             Mr. Landau.             ORAL ARGUMENT BY CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  This case presents the question whether      Congress has stripped Puerto Rico of access to any legal          mechanism to restructure the debts of its public        utilities which provide essential services to its       citizens, like electricity and water.                 Respondents contend that Congress denied     Puerto Rico access to Chapter altogether, but left          Puerto Rico subject to Chapter 's preemption provision.        That anomalous result can't be squared with the        statute's text and structure.                Congress, in , defined the word "State"       in the Bankruptcy Code generally to include Puerto Rico,         except for the purposes of determining who may be a          debtor under Chapter . But that's just another way of           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review saying that Puerto Rico's outside the scope of        Chapter . A State's only role in the Chapter regime              is to authorize its municipalities to be debtors.                    Indeed, Chapter can't apply to Puerto Rico         in light of the amendment. That amendment         categorically precludes Puerto Rico from passing through       the gateway into Chapter , which is located in         Chapter in Section (c)().                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Landau, that's true.       Don't you run up against, with respect to the Puerto          Rico ­­ Puerto Rico's legislation, the Contract Clause,        the ­­ the bar against impairing contracts; that Puerto         Rico can't impair the lenders' contracts?                  So apart from ­­ so if there's ­­ if we're          dealing only with the Puerto Rico legislation, doesn't        that, in ­­ in requiring nonconsenting lenders to give         up or have their claims reduced, Puerto Rico is         violating the Contract Clause?                MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, the Respondents       here have certainly brought Contract Clause claims. And         if this Court decides the preemption issue in our favor,          then they would certainly be allowed to litigate those         contract claims issues on appeal ­­ excuse me ­­ on          remand.             The ­­ this Court has never addressed the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review question whether the Contract Clause applies to Puerto        Rico, which, as this Court is aware, is in a somewhat            unique position in our Federal structure. That being         said, the First Circuit has traditionally assumed that        the ­­ without deciding that the Contract Clause applies         to Puerto Rico. And again, that is an issue for remand.                        The question presently before this Court is       the antecedent question on which the courts below ruled         against us, which is to say that the ­­ Congress's          exclusion of Puerto Rico from Chapter nonetheless left          them subject to Chapter 's preemption provision.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why would Congress       preclude Puerto Rico from Chapter ? In other words,          what ­­ what is the background of this provision?                     MR. LANDAU: Sure, Your Honor. It is a          black box ­­ to answer your question directly, there is          no legislative history directly on point either way. So          either side here is going to be limited to speculation          on that score.               The one thing that we do know for sure is          that the mere exclusion of an entity from Chapter is            not typically deemed to be a representation of intent by           Congress to preclude a State law.                   And to answer your question more directly ­­       again, I am admitting this is speculation just as their           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review position is speculation ­­ one thing that Congress could         have been wanting to do is to put Puerto Rico and D.C.            in the same boat for Chapter purposes as Guam and the             Virgin Islands, the other Territories that are not even         within the definition of "State" in the Bankruptcy Code         in the first place. In other words, two somewhat          unusual things happened in ­­ when this provision was         added.             And again, to go back to your question, I         think, Mr. Chief Justice, this came about after         when the definition of "State" that had been in the          Bankruptcy Code going all the way back to fell out           of the Code. That definition broadly defined "State" to          include Territories and possessions.                In , there was an overhaul of the        Bankruptcy Code, and there was no definition of "State."         I think Congress recognized pretty quickly, as early as         . There were amendments to fix that omission of the           Bankruptcy Code. And the initial ­­ the initial fix          that was proposed by Senator DeConcini in went back          to the old definition. It says, "All Territories and          States are included" and had no exclusion. Okay, then.                      In , though, a ­­ a new definition          was ­­ that didn't go anywhere.                  In , Senators Dole, Heflin, and      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review DeConcini proposed a definition of "State" that defined         "States" to include Puerto Rico and D.C. only, but then          to exclude them from Chapter . The exclusion ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any compact       with those other Territories that precludes them from        using their Territorial power to reorganize their debts?                    MR. LANDAU: There is not, Your Honor. So          in other words, precisely because Guam, let's say, or         the Virgin Islands, by, I think, pretty basic principles          of exclusio unius, when Congress, which had long defined         "States" to include all Territories and possessions,       suddenly in this definition, , says "State" means ­­        includes Puerto Rico and D.C., I think there's really no           way to understand that other than to say that "State"          doesn't include Guam and the Virgin Islands.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I know that Guam and the         Virgin Islands have Federal courts.                 MR. LANDAU: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And they have Federal       judges. Are they subject to constitutional provisions?        Is it an open question of whether they are subject to           the Contract Clause as well? To the contract provision          limitation, I should say?                 MR. LANDAU: I think that, yes, Your Honor,         it is. In other words, I ­­ this Court has never             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review answered that question, as to whether or not they fall          more on the Federal government­like side of that, where         there's no contract laws with respect to the Federal         government, or on the State­like side of that line,         where there is a conflict ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's the open      issue that ­­              MR. LANDAU: Yes, that is ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ has to go on remand.                     MR. LANDAU: ­­ an open issue. Yes.                     So again, going back, in a sense, to the          Chief Justice's question, which I think is really the          question that everyone asks when they pick up this case:          Why would Congress have done that? And again, I think            one answer that's as plausible as any other that we've          been able to come up with is that Puerto Rico and D.C.,            at least, even though they are included in the         definition of "State," at least for Chapter purposes          are in the same boat as the other Territories, which          don't ­­ which don't fall within the scope of Chapter           and thus don't have to ­­ aren't subject to the          Chapter preemption provision.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Landau, could I ask you          to focus on the text here a little bit? Because this             gateway theory of yours, I'm not sure it matches up with           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the text very well. I mean, you could have a gateway              provision which said something like, Puerto Rico is a         State for all purposes except Chapter , or except for          any provision in Chapter , or something like that. But           Chapter ­­ but this provision, (), is written          much more specifically. It says except for the purpose          of defining who may be a debtor under Chapter . So             it's not any provision in Chapter ; it's just for the           purpose of defining who may be a debtor.                     MR. LANDAU: That is an absolutely critical       point, Your Honor, and that goes to an interesting point          of the structure of the Code. The eligibility criteria          for the various substantive provisions of the Code, be         it Chapter , Chapter , Chapter , are not located in           those substantive chapters. They are located up in         Chapter . So in other words, if Congress were to have            said Puerto Rico is not a State for purposes of           Chapter , that would actually not solve the problem at          issue here, because the authorization, the gateway       provision into Chapter , is not in Chapter . It's in            Chapter .              It's this somewhat unusual structure of the       statute that I ­­ I really think we can't emphasize            strongly enough that ­­ that to say that Puerto Rico is           outside of Chapter wouldn't have stopped Puerto Rico          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review from authorizing its municipalities under Chapter to         get into the Chapter regime, and then they're off to            the races under Chapter , because then all they have to           do ­­ all the Chapter ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Landau, I'm not sure        I understand that argument, so you're going to have to          back up a minute.                 MR. LANDAU: Okay. I'm sorry. Yeah,         because it really is an important argument.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's, I think, critical        to your point, which is, Justice Kagan asked a direct           question: Why couldn't Congress have said much more         directly, under , the term "State" includes the        District of Columbia and Puerto Rico except for        Chapter ?              MR. LANDAU: Because ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If Puerto Rico is not a         State for Chapter , then it couldn't have authorized         its municipality to file under . It would have          reached the same end, but more clearly saying that         Puerto Rico is not a State.                   MR. LANDAU: That provision that Your        Honor just referenced is not located in Chapter . It's           located in Chapter . So for Congress to say "except           for Chapter ," it actually would not have reached that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review provision.              The way to close the gateway was to say         Puerto Rico is not a State for purposes of authorizing           its municipalities to be debtors under Chapter . That          closes the door, which is not located in Chapter .          Once you close that door, then you don't reach ­­         chapter ­­ the provisions of Chapter on which they           rely and base their entire case don't come into play,          because their whole argument is based on       subsection .               is a proviso to . If you look ­­           and these now are within Chapter , as opposed to          (c)(), the gateway provision, which is not in        Chapter . If you look at Chapter ­­ excuse me ­­             Section , it says, "This chapter" ­­ i.e.,        Chapter ­­ "shall not limit or impair the power of a             State."             If a State ­­ or if a jurisdiction like           Puerto Rico is categorically barred by Congress from        authorizing its municipalities to enter into Chapter ,        then that reservation of power makes no sense. It ­­ it            has no conceivable applicability to Puerto Rico. And so          therefore, the ­­ proviso, which refers back to          "such municipality" in , doesn't work either.                   In essence, Your Honor, Respondents are      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review asking you to look at that proviso in in isolation,           as opposed to understanding how there is a decision tree           here. Basically, the statutory definition in ()        sends you to (c)(), which is in Chapter , and then           that's the gateway provision. And that says that Puerto          Rico, we know, is not a State for purposes of           authorizing its municipalities to enter into Chapter .                    Once you understand that that gateway is       categorically closed to Puerto Rico, unlike any of the         States of the union, then , which is the next step in            the decision tree, makes no sense as ­­ as it          purportedly applied to Puerto Rico, because what        says is, "This chapter shall not limit or impair the          power of a State to control its municipalities."                     JUSTICE BREYER: But then it has two other         clauses which are the key clauses.                  MR. LANDAU: That's correct, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE BREYER: And the trouble that I have          is where it says ­­ the same problem that Justice Kagan           raised. I mean, you have a statute that prohibits            importing a vegetable that isn't a fish, and we can't            read "vegetable" as "fish." I mean, it just isn't. And             what I'm having is the problem of the language.                     MR. LANDAU: No ­­ but, Your Honor ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Let ­­ let me show you.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review The term "State," just as she said it, includes the          District of ­­ of Columbia and Puerto Rico.                                MR. LANDAU: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: Where do we find that? In          the first part of Title , which has to do with           bankruptcy. So what it seems to be doing is it's the            whole Bankruptcy Code. It's . So when I see the word              "State," that includes Puerto Rico.                 And then it says, "except for the purpose of         defining who may be a debtor under Chapter ." So I go               back, I look at it, and it says ­­ one of the things, it               says, well, a State law prescribing a method of           composition of indebtedness. That is not for the         purpose of defining who is a debtor under ­­ under           Chapter . So what am I supposed to do about that?                         MR. LANDAU: Again, Your Honor, if you look         at this as the decision tree, you're already looking         down here at the third ­­ at the third ­­                     JUSTICE BREYER: What the first part of the         tree says is, State, nothing we say really stops you          from controlling your municipality, except in one       important respect.              MR. LANDAU: Right.                JUSTICE BREYER: And the important respect       is that you cannot have your own bankruptcy law.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. LANDAU: But logically, that part        that you were referring to ­­                                         JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah.    MR. LANDAU: ­­ doesn't make any sense.        JUSTICE BREYER: But I read it as a decision            tree. What am I supposed to say?                     MR. LANDAU: Okay. So the decision tree         starts, as you ­­ as you recognize, with (), the          definitions. It says Puerto Rico is not a State for            purposes of determining who may be a debtor under          Chapter . That sends us to Chapter , to (c)().           That provision, (c)(), says that an entity must ­­        in order to get into Chapter , you must have that           authorization from a State.                 So we know that Puerto Rico is categorically        precluded from authorizing its municipalities to enter       into Chapter .               JUSTICE BREYER: I know that.                   MR. LANDAU: Okay. So that ­­ that's the          second step in the tree.                 JUSTICE BREYER: They can't be a debtor.                     MR. LANDAU: Okay. And so then we get to           the third step, which I think is exactly what Your Honor            is asking. The third step in that decision tree says           this chapter, i.e., Chapter , does not limit or impair          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the power of a State to control. So the question right             there, I think, Your Honor, is what you put your finger            on, which is to say: Does that make any sense at all,             to think that in this provision, when Congress is         talking about "State," this chapter doesn't limit the        part of the State, that Congress would have intended         that to apply to a jurisdiction that Congress has not ­­           has categorically precluded from even authorizing its       municipalities.             That's the key question, in other words.       And, Your Honor, it's a very big deal to assume that            Congress categorically precluded Puerto Rico from access       to anything.              JUSTICE BREYER: So ­­ so then where ­­        where ­­ where in the Code, except for this provision ­­          are there dozens of places? ? A thousand? ­­ where             the word "State" is used outside of Chapter 's debtor          provisions where then it makes sense to read Puerto Rico          into it?              MR. LANDAU: There's about .                  JUSTICE BREYER: About ?                 MR. LANDAU: And in fact, if you look at the           legislation ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: And you have them in your         brief? Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               MR. LANDAU: I don't know that we have        tallied them up in our ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: No, no, but I ­­ is there           some reference? I can get them?                    MR. LANDAU: I ­­ I believe, yes, Your           Honor, they ­­ they ­­ we ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But in all those       provisions, debtor, creditor, State play active roles in        implementing the provisions of those chapters.                  MR. LANDAU: Correct.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So in all the other         places, the State is involved ­­                 MR. LANDAU: Correct.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ by ­­ inherent in the         definition of what a debtor and what a creditoror is,            the State has rights and responsibilities under those        provisions.             MR. LANDAU: Yes, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What you ­­ what I'm        understanding you to say is, Puerto Rico has been kicked          out of Chapter altogether. It doesn't even get into            the gateway.              MR. LANDAU: Exactly, Your Honor. And I         think ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And so to read it as         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review being involved as a State, the only other place that's           used is here.                           MR. LANDAU: Correct.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In , you have to be         part of it in some way.                  MR. LANDAU: That's exactly right, Your       Honor. It's nonsensical to think that Congress having         categorically shut the door on Puerto Rico, that ­­ that          then it would mean for this to apply, Your Honor.          Again, the only thing a State does under this entire           Chapter regime, which is not located exclusively in          Chapter , but also in that eligibility provision up in          Chapter in (c)(), then you just ­­ the question           then arises ­­ and, Justice Breyer, if this actually did          something, this would be a different case. But all this            says, again, is this chapter does not limit or impair          the power of a State to control.                    When you're talking about a jurisdiction       like Puerto Rico that is not allowed to be authorizing          its municipalities, then there's nothing to be preserved        here.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Landau, this is       not very different from what we did in ­­ last year in            Utility Air Regulatory Group v. the EPA. We had one           general definition of a statutory term, and then we          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review looked at it and its play within other sections, and we           said can't be given the same meaning, because the         definition applies to one generalized feature of the        Act, and the use here is in a more specialized way.                        that's ­­             MR. LANDAU: Absolutely, Your Honor. And        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you didn't cite       Utility Air. Is there a reason you didn't?                      MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor, I think we          cited King v. Burwell, and there ­­ there are many cases           for the proposition that you can't just look at one          isolated provision in context and not understand ­­       excuse me, one isolated provision and not understand how         that fits into the context.                 Again, I think Respondents are asking you to         just pick up this case, read () and say, here it is.                        JUSTICE BREYER: All I have to do is to get            myself to do the following thing: I could dress it up             so people couldn't understand it. But what I would be            doing is saying the following: It says a State law, and             it says the chapter does not limit or impair the power           of a State, okay, et cetera, et cetera.                     MR. LANDAU: Right.                JUSTICE BREYER: Now, all I have to say is           that word "State" right there does not include Puerto         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Rico.                         MR. LANDAU: Because Puerto ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: My only problem with       writing those words is somebody is going to direct me to           the provision a little bit later where it says the word            "State" in Title , of which this is part, means Puerto           Rico. Okay?               MR. LANDAU: Well, Your Honor ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that ­­ that's hard        for me to do because of that language.                    MR. LANDAU: But, Your Honor, I would ­­         Your Honor has always been so sensitive to the         contextual approach to ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: That may be, but I can't          say that an "airplane" means a horse.                    (Laughter.)             MR. LANDAU: And I totally ­­ no, but, Your           Honor, if ­­ if somebody is saying this doesn't apply to           driving, and then this one is about a ­­ a subsequent             provision is about a right turn on red regulation, you'd           say, no, but driving has been taken completely out of          the statute.              In other words, you are in a position ­­ by           the time you get to ­­ this is kind of a truism. This               is basically a federal ­­ , when I'm saying "this,"           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is an important federalism limitation on Chapter .        It's actually stated more descriptively than anything       else.             It says, "This chapter does not limit or        impair the power of a State." If we know by definition             that Congress has shut the door, there is no door for           Puerto Rico and no key for Puerto Rico. Then to ­­ to             come along and say, well, it says "State" here, then I           have to apply the power of State. I think you can ­­             the definition of "State," but I think you have to           understand that when Congress has given a definition of          "State" that ­­ that categorically closes the door in         the antecedent portion of the decision tree; you don't         even reach this sensibly.                JUSTICE KAGAN: So, Mr. Landau, I ­­ I think            I get what you're saying now, which I didn't when I            started with. You're saying they couldn't just say it's          a State, except for purposes of Chapter , because, in          fact, there's something that's outside of Chapter that          determines who gets into Chapter .                  So what they did was they said it's a State,           except for purposes of this gateway, and then they         assumed that that meant that all of Chapter wouldn't           apply either. That's your basic argument.                   MR. LANDAU: Precisely, Your Honor.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: So ­­ but before ,        before this amendment, this () did apply to Puerto         Rico; wasn't that right?                correct.             MR. LANDAU: Yes, Your Honor, that is        JUSTICE KAGAN: So you're saying that the        really super significant change, which is () applies        to Puerto Rico before , and then doesn't apply after           because of this definitional move that they made         here in ().               What you have to admit is ­­ I'm not quite          sure what the ­­ the word ­­ I mean, it's a ­­ it would                be a mysterious way, it would be an extremely kind of            cryptic odd way to make such a major change.                      MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, but the major ­­        let me just ­­ I ­­ I would say ­­                       JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, it's almost like         somebody doesn't want everybody to recognize what a        major change is being made ­­                 MR. LANDAU: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ and figured out this way         that is ­­ where nobody would understand that that was          happening, including the judges who would have to decide         what this meant.               (Laughter.) Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. LANDAU: The major ­­ Your Honor, the         major changes work both ways because the major ­­ the          one point I would just compliment what Your Honor said,           which is prior to ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Please.                MR. LANDAU: ­­ of course ­­                  (Laughter.)             MR. LANDAU: ­­ Puerto Rico was within the         remedial scope of Chapter . In other words, Puerto          Rico ­­ Your Honor made the point that Puerto Rico was           within the preemption provision of Chapter , but it         also got the benefits of Chapter .                   So until , there was always complete       symmetry between those entities that Congress gave       access to Chapter but then said, but you can't have            your State provisions. So the preemption provision.        There was never any situation in which you couldn't do          either. You couldn't have any access to a legal           mechanism.             Frankly, again, both sides have     elephant­in­a­mousehole provisions. The other     elephant­in­the­mousehole provision that Your Honor just      said, our elephant­in­the­mousehole provision, is     basically the same, to say it would be a huge elephant            in a mousehole if, for the first time, Congress, by           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review simply taking Puerto Rico out of the access provision of          Chapter , nonetheless wanted to preclude Puerto Rico to         leave Puerto Rico in the preemption provision of        Chapter .              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's ­­ I        mean, that's your basic policy argument, and I'm not         sure it carries much weight. Why ­­ why would it be            irrational for Congress to say, all right, this is the          system we're going to apply to all the States, but when           it comes to Puerto Rico, if they want changes, we want           them to come to us, partly because Congress has a          different sort of relationship with Puerto Rico than it         has to all the other States?                  MR. LANDAU: Well, again, Your Honor ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why not treat it like ­­        why not treat it like every other Territory?                    MR. LANDAU: Well, exactly right. I        think ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the mouse in ­­       that's the mouse in ­­ in the hole ­­                    MR. LANDAU: It is. That ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ which is if you're        going to treat it differently, wouldn't you expect them         to say that? We're going to treat it not like a State              and not like a Territory.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. LANDAU: Absolutely. And, frankly, it        would be very anomalus, Mr. Chief Justice, in response         to yours because that would be Puerto Rico in a worse            position, let's say, than Guam and the Virgin Islands,         and it ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that's a very ­­         you came up with a very good answer, Mr. Landau, to my             question. But I wonder why it's absurd to treat the            District of Columbia and Puerto Rico different from Guam         and the ­­ the Virgin Islands. I mean, why would you             lump those two ­­ those four together?                   MR. LANDAU: Well, again, Your Honor,       Congress made this decision. One of the things that is           somewhat unusual, and I think this Court is well aware           of the ­­ some of these constitutional status issues         regarding Puerto Rico from the pending Sanchez Valle        case. I mean, the one thing that everyone in that case             agreed on is that Congress, through the Puerto Rico         Constitution, has ­­ has recognized a status that gives          Puerto Rico an incredible degree of autonomy.                   The ­­ the dispute in that case is not         whether Puerto Rico has this, you know, nearly        State­like status. It's ­­ does that come from the          people of Puerto Rico or from Congress? But everyone          agrees that Puerto Rico operates in that very unique         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review situation which is really almost the opposite extreme of         the spectrum from D.C. where D.C. has to have its laws           submitted to Congress, and they can ­­ and they can veto           it.             So, again, we don't know why Congress ­­       this goes back to the black box ­­ chose to lump these            two jurisdictions which are kind of at opposite ends of          congressional oversight. Certainly the other side came        up with a theory that the First Circuit embraced that           Congress was seeking to retain control over Puerto        Rico's municipalities here, which is a very strange         theory given that Congress has not had control over         Puerto Rico's municipalities since well before the       Puerto Rico ­­ the Commonwealth was created in .                     That's just not the structure of the Puerto        Rico government and its political relationship with the        United States.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Have you given up the        Government Development Bank's position and that of some        of the amici that the provision of () applies to          States only when a debtor is in a Chapter proceeding              because of that provision use of creditor?                   MR. LANDAU: Your Honor, we have not        advanced that argument. They make that argument. Our          position's even more fundamental, which is you don't        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review even have to reach that argument, which ­­                   argument?             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you rejecting the       MR. LANDAU: We just didn't reach it because         we don't need to get there. But we ­­ we don't reject             it.                         Thank you, Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. McGill.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MATTHEW D. McGILL                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. McGILL: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Everyone here agrees that in , Congress       withdrew from Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia         the power to put their municipalities into Chapter         bankruptcy.             Petitioners' position is that by the same       enactment, Congress impliedly gave Puerto Rico and the        District a much greater power that no State has          possessed since , the power to write its own         municipal laws.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, no State has       possessed the power to impair contract rights under the         Constitution. Nothing about the Bankruptcy Code changes        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the application of the Contract Clause. They have to go           into Chapter to impair contracts ­­                               correct?                         MR. McGILL: Justice ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ in a meaningful way,         MR. McGILL: Yes, but Justice Sotomayor ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So what        makes you think that Congress intended to let Puerto         Rico and the District of Columbia have free reign in          whatever they wanted to do?                 Wouldn't they be subject, in your      judgment ­­ I'm sure you'd be arguing they're subject to          the Contract ­­ Impairment Clause.                 MR. McGILL: And they are.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.                MR. McGILL: The Contract Clause applied       directly to Puerto Rico by dint of the Jones Act from           .             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you think Congress       intended to stop Puerto Rico and the District of         Columbia from passing emergency legislation that said       don't shut off the lights tonight; that ­­ that Congress          intended that that kind of temporary provision could        only be subject to Congress, who may be on recess, who           might be wherever it is, that it could not do that?           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review              MR. McGILL: Yes, Justice Sotomayor, because      in that was precisely the decision Congress made         when it decided to overrule this Court's decision in         Faitoute.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it decided to       overrule it by giving States the opportunity to go into          bankruptcy, and that would be a temporary state to start           with.             MR. McGILL: So ­­ so the question is, as I           understand it, Justice Sotomayor, is what was Congress        doing in ? Was it ­­ we all know that it removed             from the District and from Puerto Rico the opportunity         to put its municipalities into Chapter ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it never gave ­­                   MR. McGILL: ­­ everyone agrees ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it never gave the        Territories that. So the Territories can pass a law           that stops the lights from going out today until         Congress comes into effect, 'cause it can't do a         permanent impairment of the contract.                 MR. McGILL: Justice Sotomayor, that's not       correct, I don't believe. It's not presented here, and           nothing turns on it, but let me explain why this          argument, which shows up for the first time in the          yellow brief, I think is wrong.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Puerto Rico was ­­ was considered a State.         It itself admits it was a quote/unquote State from the           period of to when there was no definition of           "State."             Prior to , all States, Territories, and       possessions of the United States were States. After         , all States, Territories, and possessions continued       to be treated as States. And then in , Congress           enacts () which says States include the District        and Puerto Rico except for this one purpose, which is to           defining who may be a debtor under Chapter .                      That ­­ so the question is whether ­­ you         know, it doesn't say Ohio, it doesn't say "State"         includes Ohio, but clearly it does, because everyone        acknowledges old definition of State has essentially       carried through.              So I don't believe it's correct. And no          court I'm aware of has ever held that ­­ that the           district ­­ that the Virgin Islands or Guam or the          American Samoa are not States for purposes of ­­ of the           Bankruptcy Code.              What we have here, however, is a clear         textural provision that says Puerto Rico is a State, and           it is ­­ so is the District of Columbia, except for this            one purpose, which is defining who may be a debtor under            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Chapter .              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Doesn't the definitional      section of the Code tell you who qualifies as a debtor,            who qualifies as a creditor, who can go into what           chapter or not?                 It tells you if you're this kind of      creditor, you go into that chapter. If you're that kind           of creditor, you go ­­ I'm sorry. If you're this kind            of debtor, you go to ­­ individual goes here, business          goes there, this one goes here. You have options.                      Isn't it what he describes as a gateway that          tells you where you're a part or what you're a part of?                          MR. McGILL: Today that's true, but it        wasn't true when Chapter was first enacted in and            .             In , the gateway provision was      Section ­­ I mean Section of the ' Act, which             was then known as Chapter X or Chapter , and it was             Section (a) again in . So it was the          recodification of the Bankruptcy Code in that moved         all of the gateway requirements to Section . And no           one has ever contended that that was intended to be a           substantive change.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Oh, but it is, because        it tells you what kind of debtors can make use of what            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review kind of provision.               mean ­­             MR. McGILL: But that was always true. I          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It is always. That's        what the purpose of a gateway is.                    MR. McGILL: But ­­ no, no, but it was true           when it was part of Chapter ­­ old Chapter X and old               Chapter IX. It was true then that the gateway ­­ the            gateway provisions defined who may be a debtor.                     It ­­ it excludes today, for instance,       solvent municipalities, right? Solvent municipalities      may not invoke Chapter . That is a gateway           requirement. And it used to be that ­­ that the            Act provided a laundry list of certain types of          municipalities that were eligible for Chapter . It         wasn't every municipality under the sun. It was a ­­ a             laundry list of, you know, six or seven categories.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if the ­­ if the         definitional section defines "State" to include Puerto       Rico, and you say even though it's not a part of Chapter              by definition in , it still remains a State for            purposes of this reservation of State powers?                   Why aren't we using "creditor" in as        it's used in the Bankruptcy Code?                  MR. McGILL: As ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you're going to be        literal as to "State," why aren't you literal as to          "creditor"?             MR. McGILL: As the Commonwealth, I think,         here has acknowledged, it ­­ it has abandoned that         argument. And it's not clear to me that even the GDB            believes in it, because if you look at page ,          footnote of their reply brief, they acknowledge that          Puerto Rico's own bankruptcy laws were preempted, at        least until , which could be true only if you          adopted our version or the plain meaning version of         "creditor."             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But let's go back. If         you're going to take the literal meaning of "State"         definitionally, why aren't you taking the literal       meaning of "creditor"?               MR. McGILL: Because we are applying a        principle that this Court laid down in Lawson and         unanimous reaffirmed in northwest Austin that when a        statutory definition mechanically applied will     annihilate a major purpose of the statute, then you          don't apply it. Or when it leads to absurd results, you            don't apply it.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how do I read into          the statute?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. McGILL: It would annihilate the major        purpose of the Act, which was to ­­ which was to            prevent States from enacting their own bankruptcy laws.        And that is your ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you actually can't       do that, meaning you can't do that according to our          prior precedent. It is inherent in State sovereignty         that States have to have some method, their own method,          of controlling their municipalities.                You can have uniform bankruptcy laws, but if        you don't make them available to a municipality because          the State hasn't approved it, can you rob a State under            State sovereignty of all power to regulate its        municipality and to save it from ­­ from bankruptcy?                     MR. McGILL: Yes. I mean, that's always          been true. It was true in ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Actually, so why do so        many major commentators, bankruptcy writers, district      and circuit courts, the Sixth Circuit included, have        said that that's impossible; that you can't rob a State           of the power to regulate its municipalities if you're         offering it nothing in return?                 MR. McGILL: In , the preemptive scope        of what is now Section () embraced any municipality.         It barred States from enacting ­­ it's essentially the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review same language that exists today. Any ­­ it barred          States from binding, nonconsenting creditors to a       composition if they ­­ of holders of municipal debt.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And then we said in        Faitoute that you can't force States ­­                  MR. McGILL: This was ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ to go into       bankruptcy.             MR. McGILL: I believe that was Ashton.         And ­­ and ­­ and it was ­­ and of course, Deacon            subsequently readdresses Ashton, and ­­ and at least        narrows Ashton. But the Tenth Amendment problem that         was ­­ was raised in Ashton was that States ­­ that the            Federal government was giving municipalities too much       reign to go into bankruptcy themselves without the        supervision of their States. The ­­ the problem raised          in the Ropico decision, which is a ­year­old district          court decision from the Southern District of New York,         is a very different problem, which is that the Federal           government is exercising too much power ­­ too much         bankruptcy power over municipalities.                And I would submit that simply, you know, to          the extent Ropico was concerned about that ­­ and it's          not a holding; it's just a straight statement at the            fifteenth page of the opinion ­­ it's wrong.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. McGill ­­     MR. McGILL: Sturges v. Crowninshield said                               that ­­ that Congress's power under the Bankruptcy Code         is unlimited and supreme.                I'm sorry.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I talk to you about          Mr. Landau's textual argument? Because I came in here           thinking that your best argument is straight on the         text. It's not about purpose, because I don't know what            Congress's purpose here was; it's not on policy. It's          just straight on the text. But I now have a better              understanding of Mr. Landau's understanding of the text,        and so I just want to engage you on that, which is:             Look, Congress couldn't have just said "except for        purposes of Chapter " because of this flukey thing,         which is that the gateway provision is outside of         Chapter . So if it had just said "except for purposes            of Chapter ," somebody could have said, oh, well, look,          I am entitled to be a debtor under Chapter , whether or             not I'm thought of as a State. And so they did it this               other way, which said ­­ which attacked the gateway         provision particularly. And then in doing that, they         assumed that all of Chapter would follow in its wake.                        Once you're not eligible for Chapter , none        of the provisions of Chapter apply to you. That's            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review basically Mr. Landau's provision ­­ argument. So tell         me why that's wrong.                MR. McGILL: It's ­­ it starts ­­ I think           the fundamental fallacy of the argument is that the         gateway requirement somehow excludes you from the scope        of Chapter entirely. And we know that's wrong,           because if PREPA filed for Chapter bankruptcy today,          it's Section (c) of the Code, a part of Chapter ,            that would provide for the dismissal of that petition.         Chapter applies to all persons, all people under the           compass of Federal law.                So I think that that's the fundamental        fallacy. Chapter does apply. The textual argument ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: But it doesn't have to be         just that. He has some ­­ an additional string to the            bow; that is, what he wants us to do is to take the             words "a State" ­­ "this chapter does not limit or          impair the power of a State," which is in . Now, he              wants us to read that as if there were then a           parentheses, "a State that is a debtor under Chapter ."           You see? And that a State ­­ what States? The States              that can be debtors under Chapter .                   Now, that's how he wants us to read it, and          that means that that provision does not apply to Puerto          Rico or D.C. But it isn't just that no part of            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Chapter could apply to them. It is that if you look              at the first sentence of , is that what it says is            that those States that are referred to in that first          sentence maintain all the power to control by        legislation or otherwise a municipality.                  And he says, what could that apply to?        Those entities that are not in Chapter obviously have           all the powers they normally had, but the ones that are           in Chapter might not. And so what this Section is              addressed to are those States that are in Chapter ,          because there's no need to apply that first sentence to          anyone else, and therefore it doesn't apply to Puerto         Rico, that first sentence. But since the key sentences,          one and two, are subparts of the first sentence, they          don't apply, either.                 I think that's the whole argument. And it        isn't requiring us to really play that much ­­ you don't           play games with the words. All you do is say, this is             one of those parts of Chapter ­­ not all, but one of              those parts ­­ that even though it doesn't use the word           "debtor" under Chapter , applies only to debtors under         Chapter . I think that's the argument I got, and is              that ­­ that's, I think, probably consistent with what          Justice Kagan was saying.                MR. McGILL: I have two ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: You got it? Do you see          what I'm saying?                                       MR. McGILL: Two ­­ two responses.       JUSTICE BREYER: Good. All right.       MR. McGILL: The first is the ­­ the textual          response that you yourself, Justice Breyer, elaborated,       that Congress spoke with remarkable precision here in        (). It says you're not a State for one purpose            only, which is defining who may be a debtor under           Chapter , and that's an unmistakable textual reference        to Section . And so that tells you that Puerto Rico            is a State for every other purpose under the Bankruptcy           Code, because that's what Section says.                   JUSTICE BREYER: But not ­­ no. In ­­ my           guess is, if we go through Chapter , and the parts that            will ­­ do apply to debtors under Chapter ­­                      MR. McGILL: But States are not debtors.                    JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ whoa, whoa, whoa ­­       municipalities. State municipalities.                If we go through Chapter and look at those           portions of Chapter that do apply to municipalities          who are there legitimately as debtors, we will find some          sentences that clearly apply only to those who are in          there as debtors and clearly do not apply to anyone else           in the world. And he is saying this is one of those.             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. McGILL: So that misapprehends what       Section does. What Section is, is at the time            Congress is entering the field of municipal debt        adjustment in , Section is enacted to say that          Congress is not also entering the field of municipal         reorganization, reorganization that could occur under      Chapter . This was a very important point in both the              and the debates. That adjustment was         something that was seen as within Congress's purview.        Reorganization of municipalities was seen as within the        States' purview.              So Section says we are not entering the         field of reorganization when we're entering the field of         debt adjustment. And then Faitoute misreads       Section () ­­ , rather. At least in the judgment           of the subsequent Congress, Faitoute misread Section        to permit conflicting municipal bankruptcy laws.                  And so Congress enacts Section (). This        is now nine years later. And it enacts it for a very              different purpose than Section was enacted. It         enacts a separate provision specifically to overrule        this Court's decision in Faitoute, and to make clear         that only under a Federal law should holders of          municipal bonds, which are widely held, be compelled to         accept a restructured debt.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. McGill, why would       Congress put Puerto Rico in this never­never land? That          is, it can't use Chapter , and it can't use a Puerto             Rican substitute for Chapter . It's locked out by the           provision on which you are relying, so it has to take           the bitter, but it doesn't get any benefit at all.                      Why in the world ­­ what explains Congress        wanting to put Puerto Rico in this anomalous position of          not being able to restructure its debt?                   MR. McGILL: There are a few         reasons, I  think. And as Mr. Landau has said, there          is no  legislative history that sets this forth       in detail, but   let me suggest a few reasons why Congress          might have  done what it did.                First, Congress has for a long time        micromanaged Puerto Rico's debt. In the Jones Act, it          specifically limited the amount of debt Puerto Rico        could take on. That actually was kept and retained          through the Public Law . And it was only in            that Congress ended its own restriction of Puerto Rico's         debt on the condition that the Puerto Rico ­­ Puerto          Rico include that restriction in its own constitution.        So there's a long history of Congress intervening on          Puerto Rico debt issues.                Second, Puerto Rico debt is uniquely triple       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review tax exempt. Congress has essentially told the nation         that ­­ and encouraged the nation all over to buy this           debt. So there is a ­­ this is ­­ this debt, even more               so than the average municipal bond, is widely disbursed         throughout the nation.                 I think the ­­ third reason is that by         Puerto Rico and D.C. are the two most indebted         Territories by a lot. Puerto Rico already had          $ billion of debt. The District owed . billion, and           it was about to hit the general obligation bond market          for the first time in its history.                   So the question I ­­ I ask is, how would            Congress, at that moment in time, actually think that         this was the right time to abandon a ­year­old policy           of uniformity and preemption in the field of municipal         bankruptcy, and ­­ and for the first time since ,          allow the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico to write          their own municipal­bankruptcy laws that may or may not         treat their nationwide creditors fairly, that may or may         not result in ­­ in decrees that are enforceable         nationwide?             There's no good reason or plausible reason       to think that Congress actually intended that result.        And under this Court's cases in Timbers of Inwood and          Cohen v. de la Cruz, when there is no clear indication           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in the statutory text, no indication in the legislative         history ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. ­­ Mr. McGill, if         I could go back to Justice Breyer's question, because         Justice Breyer gave you a view of the way to read this             text, which is built on Mr. Landau's view, and said,          what's wrong with that? And you ­­ you go with the            gateway provision, and then even if not all of Chapter           follows in its wake, at least all the provisions in          Chapter that refer to debtors follow in its wake.                       And Justice Breyer said, what's wrong with       that, as a way to read this text. And then you answered              him, I think this is fair to say, by giving a ­­ a story                 about what Congress meant to do in () in the wake of            Faitoute.             But, you know, both of you have stories        about this, and it's not ­­ just not clear which of you            is right. And I guess what I most want to think about               is this text. Why isn't Justice Breyer's, Mr. Landau's          view of the text just as good, if not better, than           yours? And I didn't come in here thinking that, but now             I kind of am thinking that.                  So talk to me about the text, why that's not          just as good a view of the text?                     MR. McGILL: Because () is an       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review unmistakable textual reference to (c). And (c) is         telling us ­­ it's just ­­ it ­­ it says it's only for             this one purpose, except for the purpose of defining who          may be a debtor under Chapter ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: But that's ­­ that's a        purpose that tells you whether you're now in Chapter          as a debtor.                            MR. McGILL: But ­­ but ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: So what Mr. Landau is saying         is once you say you're ­­ you're ­­ you're not a State,             when it comes to who may be a debtor under Chapter ,             that it's a pretty natural thing to say, and that means            that any provisions about being a debtor under Chapter           don't apply to you.                MR. McGILL: Let's be clear that States        cannot be debtors, right? So it ­­ under Chapter . So             it's ­­ it's not that the State ­­ that the definition           of "State" can't possibly track the definition of        "debtor." It's the municipality that has to track the          definition of "debtor."               And ­plus States categorically exclude     their municipalities from seeking Chapter relief. So          they ­­ they are in the same boat, those municipalities,          as San Juan. There is no textual distinction to be           drawn from those municipalities under (c)().      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review De Moines is, just as much ­­ just as much as San Juan,             lacks the authorization understate law to file a        Chapter petition.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that's up to the        State. It's up to the State to make that decision.           Puerto Rico isn't given that option.                  MR. McGILL: Well, that ­­ that is, of         course, true. It is an act of Congress that does that,            but ­­ but there are numerous exclusions that are solely          by dint of federal law. In fact, the rest of (c) are             exclusions that have been enacted by Congress of        municipalities from Chapter entirely.                  JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you're        saying is ­­ I take it you're ­­ that you say ­­ you              say ­­ you're just used to this. So you don't           understand that I'm not used to it. And the ­­ the ­­            you ­­ you go look at . There ­­ there are three             separate sentences. And you're saying that the ­­ the          first sentence and second and third are really separate         things. That number and , which are numbered and              , have a big objective.                  If I read the cases you cite, I will say            Congress intended something very clear. They didn't        want those States who weren't in Chapter . They didn't           want those States who were not in Chapter . They           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review didn't want them to make rules for bankruptcy of         municipalities, not binding rules, anyway. That was        their purpose.              And there's just no reason to think that        when they had the specific thing before, they wanted         somehow to let Puerto Rico and District of Columbia do          it, do what the States couldn't do.                               MR. McGILL: It would have been ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: And you say, well, there is         a good reason. They said the good reason is the States            can come in to , and they can't. And you say, well,             that isn't a good enough reason.                               Is that where ­­ have I got this?         MR. McGILL: Well, it ­­ it certainly would         have been a momentous change in ­­ in the policy of            preemption that had existed uninterrupted since       that had been reaffirmed in and in . This was            battleground legislation in and . It was ­­         the House had rejected. It had moved to remove the           preemption provision. And the Senate ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Referencing that, can you       give me one more thing? Give me your best either Law            Review article, treatise, legislative history, whatever      it is, that will ­­ that will show me that, in your            view, look, these are separate things. This ­­ the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review first sentence was not meant to be just a gateway           into ­­ into and , that ­­ that it was designed to do               what you say. What do I ­­                    MR. McGILL: I would look at this Court's          cases in Iraq v. Beaty, Alaska v. United States, and          Whitridge. Whitridge is ­­ is an older opinion, but I           think it's very telling here because Whitridge is a case           that comes ­­ addresses how you read a proviso that was            enacted years after the antecedent provision. And what         Whitridge says is you look to the purpose of the proviso           and make sure that your ­­ your construction is         consistent with the purpose of the proviso.                   Iraq v. Beaty is, of course, a unanimous         decision of this Court. And Alaska v. The United States           is ­­ is another not unanimous opinion of this Court.          So I don't think it's ­­ I think it's entirely possible             to read section () as a general independent         standalone rule, and that certainly is how Congress        enacted it when it was first enacted in .                       I have elaborated already. I think        applies to every State in the sense that it demarcates          where Congress is not entering and where Congress is.         That is the role that plays in this statutory          scheme.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you believe that the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review States that don't permit their municipality to become        debtors are limited in what they can do by ? In            other words, their ­­ their municipalities are not        debtors? Their sovereign powers have been cut off?         They cannot reorganize the debt except through       Chapter ?              Then we're talking about a coercive       provision. We're saying you can't do anything about the          composition of your debt. If percent of the          creditors want to reorganize their debt with you and         those percent vultures are saying no, and a Court            would say it's not an impairment of a contract to redo            this debt because of the need, everything else that         we've said in the past, you're saying States can't do it           if ­­ if ­­ they can only do it under Chapter ?                        MR. McGILL: You have, in your hypothetical,        Justice Sotomayor, I believe, supposed that the ­­ that          the composition does not violate the contract clause.        And the question then would be one of statutory         construction whether the composition you have      hypothesized fits within the term of .                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Assume ­­ I assume it         doesn't. Assuming. You're saying intended to         preclude States, solvent States and solvent      municipalities, it ­­ it intended to stop States from         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review doing any reorganization of any debt, even if it doesn't          impair the contract clause, it can't do it until every          creditor approves, whether or not their municipality is        in Chapter or not?                  MR. McGILL: Except under Chapter . And         what Congress ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And what's        not coercive about that? What's the choice for States          that Congress is giving?                MR. McGILL: The ­­ the choice for States         for ­­ that ­­ is Chapter or nothing. And the choice              for Puerto Rico and the District is come to Congress.          And what is going on right now ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's like the Tenth       Amendment right of States to deal with their        municipalities consistent with the Constitution. Where       does that leave ­­ you can make uniform­bankruptcy laws,         but nothing about that permits you to impair the rights          of States so drastically?                MR. McGILL: Well, the contract clause, I        think, stands as an independent bar to any ­­ to any           impairment of the obligation of contracts. It was         recognized at the time of beacons that States were         powerless to act in this area. That was ­­ that comes            right out of Bekins.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Now, what's going on today with respect to        Puerto Rico and D.C. is Congress is addressing right         now, across the street, how to deal with Puerto Rico's          fiscal crisis. That's ­­ that is what's going on.          Puerto ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't there also      legislation to put Puerto Rico back in Chapter ?                                             MR. McGILL: May ­­ may I answer?         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.     MR. McGILL: Yes, there is, Justice       Ginsburg, just like in ­­ Puerto Rico is ­­ Congress is           considering a range of options for Puerto Rico,         including Chapter , just as Congress considered a range          of options for the District of Columbia during its own          financial crisis in the s, which resulted in a         financial control board rather than Chapter .                               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Landau, you have four minutes remaining.                REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER LANDAU                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                             points.             MR. LANDAU: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        Very quickly, I'd like to make three basic        First, I think we've seen an example of         selective textualism this morning. For their ­­         for Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Respondents' argument to make any sense with respect to         the various Territories, they have to say that these         other Territories, such as the Virgin Islands and Guam,         are encompassed within the definition of the word        "State."              They just can't say that when Congress,      which had long­defined "State" to include all the        possessions and Territories, in , in the very        provision that we are considering, said "State" includes        Puerto Rico and D.C. That is probably the clearest          expressio unius one can imagine. So for them to be           saying that, well, even though it said Puerto Rico and          D.C., it meant to include everything ­­ and again, Guam,          for instance, and the Virgin Islands, have also Triple A          tax­exempt bonds. So everything that is true for Puerto          Rico would be true of the Virgin Islands and ­­ and           Guam.               I guess the more fundamental point, though,      is when ­­ when you are asking them about how this ­­           their argument is, if you accept our position, then any          municipality that is not authorized to file under        Chapter is also exempt from Chapter . They're trying            to talk about municipalities. But I think, as Justice           Ginsburg made the point, no, here we're talking about         States. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Massachusetts, for instance, always has the      power to authorize its municipalities to seek Chapter         relief. The door is open for Massachusetts, and ­­ as           it was for Michigan when Michigan, on the same day,          authorized Detroit to file for bankruptcy, and Detroit        in fact filed for bankruptcy. So the States that          haven't yet authorized just maybe haven't had a crisis          that requires them to do that.                  But they are trying to say you have to         compare San Juan to Boston. Our point is, the relevant           comparison, since we're talking about the word "State,"        is you have to compare Puerto Rico to Massachusetts or          Michigan.             Unlike Massachusetts or Michigan, which have      the door ­­ excuse me ­­ the key to the doorway, to the             gateway in (c)(), Puerto Rico categorically does       not. Thus, when you arrive at ­­ and the word            "State" appears only three times in all of Chapter .          It appears twice in ­­ in Section , which is          reaffirming, saying this chapter, Chapter , does not        limit or impair the power of States to control their          municipalities.             So that makes no sense as applied to        jurisdictions like Puerto Rico that are categorically       excluded from coming through the gateway of (c)(),        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review whereas it does make sense to apply that to the          Massachusettses of the world, regardless of whether to        date they have authorized their municipalities.                  Finally, the last point I'd like to make is,         we've talked a lot about ­­ about legal principles, as           is appropriate, today. But this is also a         flesh­and­blood situation in Puerto Rico.                 Puerto Rico enacted this Recovery Act      because it is facing a crisis in providing essential          services to its citizens. It is implausible at best to           think that Congress left ­­ by taking Puerto Rico out of           Chapter , meant to ­­ and that's all we knew. It took             Puerto Rico out of Chapter . To say that that           precludes Puerto Rico from dealing in any way with the          financial crisis for its public utilities, which in        this ­­ for its public utilities, which provide basic         services like electricity and water to its people ­­        that's the question: Whether people in a village in           Puerto Rico will be able to get clean water.                     That ­­ this is something ­­ again, it's        fine to talk about the generalities of the law, but when           you're trying to think about congressional intent,       please don't lose sight of the fact ­­ of the          fundamental implausibility and the anomaly of saying,       when Congress took Puerto Rico out of Chapter , that it           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review meant to leave that Chapter preemption provision in          place, and thus leave Puerto Rico in the dire situation          that led the Commonwealth to use its police powers to          enact this Recovery Act in the first place.                    Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the   above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Review A a.m : : abandon : abandoned : able : : : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : absurd : : accept : : access :, : :, : acknowledge : acknowledged : acknowledges : ACOSTA­FE... : act : : : : : : : : : : active : added : additional : addressed : : addresses : addressing : adjustment : :, admit : admits : admitting : adopted : advanced : agreed : agrees : : : Air : : airplane : AL :,,, Alaska :, allow : allowed : : altogether : : amendment : : : : : amendments : American : amici : amount : annihilate : : anomalous : : anomalus : anomaly : answer :, : : : answered : : antecedent : : : anyway : apart : appeal : APPEARAN... : appears : : applicability : application : applied : : : : applies :, : : : : : : apply : : authorize : battleground : : :, :, : :, : :, :,,, : :, :, : : applying : approach : appropriate : approved : approves : area : arguing : argument : :,, :, :, : : : :, : :, : : :, :,, :, : :, arises : arrive : article : Ashton :, :, asked : asking : : : : asks : assume : :, assumed : : : Assuming : attacked : Austin : authorization : : : : authorized : : :, : authorizing : :, : : : : autonomy : available : average : aware : : : B back :,, : : : : : : : : background : Bank's : bankruptcy : :,, : :,, :, : : : : : :,,, :,, : : : : : : :, bar : : barred : : : base : based : basic : : : : : basically : : : : : beacons : Beaty :, behalf :, : :, : : : Bekins : believe : : : : : : believes : benefit : benefits : best : : : better : : big : : billion :, binding : : bit : : bitter : black : : board : boat : : : bond :, bonds : : Boston : bow : box : : Breyer :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :,, : :,, :, : : : :, Breyer's :, Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review clauses :, compelled : considering clean : : : clear : : complete : completely consistent : Commonwealth : compass : claims :, : : : :, : : circuit : : :, clause :, : cite : : : : : : : : compact : compare : : :, : comparison :,, : :, :,,, CHRISTOPH... comes : : : :,,,, : : :,,, :,,,, coming : :,,, commentators : :, : :, cited : :,,, citizens : :, : : : :,,, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : : : : : :,,,, : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,,, :,, :,,,, close :, :, : closed : :,,, closes : : :, :, :, Code : : :,,, :,,, :, :, : :, : :, :,,, :,, : :,,, :, : : : : :, : : : : coercive : composition : : :,, conceivable : : : : : clearest : clearly : : :, : compliment : : : chapters : Cohen : : Chief :, : concerned : condition : conflict : conflicting : Congress : :, : : :, : : : :, : :,, : : :, : : :, :,, :,,, :, : :,, :,, : : : :,, : :, :,,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, Congress's : :, : congressional : : considered : : : : consolidated : constitution : : : : constitutional : : construction : : contend : contended : context :, contextual : continued : contract :, :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : : contracts : : : : control : : : :, : : : controlling brief : : : broadly : brought : built : Burwell : business : buy : C C : : California : : : carried : carries : case :,, : : : : :,, : :, cases : : : : categorically : : : : :, : : : :, categories : cause : certain : certainly : : : : : cetera :, change :, : : : changes : : : chapter :, : :,,, : :,, : : : :,, :,,,,, :,,, chose : : : : : :, :, : :, : choice :, : Columbia : : : : :, : : : : come : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : elephant­in­th... directly :, :, : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :, date : day : de : : Deacon : deal : : : : debates : debt : : :, : :,,, : :,, :,,, : defined : : :, : defines : defining :, disbursed : :, : dismissal : dispute : : : : distinction :,,, :, : : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : district : : : :, : : : :,, : :, :, : : : dealing : definition :, : enacting :, debtor : : definitional : doing : : enactment : : : : Dole : : : : : :, :, : definitionally :, : :, : : : : : : : :,,, :, : definitions : door :, : :,, : degree : demarcates : denied : describes : drastically doorway : dozens : eligibility : : eligible : : embraced : : emergency : emphasize : enact : enacted : :, : :,, : enacts : :,, encompassed : encouraged : ended : ends : enforceable : engage : enter : : : : correct : :, : : : : : counsel : : : course : : : : court :, : :, :, : : : : : : :, : Court's : : : : courts : : : created : creditor : : :,, : :, : : : Crowninshield : Cruz : cryptic : cut : D D : : : : D.C : :, : :, : :, : : creditoror : debtors : : descriptively creditors : : : crisis :, : :, criteria : critical : : : : :, designed : :, : detail : : :, determines debts : : decide : decided :, decides : deciding : decision :, Detroit :, Development determining : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : different : : : : : : differently DeConcini : : : decrees : deemed : dint : : dire : direct : Alderson Reporting Company : drawn : dress : driving :, entering :, :, : : EE : :, early :effect :either :, : :: ::elaborated ::electricity ::elephant :elephant­in­a­... :entire : : entirely : : : entities : : entitled : entity : : EPA : ESQ :, :, : essence : essential : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : et :,,, :, fallacy :, favor : feature : everybody : federal : : exactly : : : : : example : exclude : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : : : : :,, goes : : forth : four : : Franklin :, going : : : : : :,, : :, : :, frankly : : : free : fundamental horse : good : : House : : :, : : : :, huge : :,, hypothesized federalism : fell : field :,, : : G fifteenth : G : figured : file : : games : gateway : government : : :, : hypothetical : : government­li... : : excluded : excludes : : exclusio : exclusion : : : : exclusions : : exclusively : excuse : : : : exempt : : exercising : existed : exists : expect : explain : explains : expressio : extent : extreme : extremely : F facing : fact : : : : : fair : fairly : Faitoute : : :, : : fall :, : : filed : : Finally : financial : : :, greater : :, :, Group : : : :,, :,,, :, : find : : : : fine : :, finger : first : : : GDB : : :, : :, : : : : : guess : Guam : :, generalities general : : : : : : : : :, :,, : : :, : generally : :, : Ginsburg : : : H happened : happening : hear : Heflin : generalized : hard : fiscal : fish :, fits : : fix :, flesh­and­blood : flukey : focus : follow : : following : : follows : footnote : force : : : : held : : : : history : give : : : :, : : : given : : hit : :, : holders : gives : giving : : : : go :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : : : : holding : hole : Honor : : :, : : : :, : : :, :,, :, :, I i.e : : imagine : impair : : : : : : : : : : :, : impairing : impairment : : : : implausibility : implausible : implementing : impliedly : important : :, : : importing : impossible : include : : :,, : : : : :, included : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review J IX : :, : :, : : :, :,, : : Juan : : Justice's : Jones : : : judges : : judgment : : jurisdiction : : : jurisdictions : : K Kagan : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, kept : key : : kind : : : : King : knew : know : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : Justice :, : : : :,, :, kicked : : :, :, : :,, :,, :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : : : :,,, :,,,, : :, :,,, :, : : :, : :, :, :, : : :,,,, : :,, :, : : :, L la : lacks : laid : land : Landau : : : :,, :, : : :, :, : : :,,, known : : : : : : :,, Laughter : : : : : : laundry : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :, : : :, : :,, :,, :,, : : : : :,, Landau's : : : :, language : : law : : : : : : : : :, : : laws : : : : :, : : : Lawson : leads : leave : : :, led : left : : : legal : : : legislation : : : : : : : legislative : : : : legitimately : lenders : lenders' : let's : : : : light : lights : : limit : : : : : : : : : limitation : : limited : : : line : list :, literal :,, : litigate : little : : located : :, : : : : locked : logically : long : : : long­defined : look :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, looked : looking : : : includes : : :, : : including : : incredible : indebted : indebtedness : independent : : indication : : individual : inherent : : initial :, instance : : : intended : :,, : : : :, intent : : interesting : intervening : invoke : involved : : Inwood : Iraq :, irrational : Islands : : :, : : : :,, isolated : : isolation : issue : : :, : issues : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review lose : lot : : lump : : M meant : : : : : : : mechanically occur : : : odd : :,, offering : : : oh : : :, : : :, Ohio :, : okay : : : : : :,, : :, MELBA : maintain : major :, mechanism : municipality : : : : :,, : : : : : March : market : Massachusetts :,,, Michigan :, mere : method : :, part :, : : : : :, :, : : particularly : partly : parts :, : pass : passing : : pending : people : : : :, percent :, period : permanent : permit : : permits : persons : petition : : Petitioners : : : :, : : Petitioners' : pick : : place : : :, places : : :,, : : old : : :, older : omission : once : : : : ones : open : :, : operates : opinion : :, opportunity :, opposed : : opposite :, option : options : :, oral : :, : : order : outside : : : : : overhaul : overrule :, : oversight : owed : plain : plausible : PP :p.m :page : : :parentheses:: play : : : :, plays : please : : : : point : : : : Massachusetts... : :, micromanaged matches : matter : : minute : MATTHEW : : : : McGILL : : :,, :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, :, :, : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :,, :, mean : : : : :, : :, : : : meaning : :,, : meaningful : means : : : : : minutes : misapprehends : misread : misreads : Moines : moment : momentous : morning : mouse :, mousehole : move : moved : : municipal : : :,, : :, municipal­ba... : municipalities : : : : :, : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, mysterious : NN :, : narrows :nation :,, nationwide:, natural :nearly :need : : :never : : : :, never­never:new : : nine :nonconsenting: :nonsensical :normally :northwest :number :numbered :numerous :OO : : objective :obligation ::obviously :Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : :, : : points : police : policy : : : : preemption : : : : :, : : :, : preemptive : PREPA : prescribing : political : portion : portions : position : : presently : presents : preserved : pretty : : : : : : : : presented : position's : possessed : prevent : : : principle : :, : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : provisions : : : : :, : :, : : : : proviso :, : :, : possessions : principles : public : : :, : possible : possibly : power : : : prior : : : probably : : problem : :, : :,, : : : : : :, :,,, proceeding :, : : : : : :, prohibits : proposed : : : powerless : proposition powers : : : : : provide : : : precedent : precisely : : : precision : preclude : : : : precluded : :, precludes : : : preempted : provided : providing : provision : :, : : : : :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, Q : : :, : : :, purposes : : : : : : : : :, : : :, purview :, put : : Puerto : : :,,, :,,,, :,, : :,, : :, : :,,, :,, :,, :,, : : :, :, : qualifies :, :, : :, :, :, :, : :,, :, : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : :, : quickly : :,, : : : : : :,, :,,, question : :,,,, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : quite : quote/unquote : : Alderson Reporting Company R races : raised : :,, :,, : R : : : :,,,, : :, : :, range :, : :, :,,, : : purportedly reached : :, :, reach : : : : purpose :, :, : : : : : :, : : : :,, : :, read : : : : : : :, : : : :, readdresses : reaffirmed : : reaffirming : really : : : : : : : : : reason : : :, : :,, reasons : : REBUTTAL : : recess : recodification : recognize : : recognized : : : Recovery : : red : redo : reduced : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : seen :, Samoa : seek : seeking : rule : ruled : rules :, run : selective : Senate : Senator : Sanchez : Senators : save : sends : : saying : : sense : : :, : Ropico :, sections : :, :, see : : :, : : : :, :, :, :, S :,, :,,,, S : : :,,, :,,, San : : :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : :,,, :,, :,, : : : :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :,,, : : : : : :, : : : : sensibly : sensitive : sentence :, : : separate : :,, : : sentences : says : : :, : :, : : : :,, :,,, :,, : :, : :, :, :, :, : : : : : :, : scheme : scope : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : score : second : : : : : : rights : section : :, : services : :, sets : seven : show : : shows : shut : : : side : :, : sides : sight : significant : simply : : situation : : : : six : Sixth : refer : reference : : : referenced : Referencing : : : requirements : requires : requiring : : reservation : : referred : referring : refers : regarding : regardless : Respondents : regime : : respect : : :, : : : regulate : : : : : : : : : : regulation : Respondents' Regulatory : : response : : : responses : responsibilities rest : restriction : reign : : reject : rejected : rejecting : relationship : : relevant : relief : : restructure : Rico's :, rely : relying : remaining : remains : remand : : result : :, restructured right :, : : : : : remarkable resulted : results : retain : remedial : retained : remove : return : removed : Review : reorganization Rican : :,,, : reorganize : :, reply : representation : requirement Rico : :, :,, : :,,, : :,, : : :, : :, :, : role : : :, : : : rob :, ROBERTS : : : : : :, : roles : : :, :,, : : : : :, : :,,, :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : Territories : :, :, : :, :, : :,, Territory : : text : : : :, : :, :,,, : textual : : :, :, textualism : textural : Thank : : : :, :, theory : : : thing : : : : : : : :, things : : : : : think :, :,, : : : : : :, : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, thinking : solely : solve : solvent :, :, somebody : : : : somewhat : : : : sorry : : : sort : Sotomayor : :, :, :,, :,,, : :, : :, : : :, :, :,, :,,, :, : : :, :,, :, :, : :, :, : : : : status :, : supreme :, supposed : statute : : : :, : :, :,, : :, statute's : statutory : : : : : : substitute : suddenly : suggest : sun : super : supervision starts : : state : : :,,, :,, : States' : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, : : :,,,, :, : : :, stop : : symmetry : : :,, :,, :,, :, : :,,, story : : :, straight : :, : :, : strange : :, : : : :,, : : sure :, : : : : : : T :, take : : :, : taken : talk : : stopped : stops : step : : : : talked : talking : : : : : : stories : system : :, street : string : stripped : strongly : structure : : :, : :, T Southern : State's : sovereign : sovereignty : : State­like : : specialized : specific : specifically : : : spectrum : speculation : : : spoke : squared : standalone : stands : start : started : Sturges : subject : submit : submitted : : :, : :, : stated : statement : States :, : :, : :, :, : :,,,,, : :, : :, :, : subsection : : :, : :, :, : : :, :,,, : : subsequently subparts : substantive subsequent :, : tallied : tax : tax­exempt : Tax­Free :, : tell : : telling : : tells :,, : : temporary : : Tenth : : term : : : : Territorial : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, third :, :, : : thought : thousand : three : : : Timbers : time : : : : : :, :, : times : Title : : today : : : : : : : told : tonight : totally : track :, traditionally : treat :, :, : : treated : treatise : tree :, :, : :,, : triple : : trouble : true : : : :,, : :, : :, truism : Trust :, : trying : : : Tuesday : turn : turns : twice : two : : : : :, : : : types : typically : U unanimous : :, understand : : : :,, : : : : understanding : : :, understate : uniform : uniform­bank... : uniformity : uninterrupted : union : unique : : uniquely : United :, : : :, unius : : unlimited : unmistakable : : unusual : : : use : : : : :, : utilities : :, Utility : : V v :, : : : : : :,,, Valle : various : : vegetable : : version :, veto : view :,, : : village : violate : violating : Virgin : : :, : : : :,, vultures : W wake : : :, want : :, : : :, : : wanted : : : wanting : : wants :, : Washington : :, wasn't : : : water : :, way : : : : : : : :,, : : :, : ways : We'll : we're : : : : :, : : we've : : : : weight : went : weren't : Whitridge : :,, whoa :, : widely : : withdrew : wonder : word : : : : : : : : :, words : : :, : : :, : : : : work : : world : : : worse : wouldn't : : : : write : : writers : writing : written : wrong : : :, :, X Alderson Reporting Company x :,,, : : Y Yeah : : year : years : : yellow : York : Z : :, :, : : : : : : . : : : : : () : : : : : : : :, : : : : (c) :, : (c)() : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : : : ­ : : ­ : : : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : 's : : : : :,, :, : : : : :, :,,,, :, : :, : : :, () : :, : : :, : : :, : : : (c) : : :, : :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, :,, : :, :, :, : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : s : : :, : : : ­plus : : : : : : : :, : ­year­old : : : : : : : : (a) : :, :,, : :,, : : :, : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :,, : :, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : :,, :,,, :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :,,, :,,, : :, :,, : :, : : :, : :, Alderson Reporting Company 