Official ­ Subject to Final Review       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES       ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MARK J. SHERIFF, ET AL.,               :           Petitioners                   : No. ­  v.                                 PAMELA GILLIE, ET AL.                 : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for      oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United         States at : a.m.    APPEARANCES: ERIC E. MURPHY, ESQ., State Solicitor of Ohio,             Columbus, Ohio; on behalf of Petitioners.      E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on             behalf of Respondents.   SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ., Assistant to the                      Solicitor General, Department of Justice,     Washington, D.C.; for United States, as amicus       curiae, supporting Respondents.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                 C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                   ERIC E. MURPHY, ESQ.     PAGE      On behalf of the Petitioners                        ORAL ARGUMENT OF   E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.         On behalf of the Respondents                       ORAL ARGUMENT OF   SARAH E. HARRINGTON, ESQ.         For United States, as amicus curiae,           supporting the Respondents                       REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ERIC E. MURPHY, ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioners                       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    P R O C E E D I N G S                                         (: a.m.)             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument     first this morning in Case ­, Sheriff v.        Gillie.          Mr. Murphy.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC E. MURPHY                  ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER              MR. MURPHY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:            Given resource constraints, Ohio law has      always authorized its attorney general to appoint       special counsel to undertake the attorney general's       duty of representing the State in the courts. While          the attorney general may appoint general deputies       today, special counsel remain integral to the       office. For example, the office has only         assistant attorneys general dedicated to collecting      the billions of dollars of State debts scattered        across all Ohio counties. The office necessarily         must rely on special counsel to be the frontline         lawyers to collect these debts, yet the Sixth        Circuit in this case held both that special counsel         are not attorney general officers and may not use         attorney general letterhead without risking     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review liability under the Fair Debt Collection Practices       Act.                   That was mistaken for two basic reasons.       First, special counsel are State officers      under that Act. And so they fall within the          government exemption designed to protect government      operations.          And, second, special counsel's use of      attorney general letterhead accurately conveyed     their relationship to the office and furthered the        purposes of the Act by putting the credibility of         the office on the line and giving it a powerful           incentive to monitor special counsel when they       collect these debts.            So I would like to begin first with the          first question presented, the officer question. And        the briefs have gone back and forth on what officer          can mean historically and on what it should mean for          the Act. I think ­­ I think what it should mean for               the Act is ­­ is that the broadest conceivable         definition should apply, precisely because this      provision is designed to protect government      operations.          JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you about         the ­­ the general structure of the Act seems to be           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in­house collectors are okay, but outside      collectors, whether for private or for government,       fall under the Act.             But do I understand your view correctly        that that line doesn't exist for the State; that is,          whether it's an in­house or an out­house collector,        they're equally exempt?            MR. MURPHY: I agree that ­­ I ­­ yes, you             understand our position correctly. I do not think          that the in­house/out­house ­­ outside dichotomy      makes sense for purposes of the government       exemption.          And here's why: The prototypical ­­ in the         legislative history, the sheriffs and marshals, as       the prototypical exempt debt collectors for the       government, and they are always outside of the        private creditors who are the judgment creditors.       So there are a core group of outside collectors ­­          the in ­­ outside of the creditor, that is ­­ who           are the prototypical examples ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why wouldn't Congress       have expressed that more clearly? I mean, that's a           big thing that you're saying, that the State debt         collectors really ought to be treated very       differently, the outside debt collectors from the       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review private.          And, on the face of the statute, the        private and the State really are treated in exactly         the same way. There are two provisions. They read           identically to each other. And surely there were         very clear ways of taking out the State outside debt          collectors. You could have just said State debts         aren't debts for purposes of this statute or State         outside debt collectors aren't debt collectors for       purposes of this statute, and yet Congress did none         of those things. Rather, Congress adopted a set of           provisions that seem perfectly parallel with respect       to State and corporate entities.              MR. MURPHY: So I disagree that they're         perfectly parallel in these ways.              First, I think "officer" means something       different in the government context than it does in         the private context. In the private context, as we          cite Black's Law Dictionary, the prototypical      officer is the president, the CEO, or the treasurer,         high­level managers.           But not ­­ that's not true for the        government. The prototypical Officer can be       ministerial officers, like police officers ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I understand the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review argument that you can read the same term two         different ways, but Congress did use the exact same         terms.           MR. MURPHY: But it ­­ but one is in the          private context and one is in the government        context. So I think, by definition, they have to           have different meanings.            And, number two, the inside/outside, you      can see that with the creditor, because when the         creditor collects, the creditor has to collect in        their own name. If you look at the creditor          exemption, ()(A) ­­ a()(A), it says they're exempt        if they collect in their own name.                And, in fact, when they don't collect in        their own name, in­house creditors become debt       collectors, showing how the in­house/outside was      supposed to work for creditors because, when you put         your ­­ Congress has made the choice with respect to          creditors, when you put your name on the line, the          creditor will likely have a repeat relationship with         the relevant debtor. And so goodwill was enough to          exempt all inside creditors. You don't see this         dichotomy ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What other ­­ what       other position does the State call someone an        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review independent contractor but we treat them as an        officer nevertheless or an employee of someone? We         may do it for tax purposes, but we then look at a            series of factors to determine whether they're       really employees or not.             It's hard for you to argue these are        employees; correct?                    MR. MURPHY: Yes. We don't ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're totally without      supervision in their actual debt collection;      correct?          MR. MURPHY: Well, not totally without       supervision. I think that they're supervised by our          standards, and they have to ­­ that's a ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Okay. But you're not        claiming they're employees?            MR. MURPHY: We're not claiming they're       employees.          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what other situation       have we ever, in any setting, treated someone whom         is called an independent contractor, an officer of a         company, government agency, anything? This is a        novel sort of idea ­­                      MR. MURPHY: I don't think it's a ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That you as the state        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review say this is an independent contractor, and now, by         law, we're going to deem them an officer.                 MR. MURPHY: I just think independent        contractor asks ­­ the independent contractor      employee distinction asks a separate question than        the officer ­­           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the problem I       have is, I certainly understand officers ­­ like,         with corporations. With corporations, officers are       defined by their charter of incorporation. These        are the officers; these are their responsibilities.       It may set an income scale of some sort or tell you            which agency within the corporation is going to        determine that. And you have officers of State         agencies that are defined by law. But I don't know            that I've ever seen an officer defined by a         contract.          MR. MURPHY: Well, so two points: I think           the closest analogy would be ­­ be a common law           analogy that court referenced in Filarsky, which       were the special deputy sheriffs. Filarsky cited        treatises treating special deputy sheriffs ­­ those       are sheriffs appointed to undertake the sheriff's       duty for a particular task ­­ as officers within the           meaning of resisting of officer statutes.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          Filarsky relied on that history in      determining why the contractors in that case should        be entitled to a qualified immunity. So I think            that's the prototypical example.             And we're not ­­ we're not arguing based on         the contract. So the second point would be, if we           were ­­ if all we had was the contract, we wouldn't           be here today.            For instance, we have collections     associations ­­ they're called third­party     vendors ­­ that we only contract with. There is no           statute. We do not assert that they are officers or           employees covered by this exemption. They just        contract with us to help us with our collection         activities.          But special counsel are different. There       is a statute, R.C. ., that clearly indicates         that just as, historically, sheriffs delegated to       special deputies, the attorney general can delegate       his sovereign duties to ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I thought that          that was just for tax collection. This is not a tax             collection case, is it? I know the attorney general           has read it as giving him more power than what it           says on its face, but putting that aside, this is          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review not a tax collection. This is a student debt            collection, a consumer debt; correct?               MR. MURPHY: That's ­­ that's confusing two        points, Your Honor. The statute ­­ I disagree with           the reading of the statute that suggests we can't         use the letterhead elsewhere, but that's the       letterhead question. That's Question .               On the first question, whether he can       appoint special counsel to undertake his task of        representing the state when collecting these debts,       there's no distinction between tax debts and other        types of debts. He's ­­ he's ­­ they ­­ he can            appoint these individuals to collect any type of        debt that is certified to him.               And it's the appointment that I think is         key to make these individuals special counsel ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Murphy, can I ask,         when ­­ when you are trying to fill out what it           means for somebody to be an officer, are you looking          to the Dictionary Act? Are you looking to the          common law? Are you looking to our cases? Are you            looking to some combination of the three ­­                         MR. MURPHY: I think ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ or how would you        prioritize those?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MR. MURPHY: As ­­ as Hobby Lobby        suggested, I think the starting point when something         is undefined is the Dictionary Act. So I start           there, and then ­­ and then I ­­ I ­­ and then you               look ­­ in ­­ for determining what those words mean          in the Dictionary Act, I look to history.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­ can I ask you,            then, a question about the Dictionary Act?                 MR. MURPHY: Uh­huh.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Which says an officer       "includes any person authorized by law to perform        the duties of the office." And my question to you           is ­­ is just which ­­ what is the office there?                    MR. MURPHY: I would ­­ I would call it the             office of special counsel.             JUSTICE KAGAN: The office of special       counsel.          MR. MURPHY: So just like ­­ there's no         office of ­­ literally no office of special counsel         listed in Ohio law, but there's also no office of          solicitor general. If you look at the Solicitor         General Statute for the United States, there's no        office ­­          JUSTICE KAGAN: But we know that office        exists. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          (Laughter.)          JUSTICE KAGAN: So ­­ but ­­ okay. So ­­          so what does a statute have to do, then, to ­­ to             authorize the person to perform the duties of the         office?          MR. MURPHY: Usually what the statutes do        or what precisely R.C. . does, it says a         superior can appoint ­­ appoint an inferior officer        to engage in certain duties. Like the SG statute to           help the ­­ assist the attorney general engage in         his duties, that's exactly what this statute says.        R.C. . says the attorney general may appoint        special counsel to assist in the ­­ or to represent          the State in the collections of these debts.                 So they say it doesn't even list the duty.         I think it lists the precise duty that special         counsel are to undertake.             JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess the question is         whether it needs to more authorize an office. You          know? A continuing, permanent thing as opposed to,          you know, these officeholders who come and go, and         sometimes there are more of them, and sometimes        there are fewer of them, and sometimes they deal         with X many cases, and sometimes they deal with Y           many cases, and it all seems very fluctuating.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MR. MURPHY: I don't think that matters         because, I think, historically, there were plenty of         offices that had indefinite numbers. Today, for        instance, assistant U.S. attorneys have indefinite      numbers, and they get their duties from their        superiors, I think, obviously in the same way.                  And I still think that the special deputy         sheriffs are the best historical example. And those         sheriffs were considered to be officers within the        meaning of resisting of officer statutes precisely       because they were trying to protect government       functions. And I think that purpose analogy is          pretty relevant here as well.              The point of this exemption is to protect        government operations, and the attorney general has       been relying on special counsel to collect these        debts since the time of the Great Depression.        Special counsel have always been in the attorney        general's Office, but debt­collecting duty ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what does your       contract require them to comply with the Act?                 MR. MURPHY: Because we're also the       consumer protection branch office, and we want our        people complying with the substantive standards of       the Act.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          For instance, everybody agrees that tax      debts are not covered by this Act, but we ask them           to comply with the substantive standards of the        FDCPA for tax debts. It's because we think that          those are appropriate standards.             What we are concerned about are the       remedies and ­­           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are the remedies      against the State?            MR. MURPHY: Well, the remedies against       special counsel.             I think we are concerned ­­ Filarsky goes       through various public policies ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, I'm just talking       practical question. Are you indemnifying?               MR. MURPHY: No.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not     indemnifying. They are contractually bound to       follow the Act. And you're, instead, trying to give          them immunity for their acts, even though they may         have breached. We can get to that second question          in a moment. Let's assume they breached the Act.           Just an assumption. Don't go crazy.                (Laughter.)          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You want to give them        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review immunity for their contractual violation.              MR. MURPHY: Well, it would be immunity        from the FDCPA. It wouldn't be immunity from other          laws that would apply, for instance ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: They're State officers.      So what other laws?             MR. MURPHY: Well, for instance,      Section . I think it's a double­edged sword.           By becoming State officers, they become subject to        . So that would apply. Also State law. We            don't give immunity even to me for reckless conduct.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any case that        you can point me to where they've been charged with          a violation that you've indemnified them?                MR. MURPHY: Well, we wouldn't indemnify       them in any circumstances, but there is one case         that said they were officers within the meaning of         . It was in the Southern District of         Ohio ­­ I'm sorry. I'm blanking on the name now.           But the Sixth Circuit cited it in a footnote.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: You mentioned two      categories of outside debt collectors for this       scheme. One was this special counsel, for whom you          are claiming exemption. Then you said there is this          other category.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          How was it determined which kind of debt        collector the State is going to use, the one that          would be subject to the Act and the special counsel          who would not?            MR. MURPHY: You have to remember that        these are lawyers. And how the process works is at           JA to , and let me just explain it briefly.                    It starts in­house. In­house employees of       the office will send letters for most debts on our          own letterhead in an attempt to collect in­house.        When that proves unsuccessful, we go to third­party        vendors, which are essentially collections     associations which were the historically reason for       this Act. They're not lawyers; they're collections        associations. They send letters and make phone        calls. And that's basically what they do.                 And that's the second step. So most debts         will go through this entire process, and so they         will be contacted by both these collections       associations.          And then the third step is special counsel,        and the reason why special counsel are generally the         third step is because that's when litigation becomes        a distinct possibility, so you need lawyers.                And that's what special counsel are here to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review do, which is continue ­­ they continue to send         letters, and that's no doubt true, but then they may          bring legal options on the table. They bring         thousands of suits, as the two special counsel that         are involved in this suit have done.                So that's generally how the process works,       though ­­ and we've never ­­ we've never contested         that the collectors associations are officers within       the meaning of the Act.              And I think that gets back to the point          that our position is not ­­ our position is not that           all people collecting debts on behalf of the        government are exempt. Our position is officers        are. And so what does "officers" mean?                 And there I think you should interpret that         broadly because the purpose of that is not to         interfere with government operations. And I think         this would interfere with our operations in the way         the office has long collected the billions of        dollars of State debts that it is required via         statute to collect.            And getting back to the substantive      standards, I do think Filarsky has full application         here for why it decided qualified immunity was        appropriate in the context. I think the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review special counsel and the attorney general staff work        closely together, but then special counsel would be        the ones left holding the bag because there is no          dispute that the attorney general staff are exempt.        And so that would pull in the Filarsky point about          maybe it will deter the talented individuals from        collecting. Everybody agrees that these are vital        government operations. They are vital to the fiscal         health of the State. And that was a factor that            Filarsky relied on.            And then I think the third factor that         Filarsky relied on was just the distracting nature        of damages suits against the States. And I think           this, again, is Exhibit A, because imagine what will         happen if this case goes to trial. It's not just           going to involve special counsel. It will involve         our staff who have to respond to discovery and will          likely have to testify about how the operations        work.          So when they're so closely connected in       that way, I do think that it makes sense for the            exemption to be interpreted with its purposes in        mind. And when you look at the purposes and look at            what will happen if this case proceeds, I think          that's a good indication that these people are         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review officers, and I think they easily fall within the          historical definition of "officers."             The special deputy sheriffs, I think, is        the most analogous example, and there's plenty of        cases that have treated them as officers.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you tell me what        the definition is of "officer." Give me the         definition.                                     MR. MURPHY: I'm sorry.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's your definition?      MR. MURPHY: Oh, my definition.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Your definition seems      to be tailored to this category. But tell me how ­­           what your general definition is.              MR. MURPHY: So the Dictionary Act,       authorized by law to perform the duties of the         office. And unlike collections associations, where       there is no authorization for the attorney general        to appoint collections associations, there is a law         that specifically authorizes us to appoint special       counsel ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the law not       authorize you to hire special ­­              MR. MURPHY: Well, just our general ability        to contract to perform our services.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how is this       different from that?            MR. MURPHY: Because there is a specific         statute that express the ­­ delegates the attorney        generals' duty of debt collection to special       counsel. It's analogous to many laws that suggest         the way an office position is created is a superior           appointing an inferior.            The law in Hartwell that created ­­ there        was no office of clerk that ­­ called the clerk and           officer, just said assistant treasurers can appoint       the clerk.           JUSTICE KAGAN: How do you distinguish       Germaine, Mr. Murphy? Because that seems a very          similar kind of setup to your own. There is a           statute that allows a superior to appoint some         people, but those ­­ those contractors are ­­       sometimes there are more, sometimes there are fewer.        The duties aren't precisely defined, and the court        there says that's not an officer notwithstanding the        statute.          MR. MURPHY: So I would distinguish        Germaine and several other cases both legally and        factually. So start legally.              There is no dispute that Germaine was a        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review constitutional case. It was interpreted in the        meaning of the Appointments Clause, and this Court        said that when Congress uses the word "officer," it         can easily use it in a broader sense than in the            narrower constitutional meaning.            The Court said this in Steele when it said         that prohibition agents were officers within the       meaning of a statute that only allowed officers to          execute search warrants. And it said this in Lamar          when it said Congress were officers. So the Court          has repeatedly said that Congress can use the word         "officer" in a way ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: So that's to say that we         take these cases, whether it's Germaine or, or your         side, Hartwell, and we put them in a different box?                    MR. MURPHY: Exactly. We always caveated        Hartwell by saying it was a constitutional officer         basis. But, if they are a constitutional officer, I           think by definition you should think that they are a          statutory Officer.           And, factually, I do think that the surgeon         in Germaine was much more like the ­­ the surgeon in           Germaine was more like the collection association       than the special counsel themselves, and let me        explain why.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          In Germaine the relevant office was the       office of pension commissioners, and his job was to         dole out pensions to appropriate parties. And so         that was the official duty. And the surgeon, all he           did was assist in helping with the duty.                 But when somebody else has actually      delegated that duty, like a tax collector delegates         to a deputy collector of customs, the delegation of          the duty, it makes all the distinction in the world.                   And Auffmordt is on the same basis. It was          a merchant appraiser. And the merchant appraiser        was held not to be an officer in the customs office           because they weren't actually going out and       collecting the relevant customs; they were just       helping the collector of customs.              But Steele also makes quite clear that       deputy collectors of customs would be officers       because that's a situation where the superior        officer is actually delegating his authority to the        inferior officer there, the deputy. And I think          that's the symmetry that matters here.               JUSTICE KAGAN: That seems ­­ if I        understood you correctly, that seems an odd line to         draw. It's the difference between delegating all of         your authority and delegating part of your       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authority?          MR. MURPHY: No. What is the authority?         The authority of the attorney general's office and        the authority of the tax collector is to represent         the State in the court and to bind the State and to            bind the third party in the court. Collections         associations cannot do that. Special counsel       absolutely do that. That's their main job.                 So just as ­­ for instance, assistant U.S.        attorneys would be consider officers because when       they stand up in court, they are representing the         United States because the statute allows the AG to         delegate those official duties to the deputy.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you, Mr. Murphy,       address the point, whether this is misleading?                MR. MURPHY: Sure. I'll start at a high           level and then get into the specifics.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: In the course of that,        the statute says that you cannot falsely represent a         document to be issued by. And if you could address           that part of it.                      MR. MURPHY: Sure. I will start there.          We think this is issued by the attorney        general's office when special counsel send a letter.         The official meaning of "issue" is to distribute in         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review an official capacity. When they send these letters,         they are distributing them in their official       capacity as special counsel to the attorney general.        So it's fully appropriate for the office to be         listed at the top in those circumstances.                    I would draw, I guess, the analogy to      clerk ­­ or courts. Courts issue subpoenas all the          time through private attorneys nowadays, that the       clerk of the court doesn't actually sign the        subpoena anymore, but it has the name of the court          at the top, and a private attorney is authorized to           issue that subpoena.            So I think that analogy is ­­ this case is           an easier case, it seems to me, because special         counsel have a strong relationship to the attorney         general's office. But the very fact that a private           attorney can issue a contract subpoena suggests that         entities can issue things through people other than        independent contract ­­ or other than employees.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the other       provision that is allegedly violated, the one that        proscribes use of any business or organization's       name other than the true name of the debt         collector's business or organization?             MR. MURPHY: It's essentially the same       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review logic. This strikes me as their true name when they           are special counsel to the attorney general. The         attorney general is their true name. It's their         true name because it distinguishes them when they're        acting as special counsel for the attorney general        and when they're acting as private counsel for some         private creditor.           JUSTICE KENNEDY: When they signed their       name at the bottom and gave their law firm name, was           that necessary?           MR. MURPHY: It was. As a technical          matter, it's necessary because the money gets sent        to them, so they have to ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Necessary for compliance      with the Act?            MR. MURPHY: Oh. I mean, it clarifies the           relationship even more. It might be perhaps a         closer question if they hadn't, but if they had just          said special counsel, I would say, as a technical           matter, it's necessary because how it works is when         special counsel are assigned cases and individuals       send them checks, they send them to their address.         So we kind of have to.               JUSTICE BREYER: What about only ­­ the        recipient would think, at the least, the letter was         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authorized by the attorney general? What the        statute says is special counsel can use the        letterhead stationery only in connection with tax       collection. Doesn't it? It says ­­ here it says,           "The special counsels use the letterhead stationery,       but only in connection with such claims arising out         of those taxes."            This isn't a tax. So he gets the letter,           and he thinks, maybe at least the letter is an          authorized letter. But it isn't an authorized        letter because the statute says you can't authorize        him to do it.             MR. MURPHY: We disagree with that view of         the statute. We think the statute says ­­ the first           part of the statute says they shall use this         letterhead, and the second says "but only in."                 We interpret that statute ­­ not just this        attorney general but several other attorney generals       have interpreted this statute only to require it in         those tax contexts and to leave it to the attorney          general in other context. And they haven't        challenged that. At JA to , they         categorically deny it.            And I think this turns a virtue into a           vice, by the way. When they put our letterhead on           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there, it shows to consumers that they can actually         call with concerns if they have concerns with        special counsel or if they have concern with the         debts.          But if there is no further questions, I'd        like to reserve the remainder of my time for         rebuttal.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                Mr. Rosencranz.         ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENCRANZ                  ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS              MR. ROSENCRANZ: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                Your Honors, both questions presented     really revolve around a single point: Private         debt collectors retained as independent counsel for       or by a State attorney general are not State          officers. They are not the attorney general. They          are not from his office. And they cannot legally          hold themselves as being from his office.                When the consumer sees letterhead that says       "Office of the Attorney General," she thinks the        letter comes from within that office, not from a         professional debt collector with a personal       financial stake in the outcome of the ensuing        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review conversation.          Congress saw the distinction. And as two        of the questions from the Court suggested from        Justice Ginsburg and Justice Kagan, the Act is        actually built around this fundamental distinction.      It's in the overarching definition of "debt       collector," which defines the Act's coverage as "any        person who regularly collects debts owed another."       And then it's in each of the two provisions that          have gotten a lot of focus from General Murfree's          argument this morning, the two provisions that       provide carve­outs. One says that the Act does not          cover any officer or employee of a private business;          the other says the Act doesn't cover any officer or          employee of a State.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If I could clarify,         there may be two separate questions that may be part          of your answer. But are these officers under State          law ­­ whether they are under the debt collection         Act or not is a separate question. Is it right that             they're properly considered officers under State law       because that is how the attorney general has        designated them and views them?              MR. ROSENCRANZ: Absolutely not, Your      Honor. Ohio law is the same as the law that's           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review codified in the Dictionary Act. It's the same law          that this Court has adopted in Metcalf. There has          to be a permanent and continuing position. It has           to be duties that are created by law, not ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That's not true       with respect to qualified immunity. There doesn't        have to be a permanent ­­ I'm sorry. What was the             other adjective? Permanent and what?               MR. ROSENCRANZ: Permanent and continuing      office.          Yes, Your Honor, you are exactly right.       Filarsky is a qualified immunity case. Filarsky did          not conclude that the person who got qualified        immunity were officers. It concluded that they got         qualified immunity even though they were not       officers, just like in common law.               Common law provided the posse comitatus ­­      you know, the posses who were deputized ­­ qualified         immunity even though they were not officers. And         this goes back to whether we're talking about the         Dictionary Act definition or the definition of       common law.           Collections special counsel are simply not      Officers even by designation of the attorney       general. I mean, the attorney general has done          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review everything humanly possible to divorce these      individuals from the State.             it ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But they authorized       I'm sorry. Go ahead.     JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think you have        recognized ­­ tell me if I'm wrong about this ­­         that the special counsel could send out a dunning          letter, and the first sentence says, in boldface,        "We write to you as special counsel to the attorney          general who has authorized us to collect a debt you           owe to X government agency."               That would be perfectly all right. No        attorney general letterhead, but that opening      sentence would be okay. "We have been authorized by          the attorney general to collect a debt you owe to a            State agency." No problem with that.                Honor.          MR. ROSENCRANZ: That's correct, Your      So just to be clear, we're shifting ground        now to point which is about whether it's a           violation of the statute. And it is a violation of            the statute because ­­ but I think in your          hypothetical, Your Honor, the letterhead is the law        firm's own letterhead. So it's a violation of the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review statute in this context because they are using the         true name of the attorney general as their own true          name. And, in the context that you just described,          Your Honor, they are simply referring to who the         client is or who it is that has hired them.                   JUSTICE ALITO: I don't really see the         difference between those two situations. But even        to push the point a little bit further, suppose the           State created a special seal for the special debt          collections program of the State of Ohio or        something like that, and they put that at the top of           the letterhead.           Would that be a violation of the statute?                  MR. ROSENCRANZ: Again, so now we're       talking about the substantive provisions. And that        I'm happy to shift there. I think it probably would            not be. I would have to know a little bit more              about what the seal says and whether it conveys         to ­­          JUSTICE ALITO: It's the seal of the State         of Ohio, and it says "The Program of Special Debt          Collection."          MR. ROSENCRANZ: Oh, Your Honor, I think         that would be highly misleading. It would violate         the same provisions that we're talking about.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE ALITO: Why would it be misleading?        What would the recipient of that letter think that         the recipient of the letter would not think if that          recipient received the letter from the actual office        of the attorney general?             MR. ROSENCRANZ: So I think the recipient         of the letter would think the same thing that the          recipient of this letter thinks. Let me just turn          to what the recipient of this letter thinks.                 Just common, everyday experience, when you      receive a letter that says at the letterhead "Office          of the Attorney General," you think that the source         of the letter is coming from someone within the         attorney general's office.            JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm not sure what       difference it makes. I mean, it seems to me that a             letter like this gives you two kinds of information.         One is it says "You owe some sum of money to the            State," and that's perfectly true. And the other is          that the person signing the letter is acting as an          agent of the State, to collect that sum of money.          And that seems perfectly true too.               So, you know, the letterhead is just a way          of saying, "I'm acting as an agent of the State to           collect a sum of money owed to the State. And, yes,             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review if you don't pay this sum of money, the State is not            going to feel all that good about you." So it's all            true.          MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, so let's go to         the text of the statute, and Congress was very clear          about that. The letters use a name other than the            "true name" of the debt collectors ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you can't really be        very serious about that, because in Justice       Ginsburg's hypothetical, they were using the name of        the attorney general too.                      MR. ROSENCRANZ: No, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: One uses name in the text;         one uses the name in the letterhead, but both are          designed to do the exact same thing, which is to          say, "I'm acting as agent of the Ohio Attorney         General in order to collect a sum of money owed to            the State."           MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, they are doing        two different things. The statute talks about using         your own true name, and then what you can't do is           use someone else's true name as your own. The          statute doesn't prohibit referring to your client or        referring to the person who hired you in the text of           the letter. That's not using someone else's name.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That is correctly conveying information.              JUSTICE ALITO: I thought Justice Kagan        asked you a functional question, and you are         responding with a formal answer. And you may win on            formal grounds, but if we could go back to the          functional point.           Let's suppose that I received two letters.        One is the letter, and I owe a debt to the State of               Ohio. And one is the letter that was sent in this            case; the other is a letter that's identical except          that it is signed by an assistant attorney general         of the State of Ohio.              Why do I have a different reaction to the           former letter as opposed to the latter?                MR. ROSENCRANZ: Well, Your Honor, my       answer is the attorney general's answer on pages         to and page . The attorney general explains          why he and the various debt collectors want to use          attorney general's letterhead. And they say it's        because, quote, they want ­­ they want to "get the          debtor to prefer the debt with the State over and          above these other debts."             The attorney general believes that this      letterhead communicates something that letterhead of      Wiles, Boyle does not.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE ALITO: No, you're not answering my        question. I wasn't asking you to compare the letter           that was sent with a letter that makes no reference           to the Attorney General of Ohio.                 I'm asking you to compare a letter that is        sent by an assistant attorney general, identical in        all other respects to the letter that was sent in          this case with the type of letter that was sent          here.          What ­­ is there a difference in the         reaction of the average consumer, the least       sophisticated consumer, to those two letters?               MR. ROSENCRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. I would          have a different reaction to those two letters.         When I hear from someone who is in the attorney           general's office, I think I am communicating with          someone who is a public servant, who is doing his           earnest ­­          JUSTICE BREYER: You know, they all the        time hire people to do different things who aren't         public servants. I mean, why would you think that?           I don't know. I think he's a public servant. Do I               think he's an officer or a contractor or a ­­ no             average person has any idea what we're talking        about. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, people react       differently and I would react differently ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you might. But what         the statute says, it says the ­­ here's what it says           literally: "The use ­­ it is wrong to use any           business, company or organization's name other than       the true name." Right?                       MR. ROSENCRANZ: Yes.    JUSTICE BREYER: So if Filene's Basement       hires Mr. Smith, who is an independent collector,        and Mr. Smith writes a letter ­­ just what Justice           Ginsburg said. It says, Filene's Basement has asked         me to write to you to say will you please pay their            debt. Okay? There. They've used a name other than             their own name. The statute doesn't cover that,         does it?           that's ­­                   MR. ROSENCRANZ: Of course not. And        JUSTICE BREYER: Of course not.      Now, in other words, it has to be taken as          modified by the first part of this. There has to be            something that's false, deceptive, or misleading      about it.                    MR. ROSENCRANZ: No, Your Honor ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: If you don't interpret it        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that way, I don't see what it can mean, unless it            picks up the ­­ Justice Ginsburg's hypothetical.                MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, the reason I        said "of course not" is because referring to someone         in the body of the letter is not the same as using            their ­­ their ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: It isn't? I have just          used their name.                     MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I said they hired me.         Isn't that using their name?              MR. ROSENCRANZ: It is ­­ no. If that's          what the statute ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: In English. I'm not        talking about in statutes.             MR. ROSENCRANZ: No, Your Honor. If that's         what the statute meant, then it would mean that you          couldn't use the signatory's name either or ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Of course. It would be         ridiculous. And, therefore, it isn't to be taken         literally to refer to any use. And I guess in            context it could be taken to mean a misleading use.           And if it means a misleading use, I see nothing here             misleading. What is it?              MR. ROSENCRANZ: Well, so, Your Honor ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE BREYER: And if there is nothing        here misleading, and it doesn't mean misleading use        and it doesn't mean ordinary English use, what does         it mean?           MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, the ­­ a        central premise of this statute, as I said at the           outset, is to distinguish in­house creditors from       outside creditors. Why? Because outside creditors        were the ones who were guilty of the worst abuses.          Outside creditors were the ones who misled, and        Congress was trying to make sure that when the         consumer is talking to a debt collector, they knew          who they were precisely because the reputational       interests of the attorney general's office are       guarded by people within the attorney general's       office in a way that debt collectors don't         necessarily guard the interests of the attorney       general's office. And an in­house ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I think ­­ I would           think that that would be a reason for using the ­­           the heading, because now the ­­ the Ohio Attorney         General is responsible for all the actions that this         debt collector is going to take. And the Ohio          Attorney General is going to be more vigilant in         policing the actions of that debt collector. You         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review should want that.            MR. ROSENCRANZ: Well, Your Honor, that       may ­­ in some world, that may be conceivably true.          But it's not necessarily true. I mean, the ­­ the            Petitioners have conceded that when a debt collector         does this with IBM's letterhead, it would be a         violation precisely because ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: Why? Why? Why? Filene's          Basement hires a service, and they say, here are           letters, and they all say "Filene's Basement." Now,         we want you to send out on these letters ­­         letterhead so they'll know it's us ­­ you say ­­ and           you say you're a special representative hired by us          to pay the debt.             Now, what's wrong with that? I would think          it would be ­­ I mean, what worries me is when you             don't have the letterhead. Then it it could be some           scam. You see? But when you do have the           letterhead, they're really getting themselves into      trouble if it's a scam. And this isn't a scam.                      MR. ROSENCRANZ: Well, Justice Breyer,      the ­­ it gets back to the ­­ the question you had            when you made originally when General Murfree was up         here. I mean, the ­­ it can't be that just because             you are referring to someone's name in the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review letterhead, you used their name, because Section G        talks about the requirement that you actually have        to identify the creditor.                      And in the ­­   JUSTICE BREYER: So identifying the      creditor.          My point is, if it's the AG's letterhead or         Filene's Basement's letterhead or Macy's letterhead,      if they still exist, in ­­ in ­­ if ­­ if it's the             official letterhead of the company, the recipient is        more likely, not less likely, to understand what's        happening. That's ­­ as long as ­­ yes. You see my             point?          MR. ROSENCRANZ: I see your point.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Then what's the        answer to my question?             MR. ROSENCRANZ: And ­­ and the answer is,         Congress made the decision. I know ­­ I know that             embedded in your question is the assumption that        there is a ­­ a materiality requirement built into           the first provision; that is, the first sentence.        But Congress articulated a statute that said it is a           violation to do any of the following things. And          when Congress said it's a violation to do any of the            following things, it's not up to the courts to ­­ to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review override Congress that ­­            JUSTICE KAGAN: I don't think that this is          a materiality question. I actually do think that          this is just a question of is it false or not. Is              there anything false about using the attorney       general's letterhead when you're an agent of the        attorney general? That's the question.               MR. ROSENCRANZ: Well, so, first, just a        point of clarification. The attorney general's       contract with these individuals says that they are        not an agent.            But the direct answer to the question is ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, they obviously are an        agent in all the usual uses of that term. They're           acting for the Attorney General in collecting a        debt. And the question is, is there anything false          about saying, by way of the letterhead, I'm acting         for the attorney general?             MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, it's totally       fine to say I am acting for the attorney general.           You can't do it using the ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why? If you ­­ if I           use my own letterhead, somebody is likely to throw         it out before they get to the text because they've          never seen this organization before. You know, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review letterhead is a good way of really making the point,           I am acting for the attorney general.                MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, the Congress       wanted individuals who are unsophisticated to know       who they were dealing with, especially when they        were dealing with a professional debt collector who         gets a cut of the proceeds.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But they're dealing with       somebody who is acting for the attorney general.                 MR. ROSENCRANZ: They are ­­ yes, they are,         but they are dealing with someone who is acting for          the attorney general in a context in which Congress          was deeply concerned about how those individuals       have the wrong incentive structures and will do        anything to get their third of the proceeds.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: But ­­ but you're making        the argument somewhat the ­­ like the argument that         you made in the brief. The ­­ the debtor gets the            letter from the attorney general, says, oh, the        attorney general, I'm really concerned. They ought        to be concerned because the State of Ohio can         garnish their tax for the unpaid debt. It ­­ it's           different. They ­­ they ought to know that it's the           State. And you ­­ you say they don't ­­ for some            reason you don't want them to be intimidated because         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they know it's the State.                       MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, my ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: The State has a very         strong interest in letting the debtor know that it's         the ­­ that it's its debt.               MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, my main point        is that Congress wanted people to know ­­ that is,          consumers to know who they're dealing with.                But to answer the question, it is simply        not true that every debtor is better off paying the          State's debt than some other debt. The Attorney         General of Ohio does not have many more powers than          anyone else has. And if you're choosing between         paying ­­          JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's ­­ that's for the        debtor's decision to make. That's the debtor's        decision.          MR. ROSENCRANZ: Exactly. But the debtor        needs to ­­           JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you ­­ it ­­ it seems          to me that you ­­ your ­­ your solution is almost           misleading in ­­ in another direction.               MR. ROSENCRANZ: Your Honor, there is       nothing wrong with the debt collectors saying       everything that you've just described as ­­ as to         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review what could happen just because the State is        involved. The truth is, the State has very few          powers ­­ I mean, they have the power to take your            lottery winnings. They have ­­ I mean ­­ and most            debtors actually don't have a lot of lottery         winnings. They have the power to ­­ to take your           income tax refund. Most debtors do not expect an          income tax refund anytime soon. That's it. The          State has no additional power.              And it is actually misleading to try to        convey to these individuals why it is that ­­ excuse          me. It's misleading to convey to these individuals         that the debt collectors are from within the office.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Basically, this     argument, as I understand it ­­ maybe you can          correct me ­­ is that even a private collector could           use the name of Filene's Basement because it's not         misleading. It's telling the person, assuming they        say, "I have been hired by Filene's Basement to         collect your debt on Filene's Basement's letterhead       and sign it "debt collector X, Y, and Z." Under           this argument, that would be okay because it's not         misleading?          MR. ROSENCRANZ: I ­­ I got confused on the            question, but under the ­­ under ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, the questions      have been asked of you. That would be the import.                    correct.                   MR. ROSENCRANZ: Yes. Yes. That is         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No. Wait, wait ­­        JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And if I understand you         correctly, you're saying we make a different        judgment than Congress is about the relative weight        of how misleading this is, but Congress made this         judgment?          MR. ROSENCRANZ: Congress ­­ that is       exactly correct, Your Honor. Congress made this        judgment on the very specific ­­ on the very         specific terms, the enumerated violations, Congress      said it's misleading to do this.                        And Congress wanted to ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. I don't          want to interrupt, but I'm confused about your        answer and maybe the question, or maybe both.                 Did you say ­­ as I understood the         question, you have letterhead that says "Filene's       Basement," and it's a private collector who's acting         on behalf of Filene's Basement. Is that misleading?                  MR. ROSENCRANZ: Yes, for exactly the       reason that the attorney general conceded below.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review The concession was about IBM. But it's the same          exact point.           Debt collectors are different from the ­­      from the creditors, and Congress wanted people to        know with whom they were communicating.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                 MR. ROSENCRANZ: Thank you, Your Honor.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF SARAH E. HARRINGTON                 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Harrington?               MS. HARRINGTON: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                I'd like to make a couple of points on the           first question presented and then try to answer some         questions on the second question presented.               The FDCPA applies to Ohio's debt collection       special counsel because outside the context of this        litigation, Ohio has chosen not to treat them as         officers or employees of the State. There has been          some discussion in the top half about Ohio Code         Section .. Excuse me. General Murfree has         conceded that that does not create an office of         special counsel.           Just as a side note, the Office of U.S.          Solicitor General is described and duties are given        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in the Code of Federal Regulation. There is no          similar set of regulations that would create an        office of special counsel here.              But even if you were to assume, for the         sake of argument, that the statute ­­ I'm sorry ­­         authorized the attorney general to create an office        of special counsel and to treat the people that         hired as special counsel as officers, that is not         done so here.            In the retention agreement, the attorney      general has been careful to say that these people         are not to be considered employees of the State for          any purpose. The agreement not only does not         indemnify the special counsel; it requires the       special counsel to indemnify the State. It doesn't         give them any rights to collect any debts. It gives           the attorney general complete discretion over what       debts the special counsel may collect.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: If you have a        special ­­ I don't know what you call them ­­          prosecutor, special counsel who's appointed from      U.S. Attorney's Office, say, because the      other ­­ the office is recused from a particular          matter, just for that one case, does he use ­­ maybe           as factual matter, does he use the letterhead of the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review U.S. Attorney's office?            MS. HARRINGTON: I don't know in        prosecuting cases. When the Federal government       hires outside debt collectors to collect debts owed        to the Federal government, they do not use ­­ those          people do not use Federal government letterhead.                JUSTICE BREYER: What about ­­ the states        often do this. They hire a special lawyer to           prosecute a special case ­­ it could be from a           firm ­­ or it could be a set of cases. Could last a               year.          Now, are all of the people who do that, who          fulfill that job ­­ it's not normally done        federally, could be, I guess ­­ are they officers or           not?          MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think ­­ you know,          this Court, all the time, sees private lawyers who         are here representing States, and I don't think that          they would be considered officers of the State        merely because ­­           JUSTICE BREYER: So if Mississippi hires a        person to prosecute a murder case and it's called          "special counsel" for the purpose of prosecuting       murder cases for the next year, whatever, they're        not officers?  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I guess my real         answer is it's really up to the State. And so you            would look at how the State treats those people.                   Here, if you look at how the State has        treated the special ­­ the debt collection special        counsel, outside the context of this litigation, it        does not treat them as officers or employees. In          the retention agreement, the attorney general has       done everything possible to disclaim any inference       that these people are part of the State government.                           JUSTICE BREYER: That's true.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But he authorizes       use of the seal.             MS. HARRINGTON: He authorizes the use of        the letterhead, but ­­            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's ­­ you        said they've done everything possible to separate       them from the attorney general. That seems to be a           pretty good effort to connect them to the attorney         general.                   MS. HARRINGTON: But as you can ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: "Here, use our       stationery and our letterhead."             MS. HARRINGTON: But that ­­ the use of the          letterhead doesn't ­­ isn't giving them any sort of         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sovereign authority, doesn't give them any      discretion to bind the States. It doesn't create an          office.          You know, if you have nine special counsel        one day and then eight special counsel the next day,          you don't think of there being a vacancy in the           office of ­­ office of special counsel. Generally         when you have an office, you either have an officer          or a vacancy. But here there's just ­­ the attorney            general can hire any number of special counsel ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess my point is          simply that authorizing use of the seal does suggest         a connection with the individual doing the debt        collection work and the attorney general. And you         said there's no way ­­ or they've done everything         possible to show there's no connection.                        MS. HARRINGTON: Well ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I can't imagine        anything they could do more dramatically to ­­ to         show that there is a connection than say, "Here, use           my letterhead."           MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think if you look          at retention agreement, what I meant is they've done          everything possible in structuring the relationship      between the special counsel and the office of        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review attorney general to make clear that they are not a          part of the office.             Now, with respect to using the letterhead,       I think that's intended to sort of convey a sense of            seriousness to debtors who receive the letters.       That's the point that ­­ that the State has made.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I expect it's         meant to convey that this person is working for us.          This person, I, the attorney general, think this is         somebody who's acting on my behalf.               MS. HARRINGTON: Well, it's true that       outside debt collectors are acting on behalf of the         creditors who hire them, but that does not make them          part of the creditor organization.              You know, I think if you look at the          definition of "debt collector" and the exemptions       whether, with respect to private creditors or ­­ or         public creditors, it's clear that Congress intended       this statute to apply to independent contractors.                But it also intended to allow creditors,       whether private or public, to use their own in­house         people without being subject to the requirements of        the Act.           And so it's really totally up to the State.         If it's going to use its inside people, then it          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review doesn't have to comply with the FDCPA. But when it           hires outside third­party contractors, it does.               If I could just address what Justice Breyer         was asking about, the use of your true name, I think            if you filled out a form that asked for your name            and then said, "Have you used any other name?" you          would take that to mean as your own name. And so I             think that's the sense in which the statute means         the use of another name.                       There's generally ­­  JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this isn't that.       Nobody thinks this person is the attorney general of         the State.                    MS. HARRINGTON: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE BREYER: The reason that's      underlying disturbing me is there is a pretty         well­known scam where people get phone calls from a         person who identifies himself as somehow connected       with the IRS, and you better send them $ or          $, immediately to a certain post office box or          you might find yourself in jail. Okay? Now, that's           a scam.           MS. HARRINGTON: Right.             JUSTICE BREYER: And if you get a letter          out of the blue by somebody purporting to be an          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review official person and there is nothing on the        letterhead that suggests that you are such, you        might well think, if you've at least had the         experience I'm talking about, that this is a scam.                   And so what the purpose of this letterhead        does is it is some indication to the recipient that          it's not a scam, and the rest of the letter makes            clear precisely what it is.              So what I fail to see is anything at all           misleading ­­ indeed, to the contrary ­­ in respect         to using a letterhead. And if there is nothing           misleading at all about it, I think I could           interpret this statute that requires the contrary       requirement in some form or other.               MS. HARRINGTON: Well, sir, I disagree that         there's nothing misleading about it. I think it          gives the impression that the letter was issued by         the office of the attorney general, because there is         a convention that, when you use the letterhead,        that's signaling who the sender of the letter is. A           law firm would never send a letter using its          client's letterhead because that would give the       wrong impression about who's sending the letter.                JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it not sent by the          attorney general in the sense that Filene's Basement        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review gives pieces of stationery to a debt collector          and says, "Send them on this stationery. I want           people to know it comes from us"?                MS. HARRINGTON: Well, that would be a        violation of the Act, too, if the debt collectors         were outside the independent contractor ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: My goodness, then what      we're going to have is all ­­ in other words,          it's ­­ in your interpretation of this law, a piece           of stationery that tends to indicate that the debt         is ­­ the debt collector is indeed speaking for whom          he purports to speak for, anything that indicates        that in the view of the government violates this         statute. I'd worry about it just as a practical           matter because I think that might lead to more scams           rather than fewer.            MS. HARRINGTON: I don't believe that's our         view of the statute. I think the ­­ you know,            the ­­ the FDCPA is premised on separating the         creditor from outside third­party debt collectors.      And so a debt collector has to be clear that he is             not the creditor. And so when they use the          creditor's letterhead, that gives a false       impression. If they're worried that they're not        going to be taken seriously, they can include with         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the letter, a separate letter from their ­­ from the           creditor, from the attorney general, saying we       authorized this person.            JUSTICE BREYER: It's not being taken       seriously. It's the false impression that ­­ we         want the true impression that this comes from the         person to whom you owe the debt.                MS. HARRINGTON: So you could include a        separate piece of paper that verifies that, if        you're concerned about that.             JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, my goodness. The        simple way to do that is send it on the stationery           of that purpose.            MS. HARRINGTON: But Congress has made a        determination that ­­           JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see anything here         that says you cannot send it on a letterhead of the            person for whom you owe the debt. I just don't see             that written here.            MS. HARRINGTON: Well, what Congress said       is you can't give a misimpression as to who has           issued the letter ­­            JUSTICE BREYER: Misimpression. And the       misimpression?          MS. HARRINGTON: The misimpression is that       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the attorney general's office has issued the letter.        Now, remember, the only reason we're getting to the         second question presented is if the special counsel,        our officers, are not ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose ­­             MS. HARRINGTON: ­­ officers ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose that the special       counsel prepares a letter just like the letter         that's ­­ that was issued in this ­­ letters issued          in this case. But before they send it, they take it            to the attorney's office ­­ attorney general's       office. They show it to somebody there. And they           say, do you authorize me to send this? And the           person says, yes, you're authorized to send it.        Would it be misleading under those circumstances?                MS. HARRINGTON: It would, because it would        still give the impression that it was issued by the          office of the attorney general. And if it's sent by           the third­party outside debt collector, then it's       not issued by the office of the attorney ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: Even though it's      approved ­­ suppose that they ­­ they take it to          General DeWine, and they say, General, I would like          to send this. Am I authorized to send it? He says,              yes, that's fine. That's still misleading?       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MS. HARRINGTON: Yes, because in section ­­       Section , it talks about authorized, issued, or        approved by a State agency. And so if you give the             misimpression as to any one of those things, then         it's a per se violation of the statute.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's your ­­ it's your        position ­­ it's the position of the government of         the United States that the Attorney General of Ohio         is in violation of this law?               MS. HARRINGTON: No, that the special       counsel are in violation ­­             it.          JUSTICE KENNEDY: No. But he's approved        MS. HARRINGTON: He's ­­ he has sanctioned        a violation of the law. But I ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But under your      position, the ­­ the attorney general of the State         of Ohio is in violation of the law. That's the           position of the United States that you're arguing in         this court?           answer?                   MS. HARRINGTON: No, sir. Our ­­ may I          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Sure.    MS. HARRINGTON: Our view is that the        attorney general has authorized the special counsel       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to do something that is a violation of the law. He             has not himself ­­ he is not subject to the law, so            he has not himself violated the law.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the next time you        come here in a criminal or a civil case and someone             has authorized something, I will remind you of your          answer.          (Laughter.)          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                Mr. Murphy, you have four minutes      remaining.         REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC E. MURPHY                  ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS              MR. MURPHY: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        Just a few points.              First, going to Justice Kagan's question, I       really think they are turning a virtue into a vice            here. They're flipping the Act on its head. If           you ­­ if you look at the tax statute that requires           the AG to give this letterhead to special counsel         for tax debts, the very next provision ­­ the very          next provision of that Act, which was known as the          Taxpayer Bill of Rights, the very next provision of         that Act requires the AG to appoint problem        resolution officers to handle complaints by debtors       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review about special counsel or the employee assigned to        the case.           call?          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do they know who to         MR. MURPHY: Precisely because the AG's       letterhead ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Does the Act say that        the special debt collector has to give them the AG's          problem­solving ­­          MR. MURPHY: No. But I think that ­­ that            was the point of the law, was to put the letterhead,           so they know to call the office. And then we have            the regular customer service hotline that they can        call and they'll ­­ they'll get ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's quite      interesting, because the only number that's in these        letters is the net ­­ number of the debt collector.                   MR. MURPHY: Well, that's right. But by         putting the letterhead on the ­­ on ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any obligation       in the contract for the debt collector, when he         receives a customer complaint, to give them the         number of the AG's customer service ­­               MR. MURPHY: There's not an obligation in        the contract, but there certainly is an obligation        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in the contract for them to report that complaint to          the AG.           And I ­­ I ­­ I think that the AG has              interpreted these problem resolution officers more      broadly to allow it to handle all sorts of         complaints. But I think the reputational idea is          also significant, because when the AG authorizes       these individuals to use the letterhead, that's a        powerful incentive on the AG or the AG's office ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: It also uses the word        "issued." And so what about "issued"?                MR. MURPHY: Well, I think that ­­ just          look at the ­­ we're the only party that has          actually cited the dictionary definition of "issue."       And the dictionary definition of "issue" is to        distribute in their official capacity.              So when special counsel send these letters,       they are distributing it in their official capacity        as special counsel to the attorney general, not as         private lawyers with their private law firms. I         think that's an easy interpretation of "issue" that        would authorize the ­­            JUSTICE KAGAN: But if we get to the second          question, we've already decided that these people       are not officers. They're independent contractors.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review They might be agents in a casual sense of the word,            but they're not officers.             MR. MURPHY: That's absolutely correct.      Our first­level answer would be that they are ­­        should be ­­           JUSTICE KAGAN: Right. So if we assume         that they're not officers, then I think Justice         Breyer's question holds: What does it mean for that          person to issue something as opposed to the Ohio ­­                  MR. MURPHY: I do think that you ­­ I do             think that they're distributing it in their official        capacity as special counsel. Whether they're       independent contractors, officers, or employees, I      think that's a separate question.               And then I think it goes to the clear          statement rule with respect to Justice Kennedy's       comment. I think it's just a fundamental breach of            etiquette, or of federalism, to suggest that private        parties are the ones who get to decide who gets to           use an attorney general's letterhead.              JUSTICE KAGAN: May I ask you ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I think that        question  should be with the attorney general.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's fine. But as        far as I     see it, isn't there one of these two cases         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review where someone who wasn't the special counsel signed        the letter?           MR. MURPHY: That's absolutely true. But        they've waived that argument because their theory of        the case is that it's just the letterhead that's         misleading. And I can easily ­­ I can get into the              facts of that issue.               That issue was this person got a call from        the person ­­ from the Plaintiff, the Plaintiff        asked for her balance. She sent the balance on the           letter. It says, per your request, here is your          balance, and then the Plaintiff turned around and        sued the individual after they requested for the        letter.          So I think they've largely abandoned that        idea that the letterhead was misleading.               Thank you.           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                The case is submitted.             (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a()(A) : a.m : : : abandoned : ability : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : : abuses : accurately : Act :,,, :, : : :,, :, : :, : : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : : Act's : acting :, :, : :,, :,, : :, actions :, activities : acts : actual : : additional : address : : : : adjective : adopted : : AG : : : :,, : AG's : :, : : agencies : agency : : :, : agent :, : :, : agents : : agree : agreement :, : : agrees : : ahead : AL :, ALITO :, : : : :,, allegedly : allow : : allowed : allows : : amicus : : analogous : : analogy :, : :, answer : :,, :, : : : : : : : : answering : anymore : anytime : APPEARAN... : application : applies : apply : : : : appoint :, :, :, : :, :, : appointed : : association : associations : :, : : :, : appointing : appointment assume : : : : Appointments : appraiser : : appropriate : : : : approved : :, argue : arguing : : argument : :,,, : : : : : :, :, : : : : arising : articulated : aside : asked : : : : : asking :, : asks :, assert : assigned : : assist :, : assistant : : : : : : : assuming : assumption : : attempt : attorney :, :,, : :, : : :, :, : : :, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, : :, :,, : :, : :, :,,, : :, : :, :,, :,,,, : :, :,, : : :,, :,, :, :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, attorney's : : : attorneys : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Auffmordt : authority : : :,, : : authorization : authorize : : : : : : authorized : : : : :, : :, : : : :, :, : authorizes : :, : authorizing : average : : B back : : : : : : bag : balance : :, based : Basement : : :, :, : : : Basement's : : basic : basically : : basis : : becoming : behalf :, :,, : : : : : :, : believe : believes : best : better : : big : Bill : billions : : bind :, : bit :, Black's : blanking : blue : body : boldface : bottom : bound : box : : Boyle : branch : breach : breached : : Breyer : : :, :, : :,, : :, :, : : : :,,, : : :,,, : Breyer's : brief : briefly : briefs : bring :, broader : broadest : broadly : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review built : : business : : : : C C : : call : : : : :,, : called : : : : challenged : charged : charter : checks : Chief :, : : : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : :, : : calls : : choice : capacity :, choosing : circumstances : :, : chosen : Circuit : careful : carve­outs : case :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : cite : : : : :, : : : :, : : : civil : claiming :, cited : : Code : : codified : collect : : :, collects : : Columbus : combination :,, : : : : :, : come : : : : : :, : comes : : : : collected : collecting : : : : : : collection : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : collections : coming : comitatus : comment : commissioners : common : : :, : : communicates : communicating : : company : : : : :, compare :, : :, complaint : : : : : complaints : : collector : cases : :, : : : : :, : : casual : categorically : categories : category : : caveated : central : CEO : certain : : certainly : : certified : claims : clarification : clarifies : clarify : Clause : clear : : : : :, : : : clearly : : clerk :, : :, client : : client's : closely :, closer : closest : : complete : compliance : :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : complying : : :, : : :,, conceded : : : conceivable : comply : : : : collector's : conceivably collectors :, :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : : concerns :, concession : conclude : concluded : concern : concerned : : :, : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review creditors : : :, :, :, :, : :,,, :, :, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :,,,, :, : curiae : : : :,, customer : :, : : :, :, : :, : cut : :, customs :, criminal : :,, :, D D : D.C :, damages : day :, deal :, dealing :,, : : :,, debtor's : : debtors :, : : debts :, : :, :,, : : :, :, :, : : : :, : : deceptive : decide : decided : : decision : :, dedicated : conduct : confused : : confusing : Congress : :, :, :,, : : : :, : : :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :, : contractor : : :,, : : contractors : : : : : : contractual : contractually : contrary : : connect : connected : convention : : connection : : :, : consider : considered : : : : constitutional :,,, conversation : convey :, :, conveyed : conveying : conveys : core : corporate : corporation : constraints : consumer : : : :, : correct :, corporations : : : : : :, : correctly :, : : : consumers : : contacted : contested : context :, : :, : : :, : : : : contexts : continue :, continuing : :, contract : :,,, : : counsel's : counsels : counties : couple : course : :, : : court :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : courts : : : : cover :, : coverage : covered : : debt : :, deem : deeply : : : defines : : :,,, :,, : : :, : :, : :,, : : : defined :, :, : : : : :, definition : :, : : :, : :, : : :,,, :, : :, : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : delegation : deny : Department delegated : delegating : delegate : delegates : :, : : : : Depression : deputies : : : crazy : create : :, : created :, counsel :, :, :, : :, :,, :, : credibility : : : : :, :, : :,, : : : :, creditor : :,,, : : : debt­collecting : : :, : creditor's : : : debtor : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review E :,, : :,,, : :, : : : earnest : easier : easily : : : easy : effort : eight : either : : else's :, : exactly : : : : : :, example : : : : examples : excuse : : execute : exempt :, :, : : distribute : embedded : exemption : falsely : far : FDCPA : : : : : Federal : :,, federalism : federally : feel : fewer : : : Filarsky :, : : : :, : :, Filene's :, :, : :,, :, : fill : filled : financial : find : fine : : : firm : : : firm's : firms : first : :, : : : : : : :, : : : first­level : fiscal : flipping : fluctuating : focus : follow : following : : footnote : : : : : : : exemptions : Exhibit : exist : : exists : expect : : experience : : explain : : explains : express : expressed : F face : : fact : : factor :, factors : facts : factual : : fail : Fair : fall : : : false : : :, : : : : deputized : discussion : deputy :, : : : :, : distinct : distinction : dispute : : described : : : designated : designation : : : :, distinguish :, : distinguishes designed :, : : deter : determination : determine : : determined : determining : : distracting : : distributing : : : District : disturbing DeWine : dichotomy : divorce : : employee : : :, : employees :, :, : : : : : : : entitled : enumerated : equally : : : : especially : ESQ :,, :,,, : dictionary : : :,, : :, :, difference : : : : document : engage :, doing : English : : : dole : dollars : : : ensuing : entire : entities : double­edged : : doubt : dramatically different : :, : : : : : :, : dunning : : : duties : : draw : : ERIC : : essentially : factually : differently : :, direct : direction : disagree : : : : disclaim : discovery : discretion : : :, : : : : : : : duty : : : ET :, etiquette : :, : everybody : : :,,, : E everyday : exact : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : goodness : :, good : : head : :, : Hartwell : :, : :,, :,, : : general's : heading : : :, health : : : hear : : :, : goodwill : held : : :,, gotten : help : : :, :, government : helping :, : :, :, : :, : : : highly : : :, hire : : : : :,, : : : :, : Great : :, : generals : generals' : Germaine : high : high­level : : : : : : : : : : : hired : : generally : form : : formal :, former : forth : four : frontline : fulfill : full : fully : functional : : functions : fundamental : : further : : furthered : G G : : garnish : general : getting : : : Gillie : : Ginsburg : : : : : : :,,, :, :, :, : : :, Ginsburg's : :, : : :,, give :, : :,, : : :,, : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : giving : :,,, :,,, : : : :, :,, :,, :, : : : :, : : : go : : :, : : : : : going :, : : : : : : :, goes : : hires : : ground : grounds : group : guard : guarded : guess : : historically : :, : historical : : : : : : : : : guilty : H half : handle : history : : : Hobby : hold : holding : holds : happen :, Honor : : : : : :, : : :, happy : : : hard : : :, Harrington : :,,, : :,, : : :, : : : :,, :,, :, : : : :, : Honors : :, : hotline : :,, humanly : :, : hypothetical :,,, : : given : : happening gives : : : I IBM : IBM's : idea : : : : identical : : identically : identifies : identify : identifying : imagine : : immediately : immunity : : :,, : : :,,, : import : impression :, : :, : in­house :, : :,, :, : in­house/out­... : in­house/outsi... : incentive : : : include : : includes : income : :, incorporation : indefinite :, indemnified : indemnify : :, Alderson Reporting Company indemnifying :, independent : interpreted : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : kinds : knew : know : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, :,,, : : :, : : :, : : :, :, :,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, : :,, : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, : : :,,, :,, : Lamar : largely : :,, Laughter : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, : : : : law : : known : L interrupt : intimidated : involve :, involved : : IRS : issue : : :,, :,, : :, issued :, : : :,,,, : :, J J : JA : : jail : job : : : JOSHUA : : : : :,, : : : : : : : indicate : indicates : : indication : : individual : : individuals :, : : : : :, :, : inference : inferior : : : information : : inside : : inside/outside : instance : : : : : : integral : intended : :, interest : interesting : interests : : interfere : : interpret : : : : interpretation : : K :,, judgment : Kagan : : :, : :,, :, : Justice : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : :, : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, :,,, Kagan's : :,, :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : Kennedy's :, :, :, :, key : : :, :, : : : :,, :,, : kind : : KENNEDY : :,, : :, : :, : : : :, :, : :,,, : : : :, : :,, : : laws :, : lawyer : lawyers : :,, : : lead : leave : left : legal : legally :, : legislative : let's : : : Alderson Reporting Company letter : : :, :, : : :,,, :,,, :, : :,,, :,,,, : : : : :,,, : :, : :,, :,, letterhead : : :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,,, :,, : : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : : : :,, : : :, letters :, : : : : :, :, : : : : letting : level : liability : line : : : : list : Official ­ Subject to Final Review listed : : lists : literally : : : : :,, Murphy : : Murfree's : : : nevertheless : : : meanings : litigation : means : : : : : : little :, Lobby : logic : long : : mentioned look : : meant : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : merchant : : merely : Metcalf : mind : looking :, ministerial : :, lot : : lottery :, M Macy's : main : : making :, managers : March : MARK : marshals : materiality : : matter : minutes : misimpression :,,, : misleading : : : : :,, :, : :,,, :,, :,, :, : : : : misled : :, : Mississippi : : : matters : mistaken : modified : moment : mean :,, money : :,, :, : : : : : : monitor : : :, morning : : :,, :,, :, : : murder : Murfree : : : : meaning : Alderson Reporting Company : notwithstandi... novel : nowadays : number : :, :,, New : : : : nine : :,,, normally : :, :, note : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :,,, :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, :,,, : :, : O O : : obligation : : :, : numbers :, obviously : :, N N :, : N.Y : name :,, : : :,, :,,,, :, :, :,,, :, : :,, :,, : : : :,, :, narrower : nature : necessarily : : : necessary : :,, need : needs : : net : never :, : odd : office :,, :, : :,,, :,,, :, : : : : : :, :, : :, :, : :,, : :, : : :,, : :, :,,, : :,,, : : : : :,,, : : : officeholders : officer :, :,, : : :,, : : : : : : :, : :,,, :,, :, : : officers : : :, :, :,, : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : : :, : :,, : : :,, : :, : :, :,, offices : official : :, : : : : :, : oh : : : : : Ohio :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : Ohio's : okay : : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : practical : prosecuting Petitioners : : : : ones : : : : opening : operations : : : :, : : PAMELA : paper : parallel :, part : : : : : : :, particular : opposed : : : :, : : phone : : picks : piece : : pieces : Plaintiff :, : : options : oral : :,, party : : please : parties : : : : : : pay : : Practices : precise : precisely : :, prosecutor : protect :, protection : :, : : : : : : : prototypical :,, prefer : premise : :, : premised : proves : provide : prepares : presented : provided : : :, provision : : : : :,, provisions : : :, :, president : pretty : : : prioritize : private :, public : :,, :, pull : purporting :,,, : :,, :, : : : : : :, : purports : purpose : : : : : : : : probably : problem : : : : : problem­solvi... : proceeds : :, process :, : professional : : program : : purposes : : :, : :, push : put :, : : : : putting : : : Q qualified : : :, :,, prohibit : prohibition : properly : proscribes : question :, prosecute : : :,, :, : : order : ordinary : organization : : : organization's : : originally : ought : :, out­house : outcome : outset : outside :, :,,, :, : :,, : : : : : :, : overarching : override : owe :, : : :, owed : : : : P P : page : : pages : : : : : paying :, plenty : : pension : point : : pensions : people : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : points : : : : perfectly : : : :, perform : : :, permanent : :,, : person : : : : : : : : : :, : : : :,, : : :, police : policies : policing : position : : :,, : : : :,, posse : posses : possibility : possible : :, : : post : power : :,, powerful : : personal : PETITIONER powers : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : reckless : recognized : recused : refer : reference : :, : : : : : :, : :,,, : : :, : referenced : : : : : :,, referring : :, : : request : requested : require : : required : requirement :, : requirements : requires : : :, reserve : resisting : refund :, regular : regularly : Regulation : regulations : resolution : relationship : : : : : resource : respect : : : questions : : :, : : quite : : quote : R R : R.C : : : react :, reaction : :, read : : : reading : real : really : : : : : : : :, : : : reason :, : : : : : : reasons : rebuttal : : : receive : : received : : receives : recipient : :,,,,, relative : relevant : : :, relied : :, rely : relying : remain : remainder : remaining : remedies :, : remember : : remind : repeat : repeatedly : report : represent : :, representative : representing : : : : reputational : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, scale : : : : : scam :, : :, :, se : seal :,, : : Rosencranz :,, scams : : : scattered : : :, scheme : : :, : : : :, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, :,,, : :, : : : : : : : : section : : : :, search : second : : ROSENKRA... : : rule : : : : : : : respects : respond : Respondents :, :, : S S : : responding : sake : responsibilities sanctioned : responsible : rest : retained : retention : : SARAH : : : saw : saying : : : : : : : : : : : : : rights : : : revolve : ridiculous : says : : : :, right : : : : :,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : :,, : : : : risking : ROBERTS : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company see :, : :, : :, : :, : seen : : sees : : send :, : : : :, : : : : : :, :,,, : : sender : sending : sense : : : : : : : sent : : :,,, : : : sentence :, : separate : :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review structures : structuring : :, : : :, : :, :, :,, student : : :, subject : : : : :,, : :, : : :, submitted : :,,, : :,, :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : State's : : :, :,, statement : : :, states :,, :,,,, :,, :,, : : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, stationery : : : :,, : : subpoena : :, subpoenas : substantive : : : : sued : suggest : : : suggested : : :, : situation : separating : series : serious : seriously : : : situations : Sixth : : Smith :, solicitor :, :, : seriousness : solution : servant :, somebody : servants : service : : : : : : : :, services : set : : : : setting : setup : SG : Sheriff : : sheriff's : sheriffs : :,, : :, : shift : shifting : show :, : showing : shows : side : : sign : : signaling : signatory's : signed : : : significant : signing : similar : : simple : simply : : : : single : sir : : someone's : somewhat : soon : sophisticated : sorry : : : : : : sort : : : : sorts : SOTOMAYOR : :,, : : : : :, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : source : Southern : sovereign : : speak : speaking : special :, :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : : :,, specific : : start : : :, suit : suits : : sum :,, :, : superiors : supervised : supervision : :, specifically suggests : : : specifics : staff :,, stake : stand : standards : : :, : statute :,, :, : : : :,, : :, : : :, : :,,, superior : :, : : :, :,, :, : : : : : : : : :, suppose : : : : : :, statutes : : : :,,,, : : : : : : : :,, Steele : : : : :, :, : strikes : :, : strong : : :, : :, structure : starting : starts : state : : supposed : Supreme :, sure :, : : : step :,, surely : surgeon : : : sword : symmetry : supporting : statutory : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : U : today : : U.S : : : : : top :, Uh­huh : undefined : underlying : : totally :, : : treasurer : treasurers : understand : treat : : : : : : understood : : : : : : : : undertake : : : : V v : : vacancy :, various : : vendors : : verifies : vice : : view : : :, : views : vigilant : violate : violated : : T T :, table : tailored : take : : :, : :, taken : :, : : talented : talking : : :, : : : : talks : : : task : : tax : :, :, :, : : : :, : :, : : taxes : Taxpayer : technical : : tell : :, : telling : tends : term : : terms : : testify : text :,, : Thank :, :,, : : :, theory : thing : : : : things : : : : :, : think :, : : : :, :, : :, : : :,,,, :, : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :,, :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, : :, : : : : :, :, : :,,, :, : thinks : : :, : third :, : : : third­party : : : : : thought : : thousands : three : throw : time : : : : : : treated : : treating : treatises : treats : trial : trouble : true : : : :,, : :, :, : :,, : :, : : : : : : truth : try : : trying : : : : Tuesday : turn : turned : turning : turns : two : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : :, : type : : types : Alderson Reporting Company violates : United :,, violation : : : : : :, unpaid : unsophisticated : unsuccessful : : :, : : : :, : :,, :, : violations : virtue : : vital :, use : : : : : : W : : :,, : wait :, waived : : : want : :, : :,, :, : : :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : wanted : : : : warrants : Washington : uses : : : : : usual : Usually : : wasn't : : way : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ways :, : We'll : we're : : :, : : : :, : : : : we've :, : weight : well­known : weren't : Wiles : win : winnings :, word :, : : words : : : work : : : : working : works : : : world : : worried : worries : worry : worst : wouldn't : : :, write : : writes : written : wrong : : : : : : X x :, : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Y Y : : year :, York : Z Z : : : : : : . : :, : : : : : : : : ­ : : : :,, : : : : : : : : , : : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 