Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  UNITED STATES, ET AL.,                :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          TEXAS, ET AL.,                                   Respondents.           : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,           Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioners. THOMAS A. SAENZ, ESQ., Los Angeles, Cal.; on behalf of             Intervenor­Respondents in support of Petitioners.     SCOTT A. KELLER, ESQ., Solicitor General of Texas,           Austin, Tex.; on behalf of Respondents.      ERIN E. MURPHY, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; for United           States House of Representatives, as amicus curiae,          supporting Respondents.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   THOMAS A. SAENZ, ESQ.          On behalf of Intervenor­Respondents    in support of the Petitioners                          ORAL ARGUMENT OF   SCOTT A. KELLER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ERIN E. MURPHY, ESQ.,       For United States House of Representatives,         as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondents            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   GEN. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case No. ­, United States v.          Texas, et al.               General Verrilli.      ORAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:                 The Secretary of Homeland Security has      decided to defer removal of the class of aliens who are           parents of U.S. citizens and LPRs, have lived in the          country continuously since , and not committed       crimes. That policy is lawful and Respondents concede         it is lawful. It is fully justified by the fundamental           reality that DHS has resources only to remove a fraction           of the unlawful aliens, the aliens presently ­­ present         unlawfully in the country now.                 This class of aliens is the lowest priority.        And there is a pressing humanitarian concern in avoiding          the breakup of families that contain U.S. citizen        children.                         The principal ­­  JUSTICE GINSBURG: Couldn't the government      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review simply, as was suggested in one of the briefs, have          given these children ­­ parents of citizens or LPRs,         given them identity cards that say "low priority," and         would there be any difference between that and what this          DAPA Guidance does?               GENERAL VERRILLI: That is ­­ that's a very          important point, Justice Ginsburg. That ­­ that is         precisely what deferred action is. Deferred action is a          decision that you were ­­ that you are a low priority            for removal, and it's an official notification to you of          that decision. And Respondents have conceded that we         have the lawful authority to do both things: To make           that judgment and to give an identification card.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, maybe it       would make logical progression if you began with your         standing argument first.               GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. And I think this          does lead right into the standing argument.                     I think the principal bone of contention      between the ­­ the Respondents and the United States is          over whether the Secretary can also authorize these        people to work and accrue ancillary benefits, and        Respondents lack standing to challenge that for three        fundamental reasons.              First, there's ­­ the injury is not       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review redressable, because even if they achieve the ­­ even if          they achieve the injunction that they want, barring us         from providing work authorization ancillary benefits, we       can, for the reason Justice Ginsburg identified, still        provide them with deferred action. And under Texas law,          they still qualify for a license under deferred action,          so there's no redressability.                Second, they have not alleged a concrete        particularized injury because the costs that they claim        now to be an injury are actually the expected and          desired result of the policy that exists in current         Texas law ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but if ­­ if         they change that policy to avoid the injury that they          allege, in other words, if they did not confer ­­ offer           driver's licenses to those who are lawfully present        because of your policy, avoided that injury, you would         sue them, wouldn't you?                GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm not sure at all that         we would sue them. It would depend on what they did.            But the fundamental ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, no. What they         did ­­ I'm hypothesizing ­­ is that they offered         driver's license to everyone, but not those who were         here under your ­­ under DAPA, under your proposal.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: Chief Justice, the key       word in your question is "hypothesize." And that's the          point, it seems to me. They have not made that change            in their law. What they ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, because they       have what seems to me a perfectly legitimate policy, is           they want driver's license to be available to people who          are lawfully present here. And if you, the Federal          government, say, well, these people are lawfully       present, that means they have to give a driver's license           to however many of them, more than half a million           people, who would be potentially eligible for them.                    And as I understand from your brief, your         answer is, well, just don't give them driver's licenses.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: The current policy is not        as Your Honor describes it. The current policy         reflected in the existing law and regulation is quite         different, and that's the point. They will give a          driver's license now to any category of person who has a           document from the Federal government, not only saying        you're lawfully present, but that you're officially ­­       we're officially tolerating your presence.                 There are vast numbers of people under       existing Texas law that are eligible for a license even           though they are not lawfully present. For example, the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review people who receive deferred action for ­­ based on         childhood arrival. But beyond that, for example, people         who are applicants for adjustment of status of whom         there are hundreds of thousands ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: But suppose ­­ suppose the        State of Texas said this policy that the government has          announced is invalid; it violates separation of powers;        therefore, we will not issue licenses to this class of          persons?             point ­­             GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think the        JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that the         Federal government could say this is not for you to say.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. We could        and we probably would. But the point is, they haven't           done it. And so in order to establish ­­                     JUSTICE ALITO: But that's the whole point        of this suit, isn't it? They don't want to give           driver's licenses to the beneficiaries of DAPA.                               GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: And unless you can tell us         that there is some way that they could achieve that,          then I don't see how there is not injury in fact.                        GENERAL VERRILLI: I disagree with that,        Justice Alito, but ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE ALITO: You disagree with which part        GENERAL VERRILLI: I think all of it.                     of it?                          (Laughter.)             GENERAL VERRILLI: Texas law and policy now        does not express that judgment. You look to their law           to tell you what their policy is now, and what the           policy is now ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, when you say       that, I'm looking at their law. And their law says that            they will give licenses to persons granted deferred        action on the basis of immigration documentation       received with an alien number and from the government.                     So that's what ­­ you're saying they've       already made the determination that they'll give       licenses to people with deferred action.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Justice Sotomayor.      That's one thing I'm saying that's quite important, but         it even goes beyond that. They're ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, but they want to         do that. Is there anything wrong with their policy          saying if you're lawfully present, you ought to have a          driver's license?              GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but I guess, Mr.         Chief Justice, what I'm trying to get across is that the           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review policy, as it's written down and which, it seems to me,           has to be taken as the authoritative statement of the          Texas policy, is not just that they want to give          licenses to people who are lawfully present. They give          licenses to all ­­ to numerous categories of people who,          under the substantive theory of law that they are         advancing now, would not be eligible ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So what your         argument is then, they should take these people out of          eligibility, too.                          GENERAL VERRILLI: No. My argument ­­       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Their argument is,       we're going to give driver's license to people subject         to deferred action. And you're saying, okay, that's         your injury? You can take that away.                    And I just think that's a real catch­.          If ­­ if you're injured, you have standing. But you're           not injured because you can change your policy and not          give driver's license to these people.                  And I suggest that ­­ I think you would           want ­­ you would sue them instantly if they said,          people here lawfully present under the Federal authority        are being discriminated against. It's a preemption         argument the government makes on a regular basis. And           if you don't, the intervenors will sue them. They've          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review already said that they think that's illegal.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: The fundamental problem,      Mr. Chief Justice, is ­­ with that theory ­­ is that it            requires this Court essentially to issue an advisory        opinion about whether this new law of theirs would, in          fact, be preempted. After all, we might think it's          preempted, but it's up to the judiciary ultimately to         decide whether it's preempted. So in order for that          injury to occur, they ­­ the law ­­ the judiciary would           have to decide it's preempted. And the normal way ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you're saying       they would not have injury because they can do this, and           you might lose the suit.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct. It's ­­       it's hypothetical at this point.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: I mean, General, I don't          understand why you wouldn't lose the suit. I mean,           Section says, "States aren't required to give State         benefits to nonqualified aliens, including deferred      action recipients."                I guess I don't really understand what the        basis of a preemption suit would be given that section.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: Justice Kagan, I'd like       to be able to agree with you about that. We don't think              actually applies to driver's licenses. And it ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review depending on what they did, we might or might not think           the law is preempted. But until they actually take that           step, which would be a significant change from Texas law           as it now exists, they really are asking you for an           advisory opinion about whether the thing they want to do          would be preempted. I mean, if you think about it ­­                        JUSTICE ALITO: You're saying they have       inflicted this injury on themselves because they have        options. And one of the options, and I assume the one             that they would like to pursue, is to deny driver's          licenses to the beneficiaries of DAPA. And if you're          going to make the argument that they lack standing         because they have a viable legal option, I think you            have to tell us whether, in the view of the United           States, it would be lawful for them to do that.                                  GENERAL VERRILLI: So, it would ­­      JUSTICE ALITO: I think the Chief Justice         asked you that question before, and you didn't get a          chance to answer it. Maybe you could answer it now.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: It would depend on what        they did and why they did it. But it does seem to me,              it's fundamental that they have to do it. I mean, think             about it this way ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: I mean, if you're saying         to ­­ you're saying to us they lack standing because          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they have an option, but we're not going to tell you now            whether it's a lawful option. You'll have to wait down            the ­­ wait to some point in the future.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: We might ­­ depending on      what they, we might well think it's unlawful. For          example, if they did try to enact this new law that           said, we're going to give licenses to everybody we're         giving them to now ­­                JUSTICE KENNEDY: But there's Article III       standing for declaratory relief all the time. You say          this course of action is being compelled on me. I want             a declaratory suit that says that it's void.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: And I think that gets to          the point ­­ that gets to the point, Justice Kennedy.          If right now, tomorrow, today instead of suing us they          had come into court and said we want a declaratory           judgment, we are thinking about ­­ in light of this          change in Federal law, we're thinking about changing our         State law to a different law, and we want a declaratory             judgment that if we do so, it won't be preempted, I           think you would throw that case out in a nanosecond as            hypothetical, and that is this case.                  That is precisely the situation we are in        right now. You have to render a judgment on that issue             to decide whether they have injury in fact with respect          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we really, or is         it enough ­­ is it enough that they would have to be put             through litigation in order to escape the policy? You          say, well, they can just not do this. And I think             it's ­­ you won't dispute, I think, that they will be            put through litigation if they do take that out.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think that could         be enough, Mr. Chief Justice, because you could have         said that in Pennsylvania v. New Jersey or in any number           of cases, that they may have to incur some cost with           respect to ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, how is that        different? If I ­­ if I own, say, a parcel of land and                 it's subject to some government regulatory program that        I think is a taking under ­­ under existing law, why            isn't the answer, well, you should go buy some other          land that's not subject to it. You can avoid the injury            by your own action.                And it seems to me that's what you're saying         here. Texas says, our injury is we have to give           driver's license here, and that costs us money. And          your answer is, well, maybe you don't have to give          driver's license. Go change the policy.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: It's a difference       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review between ­­ in your ­­ in your proposed hypothetical,         Mr. Chief Justice, that's a direct action against the          land owner by the government. In this case, we're not           acting directly against Texas. We're regulating       individual aliens, and there's an indirect and       incidental effect on Texas. And that gets to, it seems           to me, the deeper and broader point of importance here,          which is that if you're going to recognize ­­ and it           would be the first time, I think, in ­­ in our            history ­­ you're going to recognize that kind of         incidental/indirect effect as a basis for allowing one         government to sue another ­­ another, then there's        really no limit on the kinds of ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. General, in the       normal course of things, let's assume that Texas decides         tomorrow to change its law, and it says, now, contrary          to what the ­­ its law says right at this moment that            it's not going to give licenses to immigrants with         deferred action. Presumably, the immigrant who wants        that license would sue the State, correct?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: Precisely.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And make either an equal        protection or any number of preemption argument,       whatever. The State could then defend that action,         correct? Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review GENERAL VERRILLI: Of course.     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And it could raise                               legitimately full standing to raise any defense in law,         correct?                         GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It could then say that        DAPA is illegal ­­               GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ correct?                 So there is a cause. It is ­­ there is a             way for it to defend its actions and a way that it will              defends its actions.               GENERAL VERRILLI: And ­­ and I think that          points out ­­ I mean, it really goes to what the Court             said in Raines v. Byrd. You know, it may seem like this             is an important issue that is ­­ is teed up in front of             you, and it is an important issue. But, you know, the            point is that the legitimacy of the citing issues of          this importance come from deciding the context of a         concrete case or controversy, and you don't have that         here yet ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Your argument is ­­ do I         have this right? Imagine a Federal statute. Every           State must give a driver's license to a member of the             Federal armed forces. That's a statute. Second          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review statute: We are transferring one quarter of a million           soldiers to Rhode Island.                Now, Rhode Island thinks the first statute       is unconstitutional, and it also thinks that the second         statute, for some technical reason, is unlawful. We're         only talking about standing. In that circumstance, does         Rhode Island have standing?                See, totally analogous. I'm trying to say        there is a law, which you say is vague. I'm imagining             it's there. It says, Texas, you have to give a driver's             license to certain people. And then there's a second           law which says, we are sending you a million of those            people. Now, all I want to know is: Can Texas, under              those circumstances ­­ your argument is we don't know if          that's true here or not ­­ but under the ones I           hypothesize, is there standing, in your opinion?                   Texas would say the first law is wrong,        unconstitutional for some reason. The second is wrong         because it technically failed for some reason. Do they          have standing to say that?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: The ­­ I have to ­­ I           have to caveat my answer, because I think if the second            law is an immigration law that says we're going to make           an immigration policy judgment that's going to result in         additional people being in the State, then I don't think           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they would have standing.                But the fundamental point, I think, of        importance here is that the premise that the first ­­ of           the first law that they are required to give driver's          licences is not present here.                 JUSTICE BREYER: I have no doubt it isn't          present here. I asked the question to clarify what it            is I'm supposed to say if I agree with you.                       GENERAL VERRILLI: And I tried to answer         that and tell you why I think the premise is different.            I did try to answer you and then tell you why I think              the premise is different.                But I ­­ but I do think ­­ and I think this               is ­­ you know, there's a sort of a          shoe­on­the­other­foot issue here. If you really think        that a State can sue the Federal government based on           these kinds of indirect and incidental effects, then it         seems to me you'd have to also say that if a State             decided, for example, that it wasn't going to enforce         its minimum wage law anymore, and as a result, the           Federal government had to increase its enforcement costs        for Federal minimum wage laws in that State, that the          Federal government would then have standing to go into         State court and say that the State is violating State          law? I don't think anybody would think that's a valid             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review claim. But that's just the flip side of this kind of a             claim.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is the injury here        any more indirect and speculative than the injury in         Massachusetts against EPA?               GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. I ­­ yes. I think             definitely, Mr. Chief Justice. I mean, that was          obviously a closely­divided Court in that case, but with          respect to the majority opinion, it seems to me there          were ­­ there are two fundamental differences, at least         two fundamental differences.               One is what the Court said is that under         the ­­ under the Clean Air Act, that Congress had          charged the EPA with protecting States and others from         the effects of air pollution and then given a specific           cause of action to the people whose protection EPA was          charged with to sue if EPA wasn't doing its job. And            that ­­ and I think this is at page of the             opinion ­­ the Court said was indispensable, was        critical to the finding that States got special        solicitude and were allowed to sue in a manner where,           under Article III, they normally wouldn't be able to         sue.             In addition ­­ and in addition, I do think          that you do have a quite different situation in that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review there was no way for Massachusetts to avoid the effects          about which it was complaining, and there is a way here.            So ­­ so there is a difference.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maybe I could ask         you to switch.               GENERAL VERRILLI: I was just going to ask          whether I could. Thank you.                   So I think it's important, again, to frame         where we are on the merits here, that the ­­ their ­­           Texas agrees that the ­­ that DHS has the authority to           defer removal of this class of alien parents of U.S.          citizens and LPRs. They agree that that judgment is          unreviewable.             What we disagree about is whether ­­      principally, whether we also have the authority to        authorize them to work and to accrue some ancillary         benefits based on that work.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Before you get to        that, could I ask you a question about the scope of your              argument?             GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Under your argument,       could the President grant deferred removal to every        unlawful ­­ unlawfully present alien in the United        States right now?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review GENERAL VERRILLI: Definitely not.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why not?      GENERAL VERRILLI: Here are the limits.                                           Because the deferred action has ­­ over time, there have          been built up a set of administrative limits, which I'll           talk about, some administrative policy limits, and then        there's substantive statutory limits.                The administrative policy limits are these:      Deferred action has always been for the lowest        priorities for removal. And everybody agrees ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. By        "administrative," you mean by the Executive branch?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: Correct. Yes. But ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So that somehow       binds the Executive branch now, the fact that ­­ I mean,            this hasn't been approved by the Executive branch prior         to this point, either, and yet it's a fairly significant           departure.             GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me ­­ let me ­­ I          don't ­­ I wouldn't agree with that premise, Mr. Chief           Justice, but let me walk through it.                   So it's ­­ you've got to be the lowest         priority. It's ­­ there are ­­ the regulations going          back decades that talk about work authorization related        to people at deferred action say that there's got to be           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review a tie to a statutory policy that the Secretary has the            authority to implement, such things as foreign       relations, humanitarian concerns, or keeping ­­ or       family unity when one family member or more is a U.S.            citizen. So those ­­ so you've got to ground it ­­           they've got to be lowest priority; it's got to be          grounded in those policy concerns; and then are a number           of ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But the Chief is going        more fundamentally, General. Those are the parameters        that the Executive has set for itself now. He's asking           what keeps you from changing those parameters in the         future and simply saying, I have ­­ under your theory of            the case, I have discretion to defer action on          everybody? I think that's his question.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: A couple ­­ a couple of           things about that. One is there are statutory         constraints that exist now. For example, Congress has         told DHS that it has to prioritize the removal of          criminal aliens and aliens detained at the border.        There's no way we could give deferred action to those          populations consistent with ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So not ­­ not          criminals. Who else?                GENERAL VERRILLI: Not aliens detained at       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the border.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So that's        another ­­ criminals ­­               GENERAL VERRILLI: Seems to me it would        follow from that, that people who are recently        arrived ­­ recently made it into the country, if they          aren't detained at the border, we couldn't give deferred         action to them either, because seems to me that would          undermine the policy judgment of trying to maximize ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So you have         to ­­ everyone has been here for two years.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: And then ­­ and then        there are specific statutory provisions that cover some        categories of aliens like people with asylum. So then a           whole host of things that impose manageable limits.                    And I think if ­­ you know, if ­­ if the            Court were to conclude that there is standing ­­        obviously, we don't think there is, but if the Court          were to conclude ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Just        so ­­ so the categories you say would have to be           excluded are criminals, people detained at the border,        and people who've been granted asylum. And other than          that, the President could grant deferred removal to        everyone here.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: No. I'm not saying that.         You've got to ground it in affirmative policies like ­­         like the one here. And that ­­ you know, for example,            if you look it the OLC opinion, OLC reached the          conclusion that DHS couldn't grant deferred action to        the parents of the children who ­­ parents who ­­ of           people who got deferred action for childhood arrival ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: But if the President did        what the Chief Justice hypothesized, suppose the       President said, you know, there was a time when we had            open borders in the United States, and I think that's           the right policy, so we're just not going to remove          anybody. Who could challenge that?                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, obviously, we're      doing more or less the opposite now in terms of what           we're doing ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: I understand. It's a         hypothetical question. Could anybody, in your view,        challenge that?              GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah, I ­­ yes. I think            that would be challengeable under the ­­ you know, the          footnote in Heckler against Chaney. It says if you just           decide that you're not going to enforce the law at all,           then there may well be a cause of action to challenge it             there, and ­­ but that's ­­ that's a million miles from            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review where we are now.                policy ­­             And I think the key point is that the          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it's four million       people from where we are now.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, you know, that's a        big number. You're right, Justice Kennedy.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that's ­­ and that's        the whole point, is that you've talked about discretion         here. What we're doing is defining the limits of          discretion. And it seems to me that that is a           legislative, not an executive act.                             GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­    JUSTICE KENNEDY: All of the cases ­­ the         briefs go on for pages to the effect that the President           has admitted a certain number of people and then          Congress approves it. That seems to me to have it           backwards. It's as if ­­ that the President is setting           the policy and the Congress is executing it. That's          just upside down.               GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't ­­ I don't think           it's upside down. I think it's different, and it's           different in recognition of the ­­ of the unique nature          of immigration policy.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, how      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review much ­­ please, how much of a factor is the reality that             we have . million undocumented aliens in the country,         and Congress, the Legislature, has provided funds for        removing about four million. So inevitably, priorities        have to be set.                GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. Exactly.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You started out       telling us that the enforcement priorities were not at         issue; that ­­ that the problem was the benefits that          flow from that, the work authorization, the earned        income tax credit, the Social Security benefits, the        Medicare benefits.              So as I understand it ­­ and I think this is             the point you made ­­ the other side is not disputing           the fact that you have authority to exercise discretion.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: Correct. And that, I        think is the answer to ­­ that I was going to give to              your question, Justice Kennedy. And it seems to me,          with respect to this ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. General, before you       go on, I ­­ just to make sure we have ­­ we're on the               same page, you only deport ,, not four million.                     GENERAL VERRILLI: It's not four million.       Forgive me.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we have ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: ­­ yes. We have        resources for about ,. Right.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So we have ­­ we have         basically million, nine hundred thousand people that        cannot be deported because there's not enough resources,        correct?             GENERAL VERRILLI: That's correct.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So they are here whether        we want them or not.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: And the key point is that         we have always had a policy that says when you have ­­            when your presence is going to be officially tolerated,         you're not here, you're violating the immigration laws        by being here. You don't have any rights, but your           presence is going to be officially tolerated. When         you're in that circumstance, we allow you to work         because it makes sense to allow you to work. Because           otherwise ­­ you're going to be here, and otherwise, if          you can't work lawfully, you're going to either not be          able to support yourself and be forced into the         underground economy. We've had ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I have to ask you          about two pages in your reply brief. On page , you            quote the Guidance that says, "The individuals covered        are lawfully present in the United States." And less          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review than a page later, you say, "Aliens with deferred action           are present in violation of the law."                   Now, that must have been a hard sentence to          write. I mean, they're ­­ they're lawfully present, and           yet, they're present in violation of the law.                    GENERAL VERRILLI: I actually had no trouble         writing it, Mr. Chief Justice.                 (Laughter.)             GENERAL VERRILLI: The reason I had no         problem writing it is because that phrase, "lawful        presence," has caused a terrible amount of confusion in          this case; I realize it. But the reality is it means ­­             it means something different to people in the        immigration world.              What it means in the immigration world is        not that you have a legal right to be in the United             States, that your status has changed in any way. That           you have any defense to removal. It doesn't mean any of            those things, and it never has. And ­­ and so it            doesn't ­­ and so at that fundamental level, we are not           trying to change anybody's legal status on the        immigration ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lawfully present      does not mean you're legally present in the United         States. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. Tolerated ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, that ­­                               just so I get that right.                               GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Lawfully present      does not mean you're legally present.                              GENERAL VERRILLI: Correct.    JUSTICE ALITO: But they are ­­ the DAPA         beneficiaries are ­­ may lawfully work in the United         States; isn't that correct?                GENERAL VERRILLI: That's right.                 JUSTICE ALITO: And how is it possible to         lawfully work in the United States without lawfully        being in the United States?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: There are millions of       people, millions of people other than the DAPA        recipients about whom this is true right now. And this           gets to the point of why their reading of Section           is completely wrong.               JUSTICE ALITO: I'm just talking about the        English language. I just don't understand it. How can            you be ­­              GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, let me ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: How can you ­­ how can it be           lawful to work here but not lawful to be here?          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: It's ­­ let me just go         through the reality here, and ­­ and I'll give you some           sense of just how disruptive a ruling would be to accept            their theory on ­­ on who can lawfully work in the           United States.              Right now, since , one category of       people who can get work authorization are people        applying for adjustment of status. We've given out .          million of those to that category of people since ,          and in the decades before, it was hundreds of thousands          of people a year. They are not lawfully present in the             United States on the theory of having ­­ on the sense of            having lawful status. People who have applied for         cancellation of removal, those are people in removal        proceedings now since , we've given out , of         those.             JUSTICE ALITO: But those are statutory       categories, are they not?                GENERAL VERRILLI: No, no. There's no        statutory authority to do either one of two things:         either to say that they're lawfully present in the         United States; there's no authority for that. And this          is the key thing for their work authorization argument.         There is no statutory authority to grant work        authorization to those categories of people ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In those other ­­ in         those other categories, did you say that those people         were lawfully present in the United States?                               here.             GENERAL VERRILLI: No. But ­­      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you said that        GENERAL VERRILLI: But the ­­ but the key         point is that their argument about why we can't give          work authorization is a statutory argument. They say          that it's under ­­ that passed in extinguished          our right to give ­­ our ­­ our authority to give work            authorization to people whose presence we are officially        tolerating.             What I'm saying is that that is not a         plausible reading ­­    it's not a plausible reading of       the text. There's a regulation that ­­ that INS            promulgated which considered that very question of       whether passage of that statute restricted INS to giving         out work authorization only to people who are in the          category specifically identified in the statute. INS        rejected that as implausible and inconsistent with the        theory. That's been on the books for years. It's a             part of the Chevron deference.                 And then the third point ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: General ­­ please. I'm        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sorry. Go ahead.                GENERAL VERRILLI: The third point is the        consequences point. This argument they are making        says ­­ you know, if you ­­ if you go through the reg             that's in the petition, the Appendix that lists all the          different categories of people who get work       authorization, their reading of knocks out like         or of those categories. It just doesn't ­­ it's           not ­­ it doesn't just apply here.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do they have a way of          attacking that ­­               GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, they could ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ regulation?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Absolutely. They could       petition for rulemaking.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And that would be under        Section (c)?              GENERAL VERRILLI: Right. They could       petition the ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did they do that here?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: No, they did not do that         here. If ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Could ­­                GENERAL VERRILLI: I'm sorry, Justice Kagan.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Could you have done the        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review exact same thing without using that phrase in the DAPA          documents?             GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah, absolutely. And,       in fact, if the Court thinks it's a problem and wants to             put a red pencil through it, it's totally ­­ it's           totally fine. Really. It doesn't ­­ I ­­ I understand              the ­­ the issues that it's caused. But its legal           significance is a technical legal significance with        respect to eligibility for Social Security benefits and        for this tolling provision, and that really ­­ you know,          those ­­ that's the tail on the dog and the flea on the             tail of the dog.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: You were asked about an        APA action. If they brought an APA action, would they           be entitled at least to ask for a preliminary injunction           while the notice­and­comment procedure was ­­                                         GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't ­­      JUSTICE KENNEDY: ­­ commencing?     GENERAL VERRILLI: You know, forgive me,       Justice Kennedy. I haven't thought about that. I have             my doubts if they would be entitled to get a preliminary            injunction under those circumstances.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: They would have ­­ they        would have standing to object if the rulemaking hearing         came out the wrong way.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             GENERAL VERRILLI: Oh, I think if we're ­­         if we're talking about whether there's a ­­ a          notice­and­comment issue here, I ­­ you've decided that         they have standing. So if they have standing ­­ if you            have standing to get to the notice­and­comment issue        here, they'd have standing in a notice­and­comment        proceeding, sure.              announced ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, when he       JUSTICE BREYER: But they don't have       standing in the Court, necessarily. I mean, loads of           people have standing ­­                                       GENERAL VERRILLI: Yeah, no ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ to bring actions in ­­        GENERAL VERRILLI: Sorry, I wasn't clear,        Justice Breyer.              If this Court decides ­­ if this Court gets         to the notice­and­comment issue here, this Court will        have decided that they have Article III standing. And          if they do, then they would then, too.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: When he announced ­­       when he announced ­­ the President announced DACA, the         predecessor provision, he said that if you broadened it         ­­ this is a quote, "Then, essentially, I would be            ignoring the law in a way that I think would be very              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review difficult to defend legally." What was he talking         about?             GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­ so I think two ­­          there's two possible things. One is what DACA does is           what DAPA does, which is provide tolerated presence and         essentially the ability to work. If he had said, I'm           actually going to give these people lawful permanent        resident status or legal status, that would be going         further.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Or say ­­ or say         they were lawfully present.                GENERAL VERRILLI: And ­­ and well, but ­­        but as I said, I ­­ you know, I really think that ­­                           And then ­­ and then second, the other thing         is, you know, maybe he thought he couldn't extend it at           that time to DAPA. But, you know, what happened here is            that the President and the Secretary went to the Office          of Legal Counsel and asked for an opinion about the          scope of their authority to ­­ to ­­ the scope of this            discretionary authority, and they got one. And they         exercised it consistently with that and up to the limits          of that and no further.                 And so, you know, I do think whatever the          President may have met ­­ meant, we went through that          process, we came to that conclusion, and we ­­ and acted           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review on that conclusion and respecting the limits that OLC         decided.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: There's ­­ there's no       challenge to DAPA in it?                 GENERAL VERRILLI: No, right, which, as a        legal matter is no different.                 Thank you.              If I might reserve the balance of my time.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.                   Mr. Saenz.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS A. SAENZ               ON BEHALF OF THE INTERVENOR­RESPONDENTS                   IN SUPPORT OF THE PETITIONERS                 MR. SAENZ: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Jane Does, three Texas mothers of U.S.        citizen children, seek the opportunity to apply for        discretionary, temporary and revocable relief from the       daily fear that they will be separated from their         families and detained or removed from their homes under         the current nonuniform and frequently arbitrary Federal       immigration enforcement system, which fails to provide       any reliable opportunity to be identified as low        priority.             Their own State of Texas, through this suit,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has blocked the Guidance that would secure the Jane Does          an opportunity to step forward, register and apply and         obtain a timely decision with respect to deferred         action. Texas does so based on asserted indirect and          speculative budgetary injury that contradicts the      State's own legislative decision, after balancing all       policy considerations to subsidize and encourage the       acquisition of driver's licenses with no annual or        cumulative limit on subsidies in that form.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think it        would be illegal if Texas adopted a policy saying          everyone lawfully present in Texas except people subject        to DAPA get a driver's license?                   MR. SAENZ: I think it would be, in candor,           subject to a challenge that would revolve around the          circumstances and the reasoning behind that new       legislation. It's important, of course, to note that         Texas has not done that. And there's no indication that           its legislative process would result in determining that        its previous decision that subsidized licenses make       sense without limit has some endpoint. The circumstance         that you've described where it specifically targets one        set of deferred action recipients would certainly raise        questions. It would be resolved if ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How about if they just        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review said ­­ let's take it out of DAPA ­­ if they just said,             you know something? There's too many deferred action         people. It doesn't matter why you're deferred ­­        political refugee, the people waiting for a different         status ­­ we're just going to do it for everybody.                      MR. SAENZ: In that circumstance, I think         it, too, would be subject to challenge. It would be a            different challenge because of circumstances, and the       reasoning would be different. There would be equal         protection claims. There might be preemption claims.        And those would be resolved in the kind of concrete          clash of real interest that this Court has indicated         Article III supports. You would have the State of Texas           defending a decision it has made to change its law and            to keep that law in place. Then you would have           aggrieved individuals who would have been denied a        driver's license because of that change.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Not every State grants       licenses to deferred action individuals, do they?                   MR. SAENZ: That's correct, Your Honor. In         this case, it would arise in the context of a change            which could raise equal protection concerns to be        resolved in the kind of concrete clash of interest that          this Court has indicated are behind Article III.                      I think it's important to note that not only        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has Texas not changed its policy ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Do I take it from the way           you are phrasing this that you actually think that the          equal protection concerns would be more serious than the         preemption concerns?              MR. SAENZ: I think it depends on the          circumstances of how Texas is to make its decision. All           the more reason to wait until it's actually made a          decision through a legislative process where there would         be a record of why the legislators chose to change from            a policy that currently provides licenses to anyone who         can demonstrate that they are authorized to be in the          United States, to something that would leave some folks         in that category out.                If they would decide that tolerated presence       is not authorization, for example, we would have a         record of why they made that decision. Of course, we           are not there yet because Texas has not made a decision            to change what its current policy is, and there is no           indication that ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: In ­­ in the record, that         you're more familiar with than I, and I would ask the            other side the same question, I've read in the briefs          quite a lot that the reason that they don't want to give             driver's licenses to these , extra people is it's         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review expensive.             Is there any other reason that's in this        record, such as ­­ we could imagine other reasons. Is           there any serious effort to rest their claim? We don't           want to give them licenses on anything other than money?                                              MR. SAENZ: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE BREYER: What?    MR. SAENZ: Governor Abbot has indicated       that, in the record ­­                            JUSTICE BREYER: In the record here.       MR. SAENZ: Yes, it's in the record here, I          believe, Your Honor, that, in fact, this is a political           dispute. They do not agree with the policy adopted by           the Administration, though they have conceded in this        case that it is within the Executive's discretionary        authority.             JUSTICE BREYER: You're talking about in       general. I'm focusing on the narrow question of how          Texas is hurt, specifically, not a political        disagreement. How are they specifically hurt by giving         these people driver's licenses?                            money.             MR. SAENZ: Your Honor, they ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: One way is it costs them         MR. SAENZ: Yes.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Are there other ways?       MR. SAENZ: No, Your Honor. That's the only                                  thing they put forward in one ­­                              JUSTICE BREYER: That's the answer.      MR. SAENZ: And, in fact, it shows that they          believe they would face additional expenses, though       there's not really enough to conclude that it would         change the State's previous determination, taking into       account those costs from every subsidized license ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Isn't ­­ isn't       losing money the classic case for standing?                   MR. SAENZ: It's a classic case for a          private individual, Your Honor, but here, we're talking        about a State that has made a decision, as States often             do, to spend money by subsidizing licenses because it's         balanced other considerations, including ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We said in       Massachusetts against EPA that we have a special         solicitude for the claims of the States.                   MR. SAENZ: Yes. In that case, it was not a            financial claim. As you know, Your Honor, it was a           claim related to the State's quasi­sovereign interest       over land.              In addition, as General Verrilli has      indicated, there was a procedural right within the Clean          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Air Act that does not exist here. Indeed, if a           procedural right were to be established under the APA         itself, there is no limit to the number of States that           could come forward to challenge any domestic policy of         any kind by this or any future Administration.                     JUSTICE ALITO: If an employer took the       position that the employer was not going to hire a DAPA            beneficiary because the employer believes that they are        not ­­ that they are not lawfully authorized to work,          would prefer someone else over them, could that person         sue on any theory of discrimination, for example, under         Section ?              MR. SAENZ: They could, Your Honor. And ­­         and the outcome of that case, I think, has not been            clearly established by precedent so far. But it would          be a clash between folks with concrete interest, an          employer who wants to hire someone, not the individual         who ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: If that's true then, DAPA        gives them a legal right. It's more than just putting            them in a low­priority prosecution status.                   MR. SAENZ: I think it's important to note,          Your Honor, that work authorization is a separate         determination from deferred action itself. Not everyone        who receives deferred action will receive work       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review authorization. I also think ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: But work authorization, in       your view, gives them a legal right they did not have            before.             MR. SAENZ: It gives them the right to work          with authorization, certainly. However, I also need to          go back to standing and point out that work         authorization has nothing whatsoever to do with driver's        licenses in Texas, where the test is authorized to be in           the U.S. ­­              JUSTICE GINSBURG: When you ­­ when you        answered the question about ­­ you said there might be a            suit. You are not saying who would win that suit.                        MR. SAENZ: That's correct.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: You're saying it's a       question. Not that they have a legal right, but anyone            can sue. You can always sue.                   MR. SAENZ: It's far from clear, I think.          The precedent is not clear enough to determine the         outcome of that case.                JUSTICE ALITO: What is ­­ but what is your          position on that?               MR. SAENZ: Our position would be that it is          something to be litigated. In fact, to be ­­ in all            candor, we have litigated it to a settlement. So, no,            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review no established precedent to make it clear one way or the           other.              JUSTICE ALITO: But you believe they do have        the right?              MR. SAENZ: They do have work authorization,        and that certainly means that they ought not be subject          to unreasonable discriminatory bases for denying their       work. It's different from when they don't have work          authorization. But going back to the work        authorization, it has no relationship to the driver's        licenses. In fact, they could receive licenses without         ever applying or receiving work authorization.                  There's no connection between the two.      Therefore, any concerns about work authorization would       not redress ­­ redress the injury behind standing of the          State of Texas.               JUSTICE ALITO: In the Whiting case a few          terms ago, the Court upheld an Arizona statute that         imposed pretty severe civil penalties on an employer who         employed individuals who were not authorized to work.        So if an employer in Arizona hires DAPA beneficiaries         and the State attempts to impose those civil penalties         on that employer, I assume that you believe that DAPA           would provide a legal defense to that?                    MR. SAENZ: I believe there would be a          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review defense, but before that, because the Whiting case        involved a requirement to use either by system under the           verified system, those who were work authorized, whether        through deferred action or otherwise, should come back        as authorized workers.               So I think the State of Arizona, which         premised its statute in part to receive this Court's         blessing of that statute on relying on Federal decision         makers, would not be in a position to engage in what            you've described.              JUSTICE ALITO: Well, prior to DAPA, if the         employer had employed these individuals, the employer       would be subject to those penalties, would it not?                                 be.             MR. SAENZ: That is correct.      JUSTICE ALITO: And after DAPA, it would not         MR. SAENZ: Work authorization is an       authorization to work that is separate from the        deferred­action determination. Basically, the State of       Texas has conceded the deferred­action determination and       seems to be focusing on work authorization. But that          work authorization has absolutely no relationship to the        alleged injury of driver's licenses.                   I see my time is up, Your Honor.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Mr. Saenz.              General Keller.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT A. KELLER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. KELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  DAPA is an unprecedented unlawful assertion      of executive power. DAPA would be one of the largest           changes in immigration policy in our nation's history ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How can you say that? I          mean, we have the Fairness Act that happened in .          It granted basically the same thing, deferred action and         work authorization, to . million people out of         million. That was a ­­ percent of the immigrant            population of the time was affected. Here, the best          estimate is that only percent are affected.                    So at least once before, the President has        taken action that has a greater percentage effect than          now. So why is it the largest? Is it the number of              people?             MR. KELLER: Well, the Family Fairness       Program, first of all, was done pursuant to statutory         authority. It was a voluntary departure program. It           was not an extra statutory deferred action program.                    Also, I believe only , people actually        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review got relief there.               And what Congress did in after the        Family Fairness Program ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's because      Congress decided to step in. Here, we have a Congress            that's decided ­­ some members of the Congress have         decided they don't like it, and so Congress has remained          silent. It doesn't mean that at some later point after           the election or whenever, Congress can't step in and do          what it wants to do.                 MR. KELLER: But ­­ but, Justice Sotomayor,        I think that's backwards. Congress has to grant the          statutory authority first for the Executive to be able         to act. And to do so, on a question that's of this deep               economic significance, it would have to do so expressly.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You know, you keep       saying that, "deep economic significance." Those nearly         million unauthorized aliens are here in the shadows.         They are affecting the economy whether we want to or          not.             The answer is, if Congress really wanted not        to have an economic impact, it would ­­ it would allot           the amount of money necessary to deport them, but it          hasn't.             MR. KELLER: But what Congress did in         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with work authorization, and with benefits, is it         restricted work and benefits as an alternative mechanism        to enforce immigration law. Those judgments acknowledge        there are going to be people in the country that are           unlawfully present, and yet, Congress put forward those        barriers to work and to benefits precisely to deter         unlawful immigration. What the Executive is trying to         do here is flout that determination.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except that the ­­ the        work authorization ability of the Attorney General to do         has been clearly stated since , and Congress hasn't         taken that away. It may at some later point, but it            still has not undone the regulation.                   MR. KELLER: But in , Congress passed a         comprehensive framework for combatting the employment of       unauthorized aliens. That was a decision to repudiate          the past practice and enact a general Federal ban on the            employment of unauthorized aliens.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And ­­ and the       regulation permitting the Attorney General to give work        authorization to deferred­action individuals has stood      since that time.               MR. KELLER: But when that regulation was        passed in , the Executive said that the number         covered by that regulation was so small as, quote, "to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review be not worth recording statistically," unquote, and,       quote, "the impact on the labor market is minimal,"         unquote.             So regardless of what Congress may have       acquiesced to afterwards, that regulation has always       been known as being for a small class of individuals           for deferred action.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But it's been applied to        a large class. It was applied to a large class in .              . million out of four million. percent of the           illegal population. That was a fairly significant         number, and Congress didn't act thereafter. In fact, it          expanded the program the President had started.                   MR. KELLER: No. The Family Fairness         Program was voluntary departure with statutory      authority. Congress responded in by capping it at           days. And the Executive acknowledged that when         Congress did that, it could no longer authorize        employment under that voluntary departure program.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.                MR. KELLER: But here, with deferred action,        when they've only ­­ the Executive has only been         granting to deferred action permits a year,          there's no way Congress would have acquiesced to        granting four million permits than in a program like          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it has ­­ it has         acquiesced to larger numbers of Salvadorians,      Guatemalans, Hondurans, Haitians, Chinese, the TNU visa       applications, those numbers have been much larger than        the limited numbers you're quoting right now.                   MR. KELLER: And those programs would have        been under temporary protective status; humanitarian      parole, deferred enforced departure, which is justified       ­­ and has been, at least, under the President's Article          II power, and there's no suggestion that ­­ here DAPA is           unprecedented because this is a extra statutory deferred         action program that is not bridging lawful status. The          aliens do not have a preexisting status, and they don't           have an eminent status.                JUSTICE KAGAN: General, could I take you         back a few steps? General Verrilli said a couple of             times that you've essentially conceded the legality of        DAPA taking out the work authorization and the Social         Security benefits; is that correct?                 MR. KELLER: No. I'll be very clear. When           the Executive is forbearing from removal on a        case­by­case basis, that is what this Court in Reno         noted was deferred action enforcement discretion. But        when the Executive is transforming unlawful presence       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review into lawful presence, and granting eligibility for work        authorization and Medicare ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Let me make sure I        understand that. You're saying that the government        could do this case­by­case, one by one with respect to          all the people in the class, but that the government          cannot identify the entire class and say we're        forbearing from enforcement; is that correct?                  MR. KELLER: While that would be a harder,          tougher case, I do believe that they could do it class            based if they were simply forbearing from removal.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: So that's what I asked         originally. If they were simply forbearing from        removal, and there was not work authorization attached        to it, and there was not Social Security or any other           benefits attached to it, are you conceding that?                    MR. KELLER: In this case, given that they         are removing , people a year, we admit that they           could do forbearance from removal. But what they can't          do is grant authorization to be in the country.                     There's a ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can I ­­ can I ask you            specifically? You have a statement in your brief, and           that's ­­ it says that the Executive could give cards,          identification cards to all these people saying "low        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review priority." Are you adhering to that? Is ­­ is that            what ­­ what you mean? These people you're objecting to           work authorizations, Social Security, but the      government, not one by one, but to give everyone who          fits into this category a card that says low priority?                       MR. KELLER: The government, as part of its         enforcement discretion, could do that. But that's very         different than what they're doing here where they're        granting lawful presence. And that matters because        that's why we have to grant driver's license. That's          why they get ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: General, are you ­­ are you         just referring to that single phrase in the DAPA         memorandum? Is that what you're referring to? Because          General Verrilli, of course, says you could strike that         phrase today if you wanted to; that that phrase really          has no legal consequence whatsoever; that all this        document does is do exactly what you said, which is to           grant forbearance, to tell people we are ­­ you are not           our enforcement priority, we are not going to deport you          until we say otherwise, which we can tomorrow too.                     MR. KELLER: That lawful presence phrase is        key because that's the first time in a deferred­action          program the Executive has taken that position. But even          if that phrase were struck, that would still not cure          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the defect. And the reason is because what the          Executive is doing when they're granting deferred action        is they are affirmatively granting a status. And we           know that from their own benefits regulations, which say         ­­ this is H.C.F.R. .. Sub A says lawfully present            qualifies if you're in deferred action status. And then          sub B says, well, just because we're forbearing from          removal, that doesn't necessarily mean that you're       lawfully present.              And so what is going on here is a         transformation of deferred action from what this Court        recognized in Reno to something far more than        forbearance from removal. It is granting a status, and           that status then entails certain things beyond even        Medicare and Social Security. For instance ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess ­­ I really did want            to know, just take out the work authorization, take out          the Social Security, and take out that phrase. Can the           ­­ can the government say to all of these people, and           say it all at once, not one by one, yes, you're a low ­­              all of you are low priority, and we will not be coming            after you, and we will not deport you unless we change           our minds.              MR. KELLER: And Justice Kagan, they can do         that, and they can do that under the unchallenged         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prioritization memo. But what they can't do is say it's           deferred action that grants a status under the benefits          regulation ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: I think that's just a label.           Can they do that?                MR. KELLER: It is a label, but it's a label             that Congress created ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, my hypothetical is ­­       I mean, you're suggesting that the label has some legal          consequence. And my hypothetical is we just say to          these however many million people it is, you will not be           deported unless we change our minds. Can they do that?                       MR. KELLER: If that's all they were doing         yes. But as soon as they link it ­­                     JUSTICE KAGAN: Even though it's many       millions of people they could do that? And they can do            it all at once.                MR. KELLER: Yes, as long as they're not         abdicating. And here, we are not challenging the         prioritization ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So if that's right,         then it seems to me your real gripe here ­­ and you ­­            maybe it's a real gripe ­­ your real gripe here is to             the work authorization piece and to the benefits pieces;         is that right?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. KELLER: And the granting of lawful        presence, because that is what's going to ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well ­­ and that's just a         label that General Verrilli says they could strike out         in a moment.                MR. KELLER: Well, that's ­­ that's their        position, but that's wrong. And the reason it's         wrong ­­                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, it's their memorandum.       MR. KELLER: It is their memorandum.                   (Laughter.)                         term?                         MR. KELLER: And it's ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: But isn't it a statutory         MR. KELLER: It is ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Does the term "lawful       presence" appear in statutes enacted by Congress?                   MR. KELLER: It does. It appears in IIRIRA,          the re­entry bar, it appears in the Social Security and          Medicare's ­­ it ­­ it appears in the gun possession          statute. "Lawful presence" allows an alien to possess         guns. That's the Oriana case that we cite from the           Fifth Circuit. And their treating it is also allowing          advanced parole, which we now know apparently some DACA         recipients have gotten green cards and a path to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review citizenship.             JUSTICE KAGAN: But then it seems to me,         General Keller, that your ­­ that what you should be          attacking is not DAPA. What you should be attacking is           the work authorization regulations that the DHS, or        before that the INA, has had for years. Or you            should be attacking other connections that DHS is making         with respect to these people, but not DAPA itself.                     MR. KELLER: But Justice Kagan, I think it          is DAPA itself that we're challenging. And the reason          why is because that is what is transforming unlawful         conduct into authorized lawful conduct ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where does it say that in         DAPA? We have the DAPA directive. I didn't see            anything in it about work authorization or about Social         Security.             MR. KELLER: The DAPA directive does not        mention Social Security. It does mention work        authorization. This is Pet. App. a. And I'll quote           from it: "Deferred action means that for a specified           period of time, an individual is permitted to be         lawfully present in the United States."                  Now, the Executive wants to take the       position that that has no legal consequence. Of course,          the OLC memo at JA ­­ and this has been misquoted in             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review their reply brief ­­ said that what's going on with          tolerated presence is it is ­­ the forward action will          be toleration of an alien's continued unlawful presence.                    Now, if it's continued unlawful presence,      they're not authorized to be in the country; we don't          have to issue driver's license. They can't get deferred          action and gun ­­ sorry ­­ they can't get Medicare,          Social Security, gun possession.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: You tie the driver's       license to work authorization? Let's say somebody is in          this deferred status but isn't working. Do they ­­         under Texas law, do they get driver's licenses?                    MR. KELLER: Under Texas law ­­ and this is          our Texas statute ­­ if someone is authorized to be in           the United States, they're eligible for a driver's         license.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it ­­ it sounds like         they don't have to have any work authorization.                    MR. KELLER: That's correct. They need to         be authorized to be in the country.                   But to give some context to how this works,         we have to rely on the Federal government immigration         classifications. I mean, we determine whether someone         is eligible for a driver's license. We run that through            the Federal save background system. So we ask the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Federal government, is this individual authorized to be        in the country? They say yes or no.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the government       also says you don't have to do that, or maybe you don't            have to do that and maybe ­­ maybe or not they won't sue             you. But why don't you go ahead and not give them            driver's license?              MR. KELLER: Well, I ­­ I think, as           Your Honor had suggested before, that we are in a          catch­ here. Either we have to not incur millions of           dollars of financial harm, which ­­ which is a         quintessential Article III injury, or we have to change         our law and somehow we have to come up with a different             background check system. We wouldn't have a uniform          policy.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. How does        somebody get a license in Texas? I know how to do it in                New York and Washington, because I lived in both places.           But I don't know how to do it in Texas. Do you go up,                and you do what?                MR. KELLER: You ­­ you would go to a          Department of Motor Vehicles. You would show the         documentation showing who you are and that you're        eligible for a license.                 Now, in the context of aliens ­­ and this is          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review at JA to outlining the process ­­ then the State            verifies that the individual has authorization to be in         the country. And that's sort of the Federal ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Now, I do          know, because I've experienced it, that lines are very         long at DMVs. Sometimes people wait the entire day.          And I know that they leave the next day when they            haven't gotten to them. And they keep coming back.          It's not an ideal situation. Most States, to avoid the           frustration, do ramp up, but many States don't. People          just keep coming back until their license can be         processed.             So why is it that you have to spend all this           money? Why can't you just have your regular process and           let people wait on line?                 MR. KELLER: Well, first of all, under the         Federal REAL ID Act, if our State's driver's license         recipients want to be able to use that license to get           through airport securities, TSA security, there has to        be integrity in the license for the Federal government.         And so we have to check whether an alien is actually ­­                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Fine. I was just         saying, why do you have to ramp up? This ­­ I mean, one               of the allegations ­­ I haven't really gone through it           carefully enough or assume it's true ­­ claims that your          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review affidavit estimating losses in your process is made up         basically because A, there's already a built­in profit         from profiting licenses of $, that you really don't         know if you have to add all this personnel, because          every five million people are not going to walk into DMV           in one day. And that the numbers are going to be much             less no matter what, because not everybody ­­ not all           million are going to want licenses to start with.                      So the question I have is, why do you have           to ramp up? Why can't you just let people wait on line?                         MR. KELLER: Yeah. So this is at JA to            . And the reason is, is because there's going to be            a spike in the applicants for driver's licenses, and         there are much more to do than simply granting a          license. There would have to be processing the         paperwork, making other determinations.                            But in any event, that ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you do that in the         speed you do it in. Meaning, I got a temporary piece of               paper when I was there, and it took weeks for me to get              the regular license while the motor vehicle bureau did         what it was going to do as fast or as slow as it wanted              to do it.               MR. KELLER: Well, and here, we have a         factfinding that we would incur these costs. Neither         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review parties or my friends on the other side of ­­ said that            this clear error. The budget document ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This is a jurisdictional        standing question.              MR. KELLER: It is a jurisdictional standing         question.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do we just accept at        face value something that might ­­ might not be true?                      MR. KELLER: But we have ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can we give you standing        just on the basis of you saying, I'm going to do this            when it makes no sense?                 MR. KELLER: We have a factfinding here.         They have not alleged it's clear error. We also have           declarations in from Wisconsin and Indiana that have not         been challenged. The bottom line is, if we're going to           have to issue more driver's licenses, it's going to cost          more money.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Breyer.                  JUSTICE BREYER: I would like to ask a          question.             The only thing I found here is about money,          really. If there's something else that's worrying you,         it's ­­ it's sort of hidden. But money is money; I            understand that. And my question is about standing.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review And this is technical, but it's important to me.                     Looking at the briefs, awful lot of briefs,        senators, both sides. Awful lot of briefs from States,          both sides. Members of Congress. Why? Because this           has tremendous political valence. Keep that in mind.                     Now, keeping that in mind, let's go back to         two old cases which are scarcely mentioned. But old          Supreme Court cases never die ­­                 (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ unless, luckily, they're       overruled. And a few have been. They're submerged like            icebergs.             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: The one I'm thinking of is         Frothingham v. Mellon, Massachusetts v. Mellon. And        there, in those cases, the Federal government had given         something to some people. There were beneficiaries.        Other people wanted to sue because they said that means          we're going to have to pay more money. And the Court            said, you other people from Massachusetts, I'm sorry        Massachusetts lost, but lo and behold, it did.                    That's just because I'm from Massachusetts.                  (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: But the point is they lost,         because, says the Court, we can't let you just sue on           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the basis that you, as a taxpayer, will have to spend            more money. Because if we do, taxpayers all over the           country will be suing in all kinds of cases, many of           which will involve nothing more than political       disagreements of all kinds. And before you know it,          power will be transferred from the President and the         Congress, where power belongs, to a group of unelected          judges.             And for that reason, we say you individuals        who will have to pay more money will; cannot just sue on            that basis. And as for the State, it cannot represent           you parens patriae because this is between the Federal         government and the citizens. They're the ones who have          to pay. And as far as Massachusetts is concerned,          again, bringing up to a case that they won, that was            their own coastline. And that's not money. That's the           physical territory belonging to Massachusetts. And, of        course, they have standing to protect that.                   Now, I want your ­­ think for a second. I'm             finished. You see ­­ you see my point. And I want to               know how you get around that, Frothingham, Massachusetts        v. Mellon, that when you give a benefit here, hurt the            taxpayer via money over there, he doesn't have the kind          of interest that gives him standing.                  MR. KELLER: First, we're raising financial       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review harms from our own State's fisc. That's not a parens            patriae. And we're also raising sovereign harms, and         that's Massachusetts v. EPA. We have ceded to the          Federal government the authority to determine who's       lawfully present within the borders of the States.         Now ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Well, sovereign harms, you       realize, would follow a fortiori, because if a State           cannot sue and its citizens cannot sue to stop the Feds           from giving somebody a benefit on the ground that it           will cost the State or the individuals more money,         surely they cannot sue just by announcing it requires a          change in law in general, or because it requires ­­         hurts our sovereign interest, for then every case of         political disagreement where States disagree would come       before the Court.               MR. KELLER: Well, but I think a lot of            those cases would be taken care of through causation         requirements, injury­in­fact requirements, and the zone      of interest test, for instance, the adjusted gross        income example and the veterans benefits example that        the other side has brought up. I think that all those             cases would be screened out through the zone­of­interest        test.             Here, we put forward over a thousand pages         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of evidence into the preliminary injunction record with        over a dozen declarations and have factfindings        establishing exactly what Arizona v. United States said,        which is that the States bear the consequences of         illegal immigration.              And when we can come to court and show a          concrete injury and a policy that is causing that          injury, and by enjoying that policy, we wouldn't have to          incur either the financial harm or the sovereign harm,         that's precisely when ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that ­­                  MR. KELLER: ­­ you have Article III        cases ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ that really pits the        States against every Federal agency. And any harm,         financial harm that indirectly flows from a change in          policy would be subject to attack.                  Let me give you a prime example. Okay?          Imagine Texas passed a law forbidding its State pension          plan from investing in any financial company whatsoever        that the Federal Stability Oversight Council declares       systematically important. Too big to fail.                   Texas reasonably doesn't want to invest      money in companies that if they fail are going to tank           the economy. Now, let's say the Federal government sets          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review out a policy memorandum that says, in our discretion, we           are not going to declare some insurance firms under a          certain size as too big to fail. We just don't think we             should. Okay?               Why can't the States sue that Federal agency        and say the law mandates that you tell us who's too big            to fail?              MR. KELLER: I don't think States would be          protected by laws governing which banks are too big to          fail, but States absolutely are protected by immigration        laws saying who is lawfully present within our borders.         And I think ­­ so that would be ­­ we did that under the               zone of interest test. So even if ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We already said in       Arizona v. Whiting that you can't tell the Federal         government who to say is legally or not legally present          here. You don't have a right to set immigration policy.                                    MR. KELLER: And that's precisely ­­      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're not in the zone        of interest of this ­­ of this ­­ of the immigration           law.             MR. KELLER: Oh, we absolutely are, and        that's precisely why I am standing here. Because as           the Court recognized in Arizona, just because the        Federal government pervasively regulates immigration,     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that doesn't mean that the States don't have a         significant interest in who's within their borders. We         have an easily identifiable sovereign interest on who's        within our borders. However ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the State can't       remove anyone, and we still go back to the basic          problem: . million people. Congress is not         appropriating money to ­­ to remove more than ­­ what is           it? ­­ four million of them.                  So there are these people that are ­­ who         are here to stay no matter what. And you have conceded            that the Federal government can say, low priority,        here's your card. Not going to deport you unless we           change our mind.               So the only thing that's involved is the        work, and you haven't challenged that separately.       You're challenging DAPA.               MR. KELLER: And ­­ and DAPA itself purports         to grant not only work authorization, but also transform         lawful conduct into lawful conduct.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: We've already gone      through that. We've ­­ we have agreed that that means           tolerated presence. The government has said, take out         that word. It was unfortunate that we used it. What we             mean is tolerated presence.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. KELLER: But it's not just an        unfortunate slip. When they're granting deferred­action       status, under their regulations, that is lawful       presence. So they want you to take out "lawful          presence" from the DAPA memo and pretend "lawful        presence" isn't in there. But then when you go into the            regulations ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: But then why aren't you       challenging the regulations? I mean, I understand what           you're saying that DAPA in some sense triggers the         regulations, but only because the regulations say what        they say, that your real challenge is not to DAPA, which           is the nonenforcement part of this. Your real challenge          is to the regulations, the fact that nonenforcement        leads to a certain set of results and yet you're not            here challenging those regulations.                MR. KELLER: Well, insofar as you'd conceive        of our case of challenging those regulations, it would         be challenging them as applied to DAPA, but when         Congress ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem is that you        haven't exhausted administratively, and we always      require you to do that. There isn't an exception, as I            understand it, under the APA, for your failure to         exhaust your avenues in the agency first.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review              MR. KELLER: Well ­­ but this is ­­ we are          challenging DAPA. We are challenging that memo.                                JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­ please. Go ahead.           MR. KELLER: And when we bring forth that         suit, which only occurred as of November , , just          because we're challenging DAPA's granting of deferred       action doesn't mean in the four narrow categories that         Congress has passed statutes allowing deferred action ­­       for VAWA self­petitioners, T­ and U­visa applicants, and        widows and widowers ­­ that somehow we'd have to also be           challenging ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think this? Suppose         that instead of doing DAPA, DHS had decided to go one by            one by one and it just ­­ you know, it sent a notice to               each person. Do you think at that point that ­­ that            DHS could also say, and this will include work         authorization because of our preexisting regulations?                  MR. KELLER: Insofar as they were granting        lawful presence, no. Work authorization, I think at          most look, you'd look at, well, has there been         congressional acquiescence to this minimal program ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: I guess ­­ I'm not sure I           understood the first part of that because let's just,         like, take out the labels. Just ­­ it notifies a single             person, you're low priority. We're not going to deport          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you unless we change our minds. And by virtue of           preexisting regulations, you now can work on the books.         Is that legal? Could ­­ could DHS do that?                      MR. KELLER: I don't think there's statutory         authorization. There may have been congressional       acquiescence to a practice in a ­­ very small cases            that's bridging lawful ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: See, that's interesting      because I thought ­­ and as you said, there's not           statutory authorization with respect to that, and I        thought your entire argument is that they can't do this,          except for statutory authorization. And now you're        saying, well, in some cases they can do it.                     MR. KELLER: Well, Justice Kagan, we have        multiple arguments. The first is a statutory argument.          And our backup argument, which is a response to the           Executive's congressional acquiescence argument, is that      at most, Congress would have acquiesced to a practice of           very small uses that were bridged ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: And how about this? How         about DHS doesn't do it one by one. How about DHS says,             it's senseless to do it one by one. We should use some             categories. Here's the category. You've been here for           years. You're entitled to ­­ not entitled. You can            stay unless we change our minds.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             So that's the category. So it's a smaller          category, but, you know, there's some ­­ there's a lot           of people in that.                MR. KELLER: If there was no previous lawful         status or an eminent lawful status, there's no way         Congress has acquiesced to that.                 And if I can back up ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: So wait a minute. So ­­ so            that's important. So ­­ so DHS could not say to all the             people who have been here for years and perfectly law           abiding, Congress could not say to those, you know, tens          of thousands of people, let's say, not millions, tens of          thousands, all right, you ­­ we won't deport you unless          we change our minds, and you can work, you can feed your            families, you can do that. Congress ­­ DHS could not do            that?             MR. KELLER: Congress could. DHS does not         have statutory authority right now, of carte blanche        authority to grant lawful ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: So this has nothing to do         with the scope of this policy. This has nothing to do            with, oh, how many millions of people are in this          policy. You're saying even with respect to a much           smaller policy of the kind that DHS or its predecessor          agencies have done literally every year for the last         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review three decades, that all of that was ultra vires.                     up.             MR. KELLER: Mr. Chief Justice, my time is         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please, you may       answer the question.               MR. KELLER: When we're talking about the        scope of the program as opposed to bridging lawful         status, the scope goes to, is this a question of deep            economic significance? It also goes to when the          work authorization was justified, the Executive was       telling everyone through the administrative process that       this was for a minuscule number of people, and it           wouldn't affect the labor market.                 And this also brings to light that here, the         Executive didn't even use notice­and­comment in      promulgating this sweeping ­­ their theory is that they         can grant deferred action where there's not going to be          lawful status, that no court can review it, and they          didn't even use notice­and­comment procedure.                 That is unprecedented, is a sweeping       assertion as Justice Jackson said in Youngstown. "It is          the duty of the Court to be last, not first to give up             the separation of powers."                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.                   MR. KELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Murphy.                   ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIN E. MURPHY             FOR UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,            AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS                  MS. MURPHY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               Three years ago the Executive asked Congress       to enact legislation that would have given it the power          to authorize most of the people that are living in this           country unlawfully to stay, work, and receive benefits,        and Congress declined.               Now the Executive comes before this Court       with the extraordinary claim that it has had the power          to achieve the same ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Excuse me. Was that        really all ­­ was that part of a package for a pathway              to citizenship?              MS. MURPHY: It was not a pathway to          citizenship. It was a pathway to lawful presence in the            country that would have allowed individuals to have a         legal status, to remain in this country, and Congress         has not created a legal status for the category of           individuals covered by DAPA.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's correct. Why do        you think this is a legal status in the way that that             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review bill imagines?              MS. MURPHY: It is a legal status because          under the agency's own regulations, it is a status that           has consequences. And I would point you in particular           to C.F.R. .. This is the statute that defines the             term "lawfully present." Under that statute, if you are          in deferred­action status, you are lawfully present and        eligible for benefits.               Now that statute goes on to say if you are          just an individual as to whom DHS has declined to pursue           removal proceedings, you are not lawfully present. So         whether you are in deferred­action status makes a        difference under the agency's own regulations. It's        that affirmative act of not just forbearing and making         the decision not to remove somebody, but putting them         into deferred­action status that triggers the      availability of work authorization and eligibility to       receive benefits.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So why don't we just         cross ­­ why don't we just cross out "lawfully present,"          as the SG has suggested?                 MS. MURPHY: You can't cross it out and         achieve what DAPA is supposed to achieve, because what         really matters in DAPA is that it is allowing the grant           of deferred­action status.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Whatever the Executive wants to label that,       under its own regulations, deferred­action status is       equated with lawful presence. So if you cross it out of            the DAPA memo, it's still part of the regulatory scheme          that says once we've taken this extra step, not just of           deferring the removal of you, but of putting you into          this status, that changes your eligibility for work        authorization and benefits in this country. And once         the Executive is doing that, we are far outside the          notion of mere enforcement discretion.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you would agree with        the clause that says low priority, that ­­ that ­­         nothing about work authorization, nothing about Social       Security, if you are low priority, which means we'll         probably never get to you because Congress hasn't given         us the money to remove you.                  MS. MURPHY: Well, we would not necessarily        concede that you could actually grant people cards that         say we're not going to enforce the law as to you. But             that's all not at issue in this case, because what the           Executive wants to do is something much more than that.                      If all they wanted to do was say we're not          going to enforce as to you, the only memo they would           have issued is the Enforcement Priorities Memo, because        in order to qualify for DAPA, you have to already not be            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review an enforcement priority under the Enforcement Priorities       Memorandum.             What the Executive wanted to accomplish was       something more: To say not only are you not an           enforcement priority, but we want you to be eligible to          work and to receive benefits. And the way that we do            that is by taking this affirmative act of converting you          into a status that, under our own regulation, changes          your eligibility ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we'll hear in        a second ­­              JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why wouldn't the      appropriate way for Texas to proceed have been to         challenge the regulation under the APA ­­ I think it's           Section ­­ and then if there were concern about          notice­and­comment taking too long, asking for a       preliminary injunction?              MS. MURPHY: I ­­ I don't think that's the            way that it actually makes sense for this to proceed,          because there's nothing inherently problematic about a       regulation that ties deferred­action status to work       authorization.             Congress has passed multiple statutes ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but the point ­­ the         point of the suit, I guess ­­ I'm not going to tell             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review people how to design their suit ­­ the point of the suit            would be the ­­ the areas of discretion have been so           vastly changed that the regulation now ­­ now has         been ­­ has been superseded.                 MS. MURPHY: And I don't mean to suggest          that that's not a way you could challenge. But I don't              think it's the way you have to challenge this, because          to me, the real problem is not the linking of          deferred­action status and work authorization, it's the       abuse of deferred­action status. That's not a power          that includes the power to grant deferred action status         to individuals who are on ­­ on a class­based program ­­                       JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then you disagree with       General Keller, because I think he did say ­­ came up a             few times, it's in his brief ­­ you could give an ID            card to these people saying low priority ­­ the whole          category of people, give them that. But you can't give           them work authorization or Social Security.                  MS. MURPHY: What I would say is we would           have concerns if this case were challenging just the         Enforcement Priorities Memorandum, and we would have the        same concerns if you had that and invited people in and           gave them an enforcement priority card.                  That's not what this case is challenging.       So ultimately, whether the House has concerns about the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Enforcement Priorities Memorandum is really beside the       point here, because what this case is challenging is the          DAPA memorandum that goes beyond the mere enforcement        discretion ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So can we ­­ can we take          it ­­ break it down?                 MS. MURPHY: Sure.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you arguing that the        Executive does not have the power to defer ­­ to defer           action of removal against this class of aliens?                    MS. MURPHY: It all depends by what you mean          by "defer action."               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I just said deferred        action, but they're not ­­                MS. MURPHY: Well, I can't answer the         question unless I understand whether you're talking        about mere forbearance or putting them into       deferred­action status.              We don't believe the Executive has the power        to put this class of individuals into deferred­action        status. First of all, there's plainly no statutory         authority to do so. But even if you get into the world             of their congressional acquiescence theory, the types of        deferred­action status programs that existed in the past        are fundamentally different, both in kind and in scope,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review from this one.               Before , you didn't even have      class­based deferred­action programs. All of the       programs they're talking about pre­ are exercises of        different powers, powers pursuant to statutes that       existed at the time, such as the voluntary departure         statute that no longer is a path for Executive ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: Can I ­­ can I ask you            this, then? Because you're an amicus; you're not a          party. It's Texas who's the party, and they've made          their objections.              But suppose we played ­­ suppose I picked up          your thought and also coupled it with what the SG said,           cross out the words that say "special status." And          suppose that would it work to say, look, the question is           whether Texas has standing to complain about simply the         change in priorities for action. We don't know yet if           that affects driver's licenses, or could, or could        affect benefits, or will. But should the Administration         do so, then they might have a case that they could bring             challenging that aspect of the situation.                  All we're saying is that they do not have         that case now, given the SG's concession or agreement or          desire to strike those words out. Does that work or           not, in your opinion?    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MS. MURPHY: I'm not sure I completely ­­                     I'm sorry.              JUSTICE BREYER: If I am not clear, I will            not repeat it, but you can forget it.                    MS. MURPHY: No, no. I want to be           responsive. I just want to be sure I understand the ­­             the question.                I mean, I think ­­ I ­­ I ­­ I guess my               point is that I don't think anything, either in Texas's           view of the case, or in our view of the case, that turns             on these words "lawful presence" being in the DAPA         memorandum, because what matters is the DAPA memorandum,        as it says, is designed to make it a path for            individuals to be eligible for work authorization, and        without DAPA they're not.                And it's also a path to make them ­­ I mean,             once they are in deferred­action status, that is why         they are considered lawfully present. You're not        considered lawfully present just because the Executive       is not actively pursuing removal proceedings against       you.             Again, C.F.R. ­­ C.F.R. ., it        specifically says the decision not to pursue a removal          proceeding does not render you lawfully present. So it          matters. You know, the ­­ the words that were used           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review here, and the program being created, matters. It's not          enough to have mere forbearance. You need this         additional step to achieve what the Executive wants to         accomplish.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your position is that        in , when George H. W. Bush granted deferred         enforced departure for Chinese residents after the       Tiananmen Square situation, that he acted illegally?                   MS. MURPHY: No. Because that program was         justified on a different power than the power here. It            was deferred ­­ that ­­ the deferred enforced departure         in Article II ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there was no       statutory authority for him to do that.                   MS. MURPHY: It is a power that the          Executive has always grounded in Article II foreign        affairs power. A nationality, country­based concern        power.             Now, there's currently a statute on the        books, the temporary protected status statute, that says        it is the exclusive authority through which the ­­ the          Executive can grant nationality based, but ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That came after this.                   MS. MURPHY: Right. And at the time, that          statute didn't exist ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At the time, there was        no statutory authority.               MS. MURPHY: Whatever was happening before        doesn't tell you very much about what Congress has          acquiesced in when Congress passed a statute in          that said these are the circumstances under which you         can grant ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I ­­ I appreciate that.          And that may be what Congress does here. It may come            back and say deferred action is limited in this way.          But it hasn't yet.                So assuming that we have a history of         deferred action for categories of people, then what        you're really arguing about it ­­ and you ­­ and I           stopped, or you got interrupted when you were answering         me earlier ­­ why are you ­­ are you arguing that the             regulation, which gives the Attorney General the        right to grant work authorizations to individuals who        have been provided deferred action, are you arguing        that's unconstitutional?              MS. MURPHY: No. Because there are statutes         on the books that say deferred action status also comes          with work authorization. So, of course ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except that the statute       says that the ­­ those people, deferred action, can be          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review granted under the statute ­­                            General.                         MS. MURPHY: Yes.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ or by the Attorney        MS. MURPHY: I'm not ­­     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The ones if ­­ you're        striking out by the Attorney General?                  MS. MURPHY: I was talking about different         statutes, not a(h)(). I was talking about the          statutes that actually refer to deferred action. And         they say that the Executive can grant deferred action         and work authorization. So there's nothing inherently        problematic about a regulation that implements       Congress's precise understanding that in the      circumstances where the Executive is authorized to grant        deferred action ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Murphy, suppose      something is not statutorily authorized. Suppose ­­       this is a version of the hypothetical that I gave to             General Keller. Suppose DHS decided to do this one by           one by one. And in doing it one by one by one, also              said and you're entitled to work on the books. Could ­­           could DHS do that?                MS. MURPHY: I think it would ­­ it would           ultimately in that instance start to become a question          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review of scope and a point at which you have a policy that is               inconsistent with the use of deferred action status.        Because in the past, I mean, there have been this kind            of ad hoc de minimis, case­by­case use of deferred         action status.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Okay. So suppose, then ­­        again, same kind of question that I gave to          General Keller. Suppose that there was a policy, but it            was of much less significance scope. Let's say a policy            that said if you've been in the United States for           years and you have children here, we're not going to          deport you unless we decide otherwise, and you're        entitled to work on the books. Could DHS do that?                       MS. MURPHY: No. There is not any         congressional authority that allows it, and there is no         past practice like it.                JUSTICE KAGAN: But this is very       significant, right? No past practice like it? I          mean ­­             MS. MURPHY: There's not any past practice.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: What was that family ­­                   MS. MURPHY: That was not a ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ policy ­­ fairness?                   MS. MURPHY: ­­ voluntary departure. There        was a statute on the books at the time that permitted            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review extended voluntary departure. You no longer can do         that. There is no past deferred action program that was           for a category of individuals that had no path to loss            of status.              JUSTICE KAGAN: So, but this is important.        Because you're ­­ you're basically saying that DHS,        going forward, any administration cannot have any kind        of policy, even if it's limited, much more limited than          this kind of policy is that allows undocumented aliens         to work.              MS. MURPHY: Congress has passed a statute         that says if you are living in this country without          legal authority, you cannot work. That's Congress's        policy judgment in a.                                        JUSTICE KAGAN: That's ­­    MS. MURPHY: You may disagree with ­­       JUSTICE KAGAN: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I        understand the point. All, I guess, I'm just saying is            this would be an enormous change in practice.                    MS. MURPHY: Not at all, Your Honor, because         the past practices, there are none. They have not          pointed to a single deferred action program that granted          it to a class of individuals who had no lawful path to             status in this country.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is that true of all other         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review deferred actions mentioned in the Appendix, the one that         the Congressional Research Service did?                 MS. MURPHY: Yes. Most of those are not          deferred action programs. They're extended voluntary ­­                   different.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I mean, they are        MS. MURPHY: There's really ­­       there's only  about four deferred action programs that were       class­based. Those all were path to lawful status.         U visas, T visas, people who held F visas during           Hurricane Katrina.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Five minutes, General Verrilli.      REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GENERAL DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 Justice.             GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief       First, on standing, I would note that they         have no answer to our redressability point. You didn't          hear one today. They don't have one.                    Second, even if you think they got over the         Article III hurdle, there's just no way that this         license cost injury constitutes something within the       zone of interest in any provision within the APA, and          they haven't tried to establish that.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And then third with respect to standing, I        think Justice Breyer's point about the analogy between        the kind of theory that they are advocating here and          taxpayer standing and parens patriae is dead on correct.         This would invite exactly the same kind of flood of          litigation that you have always said Article III is         designed to prevent, and if you want proof of that, it           already exists. Texas is already using this theory to          sue the United States based on the resettlement of         Syrian refugees in Texas, and that will just be the          beginning.             Now, Justice Alito, you raised a couple of         points I want to get to with some specifics. You asked             about whether an employee with a deferred action work          authorization could sue if an employer refused to hire.         I would direct Your Honor to U.S.C. b. Actually,            Congress has determined the situations in which an        employee ­­ well, with ­­ an alien with work         authorization has a discrimination claim and when the         employee doesn't. That statute says if you're a lawful           public resident, you do. Deferred action is on the side           where you don't.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I was asking about         Section .              GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, but I think that if          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you have a ­­ you'd have a hard time making that claim              given that Congress has made that kind of a judgment.                       Now, with respect to another point      Your Honor made ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: So your position is that ­­        that there could not be a suit under .                      GENERAL VERRILLI: What I'm saying is that        Congress made a judgment there that ­­ that bears very           directly on it.               But now, with respect to another point that        Your Honor raised about specific statutory references to        lawful presence, my friends on the other side made a          huge deal about this, in particular C.F.R. ., which           I think they cite seven or eight times.                      I urge you to go to look at it. I urge you             to, in fact, read the rulemaking order that went along          with it from ­­ from . What you'll ­­ you'll see            what it says, that it applies to one thing and one thing            only. That's the accrual of Social Security benefits         under Section (b). And the rulemaking order ­­ and          we quoted this in our reply brief ­­ specifically says          that although we're counting deferred action as lawful        presence for the purpose of accruing Social Security        benefits for the reason that if you can work lawfully,          you ought to be able to accrue benefits. This does not            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review confer any lawful status under the immigration laws. It          specifically says that.                 And so we can argue about whether the      Executive has the authority to consider people with        deferred action as lawfully present in that narrow        sense. We think we're right. Maybe they're right, but           that is the tail on the dog here. That's not ­­                       JUSTICE ALITO: Well, if you ­­ if the         phrase "lawful presence" were stricken from the       Guidance, would you take the position that DAPA        beneficiaries are not lawfully present for purposes of        ­­ under certain statutes that use that phrase for the          re­entry bar, for eligibility for Federal benefits?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: It's ­­ the only Federal        benefit is Social Security.                JUSTICE ALITO: Well, would you say they        were lawfully present for those two statutory purposes?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: No. There are       regulations that say that they are, but we ­­ and we can            fight about that. But that doesn't ­­ but that ­­ as I             said, that is the tail on the dog.                    Now, if I could go to the merits.         Repeatedly, you've heard that the Family Fairness policy        was pursuant to statutory authorization. That's just        flat wrong. There's a D.C. Circuit case, and you can            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review read Judge Silberman's opinion in that case that we cite          at page in our brief which specifically describes it          as extra­statutory, which is what it was.                   Now, the other key point, and I think this          is really important. Their theory about the scope of          who can get work authorization is that either Congress         has to specifically say you get work authorization, or         Congress has to specifically authorize the Attorney       General, now DHS, to get ­­ to grant ­­ to decide           whether people in this particular category can get work         authorization.             Forget about deferred action. There are       millions of people who get work authorization under        existing law now who ­­ who couldn't get it if ­­ if            that were the proper interpretation of the law. These          millions of people are in proceedings for adjustments of         status. The hundreds of thousands of people who are in           proceedings for cancellation of removal. The hundreds        of those of people that have parole. None of those           people qualify under reading of the statute.                   That is why in , when ­­ when INS had a           rulemaking proceeding about this, they rejected it. It         would completely and totally upend the administration of        the immigration laws, and, frankly, it's a reckless         suggestion. And it just ­­ and ­­ and they          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review just never ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: People who have asylum       don't have a pathway to citizenship.                   GENERAL VERRILLI: Exactly. And there are        all kinds of statuses that don't qualify as lawful         status that people have always been allowed to get work          authorization during the period in which ­­ time where         their presence is tolerated.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How ­­ how many        people are we talking about with those?                   GENERAL VERRILLI: Millions. Millions.      There are ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The asylum      applications?             GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but the adjustment of        status, . million since , and cancellation       removal, , since . Huge numbers.                   Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : Abbot : abdicating : abiding : ability : : able : : : : : : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : :, abuse : accept : : accomplish : : account : accrual : accrue : : : accruing : achieve :, : : :, : acknowledge : acknowledged : acquiesced : : : : : : acquiescence : :, : acquisition : act : : : : : : : : : acted : : acting : action :, : : : :, : : : : :,, : :, : :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : :, :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, :, :, :, : : : actions :, : : actively : ad : add : addition : : : : : adhering : adjusted : adjustment : : : adjustments : administration : : : : : :,,, : administrativ... : admit : admitted : adopted : : advanced : advancing : advisory : : advocating : affairs : affect : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : : Alito :,, : :,, :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, :, : : : :, affidavit : affirmative : : : affirmatively allegations : allege : alleged : : agencies : agency : : : agency's :, aggrieved : ago : : agree : : : : : : agreed : agreement : : : allot : allow :, allowed : : : allowing : : : : allows : : : alternative : amicus : ahead : : : air :, : airport : al :, : alien : : : : : : : analogous : analogy : ancillary : : : Angeles : announced : :,,, announcing : alien's : aliens :,, annual : answer : : : :, : : : : : : answered : answering : anybody : :, anybody's : anymore : APA :, : : : : App : apparently : appear : APPEARAN... : appears : :, Appendix : : applicants : : : applications : : applied : :, : applies : : applying : : appreciate : appropriate : appropriating : approved : approves : April : arbitrary : areas : argue : agrees : amount : : : : : apply : : additional : : administrative : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review attacking : :,, attempts : Attorney : : : :, : Austin : authoritative : authority : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : authorization : : : : authorized : : : : :, : :,, : :, availability : available : avenues : avoid : : : : avoided : avoiding : awful :, B B : :, : : basis : : : : : : :, bear : bears : began : beginning : behalf :, : :,, : : : : : behold : believe : : :, : : : : believes : belonging : : : : belongs : back : : beneficiaries : : : : : : blessing : blocked : bone : books : : : : : :, border : :,, borders : : : :, bottom : branch :, : break : breakup : Breyer : : :, : : :,,, :, : : :, : : : : backwards : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,,, : background : : :,,, :,,, backup : : :, : : : : balance : :,, balanced : : : balancing : :,, ban : :, : : :, banks : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : :,,, : : : : : : bases : basic : basically : : : beneficiary : Breyer's : bridged : benefit : : : bridging : benefits : : : : : : :,, : :,, : : : :, : : :, : : : :,, : brief : : : : : : : briefs : : : :,, bring : : : bringing : brings : broadened beyond : : : : : big : : :,, bill : binds : blanche : broader : brought : : budget : budgetary : built : arguing : :,, argument : :,,,, :, :, :,,, : : : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : : arguments : Arizona : : : : :, armed : arrival : : arrived : Article : : : :, : : : :, : : asked : : : : : : : asking : : : : aspect : asserted : assertion : : assume : : : : assuming : asylum :, :, bar : : barriers : barring : based : : best : attached : authorizations : attack : : : authorize : Alderson Reporting Company circumstance closely­divided Official ­ Subject to Final Review change : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : changed : : : changes : : : Chinese : : chose : Circuit : : : : : : circumstances : : : : : : : cite : : changing : : : charged : : citing : citizen : : : check : citizens : : :, built­in : bureau : Bush : buy : Byrd : C C : : C.F.R : :, : Cal : cancellation : : : candor : : capping : card : : : :, cards : : : : : care : carefully : carte : case : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, case­by­case : : : cases : :, catch­ : : categories : :, : : : :, : : : category : :, : : : : :, : : : : causation : cause : : : caused : : causing : caveat : ceded : certain : : : : : : certainly : : : challenge : :,, : : :, : :, : :, challengeable : challenged : : challenging : : : :, :, : :,, :, : : : :, : : chance : :, : Chaney : clear : :, : : :, : clearly : : : coastline : combatting : come : : : : : : : : comes : : coming : commencing : committed : companies : company : compelled : complain : complaining : completely : : : comprehensive conceding : conceive : concern : : : concerned : concerns :, : :, : : : : claims :, : : citizenship : :, : civil :, claim : :, : :, : : : Chevron : Chief :, : :, :, :, :, :, : :,, : :, :, : :, :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :,,, :, : : :, classic :, :,, classifications class­based : : : clarify : clash :, : childhood : : : children : clause : Clean : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : concede : class :, : : :,, :,, :, : conceded : : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, considerations : : : considered :,, : :, country­based concession : conclude : : : : :, : consistent : couple :, consistently : : coupled : course : : : : : : : : : court :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : :, : : conclusion : : : : concrete : constitutes : : :, constraints : : : conduct : contain : : :, contention : confer : : context : confusion : : : : Congress : continuously : : contradicts : contrary : controversy : :, continued : : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :,, : : : : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :,, : : :, :, converting : correct : : : :, Court's : cover : :, : covered : : :, :, : : : created : : : : : : : : : credit : crimes : : cost : : criminal : criminals : : : costs : : : : : : Council : counsel : : counting : country :, : : : : :, : : : :, critical : cross :, : : : cumulative : cure : curiae : : : current : :, : Congress's : : congressional : :, : : : connection : connections : consequence : : : consequences : : : consider : : deciding : currently : decision :, : DD :D.C :,, :DACA :: :daily :DAPA : : : :: :, : :, : :: :, :, : : :, :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : ::, : : ::,, :DAPA's :day :, : days :de :dead :deal :decades :: :decide :, : :: ::decided :: :, : :,, : :decides :::,, : :, :, : : : : : declarations : : declaratory :,,, declare : declares : declined : : deep :, : deeper : defect : defend : : : defending : defends : defense : : : : defer : : : :, : deference : deferred :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :,, :,,, describes : : :, : :, :, :, designed : : :, : : : desire : desired : design : : deferred­action detained : : :, : :, : : : :,,, : : :, : :, : : : difficult : direct : : directive : : directly : : disagree : : : : : : deter : determination disagreement : : : : : :, disagreements : : deferring : defines : defining : definitely : : : determinations discretion : :, : : : : : : : : : determined determine : demonstrate : determining : discretionary : : : : : dollars : domestic : DONALD : :, : : doubt : doubts : dozen : driver's :, election : eligibility : : : : : : : eligible :, : :, : : : : eminent : : : :, employed : :,,, : : : : : : :, employee : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : : employer :, :, : :, : : : employment :, : enact : : : : denied : deny : denying : Department : : departure : : :, : : : : : : depend : : depending : : depends : : deport : : : : : : : : deported : : described : DHS : : discriminated duty : discrimination : : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : dispute : : : : : discriminatory die : difference : : : : differences :, disputing : disruptive : DMV : DMVs : document : : : : : documentation different : : : :, : documents : :, : dog :, : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : doing : :, E E : :, :, : earlier : earned : easily : economic : :, : economy : : : effect :, : : effects : : : effort : eight : either : : : : :, : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company enacted : encourage : endpoint : enforce : : : :, enforced : :, enforcement : : : : : :, :, : :, : : :, engage : English : enjoying : enormous : entails : entire : : : entitled : : :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : EPA :,, : : : equal : : : : equated : ERIN : : : error :, escape : ESQ :,, : :,, :, : : F : :, F : :, : : : : : : :, :, :, : : :, : : :, : :, : face : : fact : : : : : : : : : : : : : factfinding Executive's essentially : : : : : : exercise : exercised : exercises : exhaust : exhausted : established : exist : : establish : : : : establishing : estimate : estimating : et :, : event : everybody : : : : : evidence : exact : exactly : : : : : : example : : : : : : : : :, : exception : excluded : exclusive : Excuse : executing : executive : :, : : existed : : existing :, : : exists : : : expanded : expected : expenses : expensive : experienced : express : expressly : extend : extended : : extinguished : extra : : : : extra­statutory : extraordinary : : : factfindings : factor : fail :, :,, failed : fails : failure : fairly : : fairness : : : : : : familiar : families : : : family :, : : : : : far : : : : : fast : fear : Federal :, : : : :, :,,, : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, :,, : :, Feds : feed : Fifth : fight : financial : : : :,, finding : fine : : finished : firms : first : :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : fisc : fits : five : : flat : flea : flip : flood : flout : flow : flows : focusing : : folks : : follow : : footnote : forbearance : : : : : forbearing : :, : : : forbidding : forced : forces : foreign : : forget : : forgive : : form : forth : fortiori : forward : : : : : : : found : four : : :, : : : : : fraction : frame : framework : frankly : frequently : friends : : front : Frothingham : : frustration : full : fully : fundamental : : : : : : :, : fundamentally : : funds : further :, future : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review held : : : hidden : : :,, hire :, : : : :, : hires : history : : : hoc : Homeland : homes : Hondurans : Honor : : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, host : : : huge : : humanitarian : : : hurdle : Hurricane : hurt :, : hurts : hypothesize : : hypothesized : hypothesizing guess : : House : : hundred : gun : :, hundreds : guns : : :, : : G : : : : :, : : :, : : : : : : give : : :, : :, :, :, : : :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, G : GEN : :, general :, :,, :, : : : : :, :, :,, :, : :,,, :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : :, :,,, :,, :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : given :, : :,, :,, :, :, : :, :,,, :,, :,,, :, :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : :,, : : :, : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : gives : : go :, giving : goes : : George : Ginsburg : :, : : going : : granting : greater : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : grants : :,,, :, : : : : green : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : : : : : :, : group : : : gotten : gross : ground : : : : : : Guatemalans gripe :, grounded : : governing : government : : : : : H H : : :, : : : : Guidance : : : : :, :,, : :, :, : : :, : : : : : :, : H.C.F.R : Haitians : : half : happened : Governor : grant : : : happening : : : : :, hard : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : : harder : harm : : hypothetical : : : : :, : harms :,, hear : : granted : : : : : : : heard : hearing : Heckler : I icebergs : ID : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, inevitably : inflicted : inherently : invite : invited : involve : involved : : ideal : identifiable : identification : : identified : : : identify : identity : ignoring : II : : : impose : : : imposed : INA : incidental : : III : : incidental/ind... : :, : : : : IIRIRA : illegal : : : : : illegally : imagine : : : imagines : imagining : immigrant : : immigrants : immigration : :, : : :,, : : :, : : :, :, : : : include : includes : including : : income : : inconsistent : : increase : incur : : : : Indiana : indicated : : : : indication : : indirect : : : : indirectly : indispensable : impact : individual : : implausible : implement : implements : importance : : : important : : : : : : : individuals : :, : : : : : : :, : injunction : :, : : injured :, injury : : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, : injury­in­fact : INS :,, : insofar : : instance : : : instantly : insurance : integrity : interest : : : : : :, : : :, : interesting : interpretation : interrupted : Intervenor­Re... : : : intervenors : invalid : invest : investing : Island :,, issue : : : :, : : :,, : : : issued : issues : : J JA : : : Jackson : Jane : : Jersey : job : JR : :, : : Judge : judges : judgment : : :, : : : : : :, judgments : judiciary :, jurisdictional :, Justice : : :, :, :,, :, :,,, : :,, :, :, :,,, :,,, :, :, : :, : :,, : : Alderson Reporting Company :, :, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :,, : : :,, :,, : :, : :, :,,, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, :,,, :,,, :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, : : :, : :,, :,,, :,, : : :, :, : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : : :, :,, Official ­ Subject to Final Review :,,, : : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, :,, : :, :,,, justified : : : : K known : L label :,,, : : labels : labor : : lack : : : land :, : : : :, :,,, :,, :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : :, :,, : : :, :,, : : : language : large :, larger :, largest :, Kennedy :, Laughter : : : :,, :, :, :, : :,,, :, Kagan :, key : : : : : : : : :, : : : :, : :, kind : : :,,, :, : :, :, : : : :, : :, : :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :, kinds : : :, : Katrina : keep : : :, : keeping : : keeps : Keller : : :,,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, knocks : know :, :, : : :, : : : :, :,,, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : : law :, : :, :, :, : :, :, :,,, : :, : :, :,, :,, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, lawful :, : : : : :, : : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : : :,, :, : : : : : : :, :, : lawfully : :,,, : :, :, : : :, :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :, : :,, laws : : :, : : lead : leads : leave : : legal : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : :,, : : legality : legally : : : :, legislation : : : : : : level : licences : license :, :,,, : :, :, : : : : : : : :,,, :,, :,,, :, : licenses : : :, :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : :,, : : light : : limit : : : : limited : : :, limits :,,, : : : : : legislative : line : : :, : legislators : Legislature : legitimacy : legitimate : legitimately : : lines : link : linking : lists : literally : litigated : let's : : : : : litigation :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : money : lived : : Massachusetts memorandum : :, living : : lo : : : : :, loads : logical : :, long : : matter : : mention : : : : :, :, : :, : :, : : : : :, nine : :, : nonenforceme... :,,, : : : : mentioned : morning : nonqualified nonuniform :, : : new : : : : : : : : : matters : : mothers : : : :, mere : : motor : : : : : maximize : merits : mean :, : multiple : : normal : : normally : note : : met : :,, : : miles : :, : million : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :, : : :,, : : : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : noted : notice : notice­and­co... : :,, : :, : Murphy : : :,, : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : :, :,,,, notifies : :,,, notion : :,, :, notification : : longer : : : look : : :, : : looking : : Los : lose :, losing : loss : losses : lost :, lot : :, : : low :, : : : :, : Meaning : millions : : : : :, means : N : :, : :, : N :, : nanosecond : : low­priority :,, : : : : : lowest : : : : meant : mind :, : LPRs : : mechanism : minds : : narrow : : : nation's : nationality :, Medicare : : : : : :, : minimal : : : Medicare's nature : nearly : Mellon :, minimum : necessarily : : : member : minuscule : minimis : : : : minute : members : minutes : : luckily : M majority : makers : making : : : : : manageable : November : number : : : : :, : : : : : numbers : :,, : : numerous : O O : : object : objecting : objections : : mandates : memo : manner : : : market : : :, Monday : : misquoted : moment : necessary : obtain : need : : obviously : : : : Neither : never : : occurred : occur : : : offer : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review overruled : Oversight : penalties : owner : : : : permits : : permitted : : permitting : person : : :, pencil : Pennsylvania : pension : people : : : pervasively : phrase : petition :, : :, :,, : :, :,, :, personnel : : :,,, persons : : :, : :, : : :, Pet : :, : :, : : :, Petitioners : :, :, :,,,, : : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : :, : :, picked : : :, : :, :,, :, : :,, : : : :, :, : plan : : : : :, :,,, played : :,, pieces : pits : place : places : plainly : phrasing : physical : please : : plausible : piece : : : percent : : : percentage : perfectly : : period : : : : : : : : point : :, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : pointed : points : : policies : policy : : :, :, : : :, :, :,, :, : :, :, : : :,, : :, :,, : : : : :,, : : :, : :,, : :, : : political : :, : : : pollution : population : : populations : position : :, : : : : : : : possess : possession : P P : package : page : : : : : : pages : offered : Office : official : officially : : :, : oh : : : : okay :, : :, : : : : old :, once : : : OLC :, : paper : paperwork : : parameters :, : : :, : parcel : ones : : parens : : open : opinion : : : :, : : : : opportunity :, : opposed : opposite : option : :, : : parents : : : :, parole : : : part : : : : : : : : particular : : : particularized : parties : options :, oral : :,, party :, : : : passage : passed : : : order : : : : :, Oriana : originally : ought : : : outcome : : outlining : outside : :, : : : : : path : : :, : : : pathway : :, : patriae : : : pay : : permanent : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, :, programs : : :, :, prioritize : progression priority : : : : : : : promulgated : :, : : : : :, : : :, promulgating : : : : : :,, :,, : : :,, prioritization : : : : :, : : :, present : : :,, : : : : :, : : :,,,, private : :, : probably : : : : : : :, : : :, : :,, :,, :,, problem : : : : : : : problematic : : : procedural : : proof : proper : proposal : proposed : prosecution : protect : protected : : : protecting : protection : : :, : : possible : : potentially : power : : :, :, : : :, :,,, : powers : : :, practice : :, : :, : practices : pre­ : precedent : : : precise : precisely : : : : : :, predecessor : : preempted : :,, : : : preemption : : : : : preexisting : : : prefer : preliminary : : : Q qualifies : qualify : : : : quarter : quasi­sovereign : question : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :,,, :, : : : : : questions : quintessential : quite : : : : quote : Raines : raise :, : : raised : : raising : : ramp :, : re­entry : : reached : presently : President : procedure : protective : provide : : : : :, :, : proceed : :, : : : President's proceeding : : : : provided : : : pressing : Presumably : pretend : pretty : prevent : previous : : : proceedings : : : :, : : provides : : : providing : provision : quoted : quoting : : : process : : : :, : : provisions : public : purports : R : purpose : processed : purposes : processing : R :, : : : : prime : premise :, principal : : : premised : presence : : principally : :, : prior : : : : : : :, : :, : priorities : : profit : profiting : program : :,, : :, :, : : : : : pursuant : : : pursue : : : pursuing : put :, : : : : : putting : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review read : : : reading : :, : : : : : : reckless : recognition : real : : recognize : :,, : :, recognized : : : : reality : : record :, : : rejected : : related : : relations : relationship : : reliable : relief : : : : :, rely : :, : relying : recording : red : remain : redress :, remained : redressability removal : requirement : requirements :, requires : :, Research : reserve : resettlement : resident : : residents : resolved : :, resources : : : realize : : really : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : reason : : :, : :, : : : : : : : reasonably : : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : receive : : : redressable : refer : references : referring : : reflected : refugee : refugees : refused : reg : regardless : register : regular : : : regulates : regulating : :, : :, respect : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : : :, :, : respecting : : responded : Respondents : remove : : :, : : removed : removing : : render : : :, : : : : :, : : response : responsive : rest : restricted : : result : : : : reasoning : regulation : Reno : : : : :,,, repeat : : : : Repeatedly :, : : : : : reply : : results : review : revocable : represent : regulations : : : :,, Representatives revolve : :,,, : : : :, : : repudiate : require : required : : : : Rhode :,, right : : : : : : : : received : receives : receiving : recipients : regulatory : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : :, :, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, rights : ROBERTS : : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, : : : :, :, :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :,, rulemaking : : :, : ruling : run : S S : : Saenz : : :,, : :, : :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, Official ­ Subject to Final Review : severe : section :, SG : : Solicitor :, specified : solicitude : speculative : save : saying : : secure : :, : : : Salvadorians : :, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : :, : says : : : : : : : : SG's : shadows : shoe­on­the­ot... : show : : showing : shows : side : : securities : security : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : sides :, :, : significance : : : : : see : : : : :, : : :, : : : : significant : : : : : Silberman's : : : : : somebody : speed : spend : : : spike : Square : Stability : standing :, soon : sorry : : : :, : : : : : sort : : : Sotomayor : : :, :,, : :, : : :, :, : : : :,, :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :, : sounds : sovereign :, : : : special : : : specific : : : specifically : : :, : : : : :,, specifics : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : :,,,, :, : : : :,,, :, : : : :, start : : started : : State : : : :, : : :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : : :, : : State's : : : : : stated : statement : : States :,, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : seek : : : :, : self­petitioners :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, sentence : : separate : : : : : : : senseless : sent : : senators : sending : sense : : simply : : :, : : silent : single : : : situation : : : : : scarcely : scheme : scope : : situations : separated : size : separately : slip : :, : separation : :, : :, : SCOTT : serious : : : : : screened : second : : :,,, : : : : Secretary : : : Service : set : : : : : : sets : setting : settlement : seven : slow : small : : :, smaller :, Social : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : soldiers : Alderson Reporting Company :,, :,, : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : : : statutorily : statutory : :, : :,, : :, : : : : :,,, : : : : : :, T :, : :, : T :, : :,, : T­ : :, tail :, suggest : : suggested : : : suggesting : suggestion : : :, take :, : : : : : :, Tex : : : : : : : : : terms : : terrible : territory : test : : : : Texas :, : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : Texas's : text : Thank : : : : : :, :, : : theirs : theory : : : :, : : : : :, : they'd : thing : : : : : : : : : :, things : : :, : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : suit : : superseded : support : : : : supporting : step : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :, : statistically : stay : : suing : : status : : : :, :, : : :, :, : :,, : : : :, :, : :, : :,,, : :, :, : :, : sub :, :, : subject : : : : :, :, : : : :, steps : stood : stop : stopped : stricken : strike : : : striking : struck : supports : suppose :, : : :,, :,, :, :, : : : : : : Supreme :, : : supposed : submerged : : statuses : statute :, :,, : : : :, : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : statutes : : : : : :, : : submitted : : subsidies : subsidize : subsidized : : subsidizing : substantive : : sue :, : : :, : :, : : sure : : : : : : : :, surely : sweeping : : switch : Syrian : system : :, : : systematically : taken : : : : : : talk :, talked : talking : : : : : : : : : :, : tank : targets : tax : taxpayer : : : taxpayers : technical : : : technically : teed : tell : : : : :, : :, : : telling : : temporary : : : : tens :, term :, Alderson Reporting Company : think :, :, : :, :, : :, :,, :,, :,,, : : :, : :,,, :,, :,, : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :, :,, :,, : : :, : : :, : : :, : : : thinking : : : thinks :, : third : : : THOMAS : : : thought : : :, : thousand : : thousands : Official ­ Subject to Final Review tremendous : :, : : understanding uses : : :, : three : : tried : : triggers : : : : throw : Tiananmen : trouble : tie : : ties : time : : : : : : true : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : timely : times : : : TNU : today : : : try : : trying : : : : : TSA : turns : two :, : : : :, : : : types : U : understood : undocumented : : V v : : : : :, : : : : undone : unelected : unfortunate : : uniform : unique : United :,, vague : valence : valid : value : vast : vastly : : : : VAWA : vehicle : : : Vehicles : : : : :, verified : verifies : :,, Verrilli : : :,, : : : : : : : : U : told : tolerated : U­visa : U.S :, : : : : : : : : : :, : tolerating : : toleration : tolling : tomorrow : : : totally : : U.S.C : ultimately : : : ultra : unauthorized unchallenged : : : unconstitutio... :, : tougher : transferred : underground transferring : unity : unlawful : : : : : : : : :, unlawfully : : : : : : : unquote :, unreasonable : unreviewable : :, unprecedented : undermine : : : transform : understand : upend : :, : upheld : transformation : : : : : :, : : transforming : : treating : upside :, urge :, use : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company : :,, :, : : : :, :, :, :, : :,, :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : :, :, : : :, :,, :,,, :,, :,, : : :,, :,, :, :, :,,, :, : :, : :, : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :,, : : :, : :, : : : : : who've : widowers : widows : win : wants : : : : : :, : Wisconsin : version : veterans : Washington : won : viable : view : words : :, : word : : writing :, wasn't : : : way : : written : :, : wrong : : : : : : worth : wouldn't : : : : : : : : write : : : a : a(h)() : b : : ­ : : : : :, : (b) : :, : :, : : : : :, work : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, :, : : void : voluntary : ways : :, : we'll : : : : : we're : : : : : :, violates : violating : : violation :, vires : virtue : visa : visas :, : W W : wage :, wait :, : :, : : waiting : walk : : want : : :,,, :, :, :,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : went :, : : : : :, wanted : we've : : : :, : : : : : Whiting : weeks : : yeah : : year : : X Y x :, : : : : :,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : :,, :,,,, :, : :,,, : :,, years : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : York : :,, :, : Youngstown : :, : : : : : :, :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : . : : : : zone : : : Z :, : zone­of­interest : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : . : : : : , : whatsoever : world :, workers : working : works : : worrying : . : : : : : : : : . : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : : : : : . : : : , : : : a : : , : : : : , : : : (c) : : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company 