Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  SUPAP KIRTSAENG, DBA                 BLUECHRISTINE,                   : :             Petitioner,               : No. ­         v.                          JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.,                            Respondent.            : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Monday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of             Petitioner. PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondent. ELAINE J. GOLDENBERG, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor              General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for       United States, as amicus curaie, supporting         Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondent                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ELAINE J. GOLDENBERG, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting the Respondent                            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       first this morning in Case ­, Supap Kirtsaeng v.         John Wiley & Sons.                 Mr. Rosenkranz.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   When Congress modified the American Rule in       the Copyright Act, it was not just trying to punish          those who took unreasonable positions. It wanted to         encourage parties to advance important principles even       where the other side's arguments are good; indeed, I         would say, especially where the other side's arguments        are good.              When a defendant is trying to decide whether         to fight for a principle, the availability of attorneys'          fees can make all the difference in that decision, and          in turn can make all the difference in whether the          public's rights are vindicated.                The Second Circuit's standard flouts. The       plain language of the statute undermines Congress's goal        and is consistent with this Court's opinion in Fogerty.         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review It does nothing to encourage a defendant who has a good             defense but is facing off against a powerful adversary          armed with a reasonable position. That encouragement         has not happened once in the last years. That's not            once in cases decide ­­ decided under the Second          Circuit's Matthew Bender rubric, and will never happen        anywhere outside the Second Circuit.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rosenkranz, if      Kirtsaeng had lost this case ­­ if he had lost this           case, should fees have been awarded to Wiley, given the          significance of this decision? I mean, it's an          important decision. It needs both sides to be aired          before the Court. So suppose he had lost and Wiley won,            would Wiley be entitled to attorneys' fees?                   MR. ROSENKRANZ: Wiley would have an       argument, Your Honor, certainly on one of the factors         that we have suggested, which is it would say we won an            important case. It didn't win it against the ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It would have had more        than that. It would have had circuit precedent. It           could have been woefully infringing, correct?                  MR. ROSENKRANZ: Not ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If I were going to bet,          I would say yes to that question. Wouldn't you?                      MR. ROSENKRANZ: I'm sorry. Our client        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review would have been ­­ was already found to have woefully          infringed.                         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right.    MR. ROSENKRANZ: So our client had a lot          already weighing against him.                But just to get back to finish the answer to          Justice Ginsburg's question, but there would have been        other factors. The Court would have ­­ the district          court would have evaluated what the incentives for both         sides were. So Wiley would have had an enormous          economic incentive to advance its position. Kirtsaeng        would have had much less of an incentive to do anything           other than to cave.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why? It was a lucrative          business he was engaged in.                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, he was a        student who had this side business who was making just a           few dollars per book. I mean, it was a ­­ it was a                large volume, but the ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Several hundred thousand.                  MR. ROSENKRANZ: Several hundred thousand      dollars in revenues, Your Honor, but not in profit. And           as to Wiley ­­ as to the books of Wiley that he sold, it              was $,, Your Honors, for which he was hit with a           $, judgment, which also would have been considered        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review by the district court. It would have thought ­­ it           would have asked itself: Is this fair?                    But the problem with the Second Circuit's       position is that it prejudges in every case there is          going to be substantial weight on the reasonableness.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Rosenkranz, just to       continue on with what Justice Ginsburg was asking you.         As an ex­post matter, you have a great David versus           Goliath story to tell. But as an ex­ante matter, I           wonder if the rule that you suggest is not going to harm            the Kirtsaengs of the world.                 And you know, you might take these couple        things into account: That the Kirtsaengs of the world          will probably think that the ­­ that they are spending          less on their lawyers than the John Wileys of the world.           And that they're also more risk averse, because they         have less money. So, you know, given those two factors,           doesn't your rule, actually as an ex­ante matter, cut         against the Kirtsaengs of the world?                  MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, the answer is        no, and for this reason. The Kirtsaengs of the world,           when they are facing off against a John Wiley, the first            questions on their minds before they ever think about         attorneys' fees being awarded against them is how am I          going to pay for this? And critical answer to that           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review question will be in many circumstances, there's the        availability of attorneys' fees ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, but that's only one        side of the question. I mean, what you're doing is            you're upping the stakes generally so that Kirtsaeng is         going to know, well, it's true I might be able to get my              fees back; but at the same time, I run the risk of             having to pay John Wiley's fees. And John Wiley, as I            said, is probably going to be paying its lawyers more          than I'm going to be paying mine. And I'm very           risk­sensitive as a Kirtsaeng type. So that's a huge            deal for me to increase my stakes that much.                     MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, understood.      That will be part of the calculus.                   Now, in the Ninth Circuit where the test        that we are suggesting predominates, and in every        circuit that doesn't accept the Second Circuit's       position, which is to say every other circuit, there is          not a dearth of copyright litigation. People in          Kirtsaeng's position are fighting ahead. And why is         that? It's because district courts have been entrusted         with making reasonable judgments and asking the       question: If a defendant is in exactly this position in            the next case, what are the incentives that will         appropriately incentivize both the plaintiff to push on        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and the defendant.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought you        told ­­ I thought you told us that there haven't been            any awards under the ­­ maybe I misunderstood ­­ the           Second Circuit test in years. Or what was the point            you were making at the beginning, cases, years?                      MR. ROSENKRANZ: cases, Your Honor, that        were decided under the Second Circuit's Matthew Bender        standard, not once did any defendant ­­ defendant, that         is, ever prevail in receiving attorneys' fees except        where the plaintiff ­­                           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right.     MR. ROSENKRANZ: ­­ has been ­­ has engaged         in unreasonable ­­                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Unreasonable.     MR. ROSENKRANZ: ­­ conduct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought your         point ­­ your point now is that the defendants in          copyright cases still show up.                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. I'm        talking about the rest of the world. I'm talking about           the Ninth Circuit.                           The Court: Okay.    MR. ROSENKRANZ: So in the Ninth Circuit,        plaintiffs show up, starving artists show up, and        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review starving artists defend.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And they don't in        the Second Circuit?               MR. ROSENKRANZ: Then the truth is there are         very few starving artists in any copyright litigation.        So, yes, they may show up, but they won't be able to pay             for their own lawyer. And so ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: Do you suggest that one of         the solutions to that problem is for the district court          to take into account the relative financial resources of         the parties; is that correct?                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor, as ­­ as         one of the factors. So what the district court should           do in every case, in addition to all of the footnote            factors, is to ask itself: If a ­­ if a party in the                same position reads the precedents or their lawyers read         the precedents, what lessons will they glean from them?         And one of the things a district court should be           analyzing in every case looking backwards is: What         would have been the right economic incentives for this         plaintiff and this defendant?                            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Is there anything ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: Have we ever said in a ­­          have we ever said that the availability of attorneys'         fees is dependent on the financial resources of the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review party?             MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it's ­­ it's        certainly ­­ it has long been a part of the standard            that courts have consistently applied in attorneys' fees        cases. This Court said in Fogerty you've got to          evaluate the incentives, and the incentives run both        ways.               A John Wiley did not need attorneys' fees in        order to proceed, and was not worried about attorneys'         fees, in order to protect its interest in a         $.­billion­a­year business for which, on this      particular issue, it stood to gain hundreds of millions         of dollars. It wasn't worried about whether it would          have to pay Sam Israel's $, in fees.                      A Kirtsaeng, on the other hand, would have       been worried about that under ­­ under any standard.         And in a standard where he stands to gain attorneys'           fees for defending, that would have been an important         incentive to ­­ to encourage him to soldier on ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rosenkranz ­­                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: ­­ under ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ it does sound like, as         Justice Kagan put it, that your rule is if David faces           Goliath and David wins, David gets fees no matter how          reasonable Goliath's position was. That's what it seems         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to come down to.                MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, it doesn't. On         that factor of ­­ I mean, there are easily six factors a             court should be considering. On that factor, a David is            better positioned than a Goliath to make the argument          that he should get fees. But there's a lot more to it.              There's, what else does the defendant stand to gain?         What does the plaintiff stand to gain? What were the           motivations of the parties?                One of the factors that the district court        said was completely irrelevant was, what was the        significance of the win to the public? So all of ­­                       JUSTICE KAGAN: So one thing that concerns        me about a test like that, Mr. Rosenkranz, is it's very            hard for people to make judgments ex ante and to figure           out what their chances are. It's very hard to predict.           And if you're concerned about the Kirtsaengs of the         world, the Davids in these kinds of suits, what you          might want is a pretty clear safe harbor.                     In other words, if I'm taking a reasonable         position, I'm not going to be stuck with the other          side's fees, which are likely to dwarf my own. And           that's something that somebody can predict, as opposed        to this ­factor test, which it's like I just don't           know how this is going to come out, and I might well be              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review stuck with John Wiley's fees, depending on what judge I          draw and, oh, a number of other things that I don't have              any control over.               MR. ROSENKRANZ: Understood, Your Honor. So        what the ­­ what the Congress did was to select a           standard based upon the totality of the circumstances.        It affirmatively rejected the standard that sat there in         the Patent Act and in the Lanham Act that was based on            exactly the clear line that you've described, Your        Honor, exceptional circumstances.               To this day, Wiley has not explained how its         test is any different from the one that Congress         adopted. It's exactly what Justice Kennedy ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: What is ­­ what about ­­ I          suppose I start this thinking district judges do have a           job. In part of that job, they do things that we would             do worse, not better. And one of the things that they            know is the case in front of them. And what we said in              the ­­ our case was: It's up to them as long as they              act reasonably. So you started with a factor, which I            guess they could have taken into account. Nothing in          our law prohibits it. In fact, it encourages it.                      So what's the problem? What is it? Are you           saying we should, in fact, change what we said in          Fogerty? In my own mind, I don't know how to do it.              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, Your Honor. I ­­         JUSTICE BREYER: All right. So you don't                                 want to believe that. Okay. So you want case­specific           correction of what you believe is a failure to apply to            realize what Fogerty meant. Is that the idea?                     MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. So let me          be more precise.               I've already said one of the things that is         wrong with the Matthew Bender standard, that it is         atextual.               A second thing, directly to the question on       Fogerty, is that Fogerty says, quote, "defendants who        seek to advance meritorious copyright defenses should be        encouraged to litigate them. There" is nothing in         Matthew Bender that encourages a defender to litigate.                     JUSTICE BREYER: No, but you want us        case­specific or you want us to say something? I mean,            one ­­ one whole ­­ one result would be the Second           Circuit seems not to have taken account of what we said,           which is that all considerations ­­ all considerations        that are consistent with the purposes of the Copyright         Act can be relevant. It depends on the case, period.                       MR. ROSENKRANZ: Absolutely, Your Honor.      Although, I ­­ I would add a little bit more. I ­­                            JUSTICE BREYER: You wanted this other       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review thing, which I don't know how to do. The other thing is              whether you really advance the law. I mean, maybe at            the time, Marbury v. Madison was viewed by many people          as being just about an appointment, and it didn't really          advance the law.               MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe others thought it       did. I don't know. How do we know which advances the              law?             MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, district courts       know what cases are advancing the law and what cases are           more specific ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Rosenkranz, I ­­ I         think that Justice Breyer is getting to something.                    Put on a hat that doesn't want to win          outright. Okay? Put on a hat where we're trying to             announce a rule. And I'm sympathetic to your argument           that the Second Circuit rule obviously stacks everything        in favor of a winning plaintiff, publish a winning           copyright holder because percent are now winning, if         not more. In the Second Circuit, it's almost          percent. It means, when you're talking about the         reasonableness of a ­­ a winning party's position, in           most cases the copyright holder has a reasonable         position. So ­­ and the defendant, by losing, tends to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review have an unreasonable                  I looked  position. at what happened after Fogerty, and      the ­­ after Fogerty     and Fantasy, that's where the Ninth      Circuit tests began.     And the Court there said there's      different incentives   for plaintiffs and defendants. You      can't make the reasonableness of the position the        centerpiece for prevailing defendants, or otherwise,      they're never going to get fees, or hardly ever.                     So going back to Justice Breyer's question,       how do we articulate what the Second Circuit is doing          wrong without necessarily endorsing all of the factors        of the Ninth Circuit?                MR. ROSENKRANZ: Understood, Your Honor.      The simple answer is: What the Second Circuit did was           to pick one factor out of a jumble of possible factors            and say, this will be the one that gets substantial          weight. And what the district courts do with that is           then hold up that one factor and ask, is there anything           that outweighs that factor when, in the context of a          particular case, that might not be the most important         factor?             But I see the Court wrestling with ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So the test would be,        it's okay to have it one among others, but not a           presumption that says that's always going to entitle you         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to defend against an award or to win an award.                      MR. ROSENKRANZ: Agreed. And what Matthew        Bender does is essentially to announce a presumption.                     But I see the Court wrestling with ­­ with          how to articulate a test. I can articulate the test in              four sentences in a way the district courts can          administer.             So our rule is that a district court should          consider the totality of the circumstances, including       all of the Fogerty factors, and ask itself, would a fee            award here advance the purposes of the Copyright Act?         Is this the sort of case in which, if the same scenario            were to present itself again, the availability of fees         would create the right litigation centives ­­      incentives, that is, for both parties with the right         result for the public?                The district court should ­­ should consider       each of the Fogerty factors and do it through the lens           of the purposes of the Copyright Act. It should also           consider the significance and nature of the win and the          litigation incentives on both sides of the deed,        including any disparity in resources.                 That is ­­ if ­­ if this Court were to say           those four sentences, district courts would have a lot          of guidance. And if this Court were to say, Fogerty,           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review too, actually does it right ­­ it didn't just consider          litigation incentives on one side. It considered the         litigation incentives for the plaintiffs.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: But it seems to me that         you ­­ a ­­ a party can advance the law and a ­­ a case                   can advance the law by insisting on principled,        consistent application of settled principles. That's an        advancing of the law. I ­­ I can see the excitement              about granting fees if there's some ­­ some        breakthrough, something we've never thought about.                  On the other hand, there's something that's       commendable about applying the law consistently,      routinely in regular cases. That advances the law.                     MR. ROSENKRANZ: Of ­­ of course, it does.         And ­­ and in the right case, that can support a fees             award. For example, the only way to define fair use is            case­by­case, accretively where a common law develops.        Someone who advances a fair use defense and wins ought           to be at least within range of a copyright ­­                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rosenkranz, can we go        back to your test now? Would you say we'll make it            something district courts can understand and readily       apply?             So take my question. Kirtsaeng loses and        Wiley win ­­ wins. Apply your four­sentence test, and          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review tell me whether Wiley gets fees.                  MR. ROSENKRANZ: The answer will depend on a         district court's specific balancing, but I'll do the        balance that I would do ­­ that I would argue to the              district court.                I would say, well, first, Wiley did win       something really big here. Although it wasn't against         huge headwinds, the precedent was in its favor. Good          for Wiley. It gets credit for that. But Wiley had            every incentive to protect hundreds of millions of        dollars. It didn't need attorneys' fees in order to          incentivize it.              Kirtsaeng also did something important. It       stood up ­­ he stood up. He had a reasonable position.             That counts. It's not dispositive, but it counts. And           what good would it have ­­ would it have future          litigants ­­ would it do for future litigants to hit          this poor guy who is a student with attorneys' fees when            he's already got a $, judgment against him?                     That would be my advocacy. I could see a           district court adopting it. I could see a district            court going the other way. But a common law will            emerge, as it has in the Ninth Circuit. Impecunious          defendants are not shying away from fighting a big          copyright Goliath if they can afford the lawsuit that is          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to pay their own attorneys' fees on this rampant         copyright litigation in the Ninth Circuit, and in the         other circuits that don't start with a presumption         against attorneys' fees if the other side was        reasonable.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­ can I ask,           Mr. Rosenkranz, one of the things that confused me about          this case and about, actually, both sides' arguments,        I ­­ I don't really understand why it is that the fees             are awarded in such a high percentage of the cases, both            in the Second Circuit and elsewhere. I mean, the Second            Circuit says that its ­­ the first­among­equal factors        is the reasonableness, but it awards fees in more ­­ way           more than half the cases. Is it that so many of the             cases are utterly frivolous?                MR. ROSENKRANZ: So, Your Honor, the answer        has two parts: There is a different test for defendants            than for plaintiffs, notwithstanding what you read in        Matthew Bender. So the plaintiff ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Before ­­ before you talk to         me about the ­­ the way this might or might not be            pro­plaintiff or pro­defendant, just why are they all so         high?             MR. ROSENKRANZ: Well ­­ well, the numbers        are so high for plaintiffs because plaintiffs are        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review generally getting copyright fees, even if the other side         was perfectly reasonable, because there's a      blameworthiness element to it.                So this ­­ you know, this so­and­so       infringer should be smacked with a ­­ with attorneys'          fees. And by the way, there's often willfulness, as          there was in this case, because a legal defense is no            defense.             On the defendant's side ­­ and the Second        Circuit is certainly not more than half. It's around          half. And that's only where the other side has behaved           unreasonably, either in its litigation position, that       is, the validity of its claim, or in its litigation          position's sort of aggressive tactics.                 Those are the only circumstances in       cases in which defendants have ever had copyright fees         awarded in their favor. And this is something that ­­          that we have yet to hear ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Well, you know, it's ­­ I         have no idea why. I could speculate. One problem is             that a lot of college students think they should listen           to all the music they want and they don't pay any           copyright. That would be outrageous, right? That's ­­         I read that in the papers and other places as a problem.                         MR. ROSENKRANZ: Sure ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe, from time to time,        the copyright owners feel that, you know, my employees         have to pay for gasoline at Exxon; why should Exxon's          employees take all my works for free?                   MR. ROSENKRANZ: Sure, Your Honor. And        that's why ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So we have no idea          why ­­ at least from these briefs, I have no idea why             the copyright numbers come out the way they do on fees;           therefore, I'm thinking, quite honestly, it's going to        vary from case to case. I understand appellate lawyers           love to create standards. I do not have that love at             this moment.              (Laughter.)             MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, I ­­ I ­­ I            understand the lack of love. If that's what the ­­ what            is motivating the Court, it should reject Matthew        Bender. That's ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: It might be you say we go          back and say have they taken what used to be an           all­factors test, and have they in fact said ­­ and then           we could all go home. We say ­­ we say what they've             done here is they've said we're never going to ­­ or           hardly ever going to take a favorable account of having           clarified the law. And in your view what we should say            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is, well, don't say never. Don't lay down a standard.            There are too many different kinds of cases. Beware of           trying to ­­ is that ­­ that's what you want us to.            That's it.              MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes. Yes. And I would           also encourage the Court to say when ­­ when a district            court is evaluating each factor, it should be thinking         to itself, what's the purpose ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: You have added a couple of          standards. Your first two sentences were fine. They          said roughly what ­­ what we've been talking about. And           then you had two later sentences which I began to think,            hey, that's going to be a little tough to apply.                       MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, my later       sentences ­­ you're ­­ you are right, were two         sentences. One is: Think of the Fogerty factors in           Footnote and do it through the lens of the purposes of             the Copyright Act. And the second is: By the way,            Fogerty was about more than footnote . It was about           incentivizing each side correctly. Don't forget about        that. So consider the incentives on both sides.                     JUSTICE ALITO: The problem with that is        that different judges are going to have very different         views about what will further the purposes of the         Copyright Act. Don't you think both the Second Circuit          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and the Ninth Circuit ­­ I'm sorry ­­ the Seventh          Circuit think that their rules are the rules that best          further the purposes of the Copyright Act?                   MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. And        that's why both of them are wrong. I would love the             Court to adopt the Seventh Circuit's standard, but it         too prejudges ­­ in every case it says here's what will           further the purposes of the ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: The ­­ the footnote does        not say further the purposes of the Act. What the           footnote says is, Judge, when you award these fees, be          certain that you are faithful to the purposes of the          Act. And that's very different. It means don't do           something that's going to undermine the Act, as opposed         to sitting there and figuring out whether the basic         purpose of the Act is to what extent to encourage          authors at the expense of the readers, or the expense of           those people who do not want to undergo huge transaction          costs getting ahold of dead authors, all right?                    So we have several different conflicting      purposes. You want to bring them in when you say           "further," and the court did not bring them in because          it said "are faithful to."                 You don't have to answer that.                  MR. ROSENKRANZ: No, your Honor. But my         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MR. ROSENKRANZ: ­­ very short. Yes, I         answer is ­­                          agree. I accept what I think is a friendly amendment to               my ­­                                                 JUSTICE BREYER: Right.    MR. ROSENKRANZ: ­­ description of Fogerty.       Thank you Your Honor.    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Smith.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITH                     ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT                 MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               This is a case, I submit, where the lower           courts did everything right. As courts have been doing          in copyright cases for more than a century, the district           court focused first on the question of whether or not          the losing party, here Wiley, had ­­ had taken an          unreasonable litigation position on the law or on the         facts, and concluded that it obviously had not.                    And then it looked at all the other        potentially relevant factors, including all of the       factors that had been suggested by Kirtsaeng's counsel,        and concluded that ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Except there is ­­      Mr. Smith, I'm trying by what's happening in the Second          Circuit. I've actually, with the help of the library,          looked at cases in the Second and the Ninth Circuit for           the last three years, and this is what I'm coming out           with: In the Ninth Circuit, prevailing defendants have         received fees times and lost times, about          percent. In the Second circuit, prevailing defendants        have received fees three times and lost times.         That's a huge difference.                 If I look at what's happening with        prevailing plaintiffs, in the Second Circuit, prevailing       plaintiffs awarded fees times, and prevailing       plaintiffs denied fees seven. In the Ninth, prevailing         plaintiffs got it times and denied fees twice.                     Prevailing plaintiffs are winning everywhere     in extraordinary numbers. And in both circuits,        prevailing defendants are not winning hardly at all. At          best, percent in the Ninth Circuit.                   So does it say something that somehow,       prevailing ­­ that this presumption that the Second        Circuit is giving is unfair to defendants and to the          purposes of the copyright law?                 MR. SMITH: No, your Honor. First of all, I           would note that Mr. Kirtsaeng's own attorneys have        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review reported that if a ­­ a more complete study of the             Second Circuit record says that defendants are winning        them percent of the time.                  The ­­                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sorry. Five­oh, ?        MR. SMITH: Yes, Your Honor. That's in         their reply brief.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that was a study         from , correct?               MR. SMITH: No, no, no. They did ­­ they           did their own study, and ­­ and they reported that in           the reply brief and said they would provide the data if           you want.              The percent figure that they report for        plaintiffs in the Second Circuit includes, by the way, a          great number of default judgments where fees are both         very small and ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Having practiced in this       area, I know you're right.                  MR. SMITH: So, you know, these statistics        can be thrown around, but it is not as if defendants in            general are not succeeding in getting attorneys' fees        when they're appropriate, but what you ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But ­­ but isn't there a         problem in having one factor outweigh all others? It's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review much harder to start a ­­ with a presumption up here and              all the other factors have to tie against that one to           overcome it.                          MR. SMITH: But it's the fact ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why don't we just have        the Fogerty factors, which are it's one among many?                     MR. SMITH: Your Honor, two ­­ two        responses. First of all, when people ­­ when judges are           given discretion to award fees, looking at whether the         losing party had a substantial case or not is something           that instinctively you arrive at. That's the ­­ the          standard you ­­ you enunciated in Octane for the patent.          It's the standard that you enunciated in Martin for the          removal statute. Of course that's what you give a lot            of primacy to in deciding whether, in your discretion as          judges, you're going to shift fees for ­­ alter the          American Rule or not. That's just natural. It ­­ it's            what courts have been doing under the Copyright Act         since .              That is the ­­ the law that was reported to          Congress when they reenacted this ­­ this provision in         , in the Brown Study, in the register report.         Congress understood that it ­­ what the ­­ what ­­ the           way the rule works is that fees are being shifted when           one side or the other has an unreasonable litigation ­­         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But since most      plaintiffs are not going to sue unless their position is          arguably, reasonably present, shouldn't we be looking at        how reasonable the defendant's position was?                  MR. SMITH: You do when they ­­ when the          plaintiff wins.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When the defendant wins.                   MR. SMITH: When the defendant wins, if you         have a rule that says we're going to shift fees against            reasonable plaintiffs, then you're going to have the        wrong incentives. When you have a case where both sides            have a reasonable position, what you're trying to do in           that case under Fogerty is incentivize both parties to         keep litigating so that the law can be clarified.                     This ­­ this is a classic example here.         This is a case that was a complete coin flip because the              law was totally indeterminant. Nobody knew whether the         first­sale doctrine applied here or didn't apply here.        There was no law in the Second Circuit when the case was            filed. By the time the case gets to this Court, this            Court has already ruled ­to­ that the ­­ on the issue.           So nobody ­­ it was ­­ it was a coin flip.                        And in that situation, the last thing you        want to do to the parties, if you're trying to get them            to keep litigating so that they ­­ the issue gets          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review clarified is tell them, oh, by the way, we're going to           raise the stakes. Whoever wins is going to get fees,           and whoever loses is going to have to pay double.          That's just not the way risk­averse, profit­maximizing       participants in litigation behave.                If you want ­­ you ­­ you suppress        litigation by imposing the British Rule presumptively in        this kind of case because people simply aren't going to          keep fighting. They're going to find a way to get out             of the case.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: As you understand the       Petitioner's position, do they take the argument you've        just made about the necessity for continuing the        litigation and then add a David and Goliath factor to           it? Is that your understanding of their position, or am           I ­­             MR. SMITH: My understanding of their       position ­­ and it is a little hard to nail down,            Your Honor; it seems to vary at times ­­ is from Pages             and of the merits brief, the blue brief. And what             they say there is if the result of the litigation is to            clarify the law, then whichever party has the good         fortune of being the winner, wins the coin flip,         get's ­­ gets fees. That's what they say ­­ generally           you have to ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: He's departing from that.       He's departing from that.                            at least.              MR. SMITH: Excuse me?     JUSTICE BREYER: He's departing from that,       So you say, just don't say never. And,         indeed, the Second Circuit did say never. It said a           court should not award attorneys' fees where the case is          novel or close because such a litigation clarifies the          boundaries of copyright law.                MR. SMITH: Certainly did not say never,        Your Honor. The rule in the Second Circuit is that           other factors can overrule that, and indeed, the court         has ­­ the Second Circuit has so said. They have ­­                       JUSTICE BREYER: The way they wrote this        here, and they were quoting, it says, "As this Court has           reasonably explained." Am I in the right place? I'm in             Page a, a of the ­­ of the petition. Maybe I'm            reading the wrong petition; that's been known.                   That's ­­ and what they do is they quote.         It says, "As this Court recently explained." And it          seems to me they underlined the word "not," so I may not             have read it properly. I ­­ I don't know.                        MR. SMITH: But, Your Honor ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Anyway, your position is it        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review shouldn't be never.                                       MR. SMITH: And that is the law ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: And maybe everybody agrees.       MR. SMITH: That is the law in the Second          Circuit. The ­­ the Viva Video case, the ­­ the           Zalewski case both cited ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith, when you have        a ­­ a system, which the Second Circuit does, of saying,            look, this is the first among equal factors, and you          need something, you know, pretty exceptional to outweigh        this factor, if I'm a district judge and I'm thinking,           you know, who likes to be overruled by the Second          Circuit, it does seem as though it sends a pretty strong            signal to district courts that this is the key factor          and that they are not ­­ you know, probably not in their            lifetimes going to see a case in which that factor is            outweighed.             MR. SMITH: The fact that ­­ that can         outweigh it, and has outweighed it, is litigation        misconduct. So you end up in the Second Circuit with a            rule very much like the rule that this Court enunciated          for ­­ for patent law, which is if the case is           unreasonable on either side or if there's been something         that has magnified the cost of litigation through        litigation abuse, those are situations in which courts        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review appropriately, in their discretion, should award fees.                   But if we have two reasonable parties       litigating appropriately and we don't. They ­­ they         simply don't know who is going to win because the law is            unclear, we don't want to raise the stakes in that          situation because those are the people you want to keep          fighting.             And this case is a perfect illustration. At          the point where this case is going to go to this Court,            you've already divided ­to­. Nobody knows where        Justice Kagan is going to come out on the issue.          First ­­ Kirtsaeng has to decide whether to file that          cert petition. He knows at that point that he's going           to get free representation. But if you had Petitioner's          rule in effect, he would also be ­­ know that he had a              percent chance of losing in this Court and having to           pay all of John Wiley's attorney' fees.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You mentioned that       he's getting free representation. Do you ­­ you've         mentioned the fact that he was represented by pro bono          counsel. Is that a factor that the Court should take            into consideration?              MR. SMITH: I think it can affect the ­­          some of the other factors that are relevant under         Fogerty, in particular the means ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems ­­       MR. SMITH: ­­ of compensation. You don't         need to compensate Mr. Kirtsaeng for representation that        he didn't pay for.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to me        that's quite an intrusion into the relationship between        the ­­ the party and ­­ and counsel. I mean, do you              look at it and say, oh, well, you have discovery on ­­           about whether ­­ what the relationship was between him         and his counsel ­­               MR. SMITH: I think it's ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ with the counsel        giving a discount on fees and all that? I ­­ I'm not               sure that should be a pertinent consideration.                    MR. SMITH: Perhaps not. It's ­­ it didn't          have any major impact on the outcome here. But it           certainly was something that the district court       mentioned. And, in fact, the Second Circuit kind of          disagreed with them on that in a ­­ in a footnote in              their opinion.              But the ­­ the main thing is that you don't          want to have a rule that says if you file that cert             petition, Mr. Kirtsaeng, you're going to be ­­         percent chance you're going to have a big bill at the            end of it.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And even from the point of view of John         Wiley. Sure ­­ sure, it's a big company, and it's a             repeat player and everything, but look where they were.         Once Mr. Kirtsaeng files that cert petition, if        Petitioner's rule is in place, they know they have a            percent chance of losing in the Supreme Court and having          to pay not only all their lawyers' fees, but all          of Mr. Kirtsaeng ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I mean, are you         seriously suggesting it's a tough call for them whether          to oppose the cert petition or not?                   MR. SMITH: Well, maybe not. But I think           it's important to look at the economic situation. They          had a $, judgment, and they would have known,          under his rule, they had a percent of paying ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what are ­­       what are the annual ­­                MR. SMITH: ­­ several million dollars in        fees.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What are the annual        revenues that you're ­­               MR. SMITH: Mr. Rosenkranz said . billion.        Maybe that's correct. I don't know, actually,         Your Honor. But it is ­­ it is certainly a substantial             publishing outfit, and it's a repeat player and had          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review incentives to litigate this case.                 But I don't think you can do these things          sort of after the fact on ­­ based on each party's           particular incentives. You need a rule that says to           people, here's how we're going to decide these things so          you have predictability, so people can tell whether or         not this is likely to be ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem with your       situation is that you're looking at incentives. If I'm          Wiley, I'm looking at this and saying, there's a          percent chance ­­ to percent chance I'm going           to get fees, because willful infringers ­­ and that's         the judgment that was being defended below ­­ almost         always, the winning plaintiff gets fees.                  If I'm a defendant, I'm Kirtsaeng, I know          that the probability is ­­ taking Mr. Rosenkranz's        numbers, are that maybe percent of the prevailing         defendants gets fees. If without pro bono counsel, do          you think he would have continued?                  MR. SMITH: I ­­ I assume he probably ­­                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And would have gone into        debt for it? I ­­ I don't know the answer, but the ­­               the incentives are very, very different for a defendant          who's being asked to go on with the litigation because          the likelihood of them getting fees is so much smaller.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. SMITH: I think there was never any          significant likelihood of anybody getting fees under a        proper application of the Second Circuit's rule here        because, obviously, both sides had objectively      reasonable positions. And I just don't think that that           is something that would have happened in ­­ in this.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He got a willfulness        found below.              MR. SMITH: Well, but ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you get a        willfulness found in a situation where you know there's          a circuit ­­              MR. SMITH: But ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ where there is a        chance of a split court, ­to­?                   MR. SMITH: But the ­­ the conduct was ­­         was intentional, but the law was /. There was ­­          was a complete coin flip. And ­­ and so it seems to me               that while he says, we don't want to pretermit         discretion here, the reality is you have to have some          structure to the decision making so people can predict         what the outcome's going to be and be incentivized.         Otherwise, you just have a black box. You say, well,            each district judge takes six factors. We're not going          to really tell you how you to decide them. And then            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you're not doing what Fogerty asks.                  What Fogerty asks is use the fee decision        whether to award fees, how much, to incentivize people         to clarify the law because of the peculiar importance of          copyright having the ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you asking us, in       our decision, to endorse the Second Circuit test and         reject the Ninth Circuit test, articulate it the way         that the Ninth Circuit does, what ­­ the Second Circuit          does? Ask us exactly what you want us to announce with            respect to what the test should be or not be.                      MR. SMITH: We think the Second Circuit's        test makes eminent sense and ought to be upheld. I           would note, though, that since all of the factors here          went the same way in the judgment of the district court,           even if you decided that they shouldn't be giving         substantial weight to one factor, there wouldn't be a         basis for a reversal in this ­­ this particular case.           But we do think that starting with the objective         reasonableness makes a lot of sense. It leads to the            right outcome and the right incentives, and it gives         people some basis for being able to figure out what's          going to happen in the case and decide which cases to           litigate to the end and which cases to settle or simply           to abandon.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: How do you answer the        argument that you ­­ you referred to patent cases, but          the patent statute says "fees" in exceptional cases.                                say that.              MR. SMITH: Right.    JUSTICE GINSBURG: The Copyright Act doesn't       MR. SMITH: And I think that is, in fact,           how it's played out. The fees are much more rare in            patent cases than they are in copyright cases. It's          certainly not ­­ not true that they're exceptional in ­­         in copyright cases. Quite the opposite. It's clearly a           large majority of cases are ­­ are having fees awarded.                      It ­­ the point, though, is even if you ­­         if you layer on that exceptionality requirement, the        factors that you look at, was it badly litigated, should          it not have been litigated, was there a reasonable          basis, was there abusive conduct, that's the factors you         should look at. That's what courts have always looked          at. Why would you look at something else?                       I mean, that is the reason why one awards        fees is either because somebody brought a case they          shouldn't have, or litigated a defense they shouldn't         have, or abused the process and ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you have a view,         Mr. Smith, as to why it is that this reasonableness          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review inquiry is producing such skewed results as to        plaintiffs and defendants? Because as a logical matter,          you would think it shouldn't, that ­­ that there ­­         there wouldn't be this skew.                             MR. SMITH: I mean ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: Unless you really think the        defendants are taking so many more unreasonable       litigating positions. And I ­­ I guess that could be.             But is there any other explanation or any, you know,          thoughts you have about that?                 MR. SMITH: Part ­­ part of it is the          default judgments where fees are routinely awarded       because there is nobody there to oppose them in ­­ in           very small amounts.               But I ­­ I think the other thing is, as the             government points out in their brief, plaintiffs decide        when to bring cases, defendants don't decide when to be          defendants, and there are a lot of intentional         infringers of copyrights out there in the world that we          have now. And so people ­­ it would be bizarre in a way               if plaintiffs didn't have a higher percentage of claims          that were reasonable, because they decide what case to         bring, and they know that they're going to be spending          money, and this is ­­ they're going to invest in this           case, and they ­­ they decide to go ahead. Whereas           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review defendants are simply often just caught. You know,         they ­­ they were hoping to just slide under the radar           screen and put these infringing photographs up on their         website or whatever it may be.                  And so it ­­ it doesn't strike ­­ strike me          as surprising at all, actually, that we have this         disparity. It doesn't mean that the standard is unfair          or is ­­ is anything else less than even handed. It            simply means that the facts on the ground are leading to           a ­­ a difference in the outcome in percentages, which           we have a lot of different percentages here. But, you            know, a lot of defendants are getting fees too, even in            the Second Circuit, according to their own statistics,        half the time. So it's not like it's entirely          one­sided.             If the Court has no more questions.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Ms. Goldenberg.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELAINE J. GOLDENBERG                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                      SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENT               MS. GOLDENBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may        it please the Court:                I'd like to start by picking up on this         point that's gotten a fair bit of discussion about what           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the statistics are in the Second Circuit under the         Matthew Bender standard which says that objective       reasonableness should be given substantial weight.                  Looking at hundreds and hundreds of cases in        the Second Circuit, in the district courts, I think that           there is a lot of discretion that one can exercise in            deciding whether to include cases in your count or not          include cases in your count, whether you include default         judgments, whether you include declaratory judgment      situations, whether you include situations where the       Court says as a technical matter, you can't get fees           because your motion was late. But in the alternative,          if I were to consider it, I would go on to award or not                award you fees, anyway.                So I think that there is some ground to          quibble with some of the statistics, and I can tell you            what statistics I came up when I did this look, which             are a little bit different, and I think show that there             is not this vast disparity. And the statistics ­­ this           is in the district courts in the Second Circuit from          Matthew Bender on ­­ show that including default        judgments in the count, percent of the time when          plaintiffs ask for fees and it was decided on the merits           in a reported decision, they got fees, and percent of            the time when defendants asked for fees.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             But if you drop out those default judgments,        which, as Mr. Smith indicated, are situations where the         fee motion is effectively unopposed, where I think the          defendant often looks very unreasonable by not having        shown up to defend the case, and where the fee amount is            quite small by necessity because not much has happened         in the case, then the numbers start to look more          similar, . percent for plaintiffs, percent for        defendants.             So there is not this huge gulf between the         percentages of time when plaintiffs and defendants are        getting fees, at least by my count. And as I say, I              recognize there are different ways to do this count.         And so I think you have to take all of these numbers             with a little bit of a grain of salt.                       But I don't think any standard in the world          would give you equal numbers of plaintiffs and        defendants getting attorneys' fees.                The Matthew Bender test is neutral. It's        even­handed on its face. It says very clearly that          plaintiffs and defendants should be treated in the same         way. And if the Court thought that that somehow weren't           being carried out properly in the Second Circuit, I         think the Court could emphasize that, and it wouldn't be          a reason to reject the Second Circuit's test.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             With respect to giving objective     reasonableness substantial weight, I would like to point         out that that is the approach that this Court took in           the Martin decision, which was a case about removal and           remand and which involved ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. Which case?                    MS. GOLDENBERG: Martin v. Franklin, which       was a case that involved the statute that, much like the            statute here, just gave broad discretion to district        courts without a lot of standards to guide them.                      And what the Court said in that case is         discretion isn't whim. In order for like cases to be           treated alike, district court's discretion should be       guided in certain ways so that there can be         predictability and so that there can be ­­ that         principle of justice can be upheld, even in the absence          of expressed statutory restriction.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You didn't have the        sort of situation you have here, where you're concerned         about encouraging people to move for remand or        discouraging people from filing for fees under remand.        It was ­­ the policy sort of pushed all one way in            Martin.             MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, it's true that only        one side in Martin could get fees. That's true that ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that ­­ it's the ­­ when the case is remanded, so the            person has been unsuccessful in removing, that's when        fees are awarded.               But nevertheless, like any fee­shifting     statute, it is taking into account incentives on both         sides, whether you should try to remove the case,         whether you should move to remand the case if you're on           the other side. And what happens in the copyright world           because of this Court's Fogerty decision is that those         incentives are judged as to plaintiffs and defendants        because both of them can get fees, but I don't think the             underlying policies are different.                In Martin, the Court wasn't looking at       anything that was specific to that statute, as to its          history, or to any policy that was specific to that          statute at all. But what the Court said was that           objective reasonableness was the touchstone. And, yes,        it may be true that in some cases where the losing party            has been objectively reasonable, fees are appropriate,       in any event, because this is an equitable matter, and          we don't want to restrict the district court's        discretion, and it's hard to imagine every single case         that could possibly come up in the future. And that is            equivalent to what the Second Circuit has done here.                     So it's very consistent with the approach       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that the Court has taken to other fee­shifting statutes         where there is broad discretion.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Smith suggested that he        thought the times in which the reasonableness inquiry        would be outweighed is if you see real litigation         misconduct. Is that your sense too, or is there          anything else that actually is capable of outweighing        it?             MS. GOLDENBERG: My sense is that that is         probably going to be the most frequent circumstance in         which it would be outweighed, and there are, as         Mr. Smith pointed out, some cases in the Second Circuit          like that, be the Video, Zalewski cases, where even         though the losing party was objectively reasonable, the        Court said there has been some misconduct here and so          awarded fees may be appropriate, or the district court         should go back and see if there was misconduct here.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe ­­                MS. GOLDENBERG: So there are other examples        as well that I'd like to point out beyond that. And one             example comes from the ­­ the Sixth Circuit, and their          case is called WB Music and Bridgeport Music, and that          was a situation where plaintiffs indiscriminately       brought hundreds and hundreds of claims, some of which         were objectively reasonable, and some of which were not         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review objectively reasonably.              And what the Court said there was, yes, it's         true that your claim was objectively reasonable, even        though you didn't succeed, but you've proceeded in this         unreasonable fashion. And so there's a strong         deterrence factor that's playing in here. We don't want          people to do this. We want to stop people from doing            this in the future. And so we're going to award           attorneys' fees in that situation.                 That is related, I think, to litigation        misconduct, but it's not exactly the same thing. And it           is a deterrence. It's focusing on the deterrence factor           in the Fogerty footnote.                There is another example from the district       courts in the Second Circuit. It's a case called Tips            Exports. It's a Eastern District of New York case, and            that's a case where the defendant lost.                    And what the court said again was that there         is the deterrence factor that comes in here. The          defendant was reasonable ­­ objectively reasonable in       its position in its ­­ on the facts and the law, but it             appears that the defendant is going to take this just as           a cost of doing business and keep on engaging in          infringing conduct about because the award of fees isn't         enough ­­ I'm sorry ­­ the award of damages is not           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review enough to stop it. So in that situation, again,          deterrence will override the fact that the losing party         was objectively reasonable. So I do think it ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, it ­­ is it         pertinent, in the government's view, whether or not the         party seeking fees was represented by pro bono counsel?                     MS. GOLDENBERG: I think it would be         pertinent if you were to adopt an approach like         Petitioner's approach where you took financial condition       of the parties into account. If you are going to do            that, then I think you would certainly need to look to            see whether somebody who appeared to be an impecunious         party was actually represented pro bono, was not        responsible for their fees.                But I take some issue with what Petitioner's         counsel said, that ­­ that the financial condition of         the parties is something that courts look to when         they're deciding whether to make a fee award in the           first incidence. I'm not aware of any other         circumstance where the courts look to the financial        condition of the parties under a fee­shifting statute to          decide whether to award fees on a granular level; in           other words, they look to the specific finances of the          specific party before them.                They certainly look at it when it comes time         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review to decide what the amount of a fee award should be, if             they've already decided that they are going to award         fees, and that, I think, is perfectly appropriate. And           you'll see district courts in the Second Circuit, under         the Matthew Bender standard, doing exactly that.                   If they have a very unreasonable pro se         plaintiff, for instance, they will say that a fee award           may still be appropriate if that party loses, but         perhaps the amount should be set lower, it will still be           a deterrent to that person, but it won't be financially          crushing to them.               JUSTICE BREYER: Fogerty says ­­ it adds,        "The need in particular circumstances to advance       considerations of compensation and deterrence."                 MS. GOLDENBERG: Yes.                JUSTICE BREYER: It lists the reasonable       fact ­­ you know, reasonable position is one among four.          It says there could be others. Why? Why not stop right             there?             MS. GOLDENBERG: First ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: Maybe Marbury was a poor         man. Maybe he didn't even want the job. Maybe he was             just trying to try to create a situation where this           country would have a structure of judicial review. I           mean, can they take things like that? Why not?          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                         MS. GOLDENBERG: Well, it ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I mean, I ­­ I don't know.             It has to be consistent with the Act.                                MS. GOLDENBERG: I ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: Why are we suddenly picking        this one thing out of what could be a bunch of things?                         MS. GOLDENBERG: For a number of reasons.         First of all, if you look at the factors that are           mentioned in Fogerty, they actually, many of them,        center around objective reasonableness: Frivolousness,      deterrence, motivation. All of those are kind of         circling around this concept of objective      reasonableness, which, as I pointed out, is pretty         common to the Court's approach to other fee­shifting        statutes, not only in Martin, but also as Mr. Smith          explained, in Octane. So that ­­ that's one example.                      There's another example ­­ another reason,      though, that's very grounded in the Copyright Act        itself, and that is the history of the Copyright Act and           the ratification that Congress engaged in in when         it chose to readopt essentially the same language from         the Copyright Act as to which courts have, through          exercise of their discretion over many years, worn a         groove that said, generally, when the losing party is         reasonable, fees are not going to be appropriate.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review That's equivalent to the Second Circuit's standard.                   Congress had every reason to know that that        was the law under the existing language because Congress         was presented, by experts, by the register of        copyrights, whose job it is to advise Congress on         copyright policy, by the Brown Study, which was an         expert Copyright Office study that Congress had       commissioned. All these authorities said that, and so         Congress had good reason to know that it was true.                      JUSTICE KAGAN: If you were thinking of this         solely as a policy matter, if you didn't think that that            evidence was all that overwhelming, why is it that this          factor should be first among equals?                  MS. GOLDENBERG: For the ­­ I think a lot of             the reasons that Mr. Smith explained with respect to         incentives. When you make that factor important, you're         encouraging reasonable arguments, you're discouraging     unreasonable arguments, you're increasing the chances      that close cases where both sides are reasonable are         going to actually get litigated to their conclusion, and         therefore, the law of copyright will be clarified, which         is what this Court called for in its Fogerty decision.                      If, on the other hand, you adopt something        like the standard that Petitioner at least set forth in          his brief, where you privilege the precedent­setting       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review nature of the decision, then you have the tremendous         unpredictability, tremendous uncertainty, and    risk­averse parties are going to be deterred, and they         won't litigate those close cases to the end, and the law           will not be clarified.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Five minutes, Mr. Rosenkranz.            REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF E. JOSHUA ROSENKRANZ                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you, Your Honor.                   So Justice Ginsburg's question, which got      picked up through the course of the argument, I think           really gets to the nub of the matter. The magic           language in Mr. Smith's presentation is that the Second         Circuit has adopted the Patent Act standard.                   The Patent Act standard is different. And        if Octane means anything, it is we read the words that           Congress actually wrote. "Exceptional circumstances"      this Court defined in exactly the way that the         government and Wiley are defining this standard. We         have to take Congress at its word that it meant          something different.              JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it does mean       something different in practice because, as we were just         told, it's unusual. There are not many fee awards made           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review in patent cases, much higher number in copyright cases.                     MR. ROSENKRANZ: Yes, Your Honor. The ­­        and ­­ and that's because in every circuit but the          Second Circuit, the ­­ the district courts apply a         different standard from the Second Circuit standard.       That's why you have ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: We have the ­­ the Second         Circuit, and what was it, percent of the defendants          and something percent, whatever, it's a much higher          percentage than in ­­ than in patent cases.                    MR. ROSENKRANZ: Agreed, Your Honor. And        it's important to understand why. Our numbers are          percent and percent. One can quibble about the          numbers. But I have to emphasize, neither Mr. Smith nor            the government has come forward with a single case in           which a defendant got fees where the plaintiff was not           being reasonable. In every single one of their cases in           the Second Circuit, when a defendant got fees, it's          because the plaintiff's position was illegal ­­ or was         unreasonable or the plaintiff took unreasonable      positions within the litigation. There is not a single           case in the Second Circuit where anything other than         unreasonableness carried the day.                  I want to make ­­ I want to say a word about             history because there's been a lot of suggestion that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the history before and the Copyright Act was an          exceptional­circumstances standard. It wasn't. There       is not a single case that the government or ­­ or Wiley             has cited, not one case that adopts the Matthew Bender          standard across the board. So sure ­­ that is pre­           I'm talking about.               So sure, there were a lot of cases where          unreasonable plaintiffs or defendants were hit with       fees. There were cases where the reasonableness of a          position for the district court carried the day, but not          one case that ever said, here's how we should figure          this out.              All of the studies that the government has        referred to are studies that admitted that there was         actually no one standard. This Court has quoted the ­­          I'm sorry ­­ this Court in Fogerty underscored that         there was no standard that predated . And even the           cases that Wiley cites, half of them are cases where one           of the parties was unreasonable. That leaves only four          cases, and those are all cases that are consistent with          what we're saying the rule was.                  Final point: If we're talking about       incentives, the difference between my position and Mr.        Smith's position is that he wants a rule that decides up            front for all district courts that this is the weight          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you will put on something, and I want a rule, consistent             with Congress's language and the use of the word "may,"          that trusts district courts to figure out what the right          incentives and disincentives are, and to figure out what         the value is to put on reasonableness.                   JUSTICE ALITO: That's an awfully hard task        for district judges to perform, whether ­­ you know,         what is ­­ what will further the purposes of the          Copyright Act or what is the most faithful to the          Copyright Act. District court judges are going to see          that very differently, and there won't be any        consistency if that's what they are required to do or          authorized to do.               MR. ROSENKRANZ: Your Honor, what will       emerge is what's emerged in the Ninth Circuit, a common           law of equity where courts are following each other's         decisions. And, yes, there will be some variability,         but the variability is invited by Congress in the word          "may."             Unreasonable litigants will always be hit      with attorneys' fees, not because there is any        particular weight put on it by a court of appeals, but            because that's what district courts will do. But         reasonable positions should be hit with attorneys' fees        or not depending upon whether the Court believes that         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the public was benefitted by the litigation position.                                questions.                                     submitted.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you.      MR. ROSENKRANZ: If there are no further        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. ROSENKRANZ: Thank you, Your Honor.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is       (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : abandon : able : : : above­entitled : : absence : Absolutely : abuse : abused : abusive : accept : : account : : : : : : : accretively : act : :, : : :, : : :, :,, : : :,,, :, : :, add : : added : addition : adds : administer : admitted : adopt : : : adopted : : adopting : adopts : advance : : : :, : :, : advances : anyway : asking : : :, advancing : : adversary : advise : advocacy : affect : affirmatively : afford : aggressive : agree : Agreed : : agrees : ahead : : ahold : aired : alike : ALITO :, : : all­factors : alter : alternative : amendment : American : : amicus : : : amount : :, amounts : analyzing : announce : : : annual :, answer : : : : : : : : : : ante : anybody : : appeals : APPEARAN... : appeared : appears : appellate : application : : applied : : apply : : : : : : applying : appointment : approach : : :, : appropriate : : : :, : appropriately : :, April : area : arguably : argue : argument : :,,, : : : : : : : : : :, arguments : : : :, armed : arrive : articulate : :, : artists : :, asked : : : : asks :, Assistant : assume : atextual : attorney' : attorneys : attorneys' : : : : : : : :,, :, : : : : : : : :, authorities : authorized : authors : : availability : : : : averse : award :,, : : : : : : :, :,, :, : :, awarded : : : : : : : : : awards : : : : aware : awfully : B back : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company backwards : badly : balance : balancing : based :, : basic : basis :, : began : : beginning : behalf :, :,, : : : behave : behaved : believe :, believes : Bender : : :, : : : :, : : : benefitted : best : : bet : better : : Beware : beyond : big :, : : bill : billion : bit : : : : bizarre : black : blameworthin... : blue : BLUECHRIS... : board : bono : : :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review book : books : boundaries : box : breakthrough : Breyer : : :, : :, : :, : : : :, :,,, : : :,, :, Breyer's : Bridgeport : brief :, : certainly : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, chance : :,, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : :, : change : :, : Chief :, : :,, : : :,, : :,, : :, : : : : :,, : :,, :, : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, chances : : : case­by­case : : : : : : circuits : : circumstance : : circumstances : compensation : : complete : : : completely : concept : concerned : : : :, : : : : cited : : cites : claim : : conclusion claims : : : concerns : concluded : : clarified : : : : : clarifies : clarify : : condition : :, conduct : : : : conflicting : classic : confused : clear : : Congress : :, : clearly : : : :,,,, :, : Congress's : close : : : : :, : case­specific : :, briefs : bring :, :, British : broad : : brought : : Brown : : bunch : business :, : : C C : : calculus : call : called : : : capable : carried : : : case : :, : : : cases : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : : :, :,,,, : : :,, : : :, : : :,,, :,,, :, caught : cave : center : centerpiece : centives : century : cert : : :, certain : chose : circling : circuit :, :,, : :, : : :, client : : :,,, : :, : : : :, :,,,, :, : : : :,, :,,, : : :,,, : :, : : : :, commissioned : : : :,, :,, : coin :, : : college : come :, : : : : comes : : : coming : commendable common : : : : : : Circuit's : : : : company : compensate Alderson Reporting Company : consider :, : : : : consideration : : considerations :, : considered : : considering : consistency : consistent : : : : : : : consistently Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :, :, : : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : : defended : defender : defending : defense : Davids : : : : data : : :, David : : :, : :,,, : :, : : : :, :, day : : :, : : : :, DBA : :, : dead : :,, : : : : :, : decide : : :, : : :, :,, :, : : :, decided : : : :, : deal : dearth : debt : : : : : : : : :,,, defenses : : : : :, : discussion : disincentives define : defined : defining : denied :, disparity : departing :, : : : :,, : differently : directly : disagreed : discount : discouraging : : discovery : discretion : : : : : :,, : : : dispositive : district : : : :,, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : : :, : : : :, :, : : :, : : :, : :,, divided : doctrine : doing : : : : context : continue : continued : continuing : control : copyright : : : : :, : : :, : : : :, : :, :, : : : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : : :, copyrights : : correct : : : : correction : correctly : cost : : costs : counsel :, : :, : : : :, : : : count :,, :, court's : : : :, : : : courts : : decision : decides : deciding : : Department : depend : dependent : depending : :, : :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : depends : : :, declaratory : described : : : : : :,, create : : : description : deterred : deterrence : : :, : deed : default : defend : : decisions : : credit : critical : crushing : curaie : curiae : country : counts :, : couple : : cut : course : : : D court :, D : : : :, D.C :,, : : :, damages : : defendant : : : :, : : : : :, :, : :,, :, defendant's : : defendants : : :, :,, : : : deterrent : develops : difference : : : : : different : : : : :, : : : :,, :, : dollars :, : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company double : draw : drop : dwarf : E E : :,, :,, : easily : Eastern : economic : : : effect : effectively : either : : : ELAINE : : : element : emerge : : emerged : eminent : emphasize : : employees : : encourage : : : : : encouraged : encouragement : encourages : : encouraging : : endorse : endorsing : engaged : : : engaging : enormous : entirely : entitle : entitled : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : entrusted : enunciated expert : experts : :, : explained : equal : : equals : equitable : equity : equivalent : Exports : explanation : :, : Fantasy : fashion : : favor : : : : faithful :, figure : : : : :, figuring : file : : filed : files : filing : Final : finances : financial : : :, : favorable : fee : : :, : :, : fee­shifting : : : : feel : fees : :, financially : : first­among­e... first­sale : Five : find : fine : finish : first : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : :,,, : :, : : : :, :,, :,,, :,, : : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : Five­oh : flip :, :, : :,, : : : : : :,, : : :,,, Fogerty : : : : :, :,, :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : flouts : focused : focusing : fight : fighting : : : : especially : ESQ :,, :,,, expressed : extent : extraordinary : essentially : Exxon : : evaluate : evaluated : evaluating : even­handed : event : everybody : evidence : ex : ex­ante :, ex­post : exactly : :, : : : : example : : : : :, examples : exceptional : : :, : exceptional­ci... : exceptionality : excitement : Excuse : exercise : : existing : expense : : Exxon's : Fface :faces :facing : : fact :, : :: :: :: ::factor :, : :, :, : : ::,, : ::,, :, factors : : : :, :, : : :, : ::, : : :: :: ::, : facts : : :failure :fair : :, Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : : forget : forth : fortune : forward : found : : : four :, : : four­sentence : Franklin : free : : : frequent : friendly : frivolous : Frivolousness : front : : further : :,,, : : future :, : : G G : gain :, :, gasoline : general : : generally : : : : get's : getting : : : : : : : : :, Ginsburg's : : give : : given : : : : gives : giving : : : : glean : go : : : : : : : : gotten : government : : : :, government's : grain : granting : granular : great : : groove : ground : : grounded : guess : : guidance : guide : guided : gulf : guy : H half : : goal : going : : :, :, : :, :,, : :, : :, : : :,, : :,,, : :, : : :, : handed : : :, :, : happen : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : hand : happened : : : Goldenberg happens : : : : harbor : hard :, :, : : : : :, : : :, :,, : harder : harm : hat :, headwinds : Goliath : : : : : : : importance : important : :, : : : : : : imposing : incentive : : : : incentives : : : : : : :, : : : : :,, : : :, : : : incentivize : : : : incentivized : incentivizing : incidence : include :,, :, includes : including : : : : increase : increasing : indeterminant : indicated : indiscriminate... : infringed : infringer : infringers : : infringing : : : :, history : : : : hit : : : :, hold : holder :, home : honestly : Honor : : : : : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : Honors : hoping : huge : : : : : : :, :, I idea : : :, illegal : illustration : imagine : impact : impecunious Official ­ Subject to Final Review following : Ginsburg : footnote : Goliath's : hear : : : : : good :, : help : hey : : : :, : high :,, higher : : :, : : hundred :, : : : hundreds : happening : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review inquiry : : insisting : instance : instinctively : intentional : : interest : intrusion : invest : invited : involved :, irrelevant : Israel's : issue : :, : : J J : : : job :, : : John : : :, :, : : : : JOSHUA : :, : : judge : : : : judged : judges : knew : : : :,, : :,,, : kinds : : : : :, Kirtsaeng : : : : :, :, :, : :, : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : :, : Kirtsaeng's : : :, :, : Kirtsaengs : :,, : : : :,,, : :,, know :, : : :, : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : :, :,, : :,, : :, :,, :, : :,, :, : :,, : : : :, : : :, : :,, : : : :, : :,, :, : : :, : :, :, : : :, : knows :, known : : L lack : language : K : :, Kagan : : : : :, :, : : : : : : judgment : : : : : : judgments : keep :, : : : :, : judicial : jumble : justice : : : :,, : : : Kennedy : : : key : kind : : : : : : : Lanham : large : : late : Laughter : law : :, :, :, :,,, : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : lawsuit : lawyer : lawyers : : : : lawyers' : lay : layer : leading : leads : leaves : legal : lens : : lessons : level : library : lifetimes : likelihood : : likes : line : listen : lists : litigants : : : : : : : logical : long : : look : : : :, :,, : : :,,, : : looked : : : : looking : : : : : : : looks : loses : : : losing : : : : : : : : : lost :,, :, : lot : : litigate :, : : : litigated : :, : litigating : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : love :,, : lower : : lucrative : litigation : : :, :, : M :, : : :, M : : :, : :,, : : : : : : Madison : magic : magnified : main : major : little : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review majority : making : : : misunderstood : : : : modified : man : Marbury : moment : Monday : money : : : : : : :, : : : :,, order :, : :, : : other's : : note : : ought : notwithstandi... : : Martin : :,,, : : morning : matter : : motion : :, : : : : : : : : motivating : motivation Matthew : : : motivations :, : : : :, : move : : : : music : : :, N N :, : N.Y : nail : natural : nature : : necessarily : mean : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : means : : : : : meant : : mentioned meritorious : merits : : million : millions : : mind : minds : mine : minutes : misconduct : novel : nub : number : : : : numbers : : : : :, : :, O O : : objective : outcome : : : outcome's : outfit : outrageous : outright : outside : outweigh : :, outweighed :, : : outweighing : : : :, outweighs : : objectively : overcome : : :, override : :,, : overrule : : : Octane : : : overwhelming : owners : P P : Page : : Pages : papers : part : : : :, particular : : : : : : : : :, : : : parts : party : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : party's : : patent : : : :,, : : :, PAUL : : : pay : : : : : : : : : : : paying :, : people : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : percent : : :, :, : : :, :,, :, : : :,, : percentage obviously : overruled : peculiar : necessity : Office : oh : : : :, : need : : : : : : : : : okay : : : : : : once :, : needs : neither : neutral : never : : : : : :,, oppose : : : : : nevertheless opposed : one­sided : participants opinion : : : New : : : :, Ninth : : : opposite : oral : :,, parties : : : : :, percentages : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : please : perfect : perfectly : : perform : period : person : : : : point :,, :, : : : : : : pointed : pertinent : : predated : predict :, : predictability : : predominates : prejudges : : : :, : : : proceed : proceeded : process : producing : profit : profit­maximi... present : : prohibits : proper : properly : : protect : : provide : provision : public : : : pretermit : public's : pretty : publish : : :, : publishing Petitioner :, poor : :, petition : : : : :, :, : : : Petitioner's : : : :, photographs : pick : picked : picking : : place : : places : plain : plaintiff : points : policies : policy : : presentation : :, : : presented : presumption : : : : : position : : : :,, : : : :, presumptively :, : : : :,, :,, : : : : :,, : position's : positioned : : quite : : : : quote : : quoted : quoting : R R : radar : raise : : rampant : range : rare : ratification : read : : : : : prevail : prevailing : :,,, :,,, : : primacy : principle : : principled : principles : : privilege : pro : : :, : pro­defendant : pro­plaintiff : probability : probably : punish : purpose : : readers : readily : reading : readopt : reads : real : reality : realize : :, : really :, : : : :, : : :,, : : : : purposes : push : pushed : put : : : : :,, Q question : : :,, : : : : : questions : reason : : : : :, reasonable : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : : : problem : : quibble : Alderson Reporting Company : : : positions : : : : : : :, : : : : possible : plaintiff's : possibly : plaintiffs : potentially : powerful : : : :,, :,,, practice : practiced : : : :, : pre­ : :, : precedent : :,,, : : : precedent­sett... : : played : player :, playing : precedents : : precise : received :, receiving : recognize : record : reenacted : restrict : referred : : rest : : representation :, : represented required : requirement : resources : : : respect : : : Respondent : :, :, : : responses : responsible restriction : result : : : results : revenues : : reversal : review : right : : : : :, : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, : :, :,, : :,, :, : : :,,, :, :, : :, : :,, :,, : : :, : :,, : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, Rosenkranz's : roughly : routinely : : rubric : rule : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : reasonableness : : : : : : : : : : :, : : reasonably : : : : reasons : : REBUTTAL : : : register : : regular : reject : : : rejected : related : relationship :, relative : relevant : : : remand :, : : remanded : removal : : remove : removing : repeat :, reply :, report : : reported : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review sat : :,, : :, : saying : : : : : : :,, : seriously : set : : settle : settled : says : : seven : : :, Rosenkranz Seventh :, shift : : : :, : : :, : shifted : : : : :, : :, short : show :,, : :, scenario : screen : se : second : : shown : shying : side : : : sides : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : side's :, : : :, : :,,, :, : :,, :,,, : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : : :,,,, sides' : signal : significance : : : significant : similar : simple : simply : : see : : : :, : :, : : : seek : seeking : select : sends : sense :, :, : :, single : :,, : sitting : situation : : : : : : : : : : sentences : : :, :, situations : :, : six : : rights : risk : : ruled : risk­averse : rules :, run : : : risk­sensitive : ROBERTS : :,,, :, : : : S S : : safe : salt : Sam : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review stop : : sympathetic Sixth : skew : skewed : slide : smacked : small : : : smaller : Smith : : :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : : :,, :,, : :, :, : :,, : : : :, : : : Smith's : : so­and­so : sold : soldier : solely : Solicitor : solutions : somebody : : : Sons : : sorry : : : : : : sort : : : :, SOTOMAYOR :, : : : : :, : : :, :, :,, : : sound : specific : : :, :, speculate : spending : : split : stacks : stakes :, : : stand :, standard : : :,, :, : : : :, : : : : :, :,, :, :, :, standards : : : stands : start : : : : : started : starting : starving : :, States :,, : : statistics : : :, :, statute : : : :, :, : : statutes : : statutory : stood : :, : story : strike :, strong : : structure : : stuck : : student : : students : studies :, study :,, : :, submit : submitted : : substantial : : : : : : : succeed : succeeding : suddenly : sue : suggest : : suggested : : : suggesting : : suggestion : suits : Supap : : support : supporting : : : suppose : : suppress : Supreme :, : sure : : : :, :, surprising : Alderson Reporting Company : : : think :, : : :,, : : : : : :, :, : : : :,, : :, : :,, : : :,, : :, : thinking : : : : : : system : T T :, tactics : take : : : :, : : : : : : : taken : : : : : takes : talk : talking :, thought : : : : :, task : technical : tell : : : thoughts : thousand : :, : : : : : : : tends : test : : :, : : :, :, : : :, :, : : tests : Thank : : : three :, thrown : tie : time : : :, : : : :, : : times :,,, :, : : told :, : totality : : : :, :, Tips : : thing : : :, : : : : : things : : :,, : : : : totally : touchstone : tough : : transaction : treated : : tremendous :, true : : :, : : : trusts : truth : try : : trying :, : : : :, : turn : twice : two : : :,, :, : type : U uncertainty : unclear : undergo : underlined : underlying : undermine : undermines : unreasonable... : unreasonably : unsuccessful : unusual : upheld : : upping : use :, : : utterly : V v : : : : validity : value : variability : : underscored vary : : : vast : understand : : versus : :, : Video : : : understanding view : : :, : : understood : viewed : views : vindicated : Viva : volume : : : : unfair : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review whichever : : want : : whim : Wiley : : worse : wouldn't : W United :,, : : unopposed : unpredictability : :,, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : unreasonable : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : wanted : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : : wrestling : : : :,,, : : : : :, wrong : : : : : wrote : : Wiley's : : : :, : :, :, .­billion­a­y... . : wants : Washington :,, wasn't : : : : way : : : :, : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : ways : : : WB : we'll : : we're : : : : : : : :, we've : : : Wileys : willful : willfulness : :, win : : : :, : : : winner : winning : :,, :, : : wins : woefully : : won :, wonder : word : : : :, words : : : works : : website : weighing : weight : : world :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : went : weren't : worn : worried :, x :, X Y years : :, : : York : : Z Zalewski : : : : : : : : , : : :, ­ : : : : : : : : a : : : : : : : :, a : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : ­factor : : : : : , : ­to­ : : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : / : : : : . : , : : : : : : : : : : : :, Alderson Reporting Company 