Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC., :                  Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          : UNITED STATES AND MASSACHUSETTS, :      EX REL. JULIO ESCOBAR AND CARMEN :        CORREA,                                        Respondents.           : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, April ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf            of Petitioner.  DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of            Respondents. MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,             Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United       States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.       For United States, as amicus curiae,         supporting the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.        On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Universal Health Services v. The         United States and Massachusetts ex rel. Escobar and        Correa.             Mr. Englert.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.                    ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  This entire case turns on four words of the         statute: "False or fraudulent claim." "False" and         "fraudulent" have been unchanged since in this        statute. "Claim" is defined by statute.                               I'll come back to those words.      Three separate State agencies investigated     the facts of this case in detail. All three agencies           produced lengthy reports and proposed remedial measures       for certain alleged regulatory violations. No agency        asked for any money back. No sanction at all was           imposed on the company. One individual was fined $,          and the claimant director was given two years of         supervision.             Through the magic of the     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review implied­certification theory under the False Claims Act,       the very same facts have now been recharacterized as         fraud on the government.                The First Circuit focused on a single        alleged regulatory violation involving a regulation not        cited in the complaint, not cited in any appellate         brief, not cited in the amicus brief of the Commonwealth          of Massachusetts. That is not what "fraud" means.                     Now, coming back to the four words that        matter, "false or fraudulent claim."                 "False" means false. This Court construed       that word in Williams v. United States. Footnote of            Respondents' brief unsuccessfully tries to distinguish      Williams. The Solicitor General ignores Williams.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: It can't mean misleading,       then?             So "false" can only mean false? It can't         mean deceptive, misleading?               MR. ENGLERT: It cannot, Justice Ginsburg.       Because the body of law that covers deceptive and         misleading statements is not falsity. It's the law of          fraud. And the law of fraud is stated in Section of             the Restatement (Second) of Torts.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Suppose you have a private         contract. In the private contract, it's for medical         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review services. The written part does not actually use the          word "doctor," but the circumstances are such that any         reasonable person would assume, would believe that the        parties contracted for medical services provided by a        doctor.             This is an ordinary contract case. Could        not a jury or the judge find that that implicit term of             the contract that the services would be provided by a          doctor was breached, it was a material breach, and,          therefore, the implicit statement was false?                  MR. ENGLERT: Two responses, if I may,         Justice Breyer.              First, the whole problem here is the       tortification of contract. Yes, that's a good contract          case, but it's not automatically a good tort case.                                              The second answer ­­   JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. What's the second?         MR. ENGLERT: Section ()(e) of the       Restatement deals with that exact situation, facts basic        to the transaction. So the common law has developed a           meaning of fraud that will accommodate the cases in         which liability makes sense because every reasonable       person, as Your Honor said, would assume something to be          true.             Comments j and k and Illustrations , ,           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and of the Restatement ­­ rather, , , , , and ,                give one example of facts basic to the transaction and          five examples of facts not basic to the transaction. It           is a very, very, very narrow duty of disclosure.                      JUSTICE BREYER: Well, fine. But now let's         go a step further. We have our contract. The facts are              such that any reasonable person would assume there is an          implicit statement that the services will be provided by         a doctor. You say that could be a breach of contract.                         Now it turns out that this company that has         that contract has sold the shares over the SEC. And the            SEC says, you know, it's so obvious that that implicit          statement in the contract meant that they had a doctor           who was a doctor ­­ that's so obvious ­­ that we think             in selling shares in this company, where indeed this         contract was absolutely critical, millions of dollars       was at stake, without a doctor, violating of implicit          statement that there was a doctor, we think that's fraud           under Rule (b)().               that up.                          MR. ENGLERT: I'm glad Your Honor brought        JUSTICE BREYER: All right.     MR. ENGLERT: The SEC has a habit of          construing fraud under (b)(), and this Court has a         habit of reining the SEC in. And the Chiarella case is            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review quite key here. And Chiarella is not cited in          Respondents' brief. It's not cited in the government's         brief. In all the dark green amicus briefs, it's cited           once, and the citation is to the dissent. Chiarella          says fraud in a statute is very broad, but it's broad            enough to cover the common law and no more. If Congress            wants to go broader than the common law ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: Well, fine. But what is ­­         I'm talking the common law. All I know about contracts            came from Blackjack Dawson, my contracts teacher ­­                   (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ who was a great teacher,          and he taught the common law. So I don't know anything             else. I ­­ well, I won't go quite that far, but              nonetheless. Nonetheless, I think under common law, you          could say that that was a material breach of contract,           what I just talked to. And indeed, there happened to be             a whole set of regulations on the shelf, et cetera,          which spell it all out to which there was an implicit           reference in the contract if it's ­­ you understand what          I'm saying. It's common law that I'm saying.                     MR. ENGLERT: Well, the thousands of pages        of regulations and the implicit reference in the        contract are not what the common law means by fraud.          They are, sadly, what the lower courts have meant by          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review fraud under the False Claims Act.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Englert, I guess I don't           understand that. I mean, let me take Justice Breyer's           hypothetical and make it even simpler.                  Let's say that there's a contract and there         is an explicit term, and it says I commit to providing a             doctor's care. Yes? And then it turns out that the            medical care that was provided was not by a doctor. It             was by a nurse or it was by somebody with not even that              set of qualifications. And ­­ and then the person who           enters into the contract makes a statement, demands         payment, and says the care was provided.                   Now, some care was provided; it is true.        But medical care, a doctor's care was not provided.          Now, by withholding that fact and by just saying the          care was provided, have I not committed fraud under the           common law?              MR. ENGLERT: No, Your Honor. Justice        Kagan, that is not fraud. And that situation is          actually dealt with by Restatement Section ()(b) and        by the famous Junius decision written by Justice Cardozo         for the New York Court of Appeals.                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what about       Restatements ­­ oh, I think it's , which ­­ which           says a statement is fraudulent if the maker knows or           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review believes that it's misleading because of his failure to         add an additional statement to make it true?                    MR. ENGLERT: That's the same principle,       Justice Kennedy.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I don't see why that          isn't completely applicable to what the hypothetical       that Justice Kagan just gave.                 MR. ENGLERT: There's ­­ there's ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: There is a failure to make          an additional or qualifying matter in order to make that          statement not false. That's exactly the Justice's        hypothetical.             MR. ENGLERT: Justice Kennedy, if I       understood Justice Kagan's hypothetical question     correctly, it is not fraud within the meaning of         ()(b). But let's suppose that I'm wrong about that,          okay? Let's suppose that that is fraud. That's still a            very far cry from the facts in this case in which the            court of appeals had to invoke a regulation that cross           referenced another regulation that nobody had cited and        said the failure to announce a violation of that          violation when submitting a claim is fraud.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right.                 JUSTICE BREYER: I see that. That's to me           what's at the heart of this. How do you distinguish           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review those regulations, breach of which are fraudulent when        you breach them, and implicit promise not to, from those          that not? There are millions of regulations. That's          what all the amici are worried about.                   But now, this is my basic question, and it         is a question. The obvious kind of distinction that           would seem possible is a contract­based distinction        between matters that are material where the whole        contract disappears and matters that are sometimes I        think called nonmaterial, I'll get the ­­ I'll forget         the exact word, partial, where even though the condition         is violated, you don't destroy the contract but you         might get damages for that.                 Now, that's a distinction that every court        that deals with contracts is used to applying bread and          butter. All right? Normal daily basis. Why not use            that same distinction right here?                 MR. ENGLERT: Because this is not a contract          case. The government has only ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: No, no. What you'd say, of          course it applies where the condition that was lied         about was material. And there can be implicit lies. Of            course, there has to be an implicit lie. But it could            be an implicit lie that I did not comply ­­ you might             implicitly imply that you fulfilled provision      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review No. (b) which says paper should be three inches         long, okay? Okay. Or there could be an implicit lie            that that person in your hospital was a doctor. The            first you'd say is not material. The second is          material.             Now, that I'm asking because I wonder if a          distinction like that, drawn from contract law would, or         would not, satisfy most of the concerns that are ­­ are           raised in the amicus briefs supporting you.                   MR. ENGLERT: Justice Breyer, it would not        satisfy most of those concerns for several reasons.                    First and foremost, the False Claims Act has        its own definition of materiality, which is greatly        watered down from the common law. Something that is          capable of influencing a decisionmaker is material under         the False Claims Act. So materiality doesn't solve the          problem.             Now let me say also that materiality is, at         least arguably, a different element. When I say "at            least arguably," the statute actually doesn't say under        (a)()(A) that it has to be material, but courts have          properly read materiality in. But even if materiality         is read in, it's a different element on top of a false              or fraudulent claim.               And I really want to bring this Court back          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review with respect to the four words "false or fraudulent         claim" because for it to be fraudulent, there must be,          as Your Honor said, an implicit lie. And the common           law, cases like Junius, Restatements like ()(b),       deal with the implicit lie.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. I'm totally        confused. I always thought that when you asked for           payment, you're making a promise: I did what I agreed              to do. Pay me, please.                  That's, to me, what's sort of understood.       If I hired you to provide me with doctor services, you            ask me for money, I'm assuming you provided me with          doctor services. And you know you didn't. Why isn't           that a fraud?                MR. ENGLERT: Because it's a contract        breach. Breaking a promise is a contract breach. Some             contract breaches are fraud, most are ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So providing a gun that         doesn't shoot to the Army is simply a contract breach?                       MR. ENGLERT: I don't know, Justice        Sotomayor. It depends on the facts of the case.                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What ­­ what more facts        do you need? Government contracted for guns. All of a            sudden you deliver guns that don't shoot. That ­­ those           are the facts that led to this Act.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. ENGLERT: The additional facts I need         are what was stated in the claim, what was stated in            the regs, what were the reasonable understandings of the         contracting parties. And I'm not making these factors         up as ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that     anybody, except yourself, would ever think that it        wasn't a fraud to provide guns that don't shoot if           that's what the ­­ the government contracted for?        Whether ­­             MR. ENGLERT: Yes.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ they made it ­­                   MR. ENGLERT: Yes, depending on additional       facts, Justice Sotomayor, as stated in Section of         the Restatement. If I'm wrong about these hypothetical         examples, I'm wrong, but I'm happy to rest on         Section of the Restatement as to what "fraud" means.                      Chiarella says as a holding of this Court         that the word "fraudulent" requires that there be a         duty. The Restatement, (), is all about when there          is and there isn't a duty.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we don't ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: So I understood ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your earlier argument ­­      your earlier argument was your point that materiality        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has its own definition under the Federal contracting        statutes, and it's so broad that we can't use it, so           we'll just forget about materiality? Is that ­­ do I           understand ­­                                     MR. ENGLERT: No, no. If I may.          JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's my misunderstanding.      MR. ENGLERT: The False Claims Act was        amended a few years ago, about ­­ about years            ago ­­                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right. Right.      MR. ENGLERT: ­­ to redefine materiality. I         may be wrong on the timing, but it's been amended to           redefine materiality as a very, very low standard. But           the point is not use it or don't use it. The point is              that before you get to materiality, you have to have a           false or fraudulent claim.                Materiality is not part of the definition of        false or fraudulent. It is an additional requirement         beyond the false or fraudulent.                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's what I have a hard           time understanding. It ­­ it seems to me we just can't            think about fraud unless we have materiality in some         sense. And it could be a very strict standard of            materiality.             MR. ENGLERT: Justice ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Otherwise, it seems to me,        fraud doesn't make much sense.                 MR. ENGLERT: Justice Kennedy, I agree with         you. For something to be fraud, it must be fraud as            defined by the common law, and it must be material.          That's this Court's holding in the Neder case.                    So yes, I agree with you that to think about           fraud, one must have the kind of statement that is          fraudulent and materiality and scienter.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: So what I understood you to          be saying, Mr. Englert, was that all of these common          examples, examples that really led to the False Claims         Act, are not fraud. So ­­                  MR. ENGLERT: Oh, Justice Kagan, that's not        what I'm saying.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, let me just give you a          few of them.                           MR. ENGLERT: Sure.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Justice Sotomayor said the       government contracts to buy guns; the guns don't shoot.         The government contracts to buy boots ­­ this was all          within the context of the Civil War ­­ the boots fell           apart after hours. The government contracts to buy          food; the food was rancid.                 And each of those contractors would come in        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and would demand payment.                And the entire idea behind this statute is        that in that demand of payment is a representation. The            representation is that I've given you guns that shoot         and boots that wear and food that can be eaten. And            when ­­ when that is not true, that is a fraudulent            claim. And you're suggesting that all these        hypotheticals ­­ that somehow that's not a fraudulent         claim. And I guess that leaves me sort of wondering            what do you think would be a fraudulent claim?                      MR. ENGLERT: Two things, Justice Kagan, in        response. One, those all may be fraudulent claims. I'm           not denying that any of those can be fraudulent claims.          And again, Section ()(b) and (e) of the Restatement         cover those.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, if those are       fraudulent claims ­­                          MR. ENGLERT: But if I may ­­        JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ I ­­ I would think that            this is the exact same, is that the contract was for a            doctor's medical care, and a doctor's medical care was          not provided. A nondoctor's care was provided.                     MR. ENGLERT: May I explain my key         disagreement with that analysis? In your question,        Justice Kagan, you embedded the proposition that there        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are implicit representations in the claims. That was         not how the False Claims Act was read from to .                        The Ab­Tech case, decided by the Court of        Federal Claims in , was the very first case after           years under the statute to use the        implied­certification theory.              This ­­ this concept that's easy to read        back to ­­ graft back onto the Civil War statute, that           there was an implied certification is not how people         were speaking at the time of the Civil War. It is a new               concept. It's something that has been causing the False          Claims Act to expand dramatically in the last years,          but it is not ­­ there's nothing at all ­­ nobody relies            on the legislative. They rely on the          subsequent legislative.              JUSTICE KAGAN: If I understand what you're         saying, you're saying that in representing that you have         satisfied the terms of the contract, you are ­­ or ­­          or ­­ let me say that ­­ I'll start it over.                       In demanding payment for having satisfied      the contract, you are not representing that you are ­­         that you have satisfied the contract; that's your point?         In demanding payment for satisfaction of the contract,        you are not making a recommendation that you have          satisfied the contract?   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. ENGLERT: Not that broadly. Not ­­ not          every jot and tittle of the contract. And there's a           policy reason why that's a good rule ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm not into every jot and         tittle. I'm into material portions of the contract.         That ­­ you know, that the guns shoot, that the boots           can be worn, that the food can be eaten ­­                                 MR. ENGLERT: That ­­ that ­­      JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ and a doctor's care is a           doctor's care.              MR. ENGLERT: That is what the Restatement        refers to as essentiality, which is a much, much, much           higher standard than materiality. And this is where the          problem comes in. When essentiality, which does go to          the heart of an ­­ of an implicit representation,         arguably is confused with materiality, we have the        problems reflected in the light green amicus briefs in         this case.              Now, the Government's and Respondent's main      argument, as I see it, is really not even a textual             argument. It is that men must turn square corners when           they deal with the government. That's a perfectly fine           principle in certain settings but not when a punitive          statute is at issue.                When punishment is at issue, the relevant       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review principles are instead the principle of constitutional       avoidance and fair notice and the rule of lenity. And           both of those principles cut very strongly against the         implied certification theory. years ago, this Court         considered a case of excessive punishment under the         False Claims Act called United States v. Halper. It was           later overruled in just eight years, but it remains         instructive.             The judicial instinct to avoid excessive      punishments was so strong that the Court let the         appellee out of FCA civil liability by invoking the         Double Jeopardy Clause.               When the Court overruled Halper, it      suggested in passing that the Eighth Amendment might be         better suited than the Fifth to address constitutional        excessiveness concerns. But the recognition by this        Court that punishment under the False Act ­­ False         Claims Act is Draconian is of long standing, and that          insight to ­­              JUSTICE BREYER: How do you want us to write          this? The ­­ you're in an area where billions of           dollars are at issue. There ­­ this is going on a long              time. I don't want to write something that's going to            upset everybody's expectations in the contract area.                   On the other hand, the common sense of it,         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and you just said the words, you said, well, if, in           fact, you send in a form which says certainly give me            money for supplying the guns or the medical care,         something is implied. And you used the word         "essentials" to describe that.                And then I also know that if the agency          wants to, it could put a little statement at the bottom            saying, I hereby certify I complied with every          regulation. And I guess if they ­­ if they did that,             then even you would not have an objection saying your          failure to do it while signing was fraud.                                                        MR. ENGLERT: If it's ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: So what am I ­­        MR. ENGLERT: If it's in the taking ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: From your point of view,        this word is "essential," whatever that may mean, which         I will look up, how does it work? What's ­­ what's the             correct standard in your ­­                MR. ENGLERT: Well, here's how it writes.        "False" means false. "Fraud" means fraud.                               JUSTICE BREYER: Everybody agrees with that.       MR. ENGLERT: Okay. "Fraud" means fraud as         reflected in the Restatement, and here's how it writes         from a policy dimension, Justice Breyer.                   The government holds all the keys here. It         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review can change the claim form. It can change the contract.           It can go after people for contract violations using the          law of contracts and the law of government contracts,         which is very specialized. It can go after people for           debarment. It can go after people for money. It can go             after people for restitution. The government holds all         the keys, and indeed the government, frankly, should        hold all the keys.                JUSTICE BREYER: Please, because I have        read ­­ you have lots of good arguments, and I'm not ­­           I'm asking for advice from you, from your point of view,           what the sentence in the opinion should say that         describes the circumstances under which the person who        submits a form saying, I want a thousand dollars, I just               supplied the guns or the medical care, when that         person ­­ and, by the way, there are regs say they have            to fire, and the regs say it has to be a real doctor.              When has that person committed fraud or ­­ that's what I           want. What is the sentence you want me to write?                       MR. ENGLERT: "See Restatement (Second) of       Torts, Section ()(b) and (e), and Comments j and k,           and Illustrations through ." That's the sentence.                                  JUSTICE BREYER: ­­    MR. ENGLERT: ()(e) ­­ (b) and (e),        Comments j and k, Illustrations through .          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review I'd like to reserve the balance of my time.         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                                           Mr. Frederick.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. FREDERICK: Thank you, Mr. Chief       Justice, and may it please the Court:                   When a claimant asserts a right to         government funds without disclosing that it has       knowingly violated the government's material payment      conditions, that claim is both false and fraudulent        regardless of whether it contains ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Frederick ­­                 MR. FREDERICK: ­­ express false statements.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ this confuses me to        no end. I don't know why the lower court relied on the              Section , this ­­ the director's qualifications and        responsibilities when there's a direct regulation that        says that the health service will only pay for services          rendered by a staff member who's qualified.                    Why did they go off on this indirect method         of analyzing this case?                MR. FREDERICK: I think the original sin         here, if I can express it that way, Justice Sotomayor,           was by the district court which was so focused on what           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review were conditions of participation. It used a formulation          of conditions of participation versus conditions of       payment. And once it constructed that idealogical        dichotomy, it was so focused on what the conditions of          participation were that it lost sight of the fact that          these regulations all work together and in a way ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there's a regulation        right on point.               MR. FREDERICK: I understand, Justice       Sotomayor. And had I been fortunate enough to litigate           the case in the district court, we might have cited that           provision.             But I would point out that the key point          here ­­ and I don't think the other side disputes this,            is that when you're providing mental healthcare to        teenagers and other children, it should be supervised,        and it should be given by people who have the proper           license.               I don't think that it takes any great leap        of essentiality or materiality or intrinsicness or       whatever words the Petitioner wants to come up with,         that's pretty basic.               And the violation that occurred here was one        that is all over the mass health regulations. You can           look at it in the supervisor, the clinical director's         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review requirements to maintain supervision, which is what the        First Circuit relied on; if you look at the express          payment condition, which is .(a), it expressly links        to ., which lays out all the qualifications of the          nurses and the social workers and the psychologists ­­                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So is your ­­ is         your position that every material breach of a contract          gives rise to a False Claims Act ­­ a claim under the              False Claims Act as false and fraudulent?                   MR. FREDERICK: No. Our position is that         there are two other requirements in the Act. One is           that they be done knowingly. And under the statute, the           definition of "knowing" has three features, with       knowledge, deliberate indifference or reckless     disregard.             So there is a knowledge requirement that has         to be done, and I would point out, Justice Breyer, that            actually solves virtually every problem in the       Petitioner's amici because they are talking about       situations in which they are not focusing on the         knowledge requirement of the fraudster who is seeking to         get government funds.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So ­­ so if ­­ I          know you've got another one, and I want to keep that in             mind, but if it's a situation where the alleged material           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review breach is of Massachusetts Regulation (Z)(), (),       (), (), or whatever, you ­­ the claimant would have          to show knowledge of that regulation?                  MR. FREDERICK: Knowledge that ­­ that when        it was breaching it, it was going to be material to the            government. That's the second part of what I think is            important.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So, I guess, I mean           that ­­             MR. FREDERICK: So ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: That causes concern,       of course, because there are thousands of pages of         regulations under Medicaid or Medicare programs. And I         guess your ­­ your position would precipitate litigation        over whether or not the person who said, here's our          bill, knew about ­­ knew under the reckless and whatever          standard, about the particular regulation that the       government or the relator is claiming made the        submission fraudulent?              MR. FREDERICK: The court test, Mr. Chief        Justice, is whether the State could reject the claim for          reimbursement, whether it had a basis in rejecting it          because it was a material claim. It's a ­­                       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But I thought you         said ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. FREDERICK: ­­ material violation. So        if it was a material violation ­­                               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.     MR. FREDERICK: ­­ and the government had a         basis for rejecting the claim in saying your services do          not cover reimbursement ­­                           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand that.        MR. FREDERICK: ­­ it becomes a fraudulent         or false claim if the claimant omits telling the         government that there was something material ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I thought         your point was the first thing is that the claimant has           to know about it.                            MR. FREDERICK: That's correct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It has to know about         the particular requirement in the regulation.                  MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And it has         to know that it was important to the government. It was            a material condition for the government, that the        government could reject payment on this basis.                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it has to know         not only about the particular provision but that it was          material and the government wouldn't pay without it.                    MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. And that's        why, Justice Kennedy, to go back to your question, the          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review key Restatement provision here is not , it's ,         which we've cited in our brief at page , and which           essentially is not discussed in the opening presentation        by my friend.               JUSTICE BREYER: But here, looking ­­      looking at what you just said, you said the three          conditions are where it's not written on the form, and          the ­­ the submitter has to know about it, second, he ­­           it has to have been material.                  MR. FREDERICK: Correct.                JUSTICE BREYER: And, third, he has to omit         telling the government about it.                 MR. FREDERICK: That's right.                 JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Now, I look at the           two things he talked about in the Restatement, and he          says matters known to him that he knows to be necessary           to prevent his partial or ambiguous statement from being         misleading ­­ boy, that's pretty close to what you         said ­­ and then (e) is facts basic to the transaction           if he knows the other is about to do it under a mistake.                          What's the difference between ­­ I mean, I         know the people are experts, and this will tell me there           are huge differences. But what's the difference between         what you just said and what he said?                    MR. FREDERICK: Well, I think that the         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review difference is that I think there's an easier Restatement          provision that is more directly on point. And if I           could just quote from our brief at page to . We             quote the Restatement, Section : "A representation        stating the truth so far as it goes but which the maker            knows or believes to be" materialness ­­ "materially        misleading because of his failure to state additional or         qualifying matter is a fraudulent representation."                   Here ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's got to        be ­­ he has to know about the specific provision in the            regulation.             correct.             MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. That's       But here, Mr. Chief Justice, I think that it          would be odd to suppose that in what are provisions           of the Mass Health regulations in what is a massive           program involving, you know, billions of dollars, where        their business model is predicated on serving indigent        people so that they can get access to        Medicaid­reimbursed funds, that they would read the       regulations. And a number of them say it is critical to             provide supervision when you're providing mental health       care.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So you think         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it's an easy case to prove, in other words, because they           would have necessarily known that. But what they have          to know is of that regulation, whatever one of the it            is, and they have to know that the government will          regard that as material.                MR. FREDERICK: That's correct. But ­­ but         the key point here, Mr. Chief Justice, is I don't think            that that should be a difficult case.                    Now, the other side spends a lot of time          talking about worthless services, and they seek in their         brief at pages and to say that the standard is            only when these goods are so worthless or the services          are so worthless, that it would be rather obvious. And           I would point out that if the worthless services are          recoverable under the False Claims Act, then it is okay          to have an implied certification theory. They have         essentially conceded that if the goods are completely        worthless, it would be okay for the government to bring          a False Claims Act case.                 Now, I would submit that if the goods are          partially worthless, if ­­ those have also to be         recoverable because there's no clear way to draw a line           between those that are partially worthless and those        that are completely worthless.                Let me give you a simple example.        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Here, under what I understand Petitioner's       theory to be, if Petitioner had gotten some college         interns who were studying psychology, and it decided to         allow those interns to practice in their medical        facilities, and those college interns gave what was        called therapy to teenagers, under their theory, they        don't have to tell the government that these are college          interns who don't have college degrees, or       certifications, or licenses required by the State, and        it is A­OK to charge the government full freight. Not           only for the service, but under ., they're also         charging with the representation that they have embedded        in a supervision cost.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suspect most cases         are a little more complicated than that, and that's          where the difficulty comes in when you have hundreds,         thousands of pages of regulations. And typically not ­­         probably not the government. They didn't in this case.          They didn't pick up the ­­ the false claim; it was the            relator. And the relator comes in and says, well, you           didn't ­­ you violated the provision, not that the         college intern is a doctor, but that ­­ whatever it is.            You know, you have to use this particular syringes or          drug company, and, in fact, you didn't. And, therefore,          blah, blah, blah.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And I guess that's where the problem comes         in, in that it's a little more complicated than that.           And I just don't know if I can take your abstract             hypothetical and transfer it to the reality of        government contract.              MR. FREDERICK: Well, let me ­­ let me go          with the core of what I think the concern is in your             statement, and in the position by the amici on the other           side, and it's that we don't have enough notice. We           don't know what's really important to the government.        That's their basic problem. Right?                  Now, they don't solve that problem under       either of the two theories that they present in their          case. If notice is the problem, the government could          solve that by having the check­off box ­­ I think,           Justice Breyer, you were the one who mentioned this ­­         that says, I certify I've complied with all the          regulations. Well, that doesn't give them any notice.                     And it doesn't give them any notice if,        attached to the contract claim form, the Federal        Acquisition Regulations or the Department of Defense       regulations or the HHS regulations are copied. We would          just be killing forests in order to generate that. That           doesn't give them any more notice either,       Mr. Chief Justice.   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but it will,        because it changes the reality. They're going to look          at that, and they're going to say, wow. Every single           thing we're going to get in trouble in a False Claims            Act. So our bid is going to be a little bit higher to               cover that potential risk.                MR. FREDERICK: These are not bid­ask       situations, by and large, Mr. Chief Justice. These are          in the healthcare area under entitlement programs in        which the government is setting the rate and in which          the person is saying, I'm providing service in        compliance with the Federal statutes and the       regulations, and, therefore, I have a legal entitlement          to receive reimbursement.               So in that scenario, the problem is that        what they really want is for the government to pick and           choose among the things that are most important, and         once you do that, you're creating a roadmap for fraud.           Because all you're doing ­­ every time you omit         something that might be material in any particular        circumstance, but it's not specified in the list of the          absolutely most critical things, you're just inviting       them to say we're not complying with it.                    JUSTICE BREYER: So what has it done? What          has the government done when they certify things? Do          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they say things like, I hereby certify that I complied            with all material regulations? What do they say?                     MR. FREDERICK: Well, there's some      provisions that have certification requirements. But I        would point out that even if you were to do that, it's            not going to solve most of ­­                              JUSTICE BREYER: No, I agree with you.         MR. FREDERICK: ­­ because of grant       programs. There are Federal dollars that are going to          third parties in which people are engaging in contracts         with third parties and they are being paid by the          Federal government. And in those kinds of situations,         even your kind of basic certification isn't going to         work.             So the problem here, Mr. Chief Justice,       fundamentally, is one where the two elements of        materiality and knowledge are going to solve the vast         bulk of the problems. Because if the claimant is acting           negligently or at a lower standard, simply just missed          it, that's not going to be a case that will be            actionable under the False Claims Act.                  And, furthermore, if the claimant is asking       for something that the government doesn't deem to be         material, in which the test would be can the government          withhold payment, then that isn't going to be actionable         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review under the False Claims Act either.                  And notably, the other side has a lot of          amicus briefs, but they don't really point to any         specific cases. And if you look at Professor Angstrom's          amicus brief, he is the leading scholar on what has          happened with the False Claims Act empirically. He has          studied all , filings since , and he's charted         what they ­­ what's happened to them.                   And his conclusion is that not only has        there been no spike as a result of the implied           certification theory having been adopted, but that, in        fact, the problems that are identified don't actually        come to pass because the vast bulk of the cases that are            not intervened in by the government, in fact, are done          at a motion to dismiss.                  And so I would submit to you that if you           looked at the actual data for the False Claims Act, a           lot of what you would conclude on the basis of the other            side is hyperbole. There is a lot of fear, but it comes              down to two points: One is they would like to have            notice so that, presumably, they don't have to comply         with the things that the government doesn't more        specifically reticulate in its rules. And they want to          be able to know, if they want to get around that, what            are the key things that they have to get around.          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               I would submit to you that in the Civil War,         as Justice Kagan's hypotheticals pointed out, there was        a problem of implied certification because contractors       were selling boots that were made out of cardboard, not          leather, and guns that didn't shoot, and mules that were          not live and whole mules. And that is exactly the same            kind of problem that we're talking about now over          years later, with respect to mental health services that         are not being provided by licensed and supervised        professionals. Thank you.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Stewart.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART                FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS               MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The statute refers to false or fraudulent       claims, and I think there are two different but          complementary analytic routes that the Court could take        to conclude that, if the facts alleged in Respondent's         complaint are true, false or fraudulent claims were        submitted.             One way to look at this is to focus on the           fact that in Medicaid, as in other government        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review entitlement programs, a person who submits a claim is           not simply asking for money; he is representing that he          has a legal entitlement to be paid. And you can say, if              a person asserts that he is legally entitled to be paid,           and he knows that he has no such legal entitlement, the           claim is false.               And then you would ask, under what       circumstances would a person know that he had no legal           entitlement to be paid? And the answer would be, if the            person knows that he has failed to comply with a          material term of the contract or a material regulatory          requirement, by definition, the government will have no        obligation to pay, and the claim of legal entitlement         will be false.               And I think, Justice Breyer, you were        exactly right in pointing to the law of contracts which          draws a distinction between material and nonmaterial        terms. And the purpose of that distinction is to          identify the situation in which a breach by one party           will excuse the counterparty's failure to perform. And         so a ­­ if the government is obligated to pay money and             the contractor makes certain corresponding performances,      if a nonmaterial term is breached, the government's         obligation to pay remains intact.                 And so a person who knew himself to be in           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review breach of a nonmaterial term and requested payment         anyway wouldn't be making a false claim. He would be            claiming a legal entitlement to be paid; he would be           entitled to be paid because the breach wouldn't excuse         the government's payment obligation. But if the term         that was being breached was material, the claim of legal          entitlement would be false.                The other analytic route that you could take        to ­­ to get to the same result in this case really            follows up on Justice Kagan's hypothetical about the        situation in which there is a contract for services to           be performed by a doctor, and the ­­ the person who has             arranged for services to be provided by someone else         comes in and says services have been performed; pay me.                      And it seems like clear fraud under and          under the Restatement. You have made a         representation, services have been performed.     Explaining that they were performed by a nondoctor under          the circumstances is essential to make that       representation nonmisleading.              And what we have here, at least if the facts          are as alleged, is basically the same thing. The          complaint recites that in requesting payment, Universal       Health Services submitted various invoices, and they       used billing codes, five­digit numbers that were       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review determined by ­­ identified by MassHealth as the codes         you use for particular types of services. One of them           corresponded to individual therapy, one to group       therapy, one to family therapy.                  Now obviously, the claims would have been      false if no services had been provided at all. And I            assume everyone would agree that if MassHealth ­­ I'm         sorry ­­ if Universal Health Services had billed for         services provided in a group setting but had used the           code that MassHealth had identified for individual       therapy, that would have been a false claim because          MassHealth is entitled to treat the use of that code as           a representation that the services were ­­ were        performed individually.              And, really, it's no ­­ it's not a large          leap to say when you use the code for individual          therapy, you are representing by ­­ that the services         were performed, the treatment was performed by a person          who was legally authorized to provide mental health        therapy under Massachusetts law.                Now, unlike the contract hypothetical that      Justice Kagan identified, in determining what implicit       representations are being made, we wouldn't look to the         previous promise that the person had made because        there's no contract. We would look at the MassHealth          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review regs that identify who ­­ what kind of credentials do          you have to have to perform particular types of mental          health services and would ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do you tell ­­        Mr. Stewart, because at least under Mr. Frederick's view         you have to have knowledge that the government wouldn't         pay. I assume the government wouldn't pay even for           nonmaterial provisions.                I mean, if you're supposed to pay ­­ you        know, for $, you're going to provide these        services, and you don't provide small service? You         still pay, but you wouldn't pay for that. I mean, I             don't understand that, how some things are material ­­        does it go pay at all, or ­­ or carve out a particular              provision?             When ­­ when is the government ­­ when is         there going to be not performance of a contract and the            government's going to pay for that anyway?                   MR. STEWART: Well, I think if we got a bill             for particular services and the services had been        essentially performed as they were expected to be, the         government's policy objectives were adequately advanced      but some technical requirement had not been complied        with, that if it's a nonmaterial term, then by          definition, it wouldn't excuse the government's duty to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review perform.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. So the        contract is to provide all these health services, and by          the way, you've got to buy, you know, staplers made in           the United States, not ­­ not abroad. And they do           everything, but they don't buy staplers made in the         United States.                I would say the government, if they're, you       know, rigorous contracting officers, would say okay, you        get, you know, , whatever, but we're going to         penalize you because you didn't use staplers ­­ we put          that in there for a reason, you didn't do it, so we're             going to withhold $, right?                 MR. STEWART: We would certainly agree that        in government contracting it's sometimes the case that        the government's trying to serve ancillary policy       objectives such as buy America, et cetera.                   And so if under the terms of the agreement         and the ­­ the law of contracts, the government would be           legally entitled to withhold payment or a portion of the           payment in that circumstance, then that would be a false           claim.             be ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Not ­­ if that would         JUSTICE KAGAN: If ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ a false claim ­­         MR. STEWART: It ­­    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: ­­ and then they                                            could bring ­­ and a relator can sue for that, then I             don't understand the difference between material and       immaterial.             MR. STEWART: Well, if it ­­ if it was the           case ­­ I mean, it may be that you ­­ that your more              expansive conception of material terms is correct, and        that there would be some circumstances that I hadn't          envisioned in which the government could lawfully       withhold payment, even though the violation seemed       fairly tangential to the claim. If that's the case, all           it means is that the ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: What are examples of ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Just ­­        all it means is?                MR. STEWART: All it means is that there         would be more expansive False Claims Act liability, but         not because we would be punishing people who didn't         cheat the government. If ­­ if knowledge of the          particular breach at issue could have led responsible        government contracting officers to withhold payment      wholly or in part, and the person ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Well ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. STEWART: ­­ knows that he is in breach,          he should be made ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: The wholly or in part,        now ­­ now, I just copied out of the Horn book the basic              difference between a material breach and a partial or           nonmaterial breach of contract. A material breach of          contract is a contract that ­­ a breach that allows one             party to repudiate the contract. A nonmaterial breach          is a breach that gives rise to damages but cannot serve            as the basis for repudiation.                 Now, until this last interchange, I thought        that was the distinction you were drawing, that if the          piece of paper says nothing, but pay me, and there is a            violation of a reg, if the violation of that reg is such             to be material, meaning, it would be a basis for           repudiation, then it is an implied ­­ then it is an           implied statement. It was complied with, and it's         fraud.             But if it's just staples, you may have to         pay damage for staples, but that certainly doesn't ­­ to          say the contrary there would make the contractor        responsible for having complied with every one of ,         regulations, the size of the room, size of the table.                      MR. STEWART: Well, I mean, first, there is          a distinction between situations in which one       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review contracting party could sue for damages, and situations        in which one contracting party could refuse to        perform ­­                         JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.    MR. STEWART: ­­ its own obligations under        the contract, including payment.                But I think the second thing is that the          scienter requirement really is crucial here. It applies         both to knowledge of the breach, and knowledge that it          is material to the government.                 The only other thing I wanted to ­­ to          clarify in response to ­­ to your question is, we would           say the test is whether the person knew that the          government could lawfully withhold payment, not      necessarily ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Withhold payment,      but not repudiate the contract.                 MR. STEWART: Withhold payment on the       particular claim, because there would certainly be       plenty of situations in which, if somebody billed for         services that were not reimbursable under the terms of         the particular program, there ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: In other words, if        they don't ­­ if they put the wrong billing code down,           and, you know, you shouldn't have to pay them. But I            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review don't know that means you can say, okay, you're fired as           our Medicare provider in the State of Massachusetts,        which is what I understand materiality in the contract          concept to be.               But what you're saying is it's a false claim          if it's ­­ and, you know, you said you were providing           X­rays and you didn't. Okay. But ­­ and that's           material, I would think, in the sense that you have to            pay for it. You shouldn't pay them for it, but I don't              know if it's material in the sense that you can get out            of the whole ­­               MR. STEWART: Then I would say material in          the sense of allowing the government to decline to         comply with its corresponding obligation to pay for that         particular shipment or those particular services,      because we certainly, as you say ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but that doesn't       answer the question. There's a miscoding that's         intentional and knowing, and there's a miscoding that's         negligent.                         MR. STEWART: Exactly.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if it's a mistake,         you could withhold payment, but you can't sue under the          False Claims Act, correct?                MR. STEWART: Exactly. And there is a         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review mental state that the FCA contemplates between       negligence and actual knowledge, because it defines the        term "knowingly" to include recklessness and ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Stewart ­­ I'm sorry.                    MR. STEWART: Go ahead.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Could you just ­­ what are         immaterial terms for the government? I mean, give me           some examples. What would count as not material?                     MR. STEWART: I mean, I don't know if there            are any terms that are wholly immaterial, because if         there were, presumably they wouldn't be in the ­­ the          agreement or the ­­ the regulations. But there are          certainly terms that would be immaterial to particular        claims.             So, for example, if the government had a        rule that said at all times, a hospital that is           receiving Medicaid reimbursement has to have the       following equipment in its operating room. It might         well be the case that a violation of that requirement           would disentitle the claimant to payment for ­­ for         surgical services performed, but would not disentitle       the claimant to payment for services that had nothing to          do with use of the operating room.                   And so to follow up on what I was saying           before, I think what we have here is really a fairly             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review close variant on the hypothetical that ­­ that you         floated, the case in which they represent that they         performed individual therapy. They don't say that the         person who performed it was not legally authorized to         render billable services under the MassHealth program.       That would seem to be a classic case of implied           misrepresentation, fraudulent omission, et cetera.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: When you started and you        said that there are two ways in which this could be           argued, do you have a preference as to which one of            those two ways makes most sense, or are there cases          where they diverge, and we should be aware of that?                      MR. STEWART: I think this ­­ probably the          one that would be most helpful to the government is the           first one: That if you assert a claim of legal            entitlement to be paid and you know that you are not           legally entitled to be paid or are reckless as to that           fact, the claim is ­­ the claim is false and it's           knowingly false. That ­­ that would be the one that's           most helpful to the government just because there are         so ­­ there's such variations in the nature of the          documentation that is provided by claimants under       various government programs. That ­­ that general rule         would be of the greatest health ­­ help.                    The second I offer, really because in a         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review sense, it's an easier way to decide this case. If the            government was not ­­ I mean, I'm sorry ­­ if the Court             was not ready yet to decide whether the broader         proposition was correct, it could still say, in this         case, there was not simply a claim for a particular            dollar amount. There was at least a little bit of            detail as to what were the nature of the services to be            performed. And giving that detail without giving the         offsetting fact, if it is a fact, that the services were            performed by noncredentialed, unsupervised people, would      render the ­­ the statement that was made misleading.                     The last two things, if I ­­ if I could just             say them very briefly, Mr. Englert referred to the         newness of implied certification. The term "implied        certification" is new. I don't believe it was used           until the last years or so. But the concept that a             person can be held liable for fraud even though he says           nothing explicitly false but labors to create a false          impression, that's been around for ages.                  The second thing is, Mr. Englert said that        the current FCA adopts a watered­down version of the          materiality requirement. I think if you compare the          current statutory definition to this Court's formulation       of the traditional materiality standard in Neder, in        Gaudin, in Kungys, that the current statutory definition        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is drawn essentially verbatim from this Court's       description of what material ­­ materiality had       traditionally been at common law.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And, Mr. Stewart,       both United States and Massachusetts did not intervene        in this case; is that right?                                          MR. STEWART: That's correct.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why is that?       MR. STEWART: We don't ­­ I don't know the           answer, and we don't typically give public explanations        of why we don't intervene. Sometimes it's because the          dollar amount is small. Sometimes it's because the ­­         we think that the relator is capable of handling the          case himself, or the relator's counsel. Sometimes we do          decline to intervene, because we're skeptical of the        merits of a case. But even in those situations, it            could be that we agree with the relator's theory and          simply don't know whether the facts could be proved. It           comes in all variations.                  I ­­ our amicus brief is obviously the ­­       the best evidence of what we believe the correct legal          rule to be. The only other thing I would say is that              our decisions about whether to intervene in particular        cases would be skewed if we believed that courts would          draw from our failure to intervene an adverse inference         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review as to our views on the legal theory. If we felt that we              would be made to seem skeptical of the implied         certification by not intervening, we'd feel pressured to        do it.                                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Eight minutes, Mr. Englert.    MR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.               REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.                      ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. ENGLERT: The False Claims Act uses        words drawn from the common law of torts, not words          drawn from the common law of contracts. This is          Henry Steiner and Duncan Kennedy, not Charles Fried.                    The test, as stated by my friends on the         other side, is the core test is whether the State could           reject the claim for reimbursement. That is a contract           standard; that is not a tort standard. And if this            Court accepts that version of the implied­certification       theory, it will be much broader than anything the lower          courts have ever done, and a parade of horribles in the            light green amicus briefs would cite many horrible        cases. Mr. Frederick says they cite none. They cite           many real­world horrible cases. That would be the tip          of the iceberg if this Court accepts their theory.                     It has been suggested that everyone knows       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that it's common sense and that it's obvious that people          who provide counseling services to teenagers must be        licensed. Well, apparently, the Commonwealth of       Massachusetts doesn't find it obvious. Section       .(E)(), quoted on page of our opening brief,          states the standards in which "counselors and unlicensed        staff may provide counseling services."                 If it's so obvious, why did the First        Circuit have to rely on a regulation that applies only           to satellite facilities? When the First Circuit found a          regulation that no one had cited in all of this          litigation, it didn't cite one that applies to every         facility. It cited one that applies only to satellite          facilities. And yet, we're told it's so obvious that my           clients should have known that, and that there is         materiality and scienter in this case.                  Volume II of the Joint Appendix contains       seven complaints to State agencies, four reports by        State agencies, two consent decrees, and four other        documents. They cite many, many, many, many        regulations. This morass of regulations, bluntly, is        worse than the Internal Revenue Code. It's full of          cross­references; it's full of contradictions, as the       First Circuit itself acknowledged in footnote .                   The way the First Circuit resolved the       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review contradiction was to refer to the nonpromulgating       agency; so it's Chevron on steroids. These things are          not obvious. These regulations are not obvious.                    Now, Mr. Frederick and Mr. Stewart, and in        particular Mr. Frederick, may seem to have scored a blow           when he put ­­ said fraudster shouldn't get to pick and           choose which regulations they comply.                 Well, if you assume fraud, if you put the         rabbit in the hat, you can take the rabbit out of the            hat. People should pick and choose which regulations         they comply with. Why? Because there's so many and           confusing. And who holds the keys to telling them which           regulations to comply with? The regulating agency or         the contracting agency.               If the contracting agency or the regulating       agency says, please focus on this regulation because it         really matters, guess what? People will focus on the          regulation because they know it really matters. If         relators come in after the fact, not the Commonwealth of          Massachusetts, not the United States, but relators come        in after the fact and say, this was so critical that you            should have known and you acted ­­ it was material, it           was essential, and you acted with scienter, and they get          treble damages, attorney's fees, $ or more, $        minimum per claim civil penalties, and the opprobrium of         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review calling someone a fraudster, that's not the system in          which the regulators have control. That is not the          administrative state we know. That is a game of           got­you, after­the­fact got­you.               JUSTICE BREYER: How does it differ, what        you just said, from this thing in the Restatement where          you say it would be fraud, facts basic to the          transaction or matters known, that he knows to prevent         his statement from being misleading? The statement is,         implicitly, I did the work. And this kind of problem,            is it or is it not, basic to the transaction that the            doctor be certified, is the kind of thing that I think            you and other lawyers argue very well on opposite sides,          as you just did.                But the standard you advocate is, according       to the Restatement, misleading statement about a fact         basic to the transaction, misleading, implicitly, I did         it. Truth? I didn't. You see, I'm saying your             standard gives rise to the same problem, doesn't it?                     MR. ENGLERT: No.                JUSTICE BREYER: Why?                MR. ENGLERT: Because the common law has        worked through these problems, Justice Breyer. The        common law of torts, not the common law of contracts.          Look at illustrations through of the ­­ of the             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Restatement.             But if that doesn't do it for you, think         about the dog that didn't bark in the room. Look for            common­law fraud cases that state their theory. You         won't find them. You won't find them. They don't           exist. This is a theory made up by the plaintiffs' bar             in the last years, and it has run amok.                      There is a parade of horribles in the light          green amicus briefs. There is a parade of horribles in            the red ­­ in the dark green amicus briefs. Their           parade of horribles is that it would be A­OK to do these            things. It's not A­OK to do these things. There are            calibrated remedies administered by the government for       breach of contract, for violating regulations.                  The Massachusetts authorities had calibrated     remedies in this case: Two years of suspension and a           $, fine. They didn't ask for any money back. They            didn't ask for any money back. They didn't say, this is            the kind of thing that is so basic that you should give            us our money back. They said, we need some corrective           measures. These are services for poor people. These          are ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's not forget      something. Money came from the Federal government. It          may be a system in this cooperative program that's          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review flawed, but Massachusetts Health has no incentive to        seek the money back because they're not paying it.                       The people with the incentive are the     Federal government, and that's why we have the False         Claims Act, because the Federal government can't enforce        all seeking of money back in these cooperative programs.                     MR. ENGLERT: Okay. But it has to be a           false or fraudulent claim, which are terms derived from         the common law, construed in this Court's cases,        elaborated through the common law ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have a very hard time           accepting that if you provide ­­ if you claim money for           a service that you don't render, not a qualified          individual, unsupervised by a qualified individual,       which is a requirement specifically in the regulations,         I'm having a hard time understanding how you have not           committed a fraud ­­                MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, all the ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ if you knew what you         were doing.              MR. ENGLERT: All that was submitted was a         request for payment. The government controls what it         will require in a request for payment. There is no            allegation of a false statement in the request for          payment. The only allegation is that every jot and          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review tittle of every MassHealth regulation is incorporated as        long as it's approved ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't think that it's         every ­­             MR. ENGLERT: ­­ under scienter.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ provision.                 MR. ENGLERT: Well, Your Honor, it's ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But I think it's a very           basic provision ­­              MR. ENGLERT: Your Honor, with respect ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ when you say, I        performed this service, that you performed a service in          accordance with the contract.                MR. ENGLERT: And in seven complaints to        administrative agencies, in the ­­ in the operative        complaint in this case, amended many times, why is not          the regulation the First Circuit relied on even cited?         Why is the regulation Mr. Frederick says he would have          used if he had been litigating this case in the district           court even cited?               It proves my point, Your Honor, that this is         a morass. And for one to think, after the fact, this is             basic and central and this is fraud, is a plaintiff's           lawyer's game.              Thank you.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank       you, counsel.  The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : p.m., the      case in the                                       above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA A­OK : :, a.m : : Ab­Tech : able : above­entitled : : abroad : absolutely : : abstract : accepting : accepts :, access : accommodate : acknowledged : Acquisition : Act : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : : : acted :, acting : actionable : : actual : : add : additional : : :, : : address : adequately : administered : administrative : : adopted : adopts : advanced : adverse : advice : advocate : after­the­fact : agencies :, :, : agency : : :, :,, ages : ago :, : agree :, : : : : agreed : agreement : : agrees : ahead : allegation : : alleged : : : : : allow : allowing : allows : ambiguous : amended : : : Amendment : America : amici : : : amicus : : : : : : :, : : : :, amok : amount : : analysis : analytic : : analyzing : ancillary : Angstrom's : announce : answer : : : : anybody : anyway : : apart : apparently : appeals : : APPEARAN... : appellate : appellee : Appendix : applicable : applies : : :, : applying : approved : April : area :, : arguably : : : argue : argued : argument : :,,, : : :, :, : : : arguments : Army : arranged : asked : : asking : : : : assert : asserts : : assume :, : : : : assuming : attached : attorney's : authorities : authorized : : automatically : avoid : avoidance : aware : B b : back :, : : :, : :, : :, balance : bar : bark : basic : :, : : : : : : :,, : :, basically : basis : : :, : :, behalf :, :,, : : : believe : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : : believed : believes : : best : better : beyond : bid : bid­ask : bill : : billable : billed : : billing : : billions : : bit : : Blackjack : blah :,, blow : bluntly : body : book : boots :, : : : bottom : box : boy : breach : : : :, :,, : : : :, : :,, :,,, : : breached : : : breaches : breaching : bread : Breaking : Breyer : :, :, :, : : : : :, :, : Official ­ Subject to Final Review charge : charging : Charles : charted : cheat : check­off : Chevron : Chiarella : :, : Chief :, : : :,, : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,, : :, claimant : : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :, :, :, : claims : : : : : : :, :, claimants : claiming : : :, comes : :, : : : : coming : Comments : :, commit : committed : : : common : :,,,, :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : :, common­law : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : Breyer's : brief :,, :, : : : : : : briefly : briefs : : : : : :, bring : : : CARMEN : carve : case :,, :,, : : : : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :, :,, : : :, : : broad :, : cases : : : :, broader : : : : : broadly : :, : brought : : bulk : : business : butter : buy :,, :,, C C : :, : : calibrated : : called : : : calling : capable : : cardboard : Cardozo : care :,,, :,, :,, :, : : : causes : causing : central : certain : : : certainly : : : : : : certification : : : :, : : :, : certifications : certified : certify : : : : cetera : : : change :, changes : children : choose : :, Circuit : : :,,, : circumstance : : circumstances : : : : : company : :, : compare : complaint : : : : :, : Commonwealth : :, : : : : :,, : :, :, : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : clarify : classic : complementary completely : : : complaints : citation : cite :,, Clause : :, clear : cited :,, : : :, : : : :, : close : : : code :,, clients : clinical : civil : : : : :, compliance : complicated : : complied : : : : :, : : : : claim :, : : : : codes : : comply : college :,, : : : :, : come : : :, : : complying : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : corresponding : : cost : counsel : : : : : counseling : : current : :, cut : D D : D.C :,, : daily : contracting : count : counselors : damage : damages : :,,, : : : court :, conceded : concept :, : : conception : concern : : concerns : : : conclude : : : :, : : :,,, : : : : : : contract­based : contracted : : : conclusion : condition : : :, : :, :, conditions : contractor : : : confused : : confuses : confusing : Congress : consent : considered : constitutional :, constructed : contractors : : contracts :, : :, : :, : : : : : contradiction : contradictions construed : : : construing : contains : : contemplates : contrary : control : controls : cooperative : : copied : context : contract :, core : : : demanding :, demands : denying : Department : : depending : depends : Deputy : derived : describe : describes : description : destroy : differ : difference : : : : : differences : different : : : difficult : difficulty : dimension : direct : directly : director : director's : : disagreement : counterparty's : : : course :, dark : : : : data : DAVID : : detail : : : : : : : : : : : : : :,,, :,, : : :, : :, : decide :, decided : : determined : determining Dawson : deal : : deals : : dealt : developed : debarment : dichotomy : deceptive : : Court's : : : : courts : : : : cover : : : decision : decisionmaker : decisions : decline : : : : decrees : covers : deem : create : Defense : creating : credentials : defined : critical : : : : : :,,, : corners : Correa : : :,,, correct : :,, : :,, : :, : : : :, cross : : : :,,, : : : :, :,, :, :, : :, : :, : corrective : cry : correctly : corresponded : : crucial : cross­references defines : definition : :, : : : :, disappears : disclosing : disclosure : degrees : discussed : deliberate : disentitle : curiae : : deliver : demand :, : dismiss : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : E e : :, : :,, : entitlement : : :,, :, :, : envisioned : expected : experts : explain : Explaining : : equipment earlier :, distinguish : easier : : easy : : Escobar : : eaten : : ESQ :,, eight : : Eighth : either :, essential : : : :,,, : disputes : disregard : dissent : distinction : :,, : :, :, district : : : diverge : doctor :,, :,,, : : : :, : : : : doctor's :, :, : : documentation : documents : dog : doing : : dollar : : dollars : : : : : Double : Draconian : dramatically : draw : : drawing : drawn : : :, draws : drug : Duncan : duty : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : :, : :, :, :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :,, falsity : family : famous : far : : : FCA : : : fear : features : Federal : : : : :, : :, feel : fees : fell : felt : Fifth : filings : find : : :, fine : : : : fined : fire : fired : first : : :, : : : : : :,,, : five : five­digit : flawed : : explanations : explicit : explicitly : express :, : expressly : F facilities : :, facility : fact : : : : :, : : :, :, : : factors : facts : : : :,, : :, : :, : : : : : failed : failure :,, : : : : fair : fairly : : false :, : :,,, : : : : :, : : :,,, : :, :,, : elaborated : element : : essentiality :, : essentially : : : : elements : embedded : et : : essentials : : : empirically : Everybody enforce : engaging : Englert : : everybody's : : : exactly : : : :, evidence : ex : : exact : : : :,, : :, :, : :, :,, : : :, : :, : :,, :,,, :,, :,, :,,, :, : excessive :, : :,, : :, :,, :,,, example : : : examples : : :, : : excuse : : : excessiveness : enters : entire : : entitled : : : : : exist : expand : expansive : : expectations Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : :,, : :,, given : : :,, : : : : : :, : : gives : : giving :, glad : go : :, : :, : :, government's : : : : : :, : : focusing : follow : following : Frederick : follows : food :, helpful :, Henry : HHS : higher : : hired : hold : holding : : floated : focus : :, focused : : : : : footnote : : foremost : forests : forget : : : form : : : : : formulation : : fortunate : found : four : : : :, frankly : fraud :,, : :,,, :, : : :, : :,, :,, :,, : : : : : : : :, : Frederick's : freight : Fried : friend : friends : fulfilled : full : : : fundamentally : funds : : : further : furthermore : G game : : Gaudin : general : : : graft : : :,, grant : : : : : : : goes : going :, : great : : holds : : greatest : greatly : green : : : :, Honor : : : : : :, : : :,,, group :, guess : : :,,, : :, :, : :, : : : : gun : guns :, good :, : : goods :, : : :, : : : : : got­you :, gotten : government : habit :, H :, Halper :, : : hand : : :, handling : : : : :,, happened : : : happy : :, : :,,, hard : :, : : hat :, :, : health : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, : :, : hear : : : :, : :, : heart : : held : help : healthcare : : Horn : horrible : : horribles : :,, hospital : : hours : huge : hundreds : hyperbole : hypothetical : :,, : : : : : hypotheticals : : I iceberg : idea : idealogical : identified : :,, identify : : ignores : II : illustrations : :, : : : : : :, : :, : :, : : :, : :,, :, : :,,, G : : : : : : : : : : : generate : fraudster : Ginsburg : : : : fraudulent : give : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : keep : keys : : : : : :, : : : killing : kind : : :,,, : :, :, : Kennedy : :,,, :,,, : :, :, : : :, :,, : :, : : : :, key : : : : :, : : :, : : :,, :, :, : :, :, : :,,, : :, : :, : : : :, knew :, : : :,, : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :,, : :, : :, :, : :, :, :,, : :, :,,, : know : : : :, : : : : :,,, :, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :,, : : :, : : kinds : immaterial : intentional :,, : implicit :, interchange :,, : : :, :, : :, : : : : intern : Internal : interns :,, : implicitly : intervene : :,,, intervened : intervening : intrinsicness : investigated : inviting : invoices : invoke : invoking : involving : : issue :, : : J j : :, Jeopardy : Joint : jot :, : JR : :, :, implied : : : : : : :, : :, : implied­certifi... : : : imply : important : : : : imposed : impression : incentive :, inches : include : including : incorporated : indifference : indigent : indirect : individual : :,, : :, individually : inference : influencing : insight : instinct : instructive : intact : : : judge : judicial : JULIO : Junius : : jury : Justice : : Kagan :, Justice's : k : :, K knowing : : knowingly : :, : :, :, :, :,,,, :,,,,, :, : : :, :, : Kagan's : : : : : : : :,,, knowledge :,,, : :, : : : :, : :,, :, : : : :, : known : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : knows : :, : :, : : : Kungys : L L : : : labors : large : : Laughter : law :,, : :,,, :,, : :, : : : : : : : : :, :,, :, lawfully : : lawyer's : lawyers : lays : leading : leap : : leather : leaves : led : : : legal : : :,, : : : : : legally : : : :, legislative : : lengthy : lenity : let's : : : : : liability : Official ­ Subject to Final Review MALCOLM : : nonmisleading : : : mean :,, misrepresenta... : mass : : Massachusetts : : : : : : : : : : : MassHealth :,,, : : : massive : material : : : : : : :, missed : : : mistake : :, : meaning : : nonpromulgat... : Normal : notably : : : means :, : : :,, :,, : : misunderstan... notice : : :,,, : model : money : : : : :, :,,, nurses : :,, number : numbers : nurse : : : liable : license : licensed : : licenses : lie :, : :, lied : lies : light : : : line : links : list : litigate : litigating : litigation : : little : : : : : live : long : : : : look : : : : : : : :, : : looked : looking :, lost : lot : :, : lots : low : lower : : : : M obligations : Medicare : necessarily : obvious :, : meant : : measures : morass : : : : : : Medicaid­rei... : :, Medicaid : motion : :,,, mules :, : : N : :, :, :, medical : : N :, : narrow : :,, nature : : : : :, :,, : : :, :, member : : : :,, : : : :, : : : : : men : mental : : : : : : : : : : necessary : Neder : need : : materiality : :,,, mentioned : : :,,, merits : :,, method : : :, millions : : : : :, mind : : : : minimum : negligence : negligent : negligently : new : : : newness : noncredentialed : O O : : objection : objectives : : obligated : obligation : : : : : : :,,, :, obviously : : occurred : odd : offer : officers : : offsetting : oh : : okay : :, : : : :, :, :, : omission : omit : : omits : once : : materially : minutes : materialness magic : main : maintain : maker : : matter : : misleading : nonmaterial making : : : : miscoding : nondoctor's :, : : : : :, : :, : :, :, nondoctor : : :, matters :, : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : opening : : operating : : operative : opinion : opposite : opprobrium : oral : :,, : : : order : : ordinary : original : overruled : : P P : p.m : page : : : : pages : : : : paid : : :, :, :, paper : : parade : :,, part : : : : : partial : : : partially : : participation :,, :, : : : :,, : :, :, : particular : performances Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : :, :, precipitate :, : : :, :, predicated party : : parties : : person :, : : : :,, : : :,,,, present : : :, presentation : : : : pass : passing : pay : : preference : : pressured : Petitioner :, presumably : : pretty : : prevent : : principle : : : pick : : previous : plaintiff's : principles : plaintiffs' : please : : private :, probably : : Petitioner's : : :, : : : : : :, : : :,,,, :, : : : :,, paying : payment : : :, :, : piece : : : : : :,, : : :, : : :, : : :, : plenty : :, : point : :, :, :, : : : :,, : : : :, : : : penalize : penalties : people : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : pointing : : pointed : perfectly : perform : : : : performance : : points : policy : : : : poor : portion : portions : position :, performed : : :,,, possible : potential : :,, : : practice : Alderson Reporting Company proposed : proposition : : prove : proved : proves : provide : : : : :, : :, : provided :, : :,, :, : :, : : :, : provider : providing : : : : : : provision : : : : : :, : : :, problem : : : : :, :, : provisions : : :, :, psychologists : : problems : : : : : produced : professionals : Professor : program : psychology : public : punishing : punishment : :, punishments : : : : punitive : purpose : programs : put : : : :, : : : : : promise : :, : proper : properly : Q qualifications : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review qualified : recklessness regulatory : : :, : qualifying : recognition : : : reimbursable : repudiation :, request :, : : reticulate : requested : Revenue : requesting right : : recommendati... reimbursement : recoverable :, red : redefine : : refer : reference : : referenced : referred : refers : : : : : : : reining : reject : : : rejecting : : rel : : relator : :, : : relator's : reflected : : relators : : : require : required : requirement : :, : : : : : : : requirements :, : requires : reserve : resolved : respect : : : : : restitution : result : :, : : : : : : : : : rigorous : rise : : : risk : roadmap : ROBERTS : : :, :,, :,,, : :, : : : : :, :, : :, :, : : : question : :, : : : : quite :, quote :, quoted : R R : rabbit :, raised : rancid : rate : read :, :, : : ready : real : real­world : reality : : really : : : : : : : : : : : :, reason : : reasonable : : : : reasons : REBUTTAL : : receive : receiving : recharacterized : recites : reckless : : : : refuse : reg :, regard : regardless : regs : : : : : regulation : :, : : : :,, : : : :, :, : :, relevant : relied : : : relies : rely : : Respondents : :, :, : : Respondent's : : : regulating : remains : remedial : remedies : : render : : : rendered : reports : : Respondents' room : : : response : : :, : route : routes : responses : ROY : : : : : responsibilities rule : : : responsible : : rest : Restatement regulations : represent : representation :, : :, : :, : representations : :, :, : :, : :,,, : : : : :, : :,, : : : : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : :, : repudiate : Restatements :, : : : : representing regulators : : : : : rules : run : S S : : sadly : sanction : satellite : : satisfaction Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : satisfied : :,, satisfy :, saying :, : :, :, : : : : : : : : says : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : scenario : scholar : scienter : : : : : scored : SEC :,, : : : : sentence : :, separate : serve : : service : : : : : :, services : : : : sin : single : : situation : : : : : situations : : : : :, : size :, skeptical : : skewed : small : : :,, : :, : : :, : : :,,, : :,, :,, :,,, : : : :, solve : : :, :, : serving : set : : setting : : social : sold : Solicitor : :, : : solves : somebody : : : second : : settings : : : : : : : : : Section : : : :, : : : : : see :, : : : seek : : seeking : : seven : : shares :, shelf : shipment : shoot :, : : : : : show : side : : : :, : sides : sight : selling : : signing : send : simple : simpler : sense : : simply : : : : : :,, sorry : : : : : sort : : Sotomayor : :,,, :,,, : :, : :, :, : :, : :,, speaking : specialized : specific : : specifically : : specified : spell : spends : spike : square : staff : : stake : standard : : : : : : : : :, :, standards : standing : staplers :, : staples :, start : started : state : : : : : : : :, : : stated : : :, : statement : :,, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : statements : : states :,, : : : : : : :, : : : stating : statute :, : : : : :, : : : statutes : : statutory : : Steiner : step : steroids : Stewart : : :,, :, : :,, : : :, :,, :,, : :,, : strict : strong : strongly : studied : studying : submission : submit : : : submits : : submitted : : : :, submitter : submitting : subsequent : sudden : sue : : : suggested : : suggesting : suited : supervised : : supervision : : : : supervisor : supplied : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review supporting : : : : : suppose : test : : : :, textual : :, : Thank : : : :, :, : : thousand : thousands : : : three :, : : : : : : :, : : : types : : typically : time : : : : various : : vast : : verbatim : version : : T : :,,, thing : : : :, : : :, : : : table : take : : : : : supposed : Supreme :, Sure : surgical : suspect : suspension : syringes : system : : T takes : talked : : talking : : : : tangential : taught : teacher :, technical : teenagers : : : tell : : : telling : : : term : : :, : : : : : terms : : : : : :,, theories : theory : : : : :, : : :, : :, therapy : :,,,, : : things : : :, : : :, : : : :, think :, : : : :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, third : :, thought : : : : : : : : :, times : : timing : tip : tittle :, : told : top : tort : : tortification : torts : : : : U versus : view : unchanged : understand : views : : : : : : violated : : : : : : : : violating : : : understanding : : understandings : violation : :, : :, : :, : understood : violations : : : : virtually : United :,, Volume : : totally : traditional : : : : : : : :, : : transaction : Universal : traditionally : W want : :, : :, : : :, : : : unlicensed : wanted : unsuccessfully wants : : :, : :,, transfer : treat : treatment : unsupervised War : : treble : tries : trouble : true : : : : Washington :,,, : : : : upset : use : : :,, : : :,, : : wasn't : watered : watered­down : uses : way : : V v : : : : : : : : : ways :, variant : we'll : : variations : we're :, : : : : truth : : trying : Tuesday : turn : turns : : : two : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : :, : : we've : wear : wholly : : : Williams : :, withhold : :, : : :, : : withholding : wonder : wondering : word : : : : :, words :, : : : : : : :, work : : : : worked : workers : worn : worried : worse : worthless : :,,, :,, wouldn't : :, : :,,, : wow : write :, : writes :, written : : : wrong : :, : : X x :, X­rays : Y years : : : :, :, : : :, York : Z : , : : : (b)() :, : , : : : : : : : : : ­ : : : (Z)() : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : , : : : : .(E)() : (b) : (a) : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : () : ()(b) : : : : : ()(e) : :, , : : : :, : : : , : Alderson Reporting Company 