 Official ­ Subject to Final Review      IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  MICHAEL ROSS,                       :           Petitioner                   : No. ­  v.                                 SHAIDON BLAKE.                      : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Tuesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for      oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United         States at : a.m.    APPEARANCES: JULIA DOYLE BERNHARDT, ESQ., Assistant Attorney           General, Baltimore, Md.; on behalf of           Petitioner. ZACHARY D. TRIPP, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor                  General, Department of Justice, Washington,     D.C.; for United States, as amicus curiae,            supporting Petitioner.  PAUL W. HUGHES, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of              Respondent. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                 C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                    PAGE JULIA DOYLE BERNHARDT, ESQ.         On behalf of the Petitioner                         ORAL ARGUMENT OF   ZACHARY D. TRIPP, ESQ.              For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting the Petitioner                        ORAL ARGUMENT OF   PAUL W. HUGHES, ESQ.         On behalf of the Respondent                        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    P R O C E E D I N G S                                         (: a.m.)           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next in Case ­, Ross v. Blake.                Ms. Bernhardt.          ORAL ARGUMENT OF JULIA DOYLE BERNHARDT                 ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER              MS. BERNHARDT: Thank you, Your Honor.       Mr. Chief Justice, may it please the Court:                 In this case, the Fourth Circuit adopted a        nontextual exception to the requirement of the       Prison Litigation Reform Act that a prisoner exhaust         available administrative remedies. That exception,      if accepted, would eviscerate Congress's intent in       adopting the Prison Litigation Reform Act and       requiring exhaustion of administrative remedies.              In the Fourth Circuit States where this       exception now applies, district courts are now       charged with examining prison procedures to see how        murky they are. They are dispensing with the         requirement of exhaustion at all if there's been an         internal investigation ­­           JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Bernhardt, could I just         ask you to talk about the procedures? Could you          explain to me what they are?      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MS. BERNHARDT: Certainly, Your Honor.      And I'd like to begin with the Inmate                          Grievance Commission ­­ or, I'm sorry ­­ Office,        formerly the Commission ­­ which is the primary        administrative remedy for an inmate with      use­of­force or other condition of confinement.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Could I start you off in          the reverse around? Because the ARP seems to be the           low­level one, and in the initial understandings of        this case, everybody was being told the ARP is where          you file. And you file there irrespective of         whether there's an IIU investigation.              Do you continue to take that view, or do         you think that that is no longer true?                 MS. BERNHARDT: Well, Your Honor, the       view's been consistent throughout, and that is the        Inmate Grievance Office is the primary remedy. The         Inmate Grievance Office can itself require ­­               JUSTICE KAGAN: I really did ask you to          start with the ARP.             Honor.          MS. BERNHARDT: I'm trying to, yes, Your        JUSTICE KAGAN: Are you supposed to file        with the ARP even when there's an IIU in ­­                  MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. Yes, you         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review are.          JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, why do all of these         cases suggest that, when that happens, the ARP        throws out the case on the view that there's an IIU           investigation?          MS. BERNHARDT: When this case arose in        , the warden was not required to dismiss it.         And so in some cases ­­ in some of the cases that            are before the Court, that is, indeed, what        occurred. There's cases with three wardens where ­­        a collection of cases where there was a dismissal,          but ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you have any example        anywhere of the AR ­­ ARP responding and actually         investigating and looking at the issue and making a         recommendation or ruling?            MS. BERNHARDT: The ­­ we don't have the         paperwork. The cases in Petitioner's lodging are        cases involving an IIU investigation where it       proceeded through the ARP process. In other words,         there was a complaint ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In your reply brief, I        looked for one ARP case where the prisoner filed and          the ARP itself made a determination. Is there          anything in the record?    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          MS. BERNHARDT: There's nothing in the       record like that, Your Honor. And if I might           explain that this was not an issue in the district          court. And so there was no evidence presented on          either side on that point.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you've lodged now       quite a number of materials, and we can talk about           the materials that you've lodged, but now, you know,         both parties have lodged materials, and nobody has        come up with a case in which the ARP has adjudicated            a complaint when there was an IIU complaint        investigation going on; is that right?               MS. BERNHARDT: That's right, Your Honor.       And there's a four­year retention policy for these         records, and this case arose in . And so this           issue was not brought up until the Respondent's        briefing in this Court ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But at least it would        show that there are papers staying ­­ saying as         clearly as it could possibly say, "You involved an         ARP; there is an IIU investigation; ARP dismissed."        Couldn't be clearer.            So you say, well, other cases went beyond        the way. Then it sounds like the State is making           inconsistent rulings, nobody knows what the law of        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Maryland really is.            So those letters say, unmistakably, "Your      complaint is dismissed because there is an IIU        investigation." They can't just erase that. That's         what they say.            MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. The forms         also say right on the front that your appeal rights          are on the back. And the directives and the          handbook all advise the ­­ that's only the first         stage of the process.             And in Maryland, proper exhaustion is      always an appeal to the commissioner and then to         file complaint with the Inmate Grievance Office,       which holds a quasi adjudicatory hearing in every         one of these cases.                And all one need do is look at the      decisions in Petitioner's lodging. You'll see these        were all IIU investigation cases, and all of these         inmates had a full adjudicatory hearing on the         merits, and some of them got substantial amounts of         money.          So there is an available remedy in Maryland        for prisoners who are assaulted by guards and where         there is an internal investigation. And that ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to the ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the procedure for the employee ­­ I mean, for the           prisoner.          There is an IAU investigation. The       prisoner then files an ARP. Under Maryland's        regime, what is to happen to that ARP complaint?                  MS. BERNHARDT: At the time of this case         and today, the warden had discretion to reach the         merits of it or to administratively dismiss it.        Both of those are appealable orders.               JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Bernhardt, can I just         ask, because in the materials you lodged yesterday,        in three different places you appeared ­­ the office         appears actually to have a rubber stamp. I mean,            it's the same stamp on all these things. And it           says, "Dismissed for procedural reasons. This issue        is being investigated by IIU. Since this case shall          be investigated by IIU, no further action shall be         taken under the ARP."                      That's on a rubber stamp.      MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. And the         procedure there is the same in any other        use­of­force case, and that is the first­level       decision; that is appealable to the commissioner.       And then once those two stages within the prison are          exhausted, the internal remedy has been exhausted,       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and the case can be submitted to the Inmates         Grievance Commission, which, as the court of appeals        of Maryland has stated, is the primary       administrative remedy ­­           JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Bernhardt, we took this        case on the view, which was the view that the office           represented to us at the time, that the ARP was the           proper place to go to receive a remedy, not the           proper place to go to receive a rubber stamp saying           "You've come to the wrong place," but the proper         place to go to receive a remedy even when there was            an IIU investigation going on.              Honor.          MS. BERNHARDT: And that is true, Your        JUSTICE KAGAN: Notwithstanding this rubber      stamp that says it's not true.               MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor, because       the remedy will be received from the Inmate        Grievance Commission. The ­­ just the first ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could you please tell       me why you can't ­­ what's the purpose of this          process? You have regulations and administrative       handbook that says, "Take all of these things to the          ARP. Take to the IGO directly only these things."                   Why don't you just say take prison       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review brutality cases to the IGO? If you're not intending          to confuse prisoners, if you're not intending to        make this process totally opaque, why do you do it          that way?           MS. BERNHARDT: Because there's one process       for all use­of­force complaints, Your Honor, and it        will be confusing to inmates if you told inmates,         "Well, if you've requested an IIU investigation,       then you should use a different process."                 And it's the one ­­ every use of force, the          inmate files the ARP with the warden, he appeals to          the commissioner, and then they go to the Inmate         Grievance Office. That's right in the handbook at         pages to . It's ­­               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. It's more        confusing to say, "If you filed a IIU, go to IGO."                     MS. BERNHARDT: That would ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If you go to ARP, if         you haven't, if you have ­­ that's more confusing         than this process where they go to ARP and they          can't get anything.            MS. BERNHARDT: They do, because they       proceed up the ­­ up the process. They properly          exhaust ­­ all the examples that they produced in         the Respondent's lodging, they have four inmates who        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review did not properly exhaust and one who did. Mr. ­­                   finish.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Please        MS. BERNHARDT: He had properly      exhausted ­­ he had a hearing at the Inmate          Grievance Office.           CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We're talking about       what's in the lodgings and what they stand for.         These are not in the record before the Court, are          they?                   MS. BERNHARDT: No, Your Honor.      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Neither yours or       the other side, right?                      MS. BERNHARDT: That's true, Your Honor.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I take seriously        the requirement that we limit appellate review to        the argument ­­ to the record that's before the         Court. I mean, factual issues like this are          something they could deal with in the district court         and flesh those out before the court of appeals.         And now, as far as I understand, we're the first           court that's looked at all these record material ­­        I mean, extra record materials, right?      MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. And we                  would ­­ Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So how do we deal         with that? I mean, again, both of you are guilty of             what I think is a serious ­­ a serious question.             What's your proposal for dealing with the fact that,         so far as we have seen so far, the cases ­­ the case             might well turn on these lodgings if people are         going to look at them?              MS. BERNHARDT: Well, your Honor, we would        welcome a remand from this Court, decide the issue          in front of it. This issue is very important to the            States and to the Fourth Circuit States especially.        And we would gladly shoulder the burden on remand to          sort these availability issues out. We have much         more ­­          JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, it seems to me that         we should dismiss your writ as improvidently       granted. You just ­­ we just simply didn't have          these materials in front of us, and it completely         changes the nature of the case.               MS. BERNHARDT: Well, Your Honor, the       district court rightly found that the remedy is        primary. There was no ­­ the Respondent, he never          tried to use any of these procedures. He disclaimed          any intention to do so.              JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's a different ­­       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I suppose        dismissing it would be based on a judgment about          what these extra record materials show. And if they          don't show what your adversary suggests, I don't         know why that would be an appropriate course to take          with respect to your position. On the other hand,          if they do, maybe it would be.                  I don't ­­ again, it's ­­ it's, I think,         surprising ­­ and, again, I'm not criticizing just        you; I'm criticizing both of you ­­ that ­­ that we           have these materials now.               I mean, was ­­ was the individual      represented by counsel below the ­­              MS. BERNHARDT: Yes, Your Honor. And these         materials that were submitted present a very        misleading picture of the remedies available to       inmates. And we felt obligated to respond and ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, I understand that.        But, as I look through, the reason that it wasn't           presented below, I would guess, is given the briefs          that I've read, which are very good briefs, people         have gone to an enormous amount of work. And that           enormous amount of work has produced all this        information that wasn't there before.              But I would like to know what you'd do if           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review you were me. That is to say, we took this case            because we thought that it raises a question of          whether the circuit can create an exception to the         exhaustion requirement that, to my knowledge so far,        is not a traditional exception. And that's why I           thought we took it.             Now we discover, having taken it, this new        issue that wasn't there. We thought the question         was, can you create an exception to the requirement         that they have to take into account of available         administrative remedies? The issue now is whether        there was an administrative remedy available on the        basis of what I've read.              It's so complicated that I don't know how a          genius would know how ­­ that he's supposed to go to           the ­­ to the whatever that AR thing is ­­                  (Laughter.)          JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ you know, while an IIU         investigation is going on. You certainly could not         be illiterate. I mean, you'd have to ­­ there are            so many initials in this that ­­ that ­­ that ­­          okay.          So we could either go into this other issue         or we could send it back to prolong this or we           simply could grant a ­­ dismiss it as improvidently          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review granted.          So maybe it's an unfair question to ask        you. But if you were me, what would you do?                    MS. BERNHARDT: Decide the question      presented, Your Honor, and that is because it's        squarely presented by this record.              The procedures in the ­­ the procedures       were taken to be clear in the court below. The ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: It's pretty hypothetical      if we are to answer the question, is there a special            kind of exception to the rule that you have to take           into ­­ that you have to follow available        administrative procedures if it is the case where        there was no such remedy availability.               MS. BERNHARDT: Well, Your Honor, we've       produced inmates who used it. So it is          available. Inmates have used it successful, and        they've gotten large amounts of money. In the ­­                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: And it's available to       some and it's not available to others.                MS. BERNHARDT: It's available to all, Your        Honor. And if ­­ if inmates are ­­ many more           inmates, you know, that we've proposed have used it         successfully than the few that they have who started         the process and then abandoned it.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's talk about, then,       the current regulation. There's a question whether         that was always the practice in Maryland. But the          current regulation does say, does it not, if an IIU          investigation is launched, then you don't use the        ARP procedure. Isn't that what the current        regulation ­­          MS. BERNHARDT: That's not a regulation,        Your Honor. That's a directive. That's one of the            ARP directives. It does say that it should be          administratively dismissed and that that is an       appealable decision on the merits that goes to the         Inmate Grievance Office.            And if I might go back to what's happening          in the district court where this case began, is that          we had a procedure that was ­­ that was available on            its face, and there was never any challenge to         availability. The argument was that "Well, I went          to the internal affairs, and that serves the same         purpose. I don't have to exhaust."                 And that doesn't serve the same purpose.       All one need do is compare the criminal        investigation report at JA with the       administrative law decisions that resolve the civil       claims. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          An IIU investigation doesn't produce an      administrative decision on a civil claim. It         doesn't give an opportunity to settle civil claim.        It serves a completely different purpose.                  And yet in the Fourth Circuit States, a      criminal investigation is now an administrative      civil remedy. And that has ­­ having a very bad            effect on Maryland and the Fourth Circuit states.                 And one need only look at experience in the         Second Circuit to see the effect that's been there.         It's totally contrary to the purpose of the Prison         Litigation Reform Act.            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have to say that when          I read the Fourth Circuit decision, there are lines         in the Fourth Circuit decision that seemed to be         deciding this on the burden of proof. They're         saying "Ross" ­­ meaning you ­­ "have offered no         evidence that would contradict Blake's belief that       the IIU's investigation removed his complaint from       the typical ARP process."             .          And the Fourth Circuit, that's at F.d        It goes on to say, moreover, that "the        handbook regulations and directives do not      contradict Blake's belief that he had exhausted his        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review administrative remedies by removing the incident to       senior corrections officers, thereby initiating an      IIU investigation."              That's ­­ that's at the same page.             So I'm not sure what the Fourth Circuit was         doing with availability. And so if I'm not sure,          what do I do with respect to Justice Breyer's          question and Justice Kennedy's question, which is,       is this a availability determination?               MS. BERNHARDT: The Fourth Circuit assumed       it was available. If you look at Petition         Appendix , the district court found it was        available. The Fourth Circuit assumed that. So it          would certainly be appropriate, it seems to me, to         remand it to the Fourth Circuit so the Fourth         Circuit could sort out any availability issues that        have been newly raised. But there's a question          presented to be decided because of the effect that         it has on the administration of the Prison        Litigation Reform Act in the Fourth Circuit States.        It's a ­­ it's a profound impact.                  It's ­­ it's ­­ it's a special        circumstance.          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's a new       regulation that has come in, correct, after this        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review case? And it makes official that the ARP process          will not handle an IIU proceeding?               MS. BERNHARDT: It's not a regulation, Your         Honor; it's a ­­ it's a prison directive.                   This ­­          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Prison directive.     MS. BERNHARDT: This was the first two        stages of the process, but not the third stage, not          the Inmate Grievance Office stage. That stage is         fully open and available to inmates who have IIU         investigations.          JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the IGO, or whatever        it is, that is described in this hierarchy as an          appellate remedy.           MS. BERNHARDT: No, Your Honor. It's a         contested case hearing under the States      Administrative Procedure Act. It's doesn't ­­      decision ­­          JUSTICE GINSBURG: The setup is, there are        these levels that you go to. And first you go to            the ARP, then you go to the commission, then you go           to IGO. So it's usually ­­ it comes in at the third             instance.          MS. BERNHARDT: But it's not an appeal,        Your Honor; it's a de novo contested case qua an           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review adjudicated hearing.           JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where is ­­ where in        this handbook or whatever it is, the grievance        procedures, does it tell an inmate, you can go or          you must go, in the first instance, to the IGO when           there's an IIU investigation underway? Where does        it say ­­           Honor.                   MS. BERNHARDT: It does not say that, Your         JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yeah.    MS. BERNHARDT: The inmate has a ­­ the          inmate can always go to the IGO first. If the           Inmate Grievance Office determines that it should be        exhausted, it just gives ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Where ­­ where ­­ where        does it say you can go to the IGO first?                   MS. BERNHARDT: That's in the handbook. At         pages to is the description. It's ­­ Petition           Appendix to is the description of the ­­ of           how to file with the Inmate Grievance Office. And          there are additional materials available to inmates       that aren't in the record because this issue was not          brought up in the district court, the directives ­­        the set of directives especially geared to inmates        that are not in the record because this issue did          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review not come up in the district court.                There is additional information available     to show that this is an available remedy, again, not          in the record because this issue was not brought up          by Mr. Blake in the district court. So we would           strongly urge the Court that, if it has issues about          availability, that it would be most appropriate to        remand it and let this be sorted out on remand,          because, obviously, you know, not having known that        this issue was going to come up, we didn't present          the evidence.           The burden is on Mr. Blake to show he meets          an exception. He did not meet that burden in the           district court.           Thank you, Your Honor.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                ORAL ARGUMENT OF ZACHARY D. TRIPP              FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                   SUPPORTING THE PETITIONER            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Tripp?               MR. TRIPP: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:            We're asking the Court to do two things        here today. We think they're both straightforward.        And then you can vacate and remand to address these          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review more case­specific arguments that have come up in        the briefing.           So, first, we're asking you to answer the        question presented. The PLRA means what it says.         It does not have any unwritten exceptions. Blake         doesn't even dispute the point.              Second, we're asking this Court to reject       the part of Blake's argument in Part of his brief,            which we think is fairly encompassed within the QP,         that a prison's procedure has become unavailable and         that a prisoner can jump to federal court as soon as            he could reasonably but mistakenly think that he was         done with the grievance process.                A reasonable mistake standard is just     another way of saying that you only need to exhaust          plain procedures. That used to be the rule.         Congress deliberately eliminated it when it enacted       the PLRA. The rule now is that you need to exhaust            all available remedies. And that's critical to        making the prisons, not the Federal courts, the        primary place for resolving disputes about prison       life.          JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You do say in your        brief that if regulations are so confusing that        we're ­­ we're ­­ we're arguing about whether ­­ to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review every inmate or every reasonable inmate or to a         reasonable inmate. I don't actually see that you          say "every reasonable inmate." That ­­ that's a         little ­­ that's not a standard I understand in any            context.          MR. TRIPP: So we definitely agree, as we         say in our brief, that ­­ that rules could be so           confusing that ­­ that they're no longer available.        As this Court said in Booth, "available" just has         its ordinary dictionary meaning of capable of being        used for a purpose. And so we think if they're so             confusing that they can't be used, if no reasonable         prisoner can use them, then ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: No, you keep saying "no        reason." That a reasonable ­­ I would say,           consistent with how we always talk about this ­­                          MR. TRIPP: Well ­­ and I don't ­­         JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ no reasonable ­­ a        reasonable prisoner would not understand them.               MR. TRIPP: Well, I think there's a big           difference between a reasonable mistake standard,       which is what the court of appeals held. It held           that he made a reasonable mistake, and Blake is          trying to repackage that as a gloss ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I understand that       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that's different.           MR. TRIPP: Right. And that's the thing         that we have trouble with. And ­­ and ­­ and so            there are two big differences between the reasonable        mistake standard and an availability standard, which       is the correct statutory standard. The first is         just the degree of uncertainty.              If you have a body of regulations, it         doesn't take that much to say that reasonable minds         could disagree about some aspect of the procedure.        It is quite another thing to say that they are so           confusing that they can't even be used.                JUSTICE BREYER: What words should we use?        The statute uses the word "exhausted." The word         "exhausted" in administrative law, where it's most       frequently found, has a huge meaning, with        exceptions, built up over the years. One such         exception is for a procedural rule that is, quote­­         it comes from habeas corpus law ­­ "not firmly         established and regularly followed."             MR. TRIPP: You know, I think ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: Now, is that the way to         put the exception? To decide that, one, does the          word "exhausted" pick up its administrative law       meaning? That's a big question.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review MR. TRIPP: So I'm ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: I'm not sure.      Two, if it does, is there such an exception                                    that I just said in administrative law?                          And, three, how do you put it?       All right. Now, you say what you wanted to          say, because you wanted to say something.                (Laughter.)          MR. TRIPP: So I think the ­­ the point           that you're getting at about not regular followed is         that's better handled in a situation so ­­ at          Woodford and this Court's case law says that when         somebody has exhausted but has made some kind of a          procedural misstep, and the question is whether they        should suffer a procedural default, that ­­ that the          question there is, as this Court said in Woodford,         whether it's a critical procedural requirement. And         we think that the natural analogue is what you're         talking about from habeas corpus law, that you would         be asking whether it's an adequate and independent        State ground similar to that.              The inquiry here is different. The inquiry        here, he's just ­­ he's saying that it's just so          confusing that it's not available. And so we think          that the correct standard is the one that's said in          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Booth, not capable of use for a purpose. The way we             articulate it in our brief we think is correct. If           you want to give some guidance, it's that no         reasonable prisoner can use it. But you don't need          to ­­ to ­­ to get that far down in the weeds to             reject his argument that a reasonable mistake is         enough.                            So as I ­­    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Please.    MR. TRIPP: There's two big differences       between a reasonable mistake standard and ours. The          first I was saying is just the degree of ambiguity.           The second is that it's myopic. It ­­ it overlooks           all the things a prison system can do to make a            system capable of being used even when it's a little           confusing.          So if I could just give an example of how           this works in the Federal system, when somebody        arrives in the prison, they're given a ­­ there's an           orientation. They're given a handbook. If they          have questions, there's somebody in each prison who        is available to answer questions, provide      assistance. And then, if you just file something         and you make some kind of procedural mistake, they         can do one of two things.      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review            The prison can either just ­­ just accept      it and overlook the mistake, or what it can do is           tell him what he did wrong and give him a          reasonable ­­ a reasonable time to correct it. And           those are all things that a prison can do to make            its system just perfectly capable of being used,        even if there might be some reasonable ambiguity        somewhere in ­­                             JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ­­      MR. TRIPP: ­­ in the record. And ­­         JUSTICE KAGAN: Can I ask, it seems to me           that there are three kinds of unavailability. And         I'm wondering if you agree with each of the three.                   One is where the prison says, you can get         your remedy over here. And then it turns out that           you can't get your remedy over here. So if the           prison here said, you can get your remedy at the          ARP, but you couldn't get your remedy at the ARP,          that's a kind of factual unavailability.                                  sense ­­                   You agree with that?    MR. TRIPP: Yes, I think so.        JUSTICE KAGAN: In the hypothetical      MR. TRIPP: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ not saying anything       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review about this case?             Now, the second is what you're saying.      It's like, if it's just so confusing that a         reasonable person can't use it. And that's your         standard; right?           MR. TRIPP: Right.             JUSTICE KAGAN: And the third is some of         these cases arise in the context where the State is          deliberately trying to interfere with or trick the        inmate or something like that. And you would count          that as available too?             MR. TRIPP: Yeah, in, like, a ­­ sort of a            threat hypothetical, that kind of thing.               JUSTICE KAGAN: A threat or just deception         or something like that.             MR. TRIPP: Yeah, we think that's ­­ as we          said in our brief, we think that's fairly usually         dealt with under availability. You could have a         case where maybe estoppel principles come in. But         in, I think, all or virtually all cases,         availability is the appropriate focus. And it's        going to take over. That's the way this has been           working in the lower courts.                I mean, because availability is the ­­ the       statutory exception, there is a mountain of lower         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review court case law on this. And ­­ and ­­ and so I             think the proper way for this Court to ­­ to delve           into these issues is in some case where it's         properly presented on cert.             The question here, it is squarely      presented. The district court here held squarely        that he could have filed a grievance. The court of            appeals appeared to assume that that was right and         just said that it didn't matter because there was an          unwritten exception to the PLRA, where ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Tripp, are you ­­                MR. TRIPP: ­­ it asked this Court to         reverse that in his effort to repackage it.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you taking ­­ are        you ­­ I assume that you're taking no position on           whether the remedy is available to this ­­ to Blake.                                     MR. TRIPP: The Maryland­specific question?      JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.    MR. TRIPP: Yeah, we ­­ we just frankly         don't have an interest in the outcome of that         question, and ­­ and don't think this Court would         have ever granted cert on it. And we think that           that's ­­ that's proper ­­ the proper approach here         is ­­ is ­­ is, as we're saying, to answer the           question presented, the portion of Blake's argument       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that we think is fairly encompassed within it, and         then it's up to the court of appeals to figure out           what to do with all the late­breaking evidence.                          If there are no further questions?      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                Mr. Hughes.            ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL W. HUGHES                  ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT              MR. HUGHES: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:               We submit that the proper outcome of the        case would be to dismiss it as improvidently granted         or, alternatively, to affirm.             If the Court were to consider affirming       this context, we think the first place for the Court          to begin is what the term "available" means in the          statutory context. We submit that ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, before you get to        that, the Fourth Circuit seemed to assume that there         was a procedure that was available. And it held           that there ­­ this ­­ it was excused here even          though it was available.             Now, do you defend that argument?               MR. HUGHES: Your Honor, I ­­ I would           disagree. I don't think the court of appeals          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review thought that there was something that was available,        and it certainly did not think the State had met its           burden of showing so.             As was pointed out earlier, at Petition       Appendix page , the court of appeals said "Ross         has proffered no evidence that would contradict       Blake's belief that the IIU's investigation removed       his complaint from the typical ARP process."                And at the next page, Petition Appendix        to , the court of appeals added, "Ross has         provided no practical examples of an inmate being        allowed to file an ARP or IGO grievance during or          after an IIU investigation."             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, what was the legal        rule that ­­ that the Fourth Circuit adopted?                 MR. HUGHES: Well, Your Honor, the ­­ the         Fourth Circuit did adopt a legal rule, as has been           discussed, as that there could be implicit       exceptions to the exhaustion requirement.              JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. And that was my         question. Is that correct? Do you defend that?                   MR. HUGHES: We think that's a correct         statement, yes, Your Honor. We do think that that          is a correct understanding of implicit exceptions        that exist to exhaustion requirements.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          That said, we think the starting place here        should be the meaning of ­­ of the plain term          "available" that exists in the statute. And if         we're correct about what the term "available" means,        I don't think the Court necessarily needs to even         reach the ­­ the rule that was adopted by the court           of appeals. We think it was correct ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Do we think that the Fourth         Circuit was wrong with respect to that? I mean,           it's a problem leaving it on the books, isn't it?                    MR. HUGHES: Well, Your Honor, I think the          Court could, though, still, even if it thinks that         the court ­­ the court of appeals was wrong about          that, still recognize that the additional argument,       what the term "available" means in this context that         we're correct about, and that, for multiple reasons,        the system that Maryland has in place doesn't meet         any conceivable understanding of what available      would be.           So I think the Court could certainly do         that. We ­­ we would disagree with the submission          that the ­­ the court of appeals was wrong, but we           certainly think the starting place here is what        "available" means. And ­­ and that, as applied to          this case and given what we now know as how Maryland           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review has ­­ has explained it, structured its system, it's         certainly not one that would qualify as       unavailable ­­          we ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But if we know what         MR. HUGHES: Go ahead.     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I was just going to          say "what we now know." Do you have any help for me             with my concern that none of this is in the record           in this case? None of it was before the court of            appeals. None of it was before the district court.          What should I do about that?                MR. HUGHES: Yes, Your Honor. I have two           principal responses to that.             First, is the material that I just read         from the court of appeals made quite clear the court          of appeals recognized that the ­­ the State had         failed to identify any examples where any remedy in         these circumstances was available. Our principal       argument throughout the district court and the court        of appeals ­­ mind you, after we got past the waiver           argument ­­ our first argument was waiver ­­ our         second on the merits of this ­­ was that when an IIU            investigation was underway, there was no ARP process        whatsoever. Our consistent argument was the State        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review had failed to meet its burden in showing that that          was in fact wrong.             We made that argument to the court of        appeals, which, I think, it ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I'm not ­­       I'm not so much talking about waiver; I'm talking         about evidentiary record. You may have made that         argument, but you did not submit any of this         material as a record. If it had been presented to            the district court, they'd go through a normal         process. Your Honor, you know, move for the         admission of this as Exhibit A. You authenticate         it. Somebody comes in and says ­­ and you'd have           discovery on ­­ on that.                I mean, I don't know that there aren't         other cases out there that make the exact opposite         point or make your point. And it just seems to me            that if the case is going to ­­ well, it seems to me             to present a real serious problem of how we should           consider the lodging.            MR. HUGHES: Well, first, Your Honor, I        still think it does only support our burden        argument, and ­­ and we still would think our burden          argument sufficient.           But, additionally, in the ­­ the papers to        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this Court, Maryland has consistently said that the        IIU and the ARP process were entirely distinct. At          page of the reply brief in support of certiorari,           for example, they explained the argument saying that        the directive codified then­existing practice.      They said that that was plainly wrong.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They said that in        the district court and court of appeals; right?                 MR. HUGHES: Yes, Your Honor. But what we          did in the lodging was we identified in part briefs          that the Maryland attorney general's office, the       office responsible for litigating these cases in       Maryland Federal court, briefs that they filed that        were ­­ made materially different representations on       these critical questions. That's at our lodgings ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And is there any        reason that couldn't have been done before the        district court and before the court of appeals and         included in the record before this Court?                MR. HUGHES: Well, Your Honor, I think         these materials, because they are briefs that the        court ­­ that the State of Maryland submitted in         these cases are things that are properly submitted        by this Court as legal documents. I think the Court            frequently takes ­­ considers briefs that parties       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review have filed in other filings that are ­­                briefs.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, these are not        MR. HUGHES: Your Honor, we do submit two         briefs to the Court. So I point to ­­ in our              lodging to pages and , as well as lodging page           . We're submitting briefs that they filed to the          Maryland district court.            CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you're also       submitting documents that were filed, I guess, by         prisoners in particular cases?             MR. HUGHES: Your Honor, most of these        documents were submitted by the State of Maryland as         attachments to their briefs that they filed in        Federal court. All these documents that we have         were ­­ the vast majority were submitted as ­­ by          Maryland as attachments to their briefs. A few were           submitted by prisoners as attachments to a       complaint, for example. But ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But not part of the         record in this case?             MR. HUGHES: They ­­ they were not        introduced in ­­ in ­­ in the court of appeals,          that's right, Your Honor.             But, again, it's consistent with our      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review argument that the State has never worn its ­­ met          its burden of demonstrating that the ARP is, in         fact, available in these circumstances. We still        think they've never shown their burden to       demonstrate it's available, but ­­             JUSTICE ALITO: Why should this issue of        availability be decided by this Court as opposed to         the district court or court of appeals on remand?                  MR. HUGHES: Your Honor, I certainly think         that could be one possible outcome if the Court were          to say that "available" as a legal matter means what           we think it means, but that there could be         subsidiary questions that would be left for remand.        We would not quarrel with that outcome.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What's your        definition of "availability"?            MR. HUGHES: Yes, Your Honor. We think         that for a remedy to properly qualify as available          within the meaning of the PLRA, the prison system         must sufficiently inform an inmate as to which        administrative remedy he or she needs to use to ­­         to press a particular kind of claim and then          additionally needs to explain so a reasonable inmate         would know the steps that he or she needs to take to            have properly exhausted that remedy.     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          JUSTICE ALITO: What is the difference       between that and what the statute used to say before          it was amended where it required exhaustion of such         plain ­­ plain, speedy, and effective administrative       remedies as are available?                      MR. HUGHES: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: I think it's saying it has          to be plain.            MR. HUGHES: No, Your Honor. I think there           is a substantial amount of daylight between        requiring administrative remedy on one hand to be        plain, on the other hand to have sufficient clarity         that a reasonable prisoner would understand how it         works.          And perhaps an example, a prison remedy        could ­­ a prison system could create administrative         remedy that is, in fact, quite complex, that has         several steps, perhaps some of the steps are        conditional based on the kind of claim an individual         is raising or based on the adjudication at the lower          steps.          That might be very complicated, but it       would be perfectly fine so long as the prison         accompanies that with sufficiently clear guidance      that a reasonable inmate would know how to actually          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review navigate the system. No ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you think that there is         also substantial daylight between your standard and       the solicitor general's standard? In other words,        what I took the solicitor general to be saying with           respect to this clarity question is that the        standard is if the procedures are so confusing that         a reasonable person could not use them. That's his          standard.          Do you think that there is a difference         between yours and his?             MR. HUGHES: Honestly, I don't think        there's a substantial difference, Your Honor. I         think we certainly agree with the solicitor general        that a reasonableness is incorporated into this.                  We disagree with the test that was      articulated in their brief at page where they         suggest that the standard must be so high that, if          any conceivable reasonable inmate could satisfy the       test, that that would be sufficient.               We think that is certainly too high a test          because if one of a hundred or one of a thousand             inmates happens to get it right, that might not mean          it's a reasonable system; it just might mean if an           inmate is reduced to guesswork, sometimes the       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review inmate's going to guess correctly.              JUSTICE BREYER: This is quite important to        me, and the solicitor general, I think, has ­­         has ­­ has made very clear why this is such an           important question, not just your client, but I mean          in general in the system.              The Fourth Circuit copied a full page of         what it said was the Second Circuit's special        exceptions test, and then it listed it. And the          rest of the opinion that you cite really is meant to           be an application of that test. What you were          talking about is simply the procedure leg of that         test.          So whatever words I or anyone else write         here are going to take on a lot of importance in the             prison system. So I'm nervous, as always, when that          kind of thing happens. I'm not an expert in it.                    Now, there are several ways we could go. I          mean, it sounds to me, even though I did write, and            I think correctly, that there are exceptions, such        as for constitutional issues, for example,      traditionally there is no exception for the       reasonable mistake. I'm not aware of any. And it           sounds as if reasonable mistake is put best under         the rubric of availability.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review          Now, that's just tentative. But if I'm        right in thinking that what we have here is simply          a ­­ an aspect of the availability question, then         maybe the thing to do is send it back and argue out            all the availability, including this, in the court        below rather than us trying to write a standard.                   Or a second, maybe we adopt the SG         standard. Or maybe we adopt your standard. I don't            know what rubric we'd put it under. Under the          rubric of exception? Under the rubric of        availability?          Now, that's a general musing­type question,       designed to provoke on your part a general response.                   MR. HUGHES: Well, we certainly think that        the outcome here was correct. So that's certainly         our starting point. We think the best way to get           there, the proper rubric that would apply in this         case and all other cases, is an understanding of         what "available" properly means.             So I ­­ I would suggest, I think, the            statutory text and what "available" fairly ­­ has        been held to mean by this Court in Booth and          elsewhere does the work, certainly in this case, and         I think in the vast majority of cases.                 As the Court said in Booth, "available"       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review here means "accessible or capable of use." I don't           think anyone would fairly describe a prison        administrative remedy as one that's accessible or       capable of use.               A reasonable prisoner wouldn't know which    remedy it is he or she is supposed to use in the            circumstances or wouldn't know the proper steps that        he or she needs to take in order to avoid procedural           default under Woodford standard.             The system has to have that ­­ that minimal         degree of clarity for one to actually have been         described as available. Certainly Congress retained       the word "available" after it amended the PLRA from         the prior CRIPA, and "available" must have meaning.        Congress certainly didn't say any standard ­­ or any         remedy or all remedies.             And, again, I don't think Maryland even        disagrees with us on this point because they say at          the reply brief at page , they agree that if the ­­           if the administrative remedy, in their words, is        undecipherable, that would not be one that qualifies        as available.           So I think there's broad agreement that        the ­­ the prison system can't take the rule book,          lock it in a box, not let any inmate understand how            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review it works, and still call that system one that is ­­          is fairly available. So ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: If I could understand you,         though, I mean, one argument that you would have,          whether here or below or ­­ is this notion of the           prison system didn't meet this level of clarity,        whatever it is.            But there's another argument, don't you      think ­­ or do you think ­­ that you have, which is            just, they said to go to the ARP, and the ARB ­­ the             ARP was not in the business of giving this remedy.          So we did exactly what we were told to do, and it            turns out the remedy is unavailable because it's        just not available.            MR. HUGHES: I think that's precisely        correct. I absolutely agree with that view, that          here, in all of the cases that anyone has         identified ­­ and, again, with both our lodging, but         also in every case in Petitioner's lodging ­­ and I          just point the Courts to their lodging at page ,          , , , , , and there are others. Every           example that anyone has identified, the ARP has        always said, "You've come to the wrong place.        Because of the IIU is underway, there can be no          relief had here." I think that's plainly an          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review unavailable system.           As the Court in Booth said for ­­ in a          system, administrative remedy to qualify as      available, the administrative officers must have      some authority to provide relief in the       circumstances.          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't ­­ I don't           mean to beat a dead horse, but the ­­ the citations            you cited, it is true that that's to the lodgings.          But I don't have any confidence that these lodgings          represent the complete universe to allow me to make         a judgment about the procedures under Maryland law,        because this wasn't litigated or ­­ or subject to         discovery in the district court or court of appeals.                  MR. HUGHES: So, your Honor, two things.        First, again, we would not disagree if ­­ if a          remand could be appropriate for some of these        issues; but, second, I think there is enough that is           undisputed in the ­­ the record currently that ­­        that doesn't even require a look in ­­ in the hole            to the lodgings to find that this was not an          available system.           To begin with, the IIU exclusivity      regulation that we discussed at page of the red          brief made quite clear at the time of this incident          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that the IIU had exclusive authority whenever there        was a referral that was made to the IIU at that            point and that no other agency could proceed.                 That, again, has nothing to do with the        lodging material and, I think, makes quite clear         that the ARP was not the proper place to go.                   We have the additional briefs, which we       think are on somewhat different footing than some of         the ­­ the other agency materials, and we have the           directive that did happen after the case but         made quite clear that the ARP is simply the not ­­          not the correct place for these cases to go.                  So I think all of these things, even         independent from the lodgings, demonstrate that      there was an enormous amount of confusion as to how          the system works and is not one that could be          described in any sense as available without even ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: You would argue that even        if the ARP procedure turns out to have been         available as a formal matter, suppose that this ­­         that issue were remanded, and the district court        explored it thoroughly and concluded that, although       there's a lot of ­­ there are these materials that           might suggest otherwise, as a formal matter, it is          available, even when the IIU procedure is going ­­        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review is going forward. All right?                 I don't know whether that would happen.      Maybe it wouldn't. Assume that that's the case.         You would still argue that the procedure was        unavailable because, although it was available as a        former matter ­­ a formal matter, it is simply too           confusing; right? And no reasonable inmate could        take advantage of it.                      MR. HUGHES: That's right.     JUSTICE ALITO: That's a separate       agreement?          MR. HUGHES: Yes, Your Honor. Yes. So ­­          and ­­and that is why I ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: As to that argument,       your ­­ your client did not try to use any          procedure; isn't that correct?                               MR. HUGHES: No, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: How was he confused?       MR. HUGHES: So on the day of the event ­­          this is at the Joint Appendix, page to , he           filed a very detailed report of the incident. And           he said, at the bottom of ­­ of page ­­ this is             three and four lines from the bottom ­­ "I'm asking          for a formal internal investigation." The next         page, after his signature, "P.S. I will repeat this           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review exact statement under oath at any time you need.         Please investigate this incident."               He filed this very clear report that     described the entire incident. And he asked for the          prison to respond. The prison did in fact respond          the next day. It instituted the IIU investigation.                  So I think the question is, after he had          taken this clear affirmative step, would someone in        these circumstances, a reasonable prisoner, known       that he had to do something else? And I think            everything that ­­ that we know shows that a         reasonable prisoner wouldn't have understood he had       to do anything else beyond the IIU investigation.        So, again, I think very clear affirmative steps he          took. And the only question is, would he have known           he had to go to the ARP process? He wouldn't have            known because of the IIU exclusivity regulation. He         wouldn't have known because of the practice in        Maryland prisons.           And even if he had shown up there, we now          understand that in all cases, it was dismissed.        There was a rubber­stamp that was used to dismiss          all of these claims. So for both of those reasons,           he wouldn't have known to have gone there; and if he           had gotten there, he would have shown up to a place            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review that was going to dismiss ­­              JUSTICE ALITO: He received ­­ he received        materials from the prison saying that that ­­ the         ARP procedure is available in cases of ­­ of         excessive use of force; isn't that right?                MR. HUGHES: He did, Your Honor, but none         of that material said anything whatsoever about the        IIU. The IIU exclusivity regulation, however, was        specific, and generally the specific is going to,        you know, govern over the general. And so on the           one hand, when you have a regulation that says the           very specific IIU mechanism is exclusive, all other        agencies ­­          JUSTICE ALITO: What did he see that said         that the IIU procedure was specific?               MR. HUGHES: Well, it ­­ it was in the ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: I'm sorry. Was exclusive?                 MR. HUGHES: It was in the ­­ the         regulations that ­­ again, all of the regulations        that Maryland had enacted that would be available to         prisoners ­­          JUSTICE ALITO: And he read those?                MR. HUGHES: No, Your Honor, I don't think          there is direct evidence that he read those, but I          think the question is what an objectively reasonable        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prisoner would have understood. And the only        guidance that was specific to the IIU that had         anything to do ­­ that would inform a prisoner, once           you're in the IIU channel, what is it that you          should be doing at that point, said this was the          exclusive mechanism; all other agencies have to       relinquish authority. So I think that very tailored          guidance would certainly trump the broad policy       statements that exist in the other regulations in        the Maryland handbook that say nothing whatsoever as        to an inmate as to what he should do when the IIU            investigates.            I should also add that one of the       interesting things about this case is the IIU        investigations are the investigations where the      Maryland prison itself, it initiates them, because       it thinks those are the most serious incidents in         the prison. That's where Maryland thinks that its         own prison officials may have engaged in criminal        wrongdoing, and therefore they need to undertake       this process. What Maryland has done is ­­ is          created very substantial trips and traps for only        the cases that are most likely to correspond to the          very worst conduct in Maryland prisons.               So I think that's a particularly pernicious         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review aspect of creating the system where you're confused,        told to go to the ARP, but then the ARP, in all            cases, is going to dismiss your claim, telling you         that you've come to absolutely the wrong place.                 And, again, I think all of the material at          this point is ­­ is totally consistent on the view          that this is how the ARP would have worked. It was            codified by the directive that we discussed at         the red brief at page , and I think there is            little question at this point that there was a         codification of existing practice that happened in       , because all of the examples anyone has        identified is consistent with the view that the         directive served to codify what was ­­               record?                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Where is that in the        MR. HUGHES: Sorry?    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The recent amendment.      MR. HUGHES: It's at page of the Joint          Appendix.          And this is part of the directives.       It's ­­ it's a long directive that provides several          different pieces of guidance as to how the ARP         procedure works. And at ­­ towards the bottom of          Joint Appendix page , it explains: "The warden         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review or institutional coordinator shall issue a final        dismissal of a request for procedural reasons when         it has been determined that the basis of the         complaint is the same basis of an investigation        under the authority of the IIU." It provides some          additional details, and it says ­­ it provides the         text that now appears on the rubber­stamp, which is,         "Your request is dismissed for procedural reasons.       Final. The issue is being investigated by IIU.         Case Number," blank. "Since this case shall be         investigated by IIU, no further action shall be        taken within the ARP process."              So this is, I think, a quite clear          regulation as to how the system now works.                   I will note that Maryland's view at ­­ at        footnote of their reply brief is that even today,           notwithstanding this new directive, their view is       the way the system works is a prisoner still has to            go to the ARP to properly exhaust their claims in          these circumstances, despite the fact that this       regulation, I think, is crystal clear that, if you          do so, your claim is going to be denied.                  And you're not told, contrary to the       suggestion that you would be ­­ you would know to          appeal, you're not told that you should appeal this         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review dismissal anywhere. There is not a shred of          guidance that says, when you have your ARP dismissed         because you've told ­­ been told you have come to          the wrong place, the proper thing is just to keep          appealing it. You're told that you're ­­ it's being          dismissed because of the IIU investigation. So I         think a reasonable prisoner would be quite clearly         led to believe that the IIU is, in fact, the only           thing that needs to happen in his particular case         and would clearly be misled into not actually        appealing.          So I think it's ­­ it's much more likely          that it's the unreasonable prisoners who disregard       the clear guidance that they're getting who continue        to appeal in these circumstances.              Now, one additional point: The ­­ Maryland        referenced the McCullough case, saying that there is        State authority that ­­ that indicates that the        Inmate Grievance Office is the exclusive avenue for        these kinds of cases, and it rests on the McCullough          case here. I think that argument is misplaced.                   The McCullough case that they cite was       decided in . The internal investigative unit        that's at issue here was not established until ,         a full decade later. So I think the ­­ the use in              Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the reply brief of the McCullough case to say that          the IGO is this broad­based mechanism is not        responsive in any event to what happens now with the          IIU investigation, because the IIU simply didn't       exist at the time that ­­ that the McCullough case          was decided.           So I think that our view is quite clear          that if Maryland's system in this case were        endorsed, that would become a very clear model for          what other prisons could enact, this sort of        upside­down system, where you're told you have to go         to the ARP process to properly exhaust, but once you          get there, you're told that you've absolutely come        to the wrong place and, despite any guidance, you         have to somehow know that you need to appeal,         contrary to the instructions that you're being       given, in order to properly exhaust your claim.                  As the Court said in Woodford, to properly       exhaust and to avoid procedural default, the       prisoner needs to use the steps that the prison         properly holds out. Here, the State is doing the          very opposite of holding out these steps as        available to the prisoners. The State is saying,         you've come to the wrong place; you're using the         wrong steps. That can't be what I think the Court            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review meant for proper exhaustion as is required by        Woodford.            I would be pleased to take any more       questions that the Court might have.                                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       The case is submitted.    (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled  matter was submitted.)   Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final ReviewA a.m : : : abandoned : above­entitled : : absolutely : : : accept : accepted : accessible :, accompanies : account : Act :, : : : action : : add : added : additional : : : : : : additionally : : address : adequate : adjudicated : : adjudication : adjudicatory :, administration : administrative :, : : : :, : : :, : : :, : : :,, :, :, administrativ... : : admission : adopt : :, adopted : : : adopting : advantage : adversary : advise : affairs : affirm : affirmative : : affirming : agencies : : agency :, agree : : : : : : agreement : : ahead : ALITO : :, : :, : :,, :,,, allow : allowed : alternatively : ambiguity : : amended : : amendment : amicus : : : amount : : : : amounts : : analogue : answer : : : : appeal :, : :, : : appealable : : : appealing : : appeals : : : : : :, : : :, : :, :, : :, : : : APPEARAN... : appeared : : appears : : appellate : : Appendix : : :, : :, application : applied : applies : apply : approach : appropriate : : : : : AR : : ARB : argue : : : arguing : argument : :,, :, : : : : : : :, : :,,, :,,, : : : : : : arguments : arose : : ARP :,, : :,, :, : :, :, : :, :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : :, : :, : : : :,, : :, : : arrives : articulate : articulated : asked : : asking : :, : : aspect : : : assaulted : assistance : Assistant : : assume :, : : assumed : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : attachments :,, attorney : : authenticate : authority : : : : : availability : : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, : available : : : :, : :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : :,,, : : :,,, : :, : :, :, : : :, :,, : :, : avenue : avoid : : aware : B back :, : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : :, Circuit's : : : circumstance : : :, : :,, :,, :, circumstances : : : : : : : : citations : cite : : cited : civil : : :, claim :, : : : : : claims : : : clarity : : : : case­specific : cases :,,, :,, : :, : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : cert :, certainly : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : bad : Baltimore : based : :, BREYER : : : :, : : basis : : Breyer's : brief : : : beat : began : behalf :, :, : : belief :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : briefs :, :,,, :,,,, : briefing : believe : Bernhardt : : :,,, :,,, :, :, : :,, :,, : broad : :, : :,, :, : :,, : : :,,, :,, brought : : : brutality : built : broad­based : : best : : burden : better : beyond : : commissioner : : : compare : complaint : :, :, : : : : : complaints : complete : completely : : complex : complicated : : conceivable : : concern : concluded : condition : conditional clear : : : conduct : confidence : : : :, :,, :, : confinement : :, : clearer : clearly : : : client : : codification : codified : : confuse : confused : : confusing : :, : :, : : : : : : confusion : Congress : codify : collection : come : : Congress's : consider : :, : :, : : : : : :, comes : : : : considers : consistent : : : : :, commission : consistently : :, : : big : : : : Blake : : :, : : : : :, certiorari : challenge : : :, : :, changes : channel : business : charged : Chief :, : C C : : call : Blake's :, capable : :, : :, : : : blank : body : book : books : Booth : : :, : bottom :, : box : case :, : :,, : : :,, :, :, : : : :, : : :, :, : : :,, : : :,, :, :, : :, :,, : : circuit :, : : :,,, :, : :,,, : : :, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : : : : :, :, deception : difference : : :, :,,, decide : : : :, differences : :,,, decided : :, :, :,,, :,,, deciding : :,,, :,,, :,, :,, : :, : : :, : : decisions : different : decision : : : : : : : : : : direct : directive : :, : : :, : : directives : : : :, : default : : : defend : : definitely : definition : directly : degree : constitutional : contested : : context : : :, : continue : : contradict : : : contrary : : : coordinator : copied : corpus : : correct : : : : : :,, :,, : : : : corrections : correctly : : correspond : Court's : courts : : : : create :, : created : creating : criminal : : : CRIPA : critical : : : criticizing : : crystal : curiae : : : : deliberately : : delve : demonstrate : : demonstrating : denied : Department : describe : : : : description :, designed : despite : : detailed : details : determination : : disagree : : : : : disagrees : disclaimed : discover : discovery : : discretion : discussed : : : dismiss : : : : : : : : dismissal : : : dismissed : : : : : : :, dismissing : dispensing : dispute : determined : disputes : determines disregard : distinct : : dictionary : district : : Alderson Reporting Company counsel : : : : : current :,, described : currently : count : course : court :, : D : : : D : : : :, : :,,, D.C :,, day : : : :, daylight : : : : : :,,,, de : dead : : :, deal : : :, : dealing : :,,,, dealt : : :, decade : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : :, : : : : documents : :, : doing : : : DOYLE : : : E E : :, earlier : effect :, : effective : effort : either : : : eliminated : employee : enact : enacted : : encompassed : : endorsed : engaged : enormous : : : entire : entirely : erase : especially : : ESQ :,, :,, established : : estoppel : event : : everybody : evidence : : : : : : : : : :, : : Exhibit : exist : : : final :, find : fine : finish : firmly : first : : exists : evidentiary : existing : eviscerate : exact : : experience : exactly : examining : example : : : : : : : expert : explain : : explained : : : explains : explored : extra : : examples : : : : exception : F :, :, F.d : face : : : fact : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : : G G : geared : general :, :, :, :, : general's : : :, :,, : : : : :, : generally : : : genius : getting : : GINSBURG first­level : flesh : focus : follow : followed : : footing : footnote : force : : give : : : : formal :, given : :, : : : : ground : :, : guards : :, : guess : :, : : good : gotten : : govern : grant : granted : : : : grievance :, : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : guesswork : guidance : : :, : :, : guilty : H exceptions : : :, :, excessive : exclusive : :, : : exclusivity : : : excused : exhaust : : : : :, : :, : exhausted : : : : : :,, : : exhaustion : factual : former : formerly : forms : forward : failed : : found : fairly : : : : : :, : : gives : giving : gladly : gloss : : : federal :, : : : : four : : go : :,, habeas : four­year : far : :, Fourth :, : :, :,, :,,, :, : :, : : :,,, :, : hand : : :,,, :,,, : : : : :, : : : : felt : figure : file :,, : : : :, : : handle : handled : : : handbook : : : : : frankly : frequently : goes : : happen : : : : going : : : front : : : full : : : fully : further : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : happened : happening : happens : : : : : : : filed : : : : :,,, : : files : : filings : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review including : inconsistent : incorporated : independent : : interesting : interfere : internal : : : : : : indicates : individual : introduced : J JA : Joint : :, judgment : : JULIA : : : jump : : inform : : information : : initial : initials : initiates : initiating : inmate :,, : : : :, : : : :,,, : :,, : : : :, : :, : : : : inmate's : inmates : : :,, : :, :, : :, : inquiry :, instance : : instituted : institutional : instructions : investigates : investigating : investigation :, : : : : : : :, :,, : : : : :, :,, : : :, : : :, : : : investigate : Justice : : investigated :, :, : :,, :, : : :,, :, : :,, :,, :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : : :,, :, : : :, :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, :,, : : :, : : : : : :,, :,,, :, : involved : involving : irrespective investigations : :, investigative issue : :, : : : :, :,, :, : : : : :, : K KAGAN : :,, : : : :, :,,, :, : : hear : hearing :, : : : held :, : : : help : hierarchy : high :, holding : holds : : hole : Honestly : Honor : : :,, : : : : :, : :,, :, : :,, : :, : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, : : horse : huge : Hughes : : :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, :, :, : : : : :,,, :,,, :, hundred : hypothetical : : : I IAU : identified : :, : identify : IGO : : : :, :,, : : IIU :, : : :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : :, : :, :, : :,, :,, : : :, IIU's : : illiterate : impact : implicit : : importance : important : :, improvidently : : : incident : : : :, incidents : included : intending :, intent : intention : interest : issues : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company know : : : : : keep : : KENNEDY :, Kennedy's : kind : : : : : : : : kinds : : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : : : : knowledge : known : : :,,, knows : L large : late­breaking : Laughter : : launched : law : : :,, :,, : : leaving : led : left : leg : legal :, : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review levels : life : limit : lines : : : meet : :, : :,, :,, : : : : :,,, merits : : : : : : : meets : listed : litigated : : : litigating : Maryland's : met : : Litigation : : : MICHAEL : : : : Maryland­spe... mind : minds : : little : : material : minimal : Neither : nervous : never : : :, new : : : newly : nontextual : normal : note : notion : notwithstandi... lock : lodged :,, : lodging : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : misleading : materially : misled : materials :, misplaced : : : novo : number : : : : : misstep : : :, mistake : : : : :, : O :, : O : : oath : :,, objectively : :, matter : : mistakenly : obligated : obviously : occurred : offered : lodgings : : : :,, : : :, :, : McCullough :,, long : : longer : : :, look : : Md : : model : money : : mean :, : : : : looked : : :, : murky : : : musing­type : : : :, myopic : :, : : : looking : lot : : N low­level : lower :, meaning : N :, : mountain : office :,, : : : move : : : multiple : : : :, : : : officers : : : official : officials : okay : once : : : :, natural : nature : : : navigate : : necessarily : opaque : need : : open : : : :, : :, : : meant : : mechanism : : : :, : : : : opinion : opportunity : needs : : opposed : opposite : :, : : : : Alderson Reporting Company majority : means : : M : making : : : March : Let's : : Maryland : :, : letters : level : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review oral : :,, Petitioner :, : : : order : : orders : ordinary : orientation : outcome : : :, : : Petitioner's : : : pick : picture : pieces : : : presented : : :, : : :,, : press : pretty : primary :, : :, place :,, : : procedure : : :, : : : : : :, :, : : : provided : provides : :, provoke : purpose : :, : : : : procedures : put : : overlook : overlooks : P P : P.S : page : : :, : : : : : : : :,, :,, pages : : : papers : : paperwork : part :, : : : :, : : :, : : : :, places : plain : : :,,, plainly : : please : : : : : : : pleased : PLRA :, : : : point : : particular : : : : : : : particularly : :, : : : : : : : : : pointed : policy : : portion : PAUL : : position : parties : : : : people : : perfectly : : pernicious : person : : Petition : : :, : possible : possibly : practical : practice : : : : precisely : present : : : Q QP : qua : qualifies : qualify : : : quarrel : : : : principal : : principles : prior : prison :, : : :,, : : : : proceed : : prison's : prisoner : : : : proceeded : proceeding : : : :, : process : :,, :,,, : :, : : :, : :, : :,, : : : : quasi : :,,, : : :, : : : : : : : : : produce : produced : question : :, :, : : :,, : : :, :,,, : : : :, :, : : questions : : :, : : : :, proffered : profound : : : prolong : : :, :, : proof : proper : : quite : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : prisoners : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : : : : properly : quote­­ : prisons : : : : problem : : R R : :, : : :, : : :,,, raised : raises : raising : reach : : read : procedural : proposal : : :, proposed : : : : :, provide : : Alderson Reporting Company regulations : require : : : regime : regular : regularly : regulation : :,, : : : : :, :, : : : :, : reject : : relief : : relinquish : remand :, : :, : :, : remanded : remedies : : : : : : : : : : : :, real : really : : : reason : : : reasonable : :,, :,,, :, : : :,, :,, : : :, :,, :, : : :, : : reasonableness : reasonably : reasons : : : :, receive :,, received : :, recognize : recognized : recommendati... : record : : :,,, : : :, : : : :, : : : : records : red : : reduced : referenced : referral : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Reform :, : report : : : represent : representations : represented : : :, : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : rightly : rights : : request :, requested : ROBERTS : :,,, : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : requirement required : : : :, : :, : : Ross : : : :, rubber :, requirements : requiring : :, : resolve : resolving : respect : rubber­stamp : : rubric : :,,, : : : : second : : : : : : : : see : : : : : seen : send : : senior : sense : : separate : serious :, : : seriously : serve : served : serves : : set : settle : : : : rule : : setup : respond : remedy :, :, : : Respondent's : : :, Respondent :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : responding : : :, response : : :, responses : : :, :, : : : responsible removed : responsive : rest : rests : removing : retained : repackage : retention : : : : repeat : reply : : : : reverse : : review : right :, : : : :, : : rules : ruling : rulings : S S : : satisfy : saying : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : says : : : : : : SG : SHAIDON : shoulder : show : : : :, showing : : shown : :, shows : shred : side : : signature : similar : simply : : : : : : : situation : solicitor : :,, : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review somebody : : :, sufficiently : :, : stated : : : tell : : statement : suggest : : somewhat : soon : sorry : : : : : sort : : : : sorted : SOTOMAYOR : statements : states :,, : : : : :, : : : statute : : : : telling : tentative : suggestion : term : : suggests : support : test :,, :, : supporting : : : suppose : : :,, text : : Thank : : : :, : : :, : :, :, :, :, : :,, :, thinking : thinks : :, third :, : thoroughly : : : :, : :, : statutory : : : : : : :, : : : : :, step : staying : sounds : :, special : : : specific :, :, : speedy : squarely : :, steps : :,, : : :,, straightforward : strongly : structured : subject : stage : :, submission : stages : : stamp :, : :, stand : standard : :, :, : : : : :,,,, :,, : : start :, started : starting :, : : submit :, : : submitted : : :, :,, :, submitting : : subsidiary : substantial : : :, : successful : successfully State : : : : : :, : sufficient : : : suffer : : : supposed : then­existing thought :,, : : Supreme :, sure :, : surprising : system :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, :, : : : :, :, T T :, tailored : take : : :, : : : : : : : : :, : : taken : : : : : takes : talk : : : : talking : : :, : they'd : thing : : : : : : :, things : : : : :, : : : : : : thousand : threat :, three : : : :, : throws : time : : : : : : today : : think : : : told : : totally : : : traditional : traditionally : : :, : :, : : : : :, : : : :,, : : :,, :,, :,, :,, :,,,, :, : :, : : :, :, : Tripp : : : :, :,, :,, :,, :, :, :, : :,, : :, : :, :,, : :, :,,, : :, :, traps : trick : tried : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review wouldn't :, : : undisputed : wanted :, warden : : unfair : unit : United :,, Washington : write :, : : wardens : : :, :, writ : : : :, : :,, : : : :, : : universe : wasn't :, wrong : : : unmistakably : : : : unreasonable : :,, : : : : : :, : : : way : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : unwritten : : upside­down : urge : use :, : : : : :, : : : :,, : : : : use­of­force : : : uses : usually : : V v : : vacate : vast : : view : : :, : :, : : : view's : virtually : W W : : : waiver :, : want : ways : We'll : we're :, : :, :,, : :, : we've :, weeds : welcome : went : : whatsoever : : : wondering : Woodford : : : : : word :, : : words : : : : : work :, : worked : working : works : : : : : :, worn : worst : wrongdoing : x :, X Y Yeah : : :, : : years : yesterday : Z ZACHARY : : : : : : : : : : : : ­ : : : : : : : : : : : trips : trouble : true : : : : : trump : try : trying : : : : Tuesday : turn : turns : : : two : : : : : :, : : : typical : : U unavailability :, unavailable : : : : : uncertainty : undecipherable : understand : : :,, : : : : understanding : : : understandings : understood : : undertake : underway : : : Alderson Reporting Company 