 Official        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  WHOLE WOMAN'S HEALTH, ET AL.,          :             Petitioners               : No. ­         v.                          JOHN HELLERSTEDT, COMMISSIONER,      : : TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF STATE HEALTH :       SERVICES, ET AL.                     : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: STEPHANIE TOTI, ESQ., New York, N.Y.; on behalf of            Petitioners. DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,          Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United          States, as amicus curiae, supporting Petitioners.      SCOTT A. KELLER, ESQ., Solicitor General of Texas,           Austin, Tex.; on behalf of Respondents.      Alderson Reporting Company Official                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                     STEPHANIE TOTI, ESQ.    PAGE    On behalf of the Petitioners                           ORAL ARGUMENT OF   DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.           For United States, as amicus curiae,      supporting Petitioners                              ORAL ARGUMENT OF   SCOTT A. KELLER, ESQ.,       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   STEPHANIE TOTI, ESQ.      On behalf of the Petitioners                           Alderson Reporting Company Official                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       this morning in Case ­, Whole Woman's Health v.         Hellerstadt.             Ms. Toti.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANIE TOTI                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MS. TOTI: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:               The Texas requirements undermine the careful      balance struck in Casey between States' legitimate       interests in regulating abortion and women's fundamental       liberty to make personal decisions about their       pregnancies. They are unnecessary health regulations       that create substantial obstacles to abortion access.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: Ms. Toti, there is a        preliminary question ­­ would you address that ­­ that         this claim is precluded. And let's take first the claim           that was in the prior litigation. Let's assume that          they're separate claims, or let's take the admitting        privileges. That was argued and decided. Why isn't it           precluded?             MS. TOTI: Your Honor, it's not precluded        because material facts relevant to the claim developed        Alderson Reporting Company Official subsequent to entry of judgment in the Abbott case.                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you could have       amended ­­ you could have asked for supplemental        briefing. I mean, the new action is filed six days            after the Supreme Court issues its decision in this         case. You could have asked for supplemental briefing?                     MS. TOTI: In Abbott the plaintiffs brought        the ­­ the new facts to the attention of the court of            appeals. The court of appeals said that it would only           consider evidence in the trial record in rendering its         decision, and it held that the evidence in the trial          record was speculative, that there wasn't a sufficient         basis to conclude that any doctor would be unable to          obtain admitting privileges, or that any clinic would be         forced to close as a result of the admitting privileges           requirement.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you're asking ­­       you made allegations concerning those same claims. I         mean, is your argument that when you have allegations on          a facial challenge and a facial challenge is resolved          against you, that all you have to do is come up with new             evidence and then you can start over again?                    MS. TOTI: No, Your Honor. The ­­ the ­­          the evidence must be material, and it must be newly          developed. So newly discovered evidence wouldn't be        Alderson Reporting Company Official sufficient. If it was evidence that was available at          the time of the first suit, but the plaintiffs merely          hadn't discovered the evidence or didn't bring it        forward, that wouldn't provide the basis for a        subsequent suit. But evidence that develops after        judgment in the first suit that is material to the          claims does provide sufficient basis for a ­­ a          second ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: And what's this key new        evidence?             MS. TOTI: The ­­ the evidence is the clinic          closures that resulted from enforcement ­­ actual       enforcement of the admitting­privileges requirement. So       the ­­ the first suit was a pre­enforcement challenge.          It was before the law took effect, and the court          concluded that there was not sufficient evidence that        any doctor would actually be unable to obtain admitting         privileges, or that any clinic would actually close.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there is very little        specific evidence in the record in this case with         respect to why any particular clinic closed. Basically,         your argument is that the law took effect, and after          that point, there was a decrease in the number of           clinics.             So suppose you win here, and the State then         Alderson Reporting Company Official examines what happened in each of these clinics and         comes up with evidence showing that in quite a few           instances, the closure was due to other factors. And so           then they would ­­ then could they take the position,          well, the decision of this Court holding that the law is           facially unconstitutional is not binding on us by res         judicata, and so you would have to sue them again, and           they would be able to make the same argument you're          making now. Is that correct?                                          MS. TOTI: No, Your Honor. And ­­        JUSTICE ALITO: What's the difference?      MS. TOTI: Well, first of all, the State had          an opportunity to bring forward evidence in this case         about the reasons why ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Was it that ­­ was that         their burden?              MS. TOTI: No, Your Honor. Not in the first           instance, but the plaintiffs came forward with evidence        and ­­ and the State did not offer anything to ­­ to            rebut the evidence, which was more than sufficient to         support the district court's finding that HB was the         cause of the clinic closures.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what       evidence is that?               MS. TOTI: There are a couple of things,          Alderson Reporting Company Official Your Honor. Prior to HB, in ­­ in the five years prior             to HB, the number of clinics in the State remained          fairly stable. In any given year, there may have been a            one­ to two­clinic variance. Following the enactment of         HB, more than clinics closed within a very short           period of time. The timing of the closures ­­                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What?                 MS. TOTI: ­­ alone ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Yeah.        What is the evidence in the record that the closures are           related to the legislation?                MS. TOTI: The ­­ the ­­ the timing is part           of the evidence, Your Honor, and the testimony of the          plaintiffs about the reasons why their clinics closed.        So that the plaintiffs testified that clinics closed in         anticipation of enforcement in some cases, and in some         cases because of actual enforcement of the requirements.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can we go on to the         second piece; that is, the ambulatory surgical centers?        That was not part of the last case. And your position            on that is that that is a discrete claim, so it's not             barred by a claim preclusion.                  Is that ­­ is that your position?                   MS. TOTI: Yes. That's correct. And the          claims against the ASC requirement weren't ripe at the         Alderson Reporting Company Official time that the Abbott case was filed, because the final          implementing regulations for that statutory requirement      hadn't yet been adopted.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, certainly in the       Federal system, and I assume in many States as well,           regulations sometimes take years to promulgate. I don't          know of any rule that says we have to wait for regular            ­­ regulations to be promulgated unless it's something        unanticipated. And the key objections you're making        were clear in the statute, anyway.                  MS. TOTI: I would disagree that ­­ that the           extent of the burden that the law would impose was clear           on the face of the statute. Until those implementing          regulations were adopted ­­ and the statute provided a         deadline for the adoption of those regulations ­­ until         they were adopted, the plaintiffs couldn't have known        whether waivers or grandfathering would have been       permitted. And if waivers or grandfathering were        permitted, as they have been in every other ASC         requirement that's been adopted for abortion providers,       the burdens would have been much less, and the         plaintiffs would have first attempted to get licensed        and seek appropriate waivers before filing their suit.        This ­­             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So you think you can         Alderson Reporting Company Official separately challenge the admitting­privilege provision     and the ASC provision?                those ­­             MS. TOTI: Yes, Your Honor. Because        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So if you can        separately challenge them, if you challenge just the        admitting­privileges provision, how would you factor      in ­­ presumably, you would have to assume that the ASC           provision was not under challenge. So in assessing the          burden, you would look at just the admission privilege.         And vice versa, if you're challenging just the ASC         separately, you'd have to assume you'd assess the burden         solely caused by that provision.                     It seems to me the separation of the two     provisions makes ­­ would make your case much harder.                     MS. TOTI: I ­­ I would disagree with that,            Your Honor, because each of these requirements is        extremely burdensome on its own. The       admitting­privileges requirement, which is partially in      effect, has been responsible for the closure of nearly         half of all the abortion facilities in Texas to date.          And the ASC requirement, if it took effect, the         Respondents have stipulated that it would close any        remaining licensed abortion facility that was able to        comply with the admitting­privileges requirement.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             So independently, each requirement is     extremely burdensome; and ­­ and collectively, the       one­two punch of these requirements would be responsible        for the ­­ the closure of nearly ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: What I think the Chief         Justice asked ­­ I don't want to take words out of his             mouth ­­ but I think the question was, one of the two             lines that's been asked, is that in the district opinion          at page , the district court has said that if the ASC            regulation goes into effect, there will be one facility         left in Austin, two in Dallas, one in Fort Worth, two in            Houston, and either one or two in San Antonio. And           before that, he said that the enforcement of the         appointment privileges, the privileges of admission,      would reduce the number from down to about ­­ from            down to about .                Now, I think the question was, what evidence         did those findings rest upon? As you've heard, the          other side, I think, say there is no such evidence, or            the court of appeals said there is no such evidence.                      So can you give a brief account or page          numbers that will show that those findings, the        diminishment of the number from about to about eight,          which is what the district court found, rested upon some          evidence? What was that evidence?      Alderson Reporting Company Official             MS. TOTI: Yes, Your Honor. So initially,          clinics closed in the wake of HB. Eight closed           prior to initial enforcement of the admitting­privileges       requirement, and closed on the day that the         admitting­privileges requirement first took effect.                 Respondents quibble with the evidence     concerning the first eight. Even if we ­­ and ­­ and            there is basis in the record for the district court to           infer that those eight closed for the same reasons as          all the others, but even if we ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Where ­­ I'm sorry        to interrupt you. Where in the record is that evidence?                       MS. TOTI: Your Honor, I can provide         specific pin sites during my rebuttal, but the evidence         is in the plaintiffs' testimony about the reasons why         their clinics closed.               Each of the plaintiffs' class testified that       their clinics closed either in anticipation of       enforcement of these requirements, knowing that ­­ that        the clinic would not be able to continue operating once          the requirements took effect, and as a result of that,           either they needed to move resources to remaining        clinics to ensure that some clinics would continue to         operate in the State ­­                JUSTICE BREYER: What'd they say? Could you         Alderson Reporting Company Official give us any record references later or on rebuttal?                                 MS. TOTI: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: As to how many, of the total          that you claim closed, do you have direct evidence about          the reason for the closure?                 MS. TOTI: Well, of them, Your Honor,         closed on the day that the admitting privileges took         effect.             JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. And as to how many ­­          how many are you claiming total closed as a result of            the law?              MS. TOTI: To ­­ to date, roughly clinics          have closed.              JUSTICE ALITO: And of the , how ­­ as to           how many do you have direct evidence?                   MS. TOTI: I ­­ approximately , Your         Honor, direct evidence.               JUSTICE ALITO: Because if ­­ if you go         through this ­­ now we're not talking about a huge           number of facilities. I really don't understand why you           could not have put in evidence about each particular         clinic and to show why the clinic closed. And as to            some of them, there is ­­ there's information that they          closed for reasons that had nothing to do with this law.                       Now, maybe when you take out all of those,         Alderson Reporting Company Official there still would be a substantial number, and enough to           make your case. But I ­­ I don't understand why you              didn't put in direct evidence.                   I mean, I could give you examples: Planned         Parenthood Center for Choice, Bryan, Texas. Is that one          of the ones you're talking about?                              MS. TOTI: Yes, Your Honor.      JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. There's a news         report. Planned Parenthood and ­­ and the Huffington         Post reported that this was closed as a result of the             Texas Women's Health Program bill, which cut        funding for family planning services. It's not the law          that we're talking about here.                 MS. TOTI: Well, Your Honor, that evidence        is not in the record.                 JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I understand that.        And you put quite a bit of evidence that's not in the             record in your brief. But my point is why is there not             direct evidence about particular clinics?                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said you had direct        evidence for clinics and you were going to supply us           with that ­­ those record citations later. That's ­­         understood you to say?                MS. TOTI: Yes. Yes, Your Honor.        Absolutely. But I think what's ­­ what's important to           Alderson Reporting Company Official keep in mind here ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Toti, could I ­­ could I           just make sure I understand it, because you said were            closed on the day that the admitting­privileges       requirement took effect; is that correct?                              MS. TOTI: That's correct.     JUSTICE KAGAN: And is it right that in the          two­week period that the ASC requirement was in effect,         that over a dozen facilities shut their doors, and then           when that was stayed, when that was lifted, they         reopened again immediately; is that right?                  MS. TOTI: That ­­ that is correct, Your         Honor. And ­­ and ­­                 JUSTICE KAGAN: It's almost like the perfect        controlled experiment as to the effect of the law, isn't          it? It's like you put the law into effect, clinics            closed. You take the law out of effect, they reopen.                       MS. TOTI: That's absolutely correct. And        as the State had stipulated, that's exactly what the         State stipulated would ­­ would happen. And that ­­         that stipulation is certainly direct evidence of ­­ of         the impact of the ASC requirement.                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: The ­­ the State, I think,          is going to talk about the capacity of the remaining          clinics. Would it be A, proper, and B, helpful, for           Alderson Reporting Company Official this Court to remand for further findings on clinic         capacity?             MS. TOTI: I don't think that's necessary,         Your Honor. I think there is sufficient evidence in the            record that we have to support the district court's         finding that the remaining clinics, which would number        fewer than ten, don't have capacity to meet the         statewide demand that ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: There ­­ there have been        some changes, like a ­­ a major clinic ­­ I don't quite               know the adjective they use for it ­­ in San Antonio.           But there ­­ suppose there were evidence that there was          a ­­ a capacity and a ­­ and a capability to ­­ to build                 these kinds of clinics, would that be of importance?         And then it would show that this law has an effect, and            a beneficial effect so far as the legislature is         concerned.             MS. TOTI: If the Court had any doubts about          the capacity of the remaining clinics, a remand would          certainly provide the Petitioners with ­­ with the        opportunity to supplement the evidence already in the        record. But the evidence in the record shows that ­­          supports the district court's finding that because the        ­­ the ASC requirement, the costs of it are so          prohibitive, it will deter new clinics from opening to         Alderson Reporting Company Official take the place of the ones that closed.                    JUSTICE ALITO: Is it correct that the        number of ambulatory surgical centers performing      abortion has increased by percent since this law went          into effect?              MS. TOTI: There have ­­ since this law has          taken effect, three new ambulatory surgery centers have        opened. And there is evidence about that at the trial,           and the trial court knew that that was going to happen.           The ­­ the trial court took that into account in ­­ in            making its finding. But nevertheless, there was        substantial evidence, including Texas's experience in       following enactment of the ASC law for later         abortions, for post­­week abortions, that shows that       the ­­ the market never adjusted and the ­­ the rate at            which those procedures occurred in Texas was ­­       drastically diminished following that enforcement of the       law.             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, one ­­ one quick        question about capacity. I don't want to take your           rebuttal time. But your co­counsel put in ­­ is also           litigating a case like this in Louisiana. And in that            case, the plaintiffs were able to put in evidence about          the exact number of abortions that were performed in all          of the facilities. Why could that not have been done           Alderson Reporting Company Official here? Why wasn't it done here?                   MS. TOTI: Well, there ­­ there ­­ so I see            that I'm getting into my rebuttal time, Your Honor, but          there is evidence in the record about the ­­ the number           of abortions that were performed on an annual basis, the          geographic distribution of ­­ of those abortions. Texas         collects those statistics, and those ­­ those statistics        are ­­ are part of the record in this case.                      JUSTICE GINSBURG: You ­­ you had ­­ we have          absorbed so much of your time with the threshold         question. Perhaps you can ­­ can she have some time to            address the merits?               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why don't ­­ why        don't you take an extra five minutes, and we'll be sure           to afford you rebuttal time after that?                   MS. TOTI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.                    So fundamentally, these laws impose heavy      burdens on abortion access that are not medically        justified. And for that reason, they impose an undue          burden on the right to abortion.                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you think there's        a rational basis for the law based on the benefits that           the legislature saw?               MS. TOTI: I do not, Your Honor, because ­­                      CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I thought you         Alderson Reporting Company Official expressly did not challenge the law as lacking a         rational basis.              MS. TOTI: We ­­ we did not preserve our          rational basis claim. The ­­ the district court denied          that claim, and ­­ and we haven't preserved it here.          Here we're focusing on ­­ on the undue burden. The ­­           we wouldn't concede that the law has a rational basis           because in fact, it undermines ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we have to        assume it ­­ we have to assume it does since you're not            raising that challenge, don't we?                 MS. TOTI: Because the law actually       undermines the State's interest in health rather than        advancing it by causing an increase in later abortions         and self­induced abortions, we wouldn't concede that       it's rationally related to the State's interest in        health, but are ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: You said even if the test         is undue burden, not rational basis.                  MS. TOTI: That ­­ that's correct, Your        Honor. And in order to determine whether a law imposes            an undue burden on the abortion right, we must first          consider the magnitude of the burden that it imposes,         and then compare that burden to what the law is intended           to achieve to be ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't ­­ how is          that logical? I mean, the question is whether there's           an undue burden or a substantial obstacle. What ­­ what            difference does it make what the purpose behind the law          is in assessing whether the burden is substantial or ­­         or undue? It seems once you get past the ­­ the            assumption that the law has a rational basis and you           haven't challenged that, then you look at the burden or          the obstacle. And the purpose that the law is directed           to, I would think, doesn't make a difference. It's            either a substantial obstacle or an undue burden or it's           not.             MS. TOTI: In order to determine whether a         burden is undue, Your Honor, we ­­ we have to consider           what the burden is in relation to. In ­­ in Casey, for             example, in upholding the informed­consent requirements,      the Court first looked to the ­­ the State interests          that was being served by those requirements in ­­ in          that case, the State's interest in potential life, and         concluded that the requirements were reasonably designed       to serve that purpose by making the abortion decision         more informed and that ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought the undue         burden and substantial obstacle went to whether it was         undue in light of the woman's right to exercise her          Alderson Reporting Company Official right to an abortion, not with respect to the State          interest that's asserted.               MS. TOTI: Well, Your Honor, it's ­­ it's         both. Casey sought to balance the State's legitimate         interest in regulating abortion with the woman's       fundamental right with her ­­ her liberty to access the          procedure, and it ­­ it concluded that the State         couldn't impose unwarranted burdens. So where the State         had a good reason to impose a restriction and that            restriction didn't impose burdens that were undue, then        the restriction could stand. But where a ­­ a           restriction is unreasonable or, in ­­ in the language of          Casey, "medically unnecessary," and it's going to impose        burdens on access to abortion, then ­­ then that         restriction cannot be sustained under the Fourteenth       Amendment.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I walk through the         burden a moment? There's two types of early abortion           at ­­ at play here. The medical abortion, that doesn't           involve any hospital procedure. A doctor prescribes two          pills, and the women take the pills at home, correct?                      MS. TOTI: Under Texas law, she must take         them at the facility, but ­­ but that is otherwise          correct.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry. What? She         Alderson Reporting Company Official has to come back two separate days to take them?                                  MS. TOTI: That's correct, yes.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. So now, from         when she could take it at home, it's ­­ now she has to             travel miles or pay for a hotel to get those two             days of treatment?               MS. TOTI: That's correct, Your Honor.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Let me ask         you something about that two­day wait, okay, or ­­ or          that travel time. How many other States and how many           other recognized medical people have testified or shown        that there is any benefit from taking pills at the          facility as opposed to taking the pills at home, as was           the case?              MS. TOTI: There ­­ there is ­­ there's         absolutely no testimony in ­­ in the record and ­­ and           no evidence, you know, in ­­ in any of the amicus briefs            that there is a medical benefit to having a medication            abortion at a ­­ a multimillion­dollar surgical         facility. The American Medical Association and every        other mainstream leading medical association to consider       these requirements has ­­ has concluded that they are         not medically justified for a variety of reasons,         including that they impose these onerous burdens on        medical abortion, which is the earliest form of        Alderson Reporting Company Official abortion, and that these burdens are also imposed on         early surgical abortion, procedures prior to weeks.        And as a result, women are going to be delayed later in             pregnancy. And there is evidence in the record that          following implementation of the admitting­privileges     requirement, in the six­month period following, there       was an increase in both the number and the proportion of           abortions being performed in the second trimester.                   So by delaying women's access to abortion,       these requirements are actually increasing the risks       that women face.               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If the Chief may permit        me to finish my two­part question?                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The second is the D&C,        the dilation and ­­ what's it called? Dilation and ­­                      MS. TOTI: Curettage.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ curettage. What is        the risk factor for a D&C related to abortion and a            non­abortion D&C? D&Cs are performed in offices for         lots of other conditions besides abortion.                  Is there any evidence in the record that        shows that there is any medical difference in the two ­­          in the ­­ in the procedures that would necessitate an          abortion being in an ACS or not, or are abortions more           Alderson Reporting Company Official risky than the regular D&C?                 MS. TOTI: No, Your Honor. The evidence in          the record shows that the procedures are virtually        identical, particularly when D&C is performed to       complete a spontaneous miscarriage. So when a woman           miscarries and then follows up with her doctor, the         doctor will typically perform a D&C. And that's ­­          that's virtually identical to an abortion, but it's not         subject to the ­­ the requirements of HB.                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So your point, I'm       taking, is that the two main health reasons show that          this law was targeted at abortion only?                   MS. TOTI: That's absolutely correct. Yes,        Your Honor.              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any other ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.                 Is there any other medical condition by       taking the pills that are required to be done in          hospital, not as a prelude to a procedure in hospital,            but an independent, you know ­­ I know there are cancer            treatments by pills now. How many of those are required           to be done in front of a doctor?                     MS. TOTI: None, Your Honor. There ­­ there          are ­­ are no other medication requirements and no other          Alderson Reporting Company Official outpatient procedures that are required by law to be         performed in an ASC.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   General Verrilli.          ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.                 FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,                     SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERS               GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and       may it please the Court:                 The effects of the Texas law at issue in         this case are much more extreme than those of any          abortion law that this Court has considered since Casey.                     This law closes most abortion facilities in       the State, puts extreme stress on the few facilities         that remain open, and exponentially increases the       obstacles confronting women who seek abortions in the        State. And it does all of that on the basis of a             medical justification that cannot withstand any      meaningful scrutiny that the American Medical      Association has told you is groundless and that the         district court found will actually operate in practice        to increase health risks to women and not decrease.                     JUSTICE ALITO: Is this true of every        provision of the ­­ of the ASC law?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: No, I ­­ I don't think it            Alderson Reporting Company Official is true about every provision in the regulations,        Justice Alito.              JUSTICE ALITO: Not the regulations ­­ yes,        in the regulations.                           GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.    JUSTICE ALITO: Every single provision.      Then why was the whole thing held to be         unconstitutional?             GENERAL VERRILLI: So I ­­ I agree with the            premise of Your Honor's question. There are some parts          of the regulation that I think, operating alone,         wouldn't have the substantial obstacle effect. In fact,         some parts of the regulation actually restate and        reauthorize regulations that were already on the books.                    And so I suppose one could say that with          respect to that set of regulations, that the district         court could have severed them under the severability        clause. One could say that. Of course, they're already           in the preexisting regulations ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: But there are ­­ there are         things that go ­­ that go ­­ I haven't checked           everything as compared the abortion ­­ the prior        abortion clinic licensing law against the ASC       requirements, but there are some where there's an        increase in what's required. It seems pretty        Alderson Reporting Company Official reasonable.             Under the ­­ under the ­­ the old ­­ the old           law, there had to be a nurse, but not necessarily a            registered nurse. Under the new law, there has to be a            registered nurse who has a CPR certificate. So do you            think that's unreasonable to say that there has to be a           registered nurse who knows how to do CPR?                    GENERAL VERRILLI: So I ­­ I don't want to            state an opinion one way or the other about that. But I             do want to ­­ what I ­­ but I think ­­ getting to the                point of Your Honor's question, I think the problem the           district court confronted here, and I think the reason          the district court acted reasonably, despite the       presence of the severability clause ­­ and the        severability clause provides an instruction that ­­ that        every provision, every clause, every word, every       application, every individual should be severed.                   And the problem is ­­ the problem with the        kind that the Court noted, I think, in the Ayotte case,            for a court trying to apply that, the court's got to go             in and decide which collection of the many, many         requirements there ought to stand and which shouldn't,        and it's ­­ it's going to be invading ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it's all ­­                  GENERAL VERRILLI: ­­ the State's regulatory       Alderson Reporting Company Official problems.             JUSTICE ALITO: It's work, but maybe the        district court should have done that work.                     I mean, I read through this, and I was          surprised. I read through these regulations. I was            surprised by how many are completely innocuous. And         many of them have nothing to do ­­ they have to do with             basic safety. They don't even have anything to do, in           particular, with abortion. So the entrances to the         clinic have to be at grade level. You have to have an             elevator. The ­­ the corridors have to be wide enough           so that you could bring in a stretcher if somebody has            to be taken to the hospital. And ­­ and things of that             nature ­­             GENERAL VERRILLI: So ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: I don't know why things         couldn't have been severed out, if there were some that          were ­­             GENERAL VERRILLI: I ­­ I think some could          have been, if the Court believes a remand is appropriate           for the ­­ for the remedy to be more carefully tailored           in the way that the Court did in the Ayotte case. We             think that would be appropriate. But we do think that           the basic point remains that this is a substantial          obstacle. Alderson Reporting Company Official             And I would like to address two points that          arose during Petitioners' argument. First, closures,       and then, capacity.               With respect to closures, here's where I       think the record will show you taking the ASC         requirement first. The ­­ there's a stipulation, JA           , that all ­­ all clinics that weren't already closed          as a result of the admitting­privilege requirement        would ­­ would not be able to meet the ASC requirements;           and therefore, could not ­­ would have to cease         operations. Justice Kagan noted they did cease        operation during the period in which the law was in           State. There's evidence in the record with respect to          the seven clinics that are operated by Whole Woman's         Health that they ­­ that it was physically impossible to          meet the ASC construction requirements because it       couldn't fit on the real estate footprint that they had;          they couldn't meet them. There's expert testimony in         the record from Dr. Layne­Farrar, the economist, that        the cost of retrofitting these clinics to meet the         requirements would be between . and . million        dollars, which would be prohibitive; that the cost of         building a new facility would be at least . million           dollars, which would be prohibitive; and that the        additional operating cost of an ASC would be between         Alderson Reporting Company Official , and a million dollars a year more. So I think               with respect to those, there's ample evidence.                   With respect to the ­­ with respect to the         admitting­privileges requirement, we know that of the         clinics that closed between the date when the law was           enacted and the effective date of the       admitting­privileges requirement closed on the date that       that requirement became effective. Seems to me the only          reasonable inference you can draw with respect to those          is that that law caused the closure. With respect to            the others, I don't think there's evidence with respect          to each one, but with respect to several, there is          evidence that they closed in advance of the effective         date, because they were otherwise going to have to pay a           licensing fee to stay open for another year, which they          knew they were not. And they knew they weren't going to            be able to stay open, and they didn't want to flush the            money away. So I think there's ample evidence in the            record with respect to causation.                 Now, with respect to capacity, I really        think this is key, because I do think this is the locus             of the substantial obstacle problem here. With respect         to capacity, before this law took ­­ took effect, there          were approximately to , abortions a year         annually. The ASC clinics that will be able to remain           Alderson Reporting Company Official open ­­ the ASC facilities that will be able to remain           open performed about , a year. That's what the           record tells you. It's Dr. Grossman's expert testimony.         It's in the JA from pages to .                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: About percent.                  GENERAL VERRILLI: percent. So they'd       have to increase four­ or five­fold in a very short           period of time with the ­­ against the backdrop of          having to meet the problems that the       admitting­privileges requirement causes.               Now, I understand that the Fifth Circuit        said that was ipse dixit, but with all due respect,          that's not binding on you and it's just wrong. And if            you look at the expert testimony at the JA pages I           identified, you'll see that what Dr. Grossman said first         was something that is just common sense, that these         clinics aren't going to be ­­ these facilities aren't         going to be able to increase by four or five times.                       And second, he didn't just rely on common        sense. He looked at the period of time between when the            admitting­privileges requirement resulted in the closure      of clinics. He looked at that period of time, and he             studied the number of abortions that occurred at the         remaining ASC facilities during that period of time.        And one would expect, given that half the facilities in          Alderson Reporting Company Official the State closed, that there would be a substantial          increase ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think the district        court would have had discretion ­­ the district court         having substantial equitable powers that appellate      courts don't ­­ to say we're going to stay this          requirement for two­and­a­half, three years, to see if        the capacity problem can be cured.                  Could a ­­ could a district judge could          that?             GENERAL VERRILLI: You know, I ­­ I        apologize, Justice Kennedy. I haven't given that         question thought, and I'm loathe to opine on that         without having given it thought. But I do think ­­                       JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, district judges        often think they can do anything.                  (Laughter.)             GENERAL VERRILLI: But ­­ but I do think, as          I said, with respect to the capacity problem, the key          thing here is that when, in addition to these ASC          clinics not providing more abortions once half the        clinics in the State closed, you had ­­ and this is,           again, in Dr. Grossman's testimony ­­ significant       increases in the overall number of abortions,       particularly in the parts of the State that were far          Alderson Reporting Company Official away from the major cities, the northern ­­                   JUSTICE ALITO: There is no evidence ­­       there's no evidence of the actual capacity of these         clinics. And why was that not put in? Particularly           since, if we look at the Louisiana case, we can see that            it's very possible to put it in. And some of the ­­            some of the numbers there are quite ­­ quite amazing.          There's one ­­ a doctor there performed , abortions          in a year.                So we don't really know what the capacity of         these ­­ of these ASC clinics ­­                                          GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think ­­       JUSTICE ALITO: ­­ are.     GENERAL VERRILLI: ­­ I think you have expert         testimony in that regard.                JUSTICE ALITO: Yeah. But what is it based          on? It's based ­­ you know, he ­­ it's not based on any              hard ­­ any hard statistics.                 GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, it is. It's common        sense that you can't ­­                            JUSTICE ALITO: Well, common sense ­­      GENERAL VERRILLI: But beyond that, as I       said, Justice Alito, they studied the period of time in          which half the clinics in the State were closed. And           you would expect that those clinics ­­ that the         Alderson Reporting Company Official additional ASCs can handle the ­­ the capacity, they         would have, and they didn't.                 JUSTICE ALITO: He said that ­­ that the         number of ­­ the percentage of abortions at the ASCs          went down by . percent, and there was an increased          demand for abortion. But there's no statistic showing         that there actually was an increased demand for abortion         in Texas.              JUSTICE BREYER: I thought that the Grossman         affidavit, which I have ­­ I grant you, it's going on             the briefs ­­ but it said at Table ­­ affidavit page ,            Table , says that the number of abortions that are, on           average, performed annually at the remaining clinics is        ,. So let's multiply by , and you get . Let's             multiply by ; you get . There were ,,          approximately, women who needed these procedures.                  accurate?                                     So I ­­ I had taken that. Is it that             GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes.   JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.    GENERAL VERRILLI: In ­­ in the short time I         have remaining, I'd like to finish with one point, if I           could.               I think, ultimately, the question before you      is whether the right here is going to retain real          Alderson Reporting Company Official substance, and whether the balance ­­ whether the        balance struck in Casey still holds.                  If that right still does retain real       substance, then this law cannot stand. The burdens it          imposes, the obstacles, are far beyond anything that        this Court has countenanced. And the justification for         it is far weaker than anything that this Court has          countenanced. It is an undue burden. It is the           definition of an undue burden.                   And, Mr. Chief Justice, you ­­ in response      to your question, undue means excessive or unwarranted.        Could be excessive or unwarranted as compared to the ­­         the obstacle it imposes, certainly. But also, as         compared to its need.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have        thought ­­ Casey and Gonzales also said substantial        obstacle. And I would have thought that's something you           could look at in an objective manner. Why ­­ and ­­           actually, I don't understand why you're arguing the         opposite. I think whether it's an obstacle or a burden             would exist without regard to the strength of the State          interest. The strength of the State interest, it would          seem to me, is evaluated on whatever test there is with           respect to that legislation, and then you'd look at what          the impact was.   Alderson Reporting Company Official             GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think it's       actually in the interest of government to look at it the           way that we're suggesting it ought to be looked at. And            I ­­ if I ­­ you know, if could take two minutes to              explain why.                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.     GENERAL VERRILLI: And I think, Mr. Chief        Justice, that is because, you know, it is one thing to           say that you're going to impose a requirement that does           work as much as to be the kind of obstacle that this            requirement ­­ that these requirements do, when you have         justification that's frankly flimsy and the American       Medical Association has told you was groundless. But         if ­­ if the government were able to come in ­­ if it             were us or if it were State ­­ were able to come in and              say, well, actually, this requirement is going to make a          difference in saving hundreds of lives, that might be a          burden that you would think would be acceptable, given         the medical benefit. That's why we think the ­­ the           test that makes sense, the best understanding of undue         burden, the understanding of undue burden that works        best for the government is the one we're suggesting.                     But I think whichever way you look at that,          whether you look at it our way or whether you look at it             as two separate inquiries, this law, HB, can't pass it,          Alderson Reporting Company Official for the reasons I said. And I think, therefore, that if              you do find that this law is upheld, what you will be            saying is that this right really only exists in theory          and not in fact, going forward, and that the commitments          that this Court made in Casey will not have been kept.                       Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Keller.              ORAL ARGUMENT OF SCOTT A. KELLER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                             MR. KELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice ­­        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose I        should ­­ before you get started, we'll afford you an          additional eight minutes. I think that's roughly ­­                     MR. KELLER: An extra thank you, Mr. Chief         Justice, and may it please the Court:                   Res judicata bars the facial challenges. In        any event, Texas acted to improve abortion safety, and         Planned Parenthood provides this increased standard of       care and has opened new ASCs. Abortion is legal and           accessible in Texas. All the Texas metropolitan areas         that have abortion clinics today will have open clinics         if the Court affirms, and that includes the six most          populous areas of Texas.                JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, how many women are        Alderson Reporting Company Official located over miles from the nearest clinic?                    MR. KELLER: Justice Ginsburg, JA       provides that percent of Texas women of reproductive         age are not within miles of an ASC. But that would             not include McAllen that got as­applied relief, and it         would not include El Paso, where the Santa Teresa, New          Mexico facility is.                           JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It includes ­­     JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's ­­ that's odd that        you point to the New Mexico facility. New Mexico          doesn't have any surgical ­­ ASC requirement, and it         doesn't have any admitting requirement. So if your         argument is right, then New Mexico is not an available          way out for Texas because Texas says to protect our          women, we need these things. But send them off to           Mexico ­­ New Mexico ­­ New Mexico where they don't get           it either, no admitting privileges, no ASC. And that's          perfectly all right.               Well, if that's all right for the ­­ the         women in the El Paso area, why isn't it right for the            rest of the women in Texas?                  MR. KELLER: The policy set by Texas is that          the standard of care for abortion clinics should rise to          the level of ASCs for clinics, and admitting privileges         for doctors. Texas obviously can't tell New Mexico how          Alderson Reporting Company Official to regulate, but the substantial obstacle inquiry       examines whether there is the ability to make the         ultimate decision or elect the procedure. And when         there's ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Then why should it count        those clinics?              MR. KELLER: Well, here, the evidence in the         record showed that this particular clinic was mile          across the border that was still in the El Paso          metroplex, and women in El Paso often used that facility          to obtain abortions.                  So that would go into the contextual    analysis of this particular as­applied challenge. This        doesn't go to the facial challenge, but the as­applied         challenge and whether women in El Paso do have access to           abortion.             In any event, over percent of Texas women         of reproductive age live within miles of an open          clinic as of today.                JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Keller, the ­­ the        statistics that I gleaned from the record were that          , women live further than miles from a         provider; ,, three­quarters of a million, further        than miles. Now, that's as compared to just in           , where fewer than , lived over miles, and          Alderson Reporting Company Official only , lived more than miles away. So we're           going from, like, , to three­quarters of a million          living more than miles away.                  MR. KELLER: Well, Justice Kagan, first of        all, I believe the statistics at JA , which is their            expert testimony, would not account for McAllen or        El Paso, but in looking at the fraction of women          affected. And that would be the facial challenge         standard, that at a minimum, a large fraction of cases,            there would have to be invalidity even if there was an           undue burden.              The travel distance of ­­ even in Casey, the         district court found over percent of Pennsylvania        women were going to have to travel at least one hour,           sometimes over three hours, and there was a ­hour          waiting period. Texas reduces that waiting period to         two hours for traveling over miles. And in Casey,           that was not a facial substantial obstacle.                    Here, that relevant fraction is ­­ is lower.        And under Casey, then the facial challenge would not         succeed. And Petitioners have a heavy burden, and they           haven't shown any capacity evidence ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: When there's a need.        Meaning, where are you taking an account in the         undue­burden analysis the value of the need being ­­ of          Alderson Reporting Company Official being imposed? Meaning, even if I grant you that in            some circumstances travel time is necessary because you        just can't get any kind of abortion clinic to go into a            particular area, so you might have to impose a burden           that might be undue in other circumstances. Where do we           evaluate the benefit of this burden? What ­­ what's the           need?             You ­­ you seem ­­ your brief seemed to be          telling us that there's no role for the Court to judge           whether there's really a health benefit to what you're          doing.             MR. KELLER: Well, there would be three        elements of the doctrine. There's the rational basis         test ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not talking about       the doctrine. I'm talking about the question I asked,           which is, according to you, the slightest health        improvement is enough to impose on hundreds of thousands         of women ­­ even assuming I accept your argument, which           I don't, necessarily, because it's being challenged ­­       but the slightest benefit is enough to burden the lives          of a million women. That's your point?                     MR. KELLER: And what ­­ and what Casey said          is the substantial obstacle test examines access to        abortion. Now, if a law had no health benefits,           Alderson Reporting Company Official presumably it would be irrational. But even their         expert ­­ and this is at JA and ­­ acknowledged            that some doctors do believe that there are benefits for          the ASC and admitting­privileges requirement ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: What ­­ what is the        benefit of the medical, the two pills that you take,          what is the benefit of having an ambulatory surgical         center to take two pills when there's no ­­ no surgical           procedure at all involved?                MR. KELLER: Two responses, Justice      Ginsburg. First, the complication rates are greater.        When there's a complication rate from a drug­induced          abortion, then a surgical abortion is needed as a          follow­up.                         And the first lawsuit ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: On that complication,      that complication is likely to arise near the women's         home, much more likely to arise near her home, which the            miles has nothing to do with.                   MR. KELLER: Well, first of all, the two         travel distances, that was about the drug protocol.        That's a different part of the bill. That was in the             Petitioners' first lawsuit, and they have not raised any         challenge to that in this lawsuit.                  In any event, in ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: I'm not ­­ I'm not        talking about the prior lawsuit; I'm talking about this         lawsuit. You need to have access to a hospital within             miles. miles of what? miles of the surgical             center when the woman lives at a much greater distance?           And if she's going to go to any hospital, it will be in             her local community, not near the surgical center.                    MR. KELLER: Of course, most abortions are        surgical abortions in the State.                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, I'm asking just       about the medical.               MR. KELLER: That's right. And also ­­                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: And ­­ and just it's ­­ I          can't imagine. What is the benefit of having a woman            take those pills in an ambulatory surgical center when         there is no surgery involved?                 MR. KELLER: Well, there would be surgery in         a complication. And all abortion clinics in Texas         perform surgical abortions, and that's why Petitioners       probably didn't defend that aspect of the judgment.                    JUSTICE GINSBURG: If it is a complication,         it is not going to occur on the spot. I mean, you have               to concede that in ­­ in the case of the medical           abortion, the complication generally arises after the       woman is back at home. And then the nearest hospital           Alderson Reporting Company Official has nothing to do with the surgical center.                    MR. KELLER: Although when the significant       majority of women are living within miles of the          clinic, in most situations they are going to be in the           facility. And it is beneficial to have continuity of          care, to check for clinical competence, to prevent        miscommunication and patient abandonment to have the       admitting­privileges requirement.              In any event, the facial challenge is       certainly barred by res judicata. It was litigated ­­                     JUSTICE KENNEDY: Before you get ­­ is it ­­         is the underlying premise of ­­ of your argument,         Mr. Keller, and of the State's position, that the         thrust, the impetus, the effect of this law is to          increase surgical abortions as distinct from medical       abortions, and that that is within the State's authority         to do? Because my reading indicated that medical         abortions are up nationwide but down significantly in        Texas.             MR. KELLER: It would certainly be       permissible to regulate both surgical and ­­ and        drug­induced abortions, and in drug­induced abortions,      since there are greater complications.                 In the first lawsuit, Fifth Circuit noted       expert testimony. That was a percent rate, which ­­            Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But I thought an        underlying theme, or at least an underlying factual        demonstration, is that this law has really increased the         number of surgical procedures as opposed to medical        procedures, and that this may not be medically wise.                     MR. KELLER: Yeah. Insofar as ­­                   JUSTICE KENNEDY: You might say that this is         within the authority of the State to do, but ­­                     MR. KELLER: Given the higher ­­                  JUSTICE KENNEDY: And I want to know what          your position is on that.                 MR. KELLER: And Justice Kennedy, given the        greater complication rates from drug­induced abortions,      the legislature would be permitted to act in that way.                      But in any event, Petitioners have not       challenged that particular part of the district court's        holding that gave them as­applied relief on the        drug­induced abortion part. In the Fifth Circuit, they         haven't raised that.               What they're trying to do on the effects        prong is say that the remaining clinics will lack         capacity. But the Fifth Circuit correctly noted that         there is no capacity evidence in the record. They          didn't even try to take discovery from the        non­Petitioner clinics.  Alderson Reporting Company Official              And indeed, Grossman's ipse dixit was in      fact ipse dixit. What he did is he looked at the number             of abortions and percentages that were being performed.        And a year earlier, ASCs had actually performed more          abortions, and so the inference that they were at         capacity cannot be drawn. And ­­                  CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What ­­ what       evidence would you have put in on the capacity issue if           you had been afforded that opportunity?                  MR. KELLER: Well ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Evidence that would       rebut the statistically significant showing on the other        side about capacity, and also the circumstantial       evidence about the timing of the ­­ of the closures.                      MR. KELLER: Well, this is not in the         record, but in Petitioners' first lawsuit ­­ this is         Exhibit K ­­ to their application to vacate the stay in            this Court in the first lawsuit, the Abbott litigation,         they went clinic by clinic in a chart ­­ excuse me ­­            and they tried to estimate the number of abortions that          could be performed in those facilities. The district         court didn't even make a fact­finding there.                    But the Houston Planned Parenthood ASC they       estimated could perform , abortions annually.      ,. That's a week is what their chart says.            Alderson Reporting Company Official                         JUSTICE KENNEDY: Before ­­ before the Act?        MR. KELLER: Well, yes, yes, because the        Houston Planned ­­ Planned Parenthood operates five of        the nine ASCs. Planned Parenthood is ­­ is not in this            lawsuit. They were in the first lawsuit. They have           complied with the law. They have doctors with admitting          privileges, and they have facilities in each of the five          most populous Texas cities.                And so if one ASC can perform ,        abortions annually, and there are going to be at least          eight other ASCs in Texas, plus the tenth facility, the          McCallen facility, that obtained as­applied relief, it       does not stretch credulity to believe that those        remaining facilities would suffice to meet the demand        for abortions.              JUSTICE BREYER: And you asked to put in         this evidence, and then the court said no, we will not           let you put in the evidence?                  MR. KELLER: We didn't put in the evidence         because Petitioners bore the burden ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: I asked, did you ask to put           in this evidence?   MR. KELLER: No.    JUSTICE BREYER: No. Thank you very much.                                 Okay. Alderson Reporting Company Official             I'd like to go back to the ­­ the question          that Justice Ginsburg was asking, which is about what is          the benefit of this procedure.                 There are two laws. I am focusing on the           first law. The first law says that a doctor at the             abortion clinic must have admitting privileges in a        hospital miles within that ­­ nearby, right?                                MR. KELLER: Correct.    JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. Prior to that law,         the law was that the clinic had to have a working            arrangement to transfer such a patient, correct? I'm          just reading it from this.                             MR. KELLER: That's correct.     JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So I want to know,           go back in time to the period before the new law was            passed, where in the record will I find evidence of           women who had complications, who could not get to a          hospital, even though there was a working arrangement         for admission, but now they could get to a hospital           because the doctor himself has to have admitting        privileges? Which were the women? On what page does it            tell me their names, what the complications were, and         why that happened?               MR. KELLER: Justice Breyer, that is not in         the record.  Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: But so ­­     MR. KELLER: What I'm ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ Judge Posner then seems                                            to be correct where he says he could find in the entire            nation, in his opinion, only one arguable example of         such a thing, and he's not certain that even that one is             correct.              So what is the benefit to the woman of a         procedure that is going to cure a problem of which there            is not one single instance in the nation, though perhaps          there is one, but not in Texas.                   (Laughter.)             MR. KELLER: Justice Breyer, the National       Abortion Federation previously recommended that women      use abortion doctors ­­               JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't ask that. I'm          sure there are people who had all kinds of reasons that           would like to have this and so forth. And I'm not ­­            I'm just asking you, where we have a judicial duty to            say whether this is an undue burden upon the woman who           wants the abortion, there are two parts: Is she          burdened and what is the benefit?                  And now on the first one, I've asked you to          give a single example of an instance where there was a            benefit, and you say, I think quite honestly, there is           Alderson Reporting Company Official no such burden.               So let's turn to the second. The second         one, according to the amicus briefs here, which I guess           I could validate, that even without the surgical center,         leave it out, there are risks quite correct. Those          risks are roughly the same as the risks that you have in            a dentist office when you have some surgery, where you          don't have an ambulatory surgical center. There are          times less than a risk of a colonoscopy, where you don't             have ambulatory surgical center. There are like        hundreds of times less ­­ you've seen these briefs.         Okay. So I read them, and you read them.                       And so what is the benefit here to giving, I          mean, the woman, her risk, I can't say it's zero here,            this ambulatory surgical center when the risk is        minuscule compared to common procedures that women run        every day in other areas without ambulatory surgical        centers?             MR. KELLER: That has never been the test         under Casey about substantial obstacle. And this Court         in Simopoulos, even before Casey upheld an ASC        requirement, and there ­­ Virginia did not require that         brain surgery be performed in a hospital or an ASC.           That's at of the Simopoulos oral argument        transcript. It's because in looking at the laws, it's          Alderson Reporting Company Official whether the legislature has a legitimate purpose in         acting. Legislatures react ­­                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's interesting.     JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, can the legislature       say anything, General? I mean, if the legislature says           we have a ­­ a health­related abortion regulation here,           we've looked around the country and we think that there          are ten great hospitals in the country, you know,         Massachusetts General, Brigham and Women's, and we're       going to make all our abortion facilities conform to the          standards of those hospitals, and that will ­­ you know,          that will increase medical care. Now, it's true we          don't make anybody else doing any kind ­­ other kind of           procedure conform to those standards, but we think it         will increase health benefits if abortion facilities       conform to them. Would that be all right?                     MR. KELLER: Under this Court's precedent,       abortion can be treated differently. That's Simopoulos.        That's Mazurek. And let's ­­                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, wait a minute ­­        JUSTICE KAGAN: So every abortion facility       has to hit the standards of MGH. That would be all            right?             MR. KELLER: Well, there would have to be         medical evidence. It is at a minimum disputed. In            Alderson Reporting Company Official here, their experts have conceded that doctors believe        this ­­ this is precisely where there's a medical          disagreement, even if you don't accept our medical        testimony, although it was admitted into the record.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm sure that there's       medical evidence that if every hospital, if every        facility was as good as Massachusetts General, they        would be better facilities. I'm sure that you could          find doctors to say that, because MGH, it's a great           hospital. But that would be okay, even though it's not           applied to any other kind of facility doing any other          kind of procedure, even though we know that liposuction         is times more dangerous, yet doesn't have the same          kinds of requirements.               MR. KELLER: And that was the holding in         Simopoulos. And in Mazurek, the Court ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, do you think ­­       would you put ­­               JUSTICE ALITO: Would it not be the case         that ­­ would it not be the case that a State could             increase the ­­ the standard of care as high as it wants            so long as there's not an ­­ an undue burden on the            women seeking abortion? So, you know, if they could ­­          if they could increase the standard of care up to the           very highest anywhere in the country and it wouldn't be          Alderson Reporting Company Official a burden on the women, well, that would be a benefit to             them. Would there be anything unconstitutional about        that?             MR. KELLER: No. Provided that women do ­­         are able to make the ultimate decision to elect the          procedure.             JUSTICE KENNEDY: But doesn't that show that        the undue­burden test is weighed against what the        State's interest is?               MR. KELLER: Justice Kennedy ­­                 JUSTICE KENNEDY: I mean, are they ­­ are          they ­­ are these two completely discrete analytical        categories, undue burden, and we don't look at the         State's interest?              MR. KELLER: What Casey noted was that the         undue­burden test is, is there a purpose or an effect of            the substantial obstacle to access? And that's a         question about access. As to whether what the State's          interest would be, that would be going to a rational           basis review or maybe a purpose­based analysis. But you           need the clearest proof under the Court's general        doctrine about unconstitutional purpose. To infer that        there is an unconstitutional purpose when there is a         legitimate interest in promoting patient health, which       is what Texas did here ­­ even Roe v. Wade said that            Alderson Reporting Company Official States can ensure maximum safety for patients.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But what is the       legitimate interest in protecting their health? What        evidence is there that under the prior law, the prior          law was not sufficiently protective of the women's        health? As I understand it, this is one of the            lowest­risk procedures, and you give a horrible from         Pennsylvania, but absolutely nothing from Texas. As far         as we know, this is among the most safe, the least risk            procedures, an early­stage abortion.                So what was ­­ what was the problem that the          legislature was responding to that it needed to improve         the facilities for women's health?                 MR. KELLER: In Petitioner's first lawsuit,       Planned Parenthood admitted that over women annually        are hospitalized because of abortion complications.      Here at JA ­­                JUSTICE GINSBURG: As compared to      childbirth, many, many ­­ much riskier procedure, is it         not?             MR. KELLER: Well, the American Center for        Law and Justice and Former Abortion Providers' amicus        briefs dispute that. But regardless, there is        evidence ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Is there really any       Alderson Reporting Company Official dispute that childbirth ­­               (Laughter.)             JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ is a much riskier         procedure than an early stage abortion?                  MR. KELLER: Justice Ginsburg, those amicus       briefs point out what when you look at record linkage          statistic, instead of complication reporting, there may       be a difference. And the reason why reporting is           important is there's evidence in the record here that         abortion complications are underreported. That's at JA         and to . In fact, Petitioner.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: By hospitals?     Underreported ­­ most of the complications you're       talking about were reported at hospitals, correct?                   Yes, there is some evidence of not reporting        other things outside the hospital, but you know the         number of ­­ hospitals are accurately reporting.                   MR. KELLER: Well, abortion clinics are ­­       have to report complications in Texas. And Petitioner         Whole Woman's Health ­­ and this is at JA ­ ­­                      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Complications within     their clinic?              MR. KELLER: That's right. And in JA         ­, Petitioner Whole Woman's Health ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What's the percentage of       Alderson Reporting Company Official from ,? My math is pretty horrible. It's           pretty small.              MR. KELLER: And ­­ and the statistic at JA           is it is lower than percent. However, when there             are two to three women ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't mean to ­­ to          negate that one should try to avoid injury to anyone,          and ­­ and don't take my question as that, but there are            people who die from complications from aspirin. May be          unusual, but there's a certain percentage that do that.          Yet, we don't require that people take aspirins in ASC          centers or in hospitals.                MR. KELLER: But in examining ­­                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There has to be some tie         between the benefit and the burden, doesn't there?                    MR. KELLER: In examining not effect, but        the purpose. The constitutional analysis would be did         the Texas legislature have an invalid purpose? And if          you ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, don't you think       that you can read that from the fact that there are so            many other medical treatments whose complication rates       are so disproportionately higher, and the legislature is        only targeting abortion when there is nothing about the         figures before it that show a risk so unusual that it            Alderson Reporting Company Official needs greater attention?               MR. KELLER: But that would have been        Simopoulos; it would have been Mazurek. And this is why           Petitioners are trying to upset the balance that was         struck in Casey.               JUSTICE BREYER: I don't see where this fits          in, I mean, to the argument. I ­­ I don't question               their purpose. I won't question their purpose.                     MR. KELLER: Good. Thank you, Justice        Breyer.             (Laughter.)             JUSTICE BREYER: But the ­­ the ­­ what         their purpose is, that they're worried about these        complications and they want to make life safer for the          women. All right? Let's take that as the purpose.                         You said there aren't very many    complications. Now, would you say if you reduce the          number of clinics, as has been argued ­­ maybe it isn't           exactly that, but that ­­ and you ­­ you suddenly have           at least , ­­ maybe a few less, and maybe a few              more ­­ women who have to travel miles to get their            abortion ­­ maybe more, maybe stay overnight, maybe try         to scrape together the money, you understand the        argument ­­ are there going to be more women or fewer           women who die of complications due to an effort to          Alderson Reporting Company Official create an abortion?                 I mean, you read the briefs, and you've read        the same articles I have. And of course the argument is             if you lead to self­induced abortion, you will find many          more women dying. So if the concern is this tiny risk            of dying through a complication in a clinic, is this a             remedy that will in fact achieve the legislature's        health­saving purpose?              MR. KELLER: Justice Breyer, about      self­induced abortion, the evidence in the record on        that were two points of testimony, both from McAllen         where Petitioners prevailed, as­applied challenges could      be brought in areas ­­ for instance, if there could be           shown a substantial obstacle based on travel distance,         the four clinics that closed in West Texas between El          Paso and San Antonio, all those closed before the         admitting­privileges requirement took effect. They were       all Planned Parenthood facilities.                In Petitioners' first ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Keller ­­ Keller ­­                  JUSTICE BREYER: I'd like to hear what he         says.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: As­applied challenge is a       real problem with that, because suppose you bring in         that as­applied challenge and you're successful. You        Alderson Reporting Company Official can't have a creation of an ambulatory surgical center          on the spot.                 I mean, these ­­ these ­­ once ­­ once these         facilities are closed, they're closed, and they can't        start up tomorrow. So how ­­ the as­applied         challenge ­­ I mean, the woman's problem would be long           over before this clinic, the kind of clinic they had          before, could be restarted.                MR. KELLER: Justice Ginsburg, the McAllen       clinic reopened, and as Justice Kagan mentioned, clinics        did reopen. The Lubbock facility, though, which is one          of the facilities in West Texas, in Petitioners' first         lawsuit they told this Court in their application that         that clinic was going to close regardless.                   And seven of the eight clinics that closed        before the admitting­privileges requirement took effect,      and went from to , seven of those eight were           Planned Parenthood clinics. Planned Parenthood is       complying with the law and providing that increased        standard of care.               And also, the eleven clinics that closed the        day that the admitting­privileges requirement took      effect, when it went from to , I don't believe six             of those clinics can be deemed to have ceased performing          abortions because of that requirement. The Lubbock        Alderson Reporting Company Official facility was going to close anyway. Killeen had         admitting privileges. That's JA .                  JUSTICE GINSBURG: There was a      stipulation ­­ there was a stipulation that is "No          currently­licensed abortion facility meets the ASC      requirements. Each will be prohibited from performing        abortions after the day the law goes into effect."         That's a stipulation, not a question of what evidence           there was for.               Texas stipulated that no currently­licensed     facility meets ASC requirements, and each will be        prohibited from performing abortions.                MR. KELLER: And that would go to the ASC          requirement as opposed to the facial challenge of the         admitting­privileges requirement. But four of the       facilities that reopened ­­ four facilities reopened of        those eleven when the admitting­privileges requirement      went into effect. That was Dallas, two at Ft. Worth,           one in Austin. That's JA , , and . Two             of those were ASCs.                Now, when it comes to the count of ASCs,         there are nine ASCs performing abortion today in Texas.         Three opened up after House Bill was passed. So in             examining the facial challenge to that requirement, when        ASCs exist ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask: Were they          opened as a result of the law, or were they planned to             be opened before the law went into effect? Because I           think that makes a difference to me if they were planned            to be opened. It takes quite a while to dig up the              money, get the investors, buy the land, do the building.          It seems to me that they must have been planned for a            while. And if they were, it was because there was a            need independent of the number of abortions.                   MR. KELLER: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In other words, it's       fortuitous that they've come into existence, but it was         in ­­ their need was not there ­­ was independent of the            reduced number of facilities elsewhere.                 MR. KELLER: Legislature provided months       to come into compliance. In addition, you could lease          space. Texas has over ­­ there are general ASCs            in Texas at the time of trial.                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But most of them don't        choose to provide abortions.                MR. KELLER: That's correct. Of course,        space could be leased in those.                  JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So what you don't know        is what ­­ do you have enough resources to open up an            ASC if you're going to do abortions? Are you going to            Alderson Reporting Company Official get enough developers to ­­ to invest in your work?                      MR. KELLER: Yeah. The point being that         there are going to be at least ten clinics ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask about McAllen?         There was testimony in the record that at least four          doctors had ­­ from that spot had asked for admitting          privileges. Well, the Fifth Circuit's remedy only        provided for one doctor, Dr. Lynn, who's past retirement         age, to be the only doctor performing abortions in that          clinic.             Now, if the clinic had ­­ I don't know how           many it had, but it had at least four people before ­­           it seems rather callous to say as a remedy that we're            going to make that one doctor do the work of four, or            maybe more doctors who didn't get admitting privileges.        Why is even the Fifth Circuit's remedy reasonable?                    MR. KELLER: Because, Justice Sotomayor,      that was the only named plaintiff for the as­applied ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that ­­ but ­­ if ­­         yes. As applied, the A ­­ ASC law is affecting this             clinic because it can't get its doctors certified. So          why does it require a named plaintiff to relieve that           clinic of the obligation of going without admitting        privileges?             MR. KELLER: Well, that wasn't the only one         Alderson Reporting Company Official of the four doctors that joined this lawsuit, because         most of the doctors and clinics in Texas are not part of            this lawsuit ­­              JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you just lift the        requirement because you know that it's the only clinic         in the area.               MR. KELLER: Well ­­                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So if any doctor who's        licensed appropriately can get admitting privileges,      they should be permitted to work in that clinic.                     Why does Dr. Lynn have to become an        indentured slave to ensure that women in her area are          provided with their fundamental right to choose?                   MR. KELLER: Justice Sotomayor, it would not        be an indentured situation. If there were new facts          that came into being that that doctor ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But she wants to       leave ­­             MR. KELLER: ­­ didn't perform abortion,       then another doctor could bring in a future as­applied          challenge ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. Counsel ­­                   JUSTICE KAGAN: General, could ­­ could I        ask ­­ could I go back to a question that ­­ something              that you said earlier? And tell me if I'm misquoting           Alderson Reporting Company Official you. You said that as the law is now, under your            interpretation of it, Texas is allowed to set much, much          higher medical standards, whether it has to do with the          personnel or procedures or the facilities themselves,       higher medical standards, including much higher medical       standards for abortion facilities than for facilities       that do any other kind of medical work, even much more           risky medical work. And you said that that was your           understanding of the law; am I right?                    MR. KELLER: Correct, in this Court's ­­ in         Simopoulos.             JUSTICE KAGAN: And I guess I just want to            know why would Texas do that?                  (Laughter.)             MR. KELLER: When there are complications       from abortion that's in the record, Texas can enact laws          to promote safety.               JUSTICE KAGAN: No, I know, but ­­ but the           assumption of the question, and I think you haven't          challenged this assumption, is that there are many        procedures that are much higher risk: Colonoscopies,        liposuctions, we could go on and on. And ­­ and you're            saying, that's okay, we get to set much higher standards          for abortion. And I just want to know why that is.                         MR. KELLER: Justice Kagan, this bill was        Alderson Reporting Company Official passed in the wake of the Kermit Gosnell scandal that          prompted Texas and many other States to reexamine their         abortion regulations.              JUSTICE KAGAN: But, of course, the ­­ I         mean, Texas's own regulations actually have made       abortion facilities such that that can never happen,        because you have continual inspections, I mean, to your          credit. So that was really not a problem in Texas,            having a kind of rogue outfit there. Texas has taken            actions to prevent that.                So, again, I just sort of ­­ I'm left          wondering, given this baseline of regulation that       prevents rogue outfits of ­­ like that, why it is that           Texas would make this choice. And you say you're          allowed to make this choice, and we can argue about          that. I just want to know why Texas would make it.                         MR. KELLER: I think the amicus brief for          the Texas legislators that canvasses the medical        evidence and canvasses statements confirms that that ­­       that there were complications that these laws do have         benefits. And even the bill opponents said ­­                    JUSTICE ALITO: Isn't it true ­­                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Are you ­­ are you in ­­         you're not really contesting that there are greater        complications in abortion facilities than there are with        Alderson Reporting Company Official a great deal of medical procedures that do ­­ that are           not subject to the same standard of regulation.                    MR. KELLER: Yeah, brain surgery, for       instance, just like Simopoulos, would almost certainly       have ­­ it ­­ it would have higher risk of complication.           But the point is to ­­                 JUSTICE ALITO: General, as to ­­ as to         rogue facilities, which Justice Kagan just mentioned,       one of the amicus briefs cites instance after instance         where Whole Woman's facilities have been cited for        really appalling violations when they were inspected:       Holes in the floor where ­­ where rats could come in,           the lack of any equipment to adequately sterilize        instruments. Is that not the case?                   MR. KELLER: Stories similar to that are        also raised in the Texas legislators' amicus briefs.                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But, I'm sorry ­­                  JUSTICE ALITO: These are not stories ­­                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito.                  JUSTICE ALITO: These are, as I understand         it, actual reports of ­­ of inspections of those         facilities.             MR. KELLER: The amicus briefs do discuss        that, and the complications from Whole Woman's Health        were underreported to the State. That's JA to .           Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Random ­­ Texas, under       the prior law, has the right to make random inspections.          Was ­­ the problem in Pennsylvania was this filthy         clinic hadn't been looked at by anyone from the State in            years. But Texas can go into any one of these            clinics and immediate ­­ immediately spots a violation?         It says you can't operate till you come up to speed.                         So Texas has had, as Justice Kagan pointed      out, its own mechanism for preventing that kind of thing          from happening.              MR. KELLER: Texas did have existing       regulations, but increasing the standard of care is        valid, particularly not only in light of ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's valid only if it's        taking care of a real problem.                   MR. KELLER: And there were ­­ the ­­        abortion complications and underreported questions ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, no, no, no. A         real problem, meaning, Gosnell, the governor of       Pennsylvania, said was a regulatory failure. And only          in that, not ­­ this clinic had not been inspected for            years. He ­­ the doctor was fabricating his reports.           That could happen almost in any setting. Anyone who          intends to break the law is going to break the law,           whatever the regulatory rules are.     Alderson Reporting Company Official             You're going to have doctors, as happened       pre our laws, who were performing abortions without        permission in their offices or without licenses. And I          don't want to suggest that we should presume that's         going to happen, but it will happen.                   MR. KELLER: The constitutional standard for       whether a State can make abortion safer can't be that it            can only prevent the Gosnell situation, and there are         complications.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but ­­ yeah,       but ­­ but you have to see, as Justice Breyer asked you            earlier, why are the problems? Isn't this a         self­created problem? What happened in Texas       independent of Gosnell that raised the Gosnell­like       situation  in Texas that made ­­                JUSTICE ALITO: Gosnell.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ the legislature so       concerned  after so many years about taking care of this         greater risk in abortions, as opposed to all the other          procedures that are performed in non­ASC facilities?                   MR. KELLER: Because there are complications       in abortion, and this was a top ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But there's     complications in colonoscopies, and colonoscopies are,      what, times ­­   Alderson Reporting Company Official JUSTICE BREYER: .    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: . Justice Breyer just                                corrected me.              (Laughter.)             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: percent higher. I        mean ­­             MR. KELLER: But legislatures react to       topics that are of public concern. In Gonzales, the          Court noted after Dr. Haskell's procedure for partial        birth abortion became more of a nationwide concern,         States reacted. When the legislature sees that there's         a problem, and maybe that there wouldn't rise to the          same level of a Gosnell problem, but the legislature can           still act to make abortion safer, which is precisely         what Texas did here.                If I can address my friend's contention of         the record as to what clinics closed preemptively.        There is evidence in the record that Killeen, McCallen         and El Paso, three clinics, closed preemptively. They         brought as­applied challenges in McCallen and prevailed.       They brought their as­applied challenge in El Paso and         did not prevail. And the Killeen clinic did not seek           as­applied relief.              Indeed, if there are any future concerns,       as­applied challenges can be raised. For instance, the         Alderson Reporting Company Official wide swath of area in West Texas that does not have an            abortion clinic today, there was no as­applied relief        sought in this case. And if there were ­­ if it would             turn out that there were going to be an issue in that            area, a future as­applied challenge could address that         concern.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, that's the problem.       Once a clinic closes ­­ you said McCallen reopened, but           that was very swift. Once a clinic closes, equipment           are gone, the doctors are gone, you can't reinstate it          tomorrow. It won't be there. There will be no remedy            for that woman who succeeds in the as­applied challenge.                     MR. KELLER: Mr. Chief Justice, my time has         expired, if may address it.                             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure.     MR. KELLER: Except even there, the clinic        was not just closed for a single day. It was closed for              a longer period of time. And there was an El Paso            clinic that actually reopened also months later. So an          as­applied challenge could allow a clinic, if an undue          burden, if a substantial obstacle were shown because of          driving distances or capacity in the future, in that         discrete instance, but we're in this facial challenge        posture, Petitioners bear the heavy burden to show at         least a large ­­    Alderson Reporting Company Official             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't that      self­evident in any area that's ­­                             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Sonia is off.      JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: This area of western       Texas, it's as big as California. No? Bigger?                      MR. KELLER: I'm not sure about California,        but it certainly is a large size.                                            JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Huge area.     MR. KELLER: Absolutely.    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't it      self­evident if you have a law that says you can only be             an ACS provider, and who's going to come in and say, I            can't be an ACS provider, but it's an undue burden on           me, or it's an undue burden that's self­evident on the          women in that area?                MR. KELLER: Well, the right is possessed by         the women. The clinics and doctors can bring         challenges.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly. So why don't        we take this lawsuit as those women saying just that?                      MR. KELLER: Because there was no ­­                   JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You can't have a law         that has marginal, if any, medical benefit be applied to          this procedure anywhere where there's an undue burden on         people ­­ on women.    Alderson Reporting Company Official             MR. KELLER: Planned Parenthood had four       clinics in West Texas. They all closed before any part           of HB was actually put into effect. They could have           brought an as­applied challenge. They didn't. Planned         Parenthood did not join this lawsuit. They were part of           the first lawsuit. And indeed, the facial challenges         here are barred by res judicata and there are         significant record gaps.               JUSTICE GINSBURG: May I ask you one         question? You earlier in your argument, you were         quoting how many women are within a reasonable range of           the clinic. But don't we know from Casey that the focus            must be on the ones who are burdened and not the ones            who aren't burdened? There ­­ there is ­­ and the           district court said, you know, this is not a problem for            women who have means to travel, that those women will          have access to abortion, anyway. So ­­ in Texas or out            of Texas.              So Casey was quite precise in this, when        it's talking about husbands and notification. You don't         look to all the women who are getting abortions. You           look only to the ­­ to the ­­ the women for whom this is              a problem. And so the only women we would be looking at             is not all of the women who are ­­ who live in Austin or              in Dallas, but the women who have the problem who don't           Alderson Reporting Company Official live near a clinic.                             MR. KELLER: Well ­­    JUSTICE GINSBURG: Isn't that the clear       message of Casey and the husband notification ­­                                           MR. KELLER: When a law ­­       JUSTICE GINSBURG: ­­ exception?     MR. KELLER: When a law is regulating women,          as it would in the spousal­notification provision, that        might be different. But when we're talking about doctor          and clinic regulations, when the law is going to have a           relevant effect, is going to be for every doctor and          every clinic, which is precisely why the Fifth Circuit         noted that that was the proper denominator, all women of          Texas reproductive age. And Petitioners have not        challenged that denominator holding in their opening       brief.             JUSTICE GINSBURG: But this is about ­­ what         it's about is that a woman has a fundamental right to             make this choice for herself. That's what we sought as           the starting premise. And then this is certainly         about ­­ Casey ­­ Casey made that plain, that it ­­ the            focus is on the woman, and it has to be on the segment             of women who are affected.                 MR. KELLER: Yes. And ­­ and the right held           by women to make that ultimate decision is not burdened          Alderson Reporting Company Official in, at a minimum, a large fraction of cases in Texas,             when each metropolitan area will still have a clinic,          even after the law goes into effect, and future         as­applied challenges could address any possible      concerns about West Texas or otherwise.                                          CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       MR. KELLER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Toti, you have        five minutes remaining.              REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF STEPHANIE TOTI                   ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS                 MS. TOTI: Thank you.                   A few brief points. First, the record cites        from earlier evidence that HB caused clinics to close         in Texas. The plaintiffs testified that HB caused         clinics in Killeen, Austin, Beaumont, McAllen, and El        Paso to close, and that testimony is at JA , ,            and .              Respondents stipulated at JA and       that the ASC requirement would cause any licensed        abortion facility still operating on the day it took         effect to close.               Plaintiffs' Exhibit at page , which is        not in the Joint Appendix but was admitted in the record           at and , demonstrates that for the five years          Alderson Reporting Company Official prior to the enactment of HB, the number of abortion          clinics in Texas remained fairly constant.                  And finally, at JA and , there is ­­         at , testimony from Dr. Grossman, and at , our          response to the Fifth Circuit's directive showing that         clinics closed on the day that the        admitting­privileges requirement was ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And that ­­ that's        the ­­ the last evidence was from Dr. Grossman?                     MS. TOTI: JA is from Dr. Grossman's.                     CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: At page , he        said, "I am not here offering any opinion on the cause           of the decline in the number of abortion facilities."                     MS. TOTI: That's correct. Dr. Grossman did         not offer an opinion on that. But his testimony          supplies the fact, from which the district court drew         the inference, that clinics closed on the day that          the State first enforced the admitting­privileges      requirement. The district court referred from that fact         that enforcement was the cause of the closure, and         Respondents offered no alternative explanation for why       there would be such a precipitous drop in the number of            abortion ­­             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can you tell me why        Planned Parenthood left the western area? The General         Alderson Reporting Company Official says that Planned Parenthood ­­ that ASC and the ­­ and           the admitting privileges had nothing to do with the         closures in the western area of Texas.                   MS. TOTI: Well, the ­­ the two clinics in          El Paso, which is in ­­ in ­­ in that western region of             Texas that would be forced to close as a result of these             requirements, are not operated by Planned Parenthood.       Planned Parenthood doesn't have any clinics in Texas.        The plaintiff in this case and another independent        provider operate those clinics.                JUSTICE ALITO: And as to the ­­ the clinics          where there is direct evidence, does the direct evidence         show whether the cause was the admitting­privileges       requirement or the ASC requirement or both?                   MS. TOTI: It ­­ it ­­ with respect to ­­ it            does specify. And some specify the admitting­privileges        requirement, and some specify the ASC requirement. And         some specify both.               So with respect to whether abortion can be        regulated differently than other medical procedures,      abortion can certainly be treated differently, if there        is a reason to treat it differently. But Texas may not             impose unnecessary medical regulations that burden      women's access to abortion.                In Simopoulos, the Court found that the       Alderson Reporting Company Official regulations of second­trimester procedures at issue in       that case were consistent with prevailing medical       standards at the time, and that was critical to the          court's decision.              That is not the case here. There is         extensive testimony in the record that these       requirements are not medically justified. They are not         consistent with prevailing medical standards, and their       amicus briefs from leading medical associations,      including the AMA and ACOG, confirming that.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Do you think that Federal        district judges or this Court is well qualified to         determine whether there is a different risk, regard ­­         with respect to abortion, as compared to other        procedures, that may or may not have to be required ­­          may or may not have to be performed in an ­­ in an ASC?                          MS. TOTI: Your Honor, district courts are        quite competent to determine the credibility and the        reliability of expert testimony. That's something       that's within the core competence of a trial court. And            the trial court in this case determined that there was          no credible or reliable evidence supporting Texas's       contentions about the medical justification for these       laws.             And, further, had Texas truly believed that       Alderson Reporting Company Official these laws provided some important benefit for       outpatient surgery, it would have made them generally        applicable.             All outpatient surgical providers would have      to have admitting privileges or practice in an ASC, but          that's not the case.                Texas law expressly authorizes other     surgical procedures, including those performed under      general anesthesia ­­ which early abortion is not ­­ to          be performed in the physician's office. And even other          physicians that operate at an ASC aren't required to         have admitting privileges. The facility is merely        required to have a transfer agreement. So these          regulations target one of the safest procedures that a         patient can have in an outpatient setting for the most          onerous regulations.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   MS. TOTI: Thank you.                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: The case is       submitted.             (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company Official Official: : admitting : Page  :, : : area : : :, :, :,,, :,,, : : : : :, : : :,, : :, : : Amendment : areas :, :, : : : : : : arguable : : :, American : amended : admitting­privile... amicus : : : : admitting­privile... : : : : : : :,, : ample :, analysis : : :,, :, : : :, :, : : : :, :, analytical : anesthesia : :, :, annual : adopted :,, annually : : : : : argue : argued : : arguing : argument : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : arises : adoption : advance : achieve : : advancing : acknowledged : affidavit :, : : : arose : : arrangement : anticipation : : : affirms : afford : : afforded : age : : : anyway : : Antonio : : : anybody : : : agree : agreement : AL :, Alito : :, APPEARANCES apologize : appalling : appeals :, : ASC : : : A :,, : :, : a.m : : : abandonment : above­entitled : Abbott :, : : : ability : able : : : : : : : :, :, : abortion :, absolutely : : : : : : absorbed : accept : : acceptable : access : : :, : : : : :, : : account : : :, accurate : : :, : :, : : :,, :, :, :,,,,, accessible : :, :, :, : :, :, : : : accurately : :, :, :, : : :,, ACOG : :,,,, ACS : : : :,, :,, : : :,, :, : :,, :, acting : action : : : : actions : : :, actual : : : : : :,, : :, : : acted : : addition : act : : : : : : : abortions :, additional : : :, :, :, : : : :, : :, : :,, : :,,, : :,, : :, : :, : : address : : : : : : : adequately : adjective : adjusted : admission : : : admitted : articles : as­applied : :, : : :,, : : : :,,, :,,, : : :,, : :, : : :, : :,, : : : : : : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : :, : :, : appellate : :,,, : : :, : :,,, Appendix : applicable : : :, :,,,, application : : : : :,,, : : : : : applied : : : appointment : allegations :, apply : allow : allowed : : appropriate : alternative : AMA : amazing : ambulatory : :, appropriately : ASCs :, : : : : approximately : :,, : : : Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company Official : :, brief : : : : : : : : basic :, asked :, :, Basically : basis : :, : :, : : : asking : : : : aspect : aspirin : aspirins : asserted : assess : assessing : : association : : :, : :,, : : : : briefs : : briefing :, bear : Beaumont : behalf :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : : Brigham : : bring : : believe : : : : : : : : believed : believes : beneficial : associations : assume : : :, :, assuming : assumption : :, attempted : attention : : Austin : : : benefit :, : :,, :, : : :,, : : : : : : : : benefits : authority : : : : : : best :, authorizes : available : : better : average : avoid : Ayotte : : Bigger : beyond : : big : bill : : : : : : brought : : :, : Bryan : build : building : : burden : : :, : :,,,, :,,,,, : : : :, :, : :, :,, : : : : :, : :, :, : : burdened : :, : B B : : : : back : : :, : backdrop : balance : : :, : barred : : : bars : based : : :, : baseline : : : : burdens : : categories : causation : cause : : :, : :,, : : : burdensome : binding : : birth : bit : books : border : bore : brain : : break :, Breyer : : California :, C : : buy : : C caused : : :, causes : causing : cease :, ceased : center : : :,, : :,,, : : called : :, :, callous : : :,, :,,, : cancer : :, :, canvasses :, Alderson Reporting Company capability : capacity : : :,, : : :, :, :, : : : : :,, : care : : : : : : : : : : careful : carefully : case : :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : challenged : : : : :, : : : :, : :,, cases :, : : : : : : Casey : : :, : :, : :,, : checked : :, : : :, :,, Page  centers : :, : : certain : : certainly : : : : : : : : : : certificate : certified : challenge :, : :,,, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :,,, : challenges : : :, : : : challenging : changes : chart :, check : Chief :, : : :, : : : : :,,, : :, :, : :, :, :, :,, : :, : :, :,, :, :, childbirth : : choice : : : : choose : : Official Circuit : : :, : Circuit's :, : circumstances : : circumstantial : citations : cited : cites : : cities : : claim :,, compare : :, :, community : : : : : : : compared : : :,, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : competent : complete : completely : competence : : : confronted : confronting : consider : : : : considered : consistent :, constant : constitutional : : close : : : : : : :, : : construction : compliance : contention : complication : contentions : :, : : closed : :, : claiming : claims : : : : class : clause : : :, :,, : contesting : :, : contextual : continual : : : : continue :, CPR :, : continuity : controlled : : :,,,, : :,, :,, : :, : : complications :,, :, : :, :,,, :, :, : :, : :, : :,, core : : : : :, : :, : : :,, correct : : Page  :, :, : : : :, : :,,, :,, :, :, :,, : : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, court's : : : : : : : : : courts : : create : : creation : credibility : credible : closes : :, closure : : : : : : : clear :, : clearest : clinic : :, : : : :, :, : : : :, : : closures : : :, :, : : :, :, :, co­counsel : collection : :, :, :, : collectively : collects : :,,,,, : :,, colonoscopies : :, :, : : : :, colonoscopy : come : : clinical : clinics : : : :,, :, :,, : :, :, comes : : :,,, :,, : : :, :, :, :, : commitments : common :, :, : COMMISSION... : complied : comply : complying : concede :, : conceded : concern : : : : concerned : : concerning : : concerns : : : : : condition : conditions : confirming : confirms : conform :, :, :, conclude : : : : concluded : credulity : :,,, : credit : : :, :, : : critical : :, :, : : : : : corrected : correctly : corridors : cost :,, costs : counsel : : :, cut : : cure : cured : curettage :, curiae : : currently­licensed : : : : count : : countenanced : : country :, : couple : course : : : : : court :, : :,, : : :,, : D D : D&C :,, :,, D&Cs : D.C :, Dallas : : : dangerous : date : : :,,, day : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : differently : : :,, days : :, deadline : deal : decide : decided : decision :, : direct :,, dig : dilation :, diminished : diminishment : : : : : : :,, : :, Official : : :, :,, :, : : : doctrine :, : doing : : : dollars :, : DONALD : : decisions : decline : decrease : : deemed : defend : definition : delayed : delaying : demand : : : : demonstrates : demonstration : : doors : doubts : directed : directive : disagree : : disagreement : dozen : discovered : : Dr : :, discovery : discrete : : : drastically : draw : discretion : discuss : drawn : disproportionately drew : : dispute : : drop : disputed : drug : distance : : drug­induced : : : : :,,, elect : : elements : elevator : eleven : : enact : enacted : enactment : driving : : : : :, :, : : : :, effective :,, effects : : effort : eight : :,, : : : : either : : : : : El :, :, : : : :, : : : Page  : : : evidence :, :,, :,, :,,, : :,,, :, :, :,, : :, :, :, :, :,, : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : :,, :,,, : : : :, :, : : : : : : :, : : :, :, due : : : duty : dying :, denied : denominator : distances : : : : distinct : district : :, dentist : Department :, distribution : designed : despite : deter : determine : : :, determined : developed : E : : : : : : E : :, : :, : :,,, : : : earliest : : :, :, : : early : : earlier : : : : enforced : enforcement : : :, : :, : : exact : exactly : : : examines : : : examining : ensure : : : : : example : : : entire : entrances : entry : examples : exception : excessive :, excuse : equitable : exercise : ESQ :,, : Exhibit : : : developers : develops : die : : difference : :, : : : : different : : : dixit : :, doctor : : : :,, : :, : :, :, : : : : doctors : : :,, estate : estimate : estimated : early­stage : economist : effect :, : : : : : : :, ET :, :,, : evaluate : : :, : : : event : : evaluated : : exist : : existence : existing : exists : expect : : experience : experiment : : : : equipment : Alderson Reporting Company Official flimsy : floor : flush : focus : : focusing : : follow­up : following : : : :, follows : footprint : forced : : form : Former : Fort : forth : fortuitous : forward : : : : found : : : : four : : :, :, : : : four­ : Fourteenth : fraction :,, : frankly : friend's : front : Ft : fundamental : : : : fundamentally : funding : further : : : : future : : :, : Page  Gonzales : : : : :, :, :, : :, :,,, :, :, :, : : good : : : : : : Gosnell : : : : :,, : Gosnell­like : government : : : generally : geographic : getting : : : :, governor : grade : Ginsburg : : grandfathering : :, great : : : : : : :, : grant : : :,, : :,, : :,, :, greater : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :,, give : : Grossman : : :,, Grossman's : : : : given : : :, : :, : giving : gleaned : go : : : : : : groundless : : guess : : H : : : half : : : : : : : :, : : : : happen : : : : :, handle : goes : : happened : : : :, happening : hard :, harder : going : : : : : : :, :, : :, :, Haskell's : : :, : HB : :,, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : :, health :, :, expert : : : : : : : : experts : expired : explain : explanation : exponentially : expressly : : extensive : extent : extra : : extreme :, extremely : : : fact­finding : factor : : factors : facts : : : factual : failure : fairly : : family : far : : :, : Federal : : Federation : fee : fewer : : : F Fifth : : :, :, fabricating : : : face : : figures : facial :, : filed : : filing : filthy : final : finally : : :,, : :, : : facially : facilities : : find : : : : : finding : : : : findings :, : finish : : first : :,, :, : : : : : :, : : :,,, : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : : :,, : : : : :, : : : :, :, : :,, :, :, : : : facility : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : :, : : fact : : : : : : : : fit : fits : five : : : gaps : G : G :, :, five­fold : general :, :,, :, Alderson Reporting Company : : : hospitals :, :,, : : :,, :, : hotel : hour : :,, : health­related : hours :, health­saving : House : hear : : heard : heavy : : Huffington : huge : : hundreds : Houston : : : : held : : : Hellerstadt : HELLERSTEDT : : husband : husbands : : helpful : high : higher : : :,,,, : : highest : hit : holding : : : : holds : Holes : home : :, :, : honestly : Honor : : :, :, : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : : : :, : : Honor's : : horrible : : hospital : :, : :,, :, : : : : : hospitalized : I identical :, identified : imagine : immediate : immediately : : impact : : impetus : implementation : implementing : : importance : important : : : impose : : : :,, : : : :, : imposed : : imposes :, :, impossible : improve : : improvement : include :, includes : : including : Official : : : : increase : : : : : : : : :, :, increased : : : : : : increases : : increasing : : indentured : : independent : :, : : independently : indicated : individual : infer : : inference : : : information : informed : informed­consent : initial : initially : injury : innocuous : inquiries : inquiry : Insofar : inspected : : inspections : : : instance : : : : : :, : : instances : instruction : instruments : intended : intends : interest :, : :, :, : :,,, : interesting : interests : : interpretation : interrupt : invading : invalid : invalidity : invest : investors : involve : involved : : ipse : :, irrational : issue : : : : issues : J JA : :, : : : : :,, : :, : :, :, JOHN : join : joined : Joint : JR : : : judge : : : judges : : judgment : : : judicata : : : : judicial : Justice : :, : :, :, Page  :,, :, : :, : :, :, :,,, : :, :, :, : :, :, :,, : : :, :, :, :,,, :,,, :,, :,, : : : : : : :,, : :,,, :,, : : :, : :,,, :,, :, :, : :,, : :,, : :,,, : : :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, : :,, :,, : :,, : :,,, :,, :, : :,, : :, : :,, : :,, :,,,, : :,, :,, :, :,,,, :,,, :,,,, :,,, :, : :,,, Alderson Reporting Company :,, : :,, :,, :,, : : :, : : : :, : kept : Kermit : justification : key : : : : : : : justified : : : K K : Kagan :,, Killeen : : : : kind : : : :, :, : : : : keep : Keller : : : : : kinds : : :, : : : : knew : :, :, :, : : : know : : : :, : : : :, :, : : : : :, : : : : : : :, : :, :,,, : : :, : :, :, :, : :,, :,, : : :,, knowing : :,, : known : : : : knows : : : : :, :, :,, : :, :, :,, : : :,, :,, : :, :, : : : Laughter : :, :, :, : :, :, :, : :,,, : Kennedy : : : : : : :,, : :,, lack : : lacking : land : language : large : : law :, : : :, : :,, : :,, : : : :,,, :,, : : : : : : : : L Official : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :,,,, :,, : : :, : :, :,, :, :, : : : laws : : : : : : : : lawsuit :,, :, : :, :, : : : : : :, Layne­Farrar : lead : leading : : lease : leased : leave : : left : : : legal : legislation : : legislators : legislators' : legislature : : : : :, : :, : : :, legislature's : legislatures : : legitimate : : : : : let's :,, Page  :, : : : lots : Louisiana : level : : : : liberty : : licensed : : Lubbock :, lower : : lowest­risk : : : licenses : licensing : : Lynn : : M magnitude : main : mainstream : major : : majority : making : : life : : lift : lifted : light : : lines : : : linkage : liposuction : manner : liposuctions : March : litigated : litigating : litigation : marginal : market : Massachusetts : little : live :, : : lived : : lives : : : living : : loathe : local : located : locus : logical : long : : longer : look : : : : : : :,, : : : :, looked : : : : material : : : math : matter : : maximum : Mazurek : : : McAllen : : : : : : McCallen : :, : mean :, : : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : meaning : : : : : : meaningful : means : : : : looking : : mechanism : medical : : Alderson Reporting Company : miscommunication :,,,, miscarriage : : : : miscarries : : :, : :, :, : :, :,, moment : : :,,,, money : : : : : :, :,, months : : misquoting : : : medically : morning : : : : mouth : : move : Official nevertheless : new : :,, : : : : : : :,,,, :, : : : obtained : obviously : occur : occurred : : odd : offer : : offered : offering : newly :, news : nine : : non­abortion : office : : offices : : non­ASC : non­Petitioner okay : : medication : multimillion­doll... : : : meet : :, multiply :, northern : noted : : : : : : : : : :, : : meets :, mentioned : : merely : : merits : message : metroplex : metropolitan : : Mexico :,, :,,,, N N :, : N.Y : named :, names : nation :, National : nationwide : : nature : near :, : : : : : old :, : : once : : notification : : : :, : : number : : one­ : :, : one­two : : : :, onerous : : : : : :, : :, : : : : :,, ones : : :, : numbers : : nearby : nearest : : nurse :,,, nearly : : necessarily : MGH : : mile : miles : :, :,,, :,, : :,, : : necessary : : objections : objective : : obligation : obstacle :,, necessitate : need : : O : : : O million :, : : : : mind : minimum : : : :, : : : : : needed : : : : minuscule : minute : minutes : : never : : needs : negate : : : : operated : : : : : operates : : :,, operating : : : : : : : operation : : : operations : obstacles : opine : opinion : : : : : : : obtain : : : :, Page  opponents : opportunity : : : opposed : : : : opposite : oral : :,, : : : : order : : ought : : outfit : outfits : outpatient : :,, outside : overall : overnight : P P : page : :, : : : : pages :, Parenthood :, : : : : : : :, :, : :,, part :, : : :, : :, partial : : : : :, : : particularly : : : : parts :, : : Paso :, : :, : : :, open : : : :, : : : opened : : : :,, opening : : operate : : : : partially : particular : : Alderson Reporting Company Official : : : Petitioner :, : pass : passed : : Petitioner's : Petitioners :, : : policy : populous : : patient : : : : patients : pay : : Pennsylvania : : : : people : : : :,, : position : : : : : : : : Posner : : : : possessed : : : possible : : Post : Petitioners' : : : : previously : prior : :, : : : post­­week : privilege : : :, : : physically : physician's : percent : :, physicians : : : : : : : pills :, : pre­enforcement : piece : : posture : potential : powers : practice : : pre : : :, : preclusion : : : : preemptively : problems : : Page  prevailing :, prompted : prevent : : promulgate : : preventing : prevents : : : : : : :, : : promulgated : prong : proof : proper : : proportion : protect : protecting : protective : protocol : privileges : : provide :, : : : : : : : : : provided : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, probably : problem :, providers : : Providers' : provider : :, : : : : : : provides : : : : : : : :,, : :, : :,, providing : : provision :,,, : : :, : : : provisions : : : : : : : : : : : : : procedures : procedure :, public : punch : purpose :,, : :,, :, :, :, : :, : : purpose­based : :, : :, :, : : : : : :, Program : prohibited :, puts : put : :, : :, :, : : :,, : : : promote : promoting : Q qualified : question : : : :, :, : pin : place : plain : plaintiff :, : precedent : precipitous : precise : precisely : : : precluded :, percentage : : : percentages : perfect : perfectly : perform : : performed : : : : plaintiffs : : : : :, : : : : : :,, : : : planned :, :, : plaintiffs' :, : preexisting : pregnancies : performing : : :,, : : period : : : : : pregnancy : :, : : :, :,, :, : :,, planning : preliminary : prelude : premise : : : : : : :,, : play : :, : : : please : : plus : point : : prescribes : presence : preserve : preserved : presumably : : permissible : permission : permit : permitted :, : : personal : personnel : : : : presume : : : : pretty : :, prohibitive : : : : :, pointed : points : : prevail : prevailed : : Alderson Reporting Company : : : reason : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :, : : : : : : : reasonably : reasonable : : reasons : : :, : : : : : reauthorize : rebut : : rebuttal : : : : : : : recognized : recommended : : : : record :, : Official regulated : regulating : : : regulation : :, : : : regulations : :,,,, : :,,,, : :, : : : : :, regulatory : :, reinstate : related : : : relation : relevant : : : questions : quibble : quick : quite : : : :, : : : : : quoting : R R : raised : : raising : random :, range : rate : : : rates : : : rational : : :,, : : : rationally : rats : react : : reacted : read :, : : : : : reading : : real : : : : : : really : : : : : : : : : : Page  : responding : reporting :,, response : : : reports : : responses : responsible : reproductive : : : require : : : required :, : : : :, : rest : : restarted : restate : rested : restriction :, :,, result : : : : : : : : retirement : retrofitting : review : requirement : : : :, :,, : :, :,, : : :, resulted : : :,, :, retain : : : :,, :, : : : : :,, : right :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : :, : : : :,,, :,, : : :, : : : : : : : :, requirements : : : : :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : : : : : : ripe : rise : : risk : :, : : : : : : : : riskier : : risks : : : : : reliable : relief : : : :, : reliability : :,, : :, :, : :, : :,, : : : : : : remain : : :, : :, : : remained : : : :, : :, : relieve : rely : remaining : : reduce : : reduced : reduces : reexamine : references : referred : regard : : : regardless : : : : : : : : : : : res : : : : : remains : remand :, resolved : resources : : remedy : : :,, : rendering : reopen : : reopened : : :, :, : respect : : :,, : :, risky : : :,,,,, ROBERTS : :,,, : : : :, : : : :, : : : :,, : :, : : : : : :, : region : registered :,, regular : : regulate : : reported : report : : Respondents : : : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Simopoulos : : : : seen : sees : :, :, segment : :, Roe : self­created : rogue :, : self­evident :, single : : role : roughly : : : : : : : : self­induced : : : : :, send : sense :, :, : separate : : : separately :,, separation : serve : served : services : : set : : :, setting : : seven : : : severability : :, severed : : : short : : : show : : : : : : : : : showed : showing : : : : shown : : : : sites : situation : :, situations : six : : : six­month : size : slave : slightest :, small : solely : Solicitor :, somebody : Sonia : sorry : : : : : sort : Sotomayor : : :, :,, : :, : : : : : : : :, :, : :,, : :,, :,,,, : :, :,, : : :,,, :, : sought : : : : rule : rules : run : S S : : safe : safer : : : safest : safety : : : : San : : : Santa : saving : saw : saying : : : says : : : : : : : : : : : scandal : SCOTT : : : scrape : scrutiny : second : : :, : :, second­trimester : see : : : : : : seek : : : seeking : Page  spot : : stay :, : : : : stayed : spots : spousal­notificati... STEPHANIE : :, : : : stable : stage : stand : : : standard : : : : : : : : : sterilize : stipulated : :, : : stipulation : : :,, stories :, strength :, standards :, stress : stretch : stretcher : struck : : : :,,, :, start : : started : starting : state : : : studied : : subject : : : : : submitted :, :,, : subsequent : : :,, :, : : : :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : : : : : : : substance :, substantial : : State's :, : : : :, :, : statements : States :,, : sue : succeed : succeeds : successful : suddenly : suffice : sufficient : : :, : : sufficiently : suggest : suggesting :, suit :,,, : supplement : supplemental :, supplies : supply : : : : : : : States' : statewide : statistic : : shows : : : : : shut : side : : significant : : : : significantly : similar : space :, specific : : specify :,, statistically : : : speculative : speed : spontaneous : statistics :, : : : statute :,, statutory : Alderson Reporting Company support : : supporting : : : : supports : suppose : : targeted : targeting : tell : : : : telling : : : : tells : Supreme :, : ten : : : sure : : tenth : : : : Teresa : :, : : surgery : : test : : : :, : :, : :, : : surgical : : : : : :,, :,, :, :, : : :, :,, : :, surprised :, sustained : swath : swift : system : T T :, Table :, tailored : take :, : : : : : :, : :, :, : :, : : :, : : taken : : : : takes : talk : talking : : : :, :, : : : target : testified : : : : testimony : : : : :, : : : : : : : : :, :, Tex : Texas :, : thousands : thought : : :, : : : : : : :,, : :,,,, : : : : :, : : : : : : three : : : :, :, : :,, :, :,,, : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : :, : : :,, : : threshold : thrust : tie : till : time : : : three­quarters : : : : : : : Texas's : : : thank : : Official Page  : :,,, : : :, : :, theme : theory : they'd : thing : : : : : things : : :, : : : times : :, : : timing :, : tiny : today : : : : tried : trimester : true : : : : truly : try : : : told : : trying : : : tomorrow : : : turn : : two : :,, top : topics : total :, think : :, :, : : :, : : : Toti : :, : :,,, :, : :,, : :,, :, :, : : : : :,, : :, : :,,, : :,, :,,, : :,, :, : : :,, :,,, : : : : :, :, :, :, : :, : : : : : : : : : : :,, : :,, :,, : : :, : : : :, : :, : transcript : transfer : : travel :, :, : : : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, : : : : : :, : two­and­a­half : two­clinic : two­day : two­part : two­week : types : typically : U ultimate : : : ultimately : unable : : unanticipated : unconstitutional : : :, : underlying : traveling : treat : treated : : undermine : undermines : treatment : treatments : :, : : :,, : : : :,, : trial :, :, : : : : : : : :, : : underreported :, : : understand : Alderson Reporting Company Official :, violation : violations : Virginia : virtually :, What'd : whichever : wide : : win : wise : withstand : wait : : : woman : : waiting :, :, :, waivers :,, : : : wake : : : woman's : : : : wrong : x :, X Y : : : : year : :,, : : : years : : : yeah : : : , : Page  : : : : : :, : : . : : :, : :, : :,, : : : : :, : : : : : : understanding :, : W understood : undue : : Wade : :, :, :,,, : :,, :, : : : : walk : : : : want : : :, : :, : : : :, : : undue­burden : :, United :,, : : unnecessary : : : unreasonable : : wants : : : Washington : : wasn't : : unusual :, unwarranted : way : : : :, upheld : : upholding : upset : use : : V v : : : vacate : valid :, validate : value : variance : variety : Verrilli : : :,, : : we'll : : : we're : : : : :, : : : : : we've : weaker : Wednesday : week : weeks : weighed : went : : :, : : : : : :, : :, women : : York : : :, Z : : : zero : :,, : :,, : : :, : :, : : : :, : : : : :,,, : : : :,, : : : : :,,,, :, : :, :, :, : : : : : : : : :,, : : : ­hour : . : , :, : : : : , : : : : :, :, : : : : : : : :,, women's : : : : : :, : wondering : word : words : : work :, : : : : : : : : : : : , : . : : : : :, : : :, : : . : : : : : : , : :,,, :, : :, :, : : :, : : :,,, ­ : : :, :, West : : Worth : : :,, : : : : : : working :, works : worried : :, : :, weren't : : : versa : vice : : : : western : : wouldn't : : :, : : : : : Alderson Reporting Company Official Page  :, : : : : : : : : : : , : : ­ :, : : , : : : : : : : : : : , : : : : , :, : : , : Alderson Reporting Company 