 Official ­ Subject to Final Review        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES        ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                  UNITED STATES ARMY CORPS              OF ENGINEERS,                       : :             Petitioner                : No. ­         v.                          HAWKES CO., INC., ET AL.,                          Respondents.           : : : ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ x                                                         Washington, D.C.                         Wednesday, March ,                  The above­entitled matter came on for oral       argument before the Supreme Court of the United States         at : a.m.   APPEARANCES: MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,          Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of           Petitioner. M. REED HOPPER, ESQ., Sacramento, Cal.; on behalf of         Respondents. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                    C O N T E N T S ORAL ARGUMENT OF                                      PAGE MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            ORAL ARGUMENT OF   M. REED HOPPER, ESQ.       On behalf of the Respondents                           REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF   MALCOLM L. STEWART, ESQ.       On behalf of the Petitioner                            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                       P R O C E E D I N G S                                            (: a.m.)              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument       next this morning in Case ­, the United States Army          Corps of Engineers v. Hawkes Company.                  Mr. Stewart.             ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART                     ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                 MR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it         please the Court:                 A jurisdictional determination issued by the     Army Corps of Engineers is not final agency action         because it does not order any person to do or refrain           from doing anything and does not alter anyone's legal         rights and obligations. The jurisdictional      determination, or JD, expresses the Corps' opinion about        whether a particular tract contains waters protected by         the Clean Water Act. That stated opinion may affect the           recipient's assessment of the options available to it,        but it does not affect the actual legal status of those           options.             This Court's precedents made clear that the       practical effects on which Respondents rely are not a         sufficient ground for treating an agency communication       as final agency action.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             Now, the Respondents primarily emphasize the      practical impact that the Corps' jurisdictional      determination would have upon themselves, the recipients       and the intended audience. And they say the         jurisdictional determination indicating that the Corps      believes there are waters of the United States on the          Property will force them to choose among three        unattractive options: One, would be seeking a permit          which could be an expensive process and wouldn't be by          any means certain to succeed; the second would be         discharging pollutants, discharging fill onto the      Property and taking their chances in a future         enforcement action; and the third would be playing it         safe, forgoing development entirely.                And the problem with Respondents' argument      is that that choice would have existed before the         jurisdictional determination was issued. It would have        existed if the Corps had never adopted its practice of          issuing jurisdictional determinations upon request.     It's simply a choice that is posed by the Clean Water            Act.             JUSTICE ALITO: If there were a provision of          law saying that a jurisdictional determination by the         Corps or by the EPA is binding on the federal government           in future litigation, would that be reviewable?       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. STEWART: I think if the ­­ if the           statute said that, we would have a very different case,           because in that case we would have something much closer          to Bennett v. Spear.                In Bennett v. Spear, the Corps ­­ the Court         was dealing with a biological opinion issued by one          Federal agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service to another         Federal agency, the Bureau of Reclamation, and it        included an incidental take statement. And the terms         and conditions of the incidental take statement affected        the legal options that were available to the Bureau of          Reclamation.             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, it would be a        different case, but are you able to say whether that          would be reviewable under the EPA?                  MR. STEWART: Yes. I think if the ­­ if the             Corps' jurisdictional determination were legally binding      upon the EPA, if it foreclosed the possibility of an          enforcement ­­ of an EPA enforcement action that was         inconsistent with the terms of the jurisdictional       determination, yes, we think that the JD would be         judicially reviewable.              But I think it's important to ­­ to point          out how far removed that is from the actual statute          before us. That is ­­     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me just ask about         how far removed it is. There is no such statute, that            certainly is true, but there is a Memorandum of          Understanding between the Army and the EPA, and it says,          quote, "case­specific determinations" ­­ and I think        that includes jurisdictional determinations ­­ "made      pursuant to the terms of this Memorandum of        Understanding will be binding on the government and        represent the government's position and any subsequent       Federal action or litigation regarding the case."                   So is your ­­ would your argument be that         because this is in a Memorandum of Understanding as          opposed to a statute or a regulation, the situation is            different, and that is insufficient to make the        jurisdictional determination reviewable?               MR. STEWART: That would be one argument,        but the other argument, and I think we've made this           point in the reply brief, that particular Memorandum of         Understanding was dealing with what are referred to as         "special case determinations."               There are ­­ situations occasionally arise      where the agencies perceive at the outset that there         could be dicey questions. There could be questions of          coverage on which the Corps and EPA might disagree. And           since ­­  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I don't ­­ I'm          sorry to stop you right there, but I don't think that's            right. I'm looking at the Memorandum as well, and it           says in Section ­­ no, I'm sorry, ()(C)(ii), it           describes nonspecial cases. It says, "For those        projects not involving a special case, the DE" ­­ in           other words, the district engineer, the Army Corps, not         EPA ­­ "the DE shall make final determinations and         communicate those determinations without a requirement       for prior consultation with EPA."                 So while it talks about the division of        authority between special cases and the mine­run cases,        it certainly says something about nonspecial cases.       That's what Section is titled "Nonspecial Cases."                     MR. STEWART: But ­­ but we understand the         language about the ultimate determination being binding       on the government in subsequent litigation as referring        to special case determinations.                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, but I don't         see how you can do that. I'm looking, you know, at            (a). It says all final determinations must be in          writing and signed by either the DA ­­ either the Army           Corps person ­­ or the regional administrator ­­ the EPA          person.             And it says that those will be binding on         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the government and represent the government's position       in any subsequent Federal ­­ Federal action or        litigation concerning that final determination."                   It is referring to those that are ­­ it's       referring to all final determinations by either the Army         Corps of Engineers or EPA.                 MR. STEWART: I ­­ I take it we're looking            at the memorandum, Memorandum of Agreement?                   CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's the one ­­       yeah, the one you cite in footnote of the reply brief,             where you say that it does not address mine­run core          jurisdictional determinations.              MR. STEWART: I ­­ I think we would still            think of the ­­ the general ­­ the final determinations          as referring to special case determinations, but even if         the Memorandum of ­­               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, just to pause        there, how can you do that when it says all final           determinations signed either by the D ­­ the district          engineer, who does not have authority over special        cases, or the regional administration ­­ administrator?       How can you read that as applying only to the special           case determinations?              MR. STEWART: Well, we are ­­ it is saying          final determinations of the DEA or RA made pursuant to          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review this MOA, which is referring to ­­ which is a MOA ­­ MOA              that is referring specifically to special case       determinations.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, this MOA       decides what's a special case and what's not, and it           tells you what happens when it's not. So I just don't             see how you can say that talks only about special cases.                       MR. STEWART: I think even if the memorandum          is read ­­ read that way ­­ if the memorandum is read            that way, I don't think it reflects current government          policy. It doesn't reflect the current understanding of         the Corps and EPA. And I don't want to ­­                       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's fine. Give        me an example of a case where the government has gone            after someone, absent changed circumstances, who's had a        negative JD in hand, any situation past, pre­memorandum,        post memorandum ­­                          MR. STEWART: I don't think ­­       JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: ­­ where ­­ where you've        actually taken the Army Corps' determination and said,        we're going to go after this person anyway.                    MR. STEWART: I don't know that it's ever          happened, and I certainly don't want to suggest ­­                     JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The fact that you're       reserving your power is enough, even though by this memo          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review and practice you've never done it? You think that          that's not within Bennett's second prong.                  MR. STEWART: It's not within Bennett's       second prong in the same way that in Franklin v.          Massachusetts that ­­ the practice of the President had         always been to transmit the figures and do the         apportionment in accordance with the figures that were        prepared by the Secretary of Commerce. But the Court          said what mattered was there ­­ there was no legal ­­          legally binding obligation on the President to do that.                       I would also say that independent of the       possibility of an EPA enforcement action, there is a         more realistic possibility of a private citizen suit.         The fact that the Corps concludes that jurisdictional        waters are not present wouldn't preclude a citizen suit          from being filed challenging that premise of the        discharge activity ­­              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the question       is, I think, whether it's final with respect to the           Corps' determination, not with respect to whether       somebody else might be able to bring a suit, and ­­ and             I think what Justice Sotomayor is suggesting is that in          practice and, what I was suggesting, in law is it's           final with respect to the Corps.                  MR. STEWART: And that would be the first         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review prong of Bennett. That is, even with respect to the           Corps, it is still subject to reexamination if somebody         presents new information, if the ­­ if in the course of           a permitting process the applicant asks the Court to         reconsider its prior jurisdictional determination, the      Corps is not going to reconsider it sua sponte during          the five­year period while it remains in effect.                    CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, it seems to me         what you are arguing, then, is that there are exceptions          to what is otherwise a safe harbor.                    MR. STEWART: It's ­­ it's not intended to         be ­­ first of all, the jurisdictional determination        that we're talking about here, the one that's actually         being challenged, was one that concluded that       jurisdictional waters were present. And it's clear that         that sort of jurisdictional determination has no binding        effect on anyone. The landowner is still legally free          to disagree and to discharge ­­                 CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, a great ­­ a          great practical risk. I mean, the ­­ the Corps comes in             and says these are jurisdictional waters. And you say,          yeah, well, you can go ahead. You can still dump and do             everything you want and take your chances that there         will be a different ruling later on down the road.                       MR. STEWART: And ­­ and the other ­­ I          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review agree that it ­­ it is a legally available alternative,           but I agree a practically difficult one.                     The other alternative that the ­­ the       Property owner has is to seek a permit to discharge fill            lawfully. And the permitting process, that really is         the mechanism that Congress designed to allow people to         get an advanced ruling on the legality of their         discharges without subjective ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well ­­ well, it's very        arduous and very expensive. So for a landowner who           thinks, I shouldn't be under this Clean Water Act at           all, and now they have to go through this whole process,           it's going to take years and cost me a lot of money.                         MR. STEWART: And ­­ and I think the          legal ­­ our legal system confronts that type of problem          and that type of tradeoff in a lot of different           contexts. For example, that was exactly the argument         that Standard Oil made in FTC v. Standard Oil.                     The FTC has commenced an administrative      proceeding in which Standard Oil was charged with        violating the law. And there was ­­ I believe the            phrase was reason to ­­ to believe. There ­­ there was            a statutory threshold that the FTC had to surmount         before administrative proceedings could be initiated.                  And Standard Oil's complaint was I should be         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review able to challenge the initiation of the proceedings        because it will put me through great expense to defend          against them, it will impugn my reputation ­­                   JUSTICE BREYER: Sometimes it doesn't. But        I joined Bennett, and the reason I joined it is it says             in the second prong, "Or from which legal consequences         flow." So I would assume that nothing in Bennett ­­ or             I would have dissented ­­ is intended to overrule what I           think is the great case on the matter, which is Abbott           Labs.             And Harlan, in Abbott Labs, explains      completely and thoroughly what this Court has done in         Frozen Food Express, what the Court did in Storer. And           on the point you're now making, what he says         specifically is the ICC order is right for review, even          though it would have no effect until later. Someone          decided to bring a particular action.                   He says that in Storer, the Commission,       policy determination is ripe, even though it would not         issue a television license ­­ that's what the policy          said ­­ even though no specific application was before         the court. So it wouldn't take effect until later.                      And the same thing is true precisely of the         order in Abbott Labs itself. It was a statement of            interpreting what the Commission would do, and nothing        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review was going to happen. Nothing happened, unless later on          somebody decided to violate it. Much like this. And           even if they violated it, nothing would happen, unless         the Commission decided to prosecute.                 So what Justice Ginsburg said was, once this        is in effect, okay, now what happens? The person who is            subject to it has to take certain steps because of the           law. One, spend $, to try to get an exception and            fail, or two, do nothing, violate it, and possibly go to           prison. Those sound like important legal consequences        that flow from an order that, in respect to the Agency,           is final, for it has nothing left to do about that           interpretation.             courts.             And B, is perfectly suited for review in the         So we have harm flowing from a change in          legal relations, we have an agency that has nothing left          to do on this particular matter, and we have a court            that is perfectly suited to review it. I would say it             flows from Abbott Labs, almost QED. So what is your ­­           what is your response to that?                  MR. STEWART: Well, with respect to Abbott        Labs specifically ­­ excuse me ­­ Abbott Labs dealt with          a regulation that essentially required that on each        instance where the ­­ the trade name of the drug          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review appeared, including it on the labeling, the generic name         of the drug had to appear as well.                    And the regulation, as rules typically do,       was phrased as a ­­ as a directive. It said             manufacturers shall do this. It was a legal ­­ legal            command.              In Standard Oil, the court dealt with ­­      said in various contexts, we have held that regulations         are immediately reviewable as final agency action,       although the court engages in a separate ripeness         discussion.             The second thing I would say about Bennett         is the Bennett court, I think, was quite careful not to            rest its decision on the practical impact that the order          would have on the recipient. It rested its decision on           the fact that the biological opinion constrained the        legal obligation options available to the Bureau of        Reclamation, because only by complying with the FWS's        terms and conditions could the Bureau of Reclamation get         the immunity from Endangered Species Act liability that        it wanted.              The third thing I would say, and to return          to my prior point about FTC v. Standard Oil, it happens           a lot in the law that we are confronted with a situation             like this, where a particular government decision is         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review made. Be it an agency order, a district court order            that denies a motion to dismiss for lack of subject           matter jurisdiction or for failure to State a claim on           the merits, and the losing party, the person who         disagrees with the order, says I should be able to get            immediate review of this because if I don't get          immediate review, then even if I'm vindicated at the end          of the day, I will be put to substantial burden and            expense in the meantime.                JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Stewart, may I ask         you, please don't panic by asking this question. And          please don't resist it, because I know all your          arguments resisting it. But assuming we disagree with         you that that should be appealable, what's the narrowest         way to right this that the government would like?                     MR. STEWART: I guess if the ­­ if the Court            ruled against us on the ground that it understood the          EPA and the Corps to have entered into a binding           agreement, such that the EPA would be foreclosed from         taking action based on its disagreement with the Corps'         jurisdictional determination, I ­­ I think if that were           the gravamen of the opinion, it would be one that if the            agencies wanted to fix it, they easily could, simply by          issuing a new MOA clarifying their view of the ­­ the            JD's effect.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, on the same lines,        could I ask more generally? I mean, one of the reasons              I find this case very difficult is because all over the           Federal government there are compliance offices of       various kinds whose function is to give advice to         people. And often that advice comes with very specific          recommendations. It says we will not take enforcement         action if, or, we do not consider it a violation of law             on the following facts.                And I guess what I want to know is your view             of how this program compares to various other kinds of          programs like this, whether it's the ­­ whether it's tax          opinion letters, or SEC opinion letters, or FCC or         whatever, how this program compares to those and where         you could draw sensible lines, because mostly we want         government agencies to do these things. We think that          this helps people, to actually know what the government         thinks about particular factual situations. So how do         we draw lines in this area, in your view?                     MR. STEWART: Well, I mean, it ­­ I guess            part of the ­­ the difficulty I have with your question            is ­­ or I should say I think if you were drawing lines,               the jurisdictional determination at issue here would be        fairly far removed from anything that ought to be         judicially reviewable, because in many of the instances,        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the informal advice that agencies are giving, it is         specifically advice about the legality ­­ the perceived        legality or illegality of specific contemplated private       conduct.             Somebody may come to the Agency and say I'm         thinking about doing X, would that be legal or illegal?          And the Agency might say we think that that would be one            or the other. We ­­ the likelihood that an agency would            say to somebody that's legal and subsequently pursue an         enforcement action is ­­               JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I think ­­ I think           underlying Justice Kagan's question is that the Clean        Water Act is unique in both being quite vague in its           reach, arguably unconstitutionally vague, and certainly      harsh in the civil and criminal sanctions it puts into          practice.             What's the closest analogous statute that      gives the affected party so little guidance at the front          end?             MR. STEWART: Well, I think with respect to          the vast majority of sites in this country, it's readily          apparent whether the Clean Water Act applies; that is ­­         and this point is somewhat removed from the actual facts          of this case, but it happens all the time that at           construction sites around the country, industrial      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review parties will dig up a lot of dirt and deposit it            somewhere else. And they're doing something that would         be illegal if it occurred in waters of the         United States, but nobody thinks there's a problem,         because in the vast bulk of its ­­ in the vast bulk of             locations, there really isn't a quandary.                   And if you imagine a statute that said         before you can do anything like that, you have to come           to the Corps and get advance assurance that these are          not waters of the United States, it would be         exponentially more burdensome.                 I take your point that there are certainly a        significant range of tracks where the application of the         Act is authentically ambiguous. But the ­­ the thing I           would say about that is Congress has designed the         permitting process. There are other statutes in which         regulated parties have no statutory mechanism for       getting an advance ruling as to the legality of their          conduct. They have to either do it and take their           chances, or forego it, or perhaps seek informal advice         from the Agency.               JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let's ­­ let's say in         a case where there hasn't been a stand­alone         jurisdictional determination and the landowner applies      for a permit. The first part of the permitting process,            Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review as ­­ as I understand it, would be a jurisdictional            determination; is that right?                            MR. STEWART: That's correct.     JUSTICE ALITO: Okay. And at the end of          that, can the landowner get judicial review if the         determination is that it ­­ it is subject to the Clean           Water Act; or does the landowner have to go forward, in           your view, with the entire ­­ all the rest of the           permitting process before there is a possibility of an          administrative appeal and judicial review?                 MR. STEWART: I think it would still have to           go through the rest of the permitting process. And ­­          and part of the point for that is it ­­ it may be that              during the rest of the permitting process, the landowner         will have no prospect, except, perhaps, of an        administrative appeal, of persuading the court to       reexamine its jurisdictional determination. That      becomes ­­             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Why isn't the permitting       process a legal consequence under the ­­ the second ­­          the second prong of Bennett?                 MR. STEWART: It's not a legal consequence         because the ­­ the landowner always has the legal option          of discharging without a permit if it feels that ­­                      JUSTICE BREYER: Then he goes to jail. I          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review mean, you put in your brief he risks it. In your            brief ­­ and I think the point raised, of course, you ­­            it's a good idea to give people advice. Abbott Labs            takes care of that. One of the three important features           of Abbott Labs is you look at it from the point of view             of the Agency. And you say, how formal is it? What was              there left to be done?                 And in this case, we have a whole set, a           whole part of the CFR which is devoted this, which goes           to varied ­­ it's called "Jurisdictional Determination       from Instructional Guidebook." The Army Corps of        Engineers is brought in. Once they make a         determination, it's called the Agency's official view.       It's stated it remains in effect for five years, unless          conditions change.              And you, in your brief, say that the        issuance of an approved jurisdictional determination      marks the culmination of the distinct process by which         the Corps informs a landowner whether the Corps believes          that covered waters are present.                 So that doesn't sound like someone giving       informal advice, and there's an appeal process. It         sounds like a formal system of answering a question,           which question is: Are these lands wetlands, Federal or          not? Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               Now, if you give some kind of informal      advice, fine. You'd come to a different result. But            I've just listed the things here that suggest it isn't          at all formal. It's a five ­­ informal. It's a             five­year formal, definite procedurally guided CFR      determination.             MR. STEWART: I would agree that the process          that culminates in the approved jurisdictional      determination is much more formal and ­­ and elaborate         than the process that would usually culminate in the         kind of advice letters that Justice Kagan is talking         about.             JUSTICE BREYER: All right. Well, if that's         so, we have the other part of the problem.                     MR. STEWART: But I ­­ I don't think the            formality of the process really has much to do with the           basis on ­­ the practical basis on which Respondent         wants to get into court; that is, if this had been a            much less formal document, but it had still manifested         the Corps' view that jurisdictional waters were present,        I think Respondents would say they would be under         exactly the same practical pressure either to go ­­                    JUSTICE BREYER: It isn't just the pressure.                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Indeed, that ­­                 JUSTICE BREYER: It's both. And the concern         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review on the other side, beyond the EPA, is this is a vast             Federal government. And this vast Federal government        can operate ­­ can issue many, many formal        determinations on aspects of the statute. And if people          are ­­ people are required to follow those, without         court review, on penalty of going to jail if they don't           just follow it, or are paying hundreds of thousands of          dollars, what happens to judicial review? That, I         think, is also a public policy question.                    MR. STEWART: I agree that it's a public           policy question, but as I was saying about Standard Oil           and the ­­ and the same principle applies to our ­­ our            legal system's general resistance to interlocutory      appeals within the judicial system; that is, it happens         all the time that a motion to dismiss is denied. The             party who thinks that the complaint ought to be         dismissed could say to an appellate court, I will have           to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars litigating this         case to its conclusion before I can achieve         potentially ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: At least there's an       opportunity to certify the question to say it's        interlocutory, but there's a good reason why it should          go up immediately. So there's nothing like (b)         here. Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. STEWART: There is nothing like ­­ I          mean, there is the permitting process. There is an          alternative mechanism to get into court, and during        the ­­             JUSTICE GINSBURG: The jurisdictional     determination, you ­­ you ­­ well, first, can you         explain to me why the ­­ under the Clean Water Act, it's            done this way ­­ it's not, you can request advice, and           we'll give you advice. That's what we think now, but           it's not binding. It's a deliberate attempt to make           this determination formal and binding on the Agency.        This is our position. It's a final adjudication of our            position on the jurisdictional question.                 MR. STEWART: I think it is formal, and the           Corps doesn't revisit it because it ­­ sua sponte         because it would usually seem like a waste of time,           unless somebody had presented the Corps a reason ­­                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why was it done this way,         to make it this formal adjudication, rather than we'll         give you advice?               MR. STEWART: I don't know why the ­­ the           formality including the administrative appeal was      provided. I think it was intended as a service to ­­ to               landowners, that the Corps wanted to give the best         advice. The only other thing I would say about ­­           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Was there ­­ was there        anything in it for the EPA or the Corps? I mean, I              understand we ­­ we want to inform the public of the           Agency's position. But is it all altruism, or is          there ­­ was there a reason that ­­ that the EPA or the              Corps wanted it done this way?                  MR. STEWART: It certainly has benefits to        the enforcement agency in the sense that if landowners         receive what the Corps believes to be accurate        information about their property, the likelihood of       their complying will be greater.                 As Justice Kennedy, I believe, was pointing        out, the preparation of a jurisdictional determination        would be the first step in the ­­ the permitting process           if ­­ if one was ­­                 JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Stewart, in regular       litigation, there is an inducement, potentially, for one        or other party to appeal to delay the resolution of the           case.             In this situation, I don't see that        inducement as existing, meaning I doubt very much that          landowners are ­­ who wanted to use their property for a           particular purpose are going to appeal just for the ­­         just to delay the government's adjudication of an issue         that's going to either permit them or not permit them to           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review go forward.              MR. STEWART: I would agree there is less          danger of manipulative appeals. There is still a real           danger of duplicative appeals, because you could have an         appeal on the jurisdictional question. The court says         the court's jurisdictional determination was not      arbitrary and capricious. Now you go through the         permitting process. And there's a separate suit about          whether the terms and conditions were too ­­                               JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I ­­      MR. STEWART: If I may, I'd like to reserve           the balance of my time.                             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Yes. Go ahead.       CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   Mr. Hopper.               ORAL ARGUMENT OF M. REED HOPPER                    ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS                 MR. HOPPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,        and may it please the Court:                  We read the MOA to be binding in every way.          We have found not a single word ­­                    JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That doesn't help you       for very long, because he just said they'll change it.          So is that the argument that you want to rely on?                       MR. HOPPER: I'm sorry?     Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He just said before that        if we rule that way, they could change it. They'll just            eliminate the MOA.               MR. HOPPER: Well, it's ­­ it's existing        today. And in addition to the MOA, the fact that this            is a site­specific adjudication suggests that this isn't         binding ­­ that this is a binding determination. In           fact, that's the very purpose of an adjudication. Also,          as has already been mentioned, it represents itself        as ­­ as being the official view of the Agency, the           final agency action of the Agency, and will be relied on           for five years. Even during the permitting process,         that will not be revisited. All of those things suggest           that this is a binding adjudication and ­­                    JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hopper, can I ask, you          know, I was just looking through some other agency's          rules and practices. And I'll just give you a couple of             examples.             The FCC put out rules just this past year,         and it says ­­ with respect to some particular matters,          the FCC rules say, the bureau will not bring an          enforcement action against a requesting party, a        requesting party meaning somebody who requested an       opinion, with respect to any action taken in good faith          reliance upon an advisory opinion if all of the relevant          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review facts were fully, completely, and accurately presented       to the bureau.               Now, there's another that I just came        across. It's in just a standard SEC, Securities and           Exchange Commission, opinion letter. And it says, based         on the facts presented, the division will not recommend         enforcement action to the Commission.                 So I guess my question is, this appears to          happen all over the place around the Federal government,         people setting up offices whose specific purpose is to         say come to us, tell us our problem, and we are going to             give you a view, and not just a view; we're going to              essentially commit that if you have told us the truth,          here is your answer, and you can take it to the bank.                        And I guess I want to know what's different           about this than any of the other cases in which the           Federal government does that. For good reason. Because          people want to know these things.                  MR. HOPPER: What you're describing, Your       Honor, is what is ­­ what we ­­ would be referred to in             this case as a preliminary jurisdictional determination.        The regulatory process has built into it the option of          an advisory, informational, preliminary jurisdictional     determination to be issued to the applicant that is         nothing more than advisory. It's not binding and can't          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review be appealed.              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, these are ­­ this is         very strong language that are in these letters. We will           not recommend action. We ­­ we will not bring an           enforcement action.                So, you know, just as you say, this      basically says to us we were in the clear if we passed            this. So do these letters.                  MR. HOPPER: That is strong language, Your        Honor, but not as strong as an adjudicative        determination, where rights and obligations are actually       decided.             In ­­ in this particular case, the process        is so formalized, and ­­ and purports to be final, and           purports to be binding, that it ­­ that's ­­ that it's           quite distinguishable from the situation that you are        describing.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Let me ask you about that,         because that's certainly ­­ this ­­ this process does         last a long time, and it's ­­ even Mr. Stewart, I think,              would say this is a more formal process than many that            are ­­ that exist around the Federal government.                    But I guess I'm wondering about the        incentives of the kind of distinction that you would         make. Because it would suggest, you know, that agencies          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review should not ­­ should draw back, should not give a fully            informed view, should not do the fact­finding that the         board ­­ that that ­­ the Corps does here. You know,            should ­­ should just make their processes less formal,         but in ­­ in making their processes less formal, also          less accurate and less helpful.                 the end.              And I guess I wonder who that benefits in           MR. HOPPER: Well, I think that the Agency          has more to lose than the landowner has to gain by           refraining from issuing these kind of formal       adjudications. They indicate that they issue about        , permits. And most of ­­ and they ­­ ,           nationwide permits and about , individual permits,       and of those, only eight have ever been appealed         administratively.             So there's really no incentive for the ­­       for the government here to draw back on this formal          adjudicative process, because in almost all cases, the        landowner is simply going to defer to the Agency on          jurisdiction. And that ­­ that would be my response to           you.             JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I guess I don't quite           understand that, because it seems as though they could         make it less formal, and they could provide less         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review assurance, and ­­ and still, there would be very few          people who would want to run the gauntlet.                    And so you wouldn't gain anything. All you         would do was to lose something, and what you lose is           accurate, reliable information provided to people about       whether, in fact, these waters are ­­ fall within the          Clean Water Act.               MR. HOPPER: Well ­­ well, that's the        problem, because until there has been ­­ because the ­­         the Clean Water Act is so difficult to ­­ because under           the Clean Water Act, it is so difficult to determine,          the reach of the Act, and it can only be done through            expert analysis, you would never get the kind of         detailed, reliable information that would define the       scope of jurisdiction if you didn't have such a formal           process, which would never occur in the type of         generalized ruling that you've suggested, like through       the preliminary JD.               The preliminary JD says we think you may        have waters of the United States on your property. The           approved jurisdictional JD says just the opposite:       We've made a definitive determination; you can rely on          that; you're obligated to get a permit, and you have a            right to use property that is not subject to the waters           of the United States.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE KENNEDY: Tell us ­­ just ­­ it's in          the briefs, but what ­­ what's the cost to get a ­­ a JD                determination in a case such as yours?                    Second, can the Agency, if we adopt the sort         of rule that you want, simply decline to give         jurisdictional determinations?              MR. HOPPER: All that's required in order to         receive a jurisdictional determination under the       regulatory guideline is to ask. And under the ­­ the           regulatory guideline, the Agency is required to respond.        The language says the Corps will give a formal approved           jurisdictional determination if one is requested, even       if they don't request it in that specific language.                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: The ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: Did Mr. ­­                 JUSTICE GINSBURG: The point was made       earlier that in ­­ that in court proceedings you have a           jurisdictional question; you may think that the court        was very wrong, but apart from (b), you ­­ you are           stuck there. You may have to go through a lengthy            trial, and that's just too bad. It is a complete            adjudication of the jurisdictional question. The       Court's not going to return to it.                   Even so, you don't get any kind of appellate         review until there's a final judgment in the whole case.           Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Why should this be any different?                  MR. HOPPER: I'm not sure that I follow your           question, Your Honor. Would you please repeat that?                     JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, you ­­ you are        urging that you should have ­­ you should be able to           challenge in court this jurisdictional determination,      right?                         MR. HOPPER: Immediate judicial review.      JUSTICE GINSBURG: And ­­ and if you were in          a district court, you would have no immediate right to          challenge a jurisdictional determination.                 So why should this ­­ this situation be        different in an agency setting and in a court setting?                       MR. HOPPER: That's ­­ that's the whole        question at issue, Your Honor, is whether we can get          district court or ­­ or judicial review.                   JUSTICE GINSBURG: But if you were in the         district court and the district court made a        jurisdictional determination, you are in our power, and        you disagree, and you think the case should be ­­ you           should be allowed to be free to do what you will, and ­­            but you've lost on the jurisdictional issue, you have to          stay there. The ­­ the equivalent would be going          through the permitting process.                MR. HOPPER: We don't know why we would not          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review be able to appeal that, Your Honor. That would be a            purely legal question on summary judgment. We could         appeal it as ­­               JUSTICE GINSBURG: A summary judgment, you'd        have to take a judgment on the whole case. You can't             appeal an adverse ruling on jurisdiction. You want to          get out of the case?                  MR. HOPPER: We don't believe that ­­ we        don't believe that we need to go through the ­­ the           permit process ­­                                      JUSTICE BREYER: The question is why.       JUSTICE ALITO: The difference between ­­      JUSTICE BREYER: Why. I think ­­ I think,            if I understand the question, you go into district court           and you say we're from Alaska, and here we are in           Florida and we don't belong here, there's no        jurisdiction. And the court says you're wrong. Now,          that means you have to stay there. You have to go            through the whole proceeding. It's going to cost you          one million dollars. It's going to take a long time,            but you don't get independent review of the        jurisdictional question.              it ­­             So I think the question is, if I may say            JUSTICE GINSBURG: Please.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ is ­­ is why doesn't         that apply here, too? Because this is just like one           part of the whole thing.                                                     MR. HOPPER: It ­­    JUSTICE BREYER: Nothing ­­    MR. HOPPER: In what ­­     JUSTICE BREYER: ­­ is like the       jurisdictional question.              MR. HOPPER: In what sense is it one part of           the whole thing?               JUSTICE BREYER: Well, this says that       nothing's going to happen to you until they decide that          they're not going to give you a permit, which is part of             it.                         MR. HOPPER: Under ­­ under Abbott Labs ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah. I mean, I've made          mine, but I'm going to the question.                   understand.             MR. HOPPER: Yes. And ­­ and under ­­ I           Under Abbott Labs this Court made the ­­       made the determination that if one is in this catch­          situation, this no­win situation where even no action        results in great loss because you have ­­ your ­­ your           option is to only abandon the project at great loss, or           go for a permit at great cost, or subject yourself to an             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review enforcement action at great cost, that that ­­ that type          of Hobson's choice is sufficient to get you judicial         review.             JUSTICE ALITO: Do you see any distinction        between a jurisdictional determination by an Article III         district judge and a jurisdictional determination by an         enforcement Agency?              Do you think there might be an argument that         it is tolerable to wait until the end of the case when a             neutral Article III judge makes an adverse judicial ­­        an adverse jurisdictional determination, but perhaps      less appealing to wait till the end of the adjudication          when the jurisdictional determination is made by an        enforcement Agency?              MR. HOPPER: Well, there ­­ when an        adjudication has already been made, there's no further        adjudication to be made unless you're talking about        requiring a permit prior to judicial review, and that's          what we find objectionable, Your Honor.                  JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hopper ­­                 MR. HOPPER: It's not an adequate remedy in         court.             JUSTICE KAGAN: A more general way to ask          this question. I mean, there's no doubt that some           people face themselves in ­­ in real predicaments when         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review they're looking at the ­­ when they're trying to figure          out what to do under the Clean Water Act. But of            course, you know, that's true with respect to many         regulatory statutes.              And I think what Mr. Stewart's point was,         was that the predicament is the same regardless of the          JD process. If the JD process didn't exist, your client           would be facing the exact same predicament. And indeed,          the JD's ­­ the JD process's reason for being is that           it's supposed to help people in dealing with this         predicament because it's supposed to provide them with        information that they otherwise wouldn't have.                              MR. HOPPER: Exactly.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that seems to be a         good reason for Mr. Stewart to prevail in this case.          But the predicament is the predicament, and it's a         predicament that comes from the Clean Water Act. The JD           process is ­­ the only thing it's supposed to do is to            give you more information so that you can make the          choices that the statute puts to you.                   MR. HOPPER: It does more than that. Under          ­­ under Bennett, Your Honor, the second prong of         finality is satisfied if any of three requirements are         met.             Number one, a right is ­­ is determined, or          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review an obligation is determined, or legal consequences flow.        By virtue of the adjudicative determination in this        case, an obligation has been established that the ­­        that Hawkes cannot use acres of their property         without being obliged to get a permit.                    They also ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's the question,       is whether there's any obligation or whether there's ­­        it's simply information about what will happen given        different courses of action.                MR. HOPPER: The Clean Water Act itself        doesn't say anything about this particular property.       And the ­­ the Clean Water Act doesn't cover all waters.           And the only way to find out if there are jurisdictional           waters which will trigger the requirement for a permit          is to go through this laborious site­specific       analysis ­­             JUSTICE KAGAN: That seems right. But it's         also why people go to the Treasury Department for tax          letters, and it's also why people go to the SEC for           advice about what they can and cannot do with respect to           securities. And it's also ­­ I mean ­­                     MR. HOPPER: Not ­­                JUSTICE KAGAN: ­­ at least a hundred         different examples.  Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. HOPPER: I'm not aware of them, all ­­         those examples having an appeals process that results in         a final Agency action, that by treatment and regulation         and practice constitute a binding conclusion.                   JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the premise of the        question is that the Army Corps of Engineers is doing          this just out of the goodness of its heart; that this is            a lot of work for them but they just want to be nice to              landowners and that's why they've set up this ­­ this          process.             And maybe that's correct, although I      understood what you were saying earlier to suggest that         that's not quite how you see the process; that they do           this for their own purposes because they ­­ it expands          their enforcement power, because landowners who have a        question about the status of their land have strong         incentive to ask for a jurisdictional determination.                    And if ­­ so that alerts the Corps to the          fact that this is a property that might be subject to            their jurisdiction. And if they issue a negative ­­ I'm            sorry ­­ an affirmative jurisdictional determination as       a practical matter, that's going to mean in most         instances that the project is shut down. Is that ­­                                  MR. HOPPER: Well, if ­­     JUSTICE ALITO: Is that your argument?       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             MR. HOPPER: Yes. And even further than         that, this is really a ­­ a problem of the Agency's own              making. When Congress passed the Clean Water Act, it ­­          it prohibited discharges to navigable waters. And as         this Court addressed in Rapanos, that ­­ that's so         broadly interpreted now that it covers virtually any wet         spot in the country.                JUSTICE BREYER: It isn't just ­­ that        isn't ­­ the issue, I think, is this ­­ what I thought              your answer would be is that informal advice is not          final Agency action normally.                There is a statute. It was passed in .           It's called the Administrative Procedures Act. It tries         to divide such things with that word, "final," as         rulemaking by the Agency, from accomplishing roughly the        same result by never having a rule but just telling           everybody informally what the Agency will do in such         circumstances. It might be that the formal is, other          things being equal, final Agency action in respect to         that matter. It might be that the latter is not.                       So I think what you're telling me is what I           should do next is go read those Federal rules and          regulations and see, is this more like informal advice,         or is it more like formal rulemaking? And you have the            latter, and they have the former, I guess. I don't             Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review know. And I go and make up my mind. I guess that's my                 job in this instance.                MR. HOPPER: Well, to help you make up your          mind, we would refer you to Frozen Food, which you've          already ­­             JUSTICE BREYER: Yeah, yeah. I mean, if          Frozen Food, Storer and Abbott Labs, and Bennett too,         are examples of what falls on the formal final side of           the line.                          MR. HOPPER: Right.    JUSTICE BREYER: A few other things will be          on the other side of the line.                   MR. HOPPER: And in fact, if Frozen Food is          virtually indistinguishable from this case, Frozen Food       was essentially a jurisdictional determination case.                   JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Hopper, can I ask,          do you think that this would count as a formal           adjudication under the APA?                MR. HOPPER: Yes.                JUSTICE KAGAN: A formal adjudication under        the APA.              MR. HOPPER: Yes. There was a ­­ the Agency            applied the law to a specific set of facts, had a formal              hearing, and ­­              JUSTICE KAGAN: Would it be ­­      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review                                     MR. HOPPER: ­­ issued a final ­­        JUSTICE BREYER: It's not ­­     JUSTICE KAGAN: Would it then receive       Chevron deference?              MR. HOPPER: Oh, I'm sorry. Well, not ­­         not in that sense, no.                 JUSTICE KAGAN: Yeah. Not in ­­ not in that           sense, no. I wouldn't think so in that sense. I             wouldn't think it's formal adjudication, and I wouldn't         think it would receive Chevron deference.                  And you know, there's a very fine opinion by          Judge Sutton on this question, and he basically says the          kinds of things that are not final, the kinds of          advisory­type rulings that are not final are the ones         where there's no Chevron difference given; that that's        the proper line to draw. Those ­­ that's when you know            that there's a kind of formality to it that should count            with respect to the ­­ to the question of finalness.                      MR. HOPPER: Well, the ­­ we ­­ we have met           in every way the ­­ the finality standards of the          Bennett second prong. We have identified right that has          been determined, an obligation which has been       determined. We've talked about legal consequences       flowing. All of those ­­ any one of those satisfies the            finality standard, and therefore, under the APA they        Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review give us review.               JUSTICE KENNEDY: What ­­ what's the best        example of a legal effect that follows from a          jurisdictional determination as opposed to a practical        effect? It seems to me that the practical effects are           quite ­­ what's the legal impact?                  MR. HOPPER: Increased risk of enforcement,       because the very existence of the JD constitutes prima         facie evidence of a violation if one were to discharge           without a permit.                JUSTICE KENNEDY: That sounds to me       practical, not legal.               MR. HOPPER: I ­­ I think that is legal,            Your Honor. Also ­­                CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You ­­                 MR. HOPPER: Also, I would suggest, as this          Court recognized in ­­ in Sackett that this        jurisdictional determination increases the risk of civil       and criminal liability.               CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Does it affect the        determination of willfulness on the part of the        landowner?             MR. HOPPER: It does, in two ­­ in two          respects, Your Honor. When the ­­ when the court is           looking at an Agency at civil penalties, the Clean Water          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Act requires that the court look at the good faith          efforts, and ­­ and by extension, the bad faith efforts.          And now that we have a ­­ a formal determination that             these are waters of the United States, there's a knowing           violation, which brings in potential criminal sanctions       against the ­­ the landowner. So ­­                   Please.                         JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Hopper ­­ I'm sorry.        MR. HOPPER: Yes.    JUSTICE KAGAN: Isn't that true in every        case of an opinion letter, whether it's from the         government or for ­­ actually, from a ­­ a private            party, that, you know, there's always cases in which         people say you had an opinion letter; it said X; you did            Y. Or, conversely, I had an opinion letter; it said X,             I did X. I mean, that happens all over the place in              litigation with respect to every single compliance ­­       piece of compliance advice that the government gives.                    MR. HOPPER: Yes, with the ­­ with the one          exception that ­­ that the weight that the ­­ that the           court is going to give to those types of opinions and           suggestions is much different than what the court will         give to a final determination as to jurisdiction after          having gone through a formal appeals process. So the           weight is quite different.    Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             And let me also make a comparison between         this and ­­ and Sackett, when this Court considered         whether double penalties would apply in that case.                    You might recall that during oral argument,       Mr. Stewart said that with respect to double penalties,         that is, there ­­ there will be $, a day assessed            because of ­­ of violation of the statute, and then          $, a day because of a violation of the compliance            order. He said that ­­ that that reading of the law was             entirely theoretical, and didn't even know if it        would ­­ would even fly.                 Here, we ­­ we don't have a ­­ a theoretical            risk. We have an actual risk. The ­­ the Clean Water             Act says a knowing violation shall result in a ­­ in a              civil fine of no less ­­ or a criminal fine of no less              than $, and no more than $, a day, and will            increase the ­­ the prison time from one to three years.                       So even though you're right, a simple letter         may put one on notice, it certainly doesn't have the          same weight as a final binding determination.                    The main problems we have with the       requirement of going through a permit process before one          can seek judicial review under the APA are fourfold.                     First of all, the permit process adds       nothing to the jurisdictional question. It doesn't add         Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review any facts which are relevant, and it doesn't clarify the          law. It is simply an idle act which the law abhors.                        Secondly, it puts the ­­ the timing of the         judicial review entirely in the hands of the Agency. It           is an open­ended invitation to the Agency to delay         forever the ­­ the final permit issuance, denying the         landowner a right to ever have judicial review. That           was important to this Court in ­­ in Sackett, when this           Court was looking at whether an enforcement action ­­ if          you could instigate an enforcement action ­­ whether        that would be an appropriate remedy. And this Court          said it wasn't because the ­­ the ­­ even though you ­­           the landowner may be able to commit a ­­ a violation,             has no control over when the enforcement action would         follow.             So the fact that there's no control in the         landowner to ­­ as to when the ­­ the judicial review           would occur, we think is violative of the APA. The APA            suggests immediate judicial review is required.      That's ­­ falls under the presumption of reviewability.        That's ­­ that's the intent of Congress.                   Once finality has been established, it seems       to me that ­­ that the Court should be looking at ways            to facilitate judicial review and not find ways to deter          it or delay it or obviate it.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review             JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose the response to       your ­­ to your argument on the part of the Agency is,            well, we didn't have to get into this in the first           place; there's no statute that required us to hold these          jurisdictional ­­ to make these jurisdictional      determinations, so forget it. Your client is exposed to          the very same things under the statute, right? So          because the Agency has provided something that at least         is some benefit to the public it served, it becomes          subject to immediate review, where, if it ­­ if it had           done nothing, all we had was the statute, then your          client is still left with the same choices, right?                     MR. HOPPER: You might recall, Your Honor,        that this is a (b) motion where we take the facts as             asserted in the ­­ in the complaint as ­­ as correct.           And the complaint suggests that this jurisdictional       determination should never have been issued; that ­­       that the waters on this particular property are not         waters of the United States, and a negative         jurisdictional determination should have been issued.                              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your ­­        MR. HOPPER: So that ­­ that's a unique          result of the ­­ of the jurisdictional determination,        and does not follow from the ­­ from the statute.                      Under the statute, we should be exempt.       Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review Under the jurisdictional determination, we have to get a         permit.             CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your        answer might focus on the fact that this is of great           benefit to the Agency, because by issuing the        determinations, they are able to exercise extraordinary       leverage without going through the formal enforcement       process. So it ­­ it does give them ­­ it is a way for                them to exercise their authority without effective       judicial review. And that's a significant enforcement         tool for them. So they might be unwilling to give it up             if they had the option.                 MR. HOPPER: I think there's no question         they're not going to give it up. They have ­­ they have             nothing to lose. The ­­ in almost all cases, the ­­ the             recipient of the jurisdictional determination defers to       the judgment of the Agency. And as you say, it is used             for leverage. In fact, I would even say it ­­ to extort              mitigation from a ­­ from an individual that they could           never do if ­­ if they could establish, through judicial          review, whether there are jurisdictional waters on the        site. So I agree with you. I think that that's one of                the problems.              We also think one of the difficulties with        going through the permit process is the cost; not that          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review the cost is definitive, but if the cost is prohibitive,          then it ­­ then it raises a ­­ a problem because you              can't ­­ it raises, I think, a potential due process            problem. I think it raises another problem of          practicality.             JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do I determine how         much is too much? I mean, for some people, given their             financial situation, $, is too much. And for         others ­­ I don't know your client's financial         wherewithal, but , would be reasonable. So when do          we decide how much is too much?                   MR. HOPPER: Well, I ­­ I don't think it's            a ­­ a question that needs to be answered generally,           because it can be answered specifically in this case.         In this particular case, the landowner has been asked to          provide over a hundred thousand dollars in ­­ in          additional studies. You might recall that the ­­ the          applicant actually started the permit process and was        willing to go through the permit process until it became          unreasonable and too cost prohibitive to proceed. And         that's when they asked for the jurisdictional       determination.                         CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.       Mr. Stewart, two minutes.             REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM L. STEWART      Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review               ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER                             MR. STEWART: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.        First, with respect to the costs of the        permitting process, there ­­ there's no basis for        assuming that the permit process is systemically       unavailable. As Mr. Hopper was referring to, the Corps'          statistics indicate that a little over , general         permit authorizations and a little over , individual         permits are granted each year.                 The process may be expensive in individual       cases, but it is a process that is regularly invoked,           and regularly invoked successfully. And in many        instances, if the Corps and the landowner come to an          agreement, the Corps offers to permit the activity on         terms and conditions that the landowner regards as        acceptable, that may obviate the need for a court ever           to resolve the question of whether these were        jurisdictional waters. And that's the kind of        consideration that is often invoked as a justification         for not submitting interlocutory review, that the issue        on which a person seeks immediate review may turn out           not to ­­ to be necessary to resolve after all.                      With respect to the analogy to district       court litigation, I think in Standard Oil, this Court          has already taken the step of saying the same principle          Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review applies to administrative adjudication.                My ­­ my point in analogizing to district        court litigation is simply that this is not a quirk of            administrative law. This is a fundamental precept of          our legal system: That on the whole, we are more           worried about piecemeal litigation than about deferred       litigation.             Finally, formality is not the key. In        Franklin and in Dalton, the.                 Agency process at issue were intensely      formal, intensely structured, and they were designed to        have an effect on the President's decision­making. They         were held not to be final Agency action because they          were not legally binding on the President.                   And the same thing is true here with respect         to the binding effect of the jurisdictional       determination on the recipient.                Thank you.              CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.                   The case is submitted.                (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in the        above­entitled matter was submitted.)    Alderson Reporting Company A a.m : : abandon : Abbott :, : :, : :, :, : abhors : able : : : : : : : : above­entitled : : absent : acceptable : accomplishing : accurate : : : accurately : achieve : acres : act : : : : :, : : : : :,, :, : : :, : : : action :, : : : : : : : : : : :, : : :, : : : : :, :,, : activity : Official ­ Subject to Final Review Official ­ Subject to Final Review: affect :, actual : : : : : affirmative add : addition : additional : address : addressed : adds : adequate : adjudication :, : :,, : :, : :, : : adjudications : adjudicative : : : administration analogizing : analogous : analogy : analysis : : answer : : : : agencies : : : : : agency :, answered : : :, :, : : :,, : : : : :,, :, : : : :, : :,,, : : :, :, :, : : : answering : anyone's : anyway : APA :, : : :, apart : apparent : appeal :, : : :, : :,, appealable : agency's : : administrative :, : : : : :, administrativ... : : : agree :, : : : : : administrator : : adopt : adopted : advance :, advanced : adverse : :, advice :, :, : :, : : :, :, : :, : advisory : :, advisory­type : agreement : : : ahead : : AL : Alaska : alerts : ALITO : : : : : : : :, allow : allowed : alter : alternative : : : altruism : ambiguous : appealed : : appealing : appeals : :, : : appear : APPEARAN... : appeared : appears : appellate : : applicant : : : application : : applied : applies : : : : apply : : applying : apportionment Alderson Reporting Company Alderson Reporting Company : appropriate : approved : : : : arbitrary : arduous : area : arguably : arguing : argument : :,, :, : :, : : :, : : : : : arguments : Army : :, : :, : : : : Article :, asked :, asking : asks : aspects : asserted : assessed : assessment : assume : assuming : : assurance : : attempt : audience : authentically : authority : : : authorizations : available : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : aware : B B : back :, bad : : balance : bank : based : : basically : BREYER : : :, : :, :,,,, : :, : brief : : :,, briefs : bring : : : : : : basis :, brings : broadly : brought : built : bulk :, burden : believe :, burdensome behalf :, :,, : : : : :, : cases :,, :, : : : : : : : catch­ : certain : : certainly : : : : : : : : certify : CFR : : challenge : :, challenged : challenging believes : : : belong : benefit : : benefits : : bureau :, : :, : chances : : : : change : : : : CC : : : Cal : called :, changed : charged : Chevron : :, Bennett :, : :, :, : capricious : : : : care : careful : : : :, : : :, :, : : : : : : : choice :, Bennett's :, case : :,, :, :, best : : :, :, beyond : : : : binding : : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : :, : : :, : cite : : : : : : : : : :, : :,, : : : : :, biological : : : : choices : choose : circumstances : : citizen :, board : case­specific : civil : : compliance : Corps : :, Alderson Reporting Company : : claim : clarify : clarifying : Clean : : :, : complying : : concern : concerning : : :, concluded : concludes : : : : :, : conclusion : :, : : : conditions : : : client : : : clear : : : : client's : closer : closest : come : : : : : comes : : : command : commenced : Commerce : Commission :, : :, : : : : conduct : confronted : confronts : Congress : : : : consequence :, consequences : : : : consider : consideration : considered : constitute : constitutes : constrained Chief :, : commit : : communicate : : construction communication : : Company : compares : : comparison : consultation : contains : contemplated : contexts : complaint : : : :, control :, complete : completely : : conversely : core : Official ­ Subject to Final Review definite : definitive : : :, : : : : : distinction : : distinguishable delay :, determine : : :, : deliberate : determined : : denied : denies : :, denying : Department : : culminate : deposit : culminates : Deputy : describes : culmination describing : different :, : : : development : : current :, : district : : : :, :, : : : : divide : division : devoted : dicey : difference : document : doing : : : : : : dollars :, : : : : : :, :, : doubt : : : : double :, : :,, : : : : :, : court's : : : : :, :,, courts : cover : : : coverage : :,, covered : :,, :,, : covers : : :, criminal : :, Corps' : : : : : : : : correct : : : cost : : : : : : :,, costs : counsel : : : count : : country : : : couple : course : : : courses : court :, D D : : D.C :, DA : Dalton : danger :, day : :, : DE :, DEA : dealing : : : dealt : : decide : : decision­maki... :, decided : :, : decides : decision : : : : : :, : : :,, :, : : :, : :, decline : :, : :,,, defend : : :, defer : : : : :, deferred : :,, : :,, defers : : :, define : deference : : : : difficulties difficult : : :, dig : directive : dirt : disagree : : : : designed : : : detailed : deter : determination :, :, :, : : : : : : : difficulty : :,, : : : : :,, :,, :, :, : : : :, : : :,, : discharge : :, : :,,, : :, : :, : :, : :, : :, : : : : : discharges : disagrees : disagreement :, : discharging : : : determinations : :,, :,,, : dissented : :,,, distinct : dismissed : Alderson Reporting Company draw :, :, : drawing : drug : : due : dump : duplicative : E E : :, earlier : : easily : effect :, :, : : : :, : : effective : effects : : efforts :, either :, :, : : : elaborate : eliminate : discussion : eight : dismiss : Official ­ Subject to Final Review emphasize : Endangered : enforcement : :, : : : : : : : :,, : : :,, :, engages : engineer : : : exception : : exceptions : Exchange : excuse : exempt : exercise :, exist : : existed :, existence : existing : : expands : expense : Engineers : : :, : : : entered : entire : entirely : : : EPA : : :, :, :,, : : : :, : :, equal : equivalent : ESQ :, : expensive : : : expert : explain : explains : exponentially : exposed : Express : expresses : extension : extort : extraordinary : :, : : establish : established : F essentially : face : facie : facilitate : facing : fact : : : :, : : : : :, : ET : everybody : evidence : exact : exactly : : : example : : : examples : : : fact­finding : facts : : :, : : : factual : fail : failure : fairly : faith : : Fish : five : : : found : fourfold : Franklin : five­year : : : : fall : falls : : Florida : far : : flow : : fix : : FCC : :, features : federal : : : : :, : : :, :, : : feels : figure : figures :, filed : fill : : final :, : : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :,, : :, : : : : : finality : :, : Finally : finalness : financial :, find : : : : fine : : : :, first : : : : : : : : : flowing : : flows : fly : focus : follow :, : : : following : follows : Food : : :,, footnote : force : foreclosed : : forego : forever : forget : forgoing : formal :, :,,, : :, : : :,,, : : : :, :,,, : :, : : formality : : : : formalized : former : forward : : free : : front : Frozen : :,,, FTC :, : : fully : : function : fundamental : further : : future :, FWS's : G G : gain : : gauntlet : general : : : : : generalized : generally : : generic : getting : Ginsburg : : : :, : :, : :, : : : give : : : : : :, : : : :, : : : :, : :, given : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review : gives : : giving : : go : : : : :, : : :, : : :,, : :, : : : : goes : : going : : guess : :, : : : :, : : guidance : Guidebook : guided : guideline : : H hand : hands : happen :, : : : : : : :, :, : happened : : : :, : happens : : : :, : : :, : : : :,, : : : : : good : : harbor : Harlan : harm : harsh : Hawkes : : goodness : government : hear : hearing : heart : : : : : :, : : :,, :, :, held : : help : : : : :, : government's : : : helpful : helps : Hobson's : granted : gravamen : hold : great :, :, : :, : : Honor : : :, : : : :, : greater : ground : : Hopper : : :,,, incentives : incidental : Alderson Reporting Company :, : : : : : :,, : : :,,,, :,, :, : : :, : :, :,,, :,, : :,, :,, :, : : : hundred : : hundreds : : I ICC : idea : identified : idle : ii : III :, illegal : : illegality : imagine : immediate : : :, : : : immediately : : immunity : impact : : : important : : : : impugn : incentive : : : included : includes : including : : inconsistent : increase : Increased : increases : independent : : indicate : : indicating : indistinguisha... : individual : : :, inducement :, industrial : inform : informal : : : :, : : informally : information : : :, : : : informational : informed : informs : initiated : initiation : instance : : instances : : : instigate : Instructional : insufficient : intended : : : : intensely : : intent : interlocutory :, : interpretation : interpreted : interpreting : invitation : invoked : :, involving : issuance : : issue : : : : : :, : : : : issued : : : : : :, issuing : : : : J jail : : JD : : : :, : : :,,, : JD's : : job : joined :, judge :, : judgment : :,, : judicial :, Official ­ Subject to Final Review :, : : :, : : :,,, : :, judicially : : jurisdiction : : : :, : : :, : :, : :,,, :, : : : :,,, :,, : :,,, :,,,, :,, : :, : :, : :, :,, :,, : :,, :, : : : :, : : : justification jurisdictional :, :, :,, :, :, : : :,,, : : : : :, : : :, :, : :, : : : :,,, : :, :, : : :,, : : :, : :, : :,,, : :, Kagan's : Kennedy : : : : : :, : :, : : :, : :, : :, : :, :, Kagan : K key : kind :, : : : : : : kinds :, Justice : : : : : : :, : : :,, : :, :, : : : : : :, : know : : : :, :,, : : :,,, :, : : : :, : : : :, : : : : : :, : : : knowing : : L L : :, : : labeling : laborious : Labs :, : :, : :, :, : lack : land : landowner : : : :, :, : :, : : :, : : :, landowners : :, :, lands : language : :, : : law : : : : : : : : :, : lawfully : left :, : : legal :, : : :, : :, : :, :, :,, : : : : :,,, : legality : :, : legally : : : : : lengthy : let's :, letter : : :, : lot :, : : : M M : : : main : majority : making : : : MALCOLM : :, : : letters :, manifested : :, : leverage :, liability : : : manipulative : manufacturers : March : license : likelihood : marks : : line :, : lines :,, : Massachusetts : matter : : : : : : : listed : litigating : mattered : matters : litigation : : : : mean : : : : : :,, little : : : : : : : : : : : : : meaning : : locations : long : : : look : : looking :, means : : : : : : :, mechanism : : lose : :, : losing : loss :, lost : : : memo : memorandum :,,, : :,, :, Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review options :, : : : oral : :, : : :, : : : : : perceive : : :,, order : : perceived : : perfectly : : : : pointing : policy : :, : : : objectionable : mentioned : merits : obligated : met : : obligation : million : mind :, mine : mine­run : obligations : : : minutes : mitigation : MOA :,,, : : :, money : morning : motion : : : N N :, : name : : narrowest : nationwide : navigable : necessary : need : : needs : negative : : : neutral : never : : :, : : : new : : nice : no­win : nonspecial : :, normally : nothing's : notice : Number : O O : : obliged : obviate : : occasionally : occur : : occurred : offers : offices : : official : : Oh : Oil :,, :, : : Oil's : okay : : once : : : ones : open­ended : operate : opinion :, : : : :, :, : : :, : opinions : opportunity : opposed : : opposite : option : : : : : : : :,, : : ought : : outset : overrule : owner : PP :p.m :PAGE :panic :part : : : :: :, : ::particular :: :: :: :: :: ::parties :, party : : : ::, : passed : : :pause :pay :paying :penalties ::, penalty :people : : : ::, : : :, : period : permit : : pollutants : posed : position : : : : :, : :, : possibility : : :, :, : : :, : :, post : : :, :, : :, potential : possibly : potentially : permits : :, : permitting : : :, :,,, : : : : : : : : power : : : practical : : : : :, : :, : person : : practicality : : : : practically : : : persuading practice : :,, : : : Petitioner :, practices : :, : : pre­memoran... : phrase : precedents : phrased : precept : piece : piecemeal : precisely : place : : preclude : : playing : please : predicament :,,, :, :, : predicaments : : : preliminary : point : : : : : : : :, :, : : premise : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review preparation : prepared : present : : : : presented : :, presents : President : : : President's : pressure : : presumption : prevail : prima : primarily : principle : : prior : : : : prison : : : :, :, : : :, : : : : : : :,, : : : : :,, : :, : :, : : :, : :, :, : purports : : : purpose : : : purposes : pursuant : : pursue : put : : : : : read : :, : : : readily : reading : real : : realistic : really : : : : : : puts : : reason : : : : : : :, Q QED : : : : : reasonable reasons : REBUTTAL programs : prohibited : prohibitive : process's : processes :, quandary : question : program : : : : :, :,, : : : :, :, : : :, :,,, recipient : :, : : :, :, : recipients : : : : projects : prong :, project : receive : : : recipient's : : : :, : : : : : : : private : : : problem : : : : : : : : property :, :, : :, :, : : : : problems : procedurally proper : : recognized : recommend : : questions : : quirk : quite : : : : : : : :,, :, : reflect : reflects : refrain : refraining : regarding : regardless : regards : regional : : regular : regularly : : regulated : regulation : : : : regulations : : : :, : relations : relevant : : reliable :, reliance : rely : : : remains : : remedy : recall : : regulatory Reclamation : relied : : Procedures : proceed : proceeding : : proceedings : : : quote : prosecute : prospect : protected : provide : : : provided : RA : : : R : R provision : public :, raised : raises :,, range : Rapanos : reach : process : : :, : : : purely : recommendati... : : reconsider : : REED : : : reexamination : removed : : : : repeat : reply : : represent : : reexamine : represents : refer : reputation : request : referred : : : : referring : requested : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review rules : : : : :, : seek : : : seeking : seeks : sense : : :,, sensible : separate : : : requesting :, required : : :, : : requirement : : : requirements : return : : review : ruling : : : : : rulings : run : :, : : :, :, : :, : :, : : :, :,, : :, Sackett : :, S S : : : reviewability served : service : : : Sacramento requires : requiring : reserve : reserving : resist : :, : resistance : resisting : : : :, resolution : revisit : shut : resolve :, revisited : side : :, respect :, right :, : saying : : signed : : safe : : sanctions : satisfied : satisfies : reviewable : set : : : : setting : : : : : : : sort : : Sotomayor : :, : : : :,, : : sound : : sounds : : Spear :, special : : :, : :, :,, Species : specific : : : : : : specifically : : : : : : : :, : :, : : : : : : :, : respects : respond : Respondent : Respondents : : : : : : : Respondents' : response : : : rest : : :, rested : result : : : : results : : : : : : :, : : : : : : :, rights : : ripe : ripeness : risk : : : :, risks : road : ROBERTS : :, :, : : : : : :, : : : : roughly : rule : : : ruled : rulemaking :, significant : : : : : says : :,, simple : simply : :, : : :, : : : : : : : :, : : : : : scope : SEC : : : second : : : : : :, : : : Secondly : Secretary : Section :, securities : : see : : : : : : : : : : single : : spend : sponte : : spot : stand­alone site : site­specific : standard : : : sites :, situation : :,, :, : : : : : : : : : :, started : : standards : State : stated : situations : : Solicitor : somebody : : statement :, : : : : States :,, : : : : : :, :, : : somewhat : sorry :, statistics : Alderson Reporting Company suggested : suggesting : Thank :, status : : statute :, :, : : : : : : :,, :, statutes : : : : subsequently : substantial : succeed : successfully statutory : : : sufficient : : : : suggest : : : : : : stay : : step : : steps : Stewart : : : :,, : : : : :,, : :, : : :, suggestions : : :, : suggests : : :, : : : :, : :, : :, :, : : : :, : Stewart's : stop : Storer :, :, suited :, summary :, Suppose : supposed : suit :,, Supreme :, sure : surmount : : : : strong :,, Sutton : system : : : : structured : stuck : studies : sua : : subject : : : : : : : : subjective : submitted : system's : systemically : T T :, take :, : : : : : Official ­ Subject to Final Review : submitting : : :, : :, : subsequent : taken : : thousand : unconstitutio... thousands : : : :, : :, : : : :, : :, : : thinking : thinks : : : : third : : thoroughly : thought : : : : three : : : : threshold : till : time : : : : : : : timing : titled : today : told : tolerable : tool : tracks : try : trying : turn : two : : : : type :, : : types : typically : U ultimate : unattractive : unavailable : underlying : understand : : : : : : understanding :,,, : understood : : unique : : United :,, : : :, :, : : : takes : talked : talking : : : talks : : tax : : television : tell : : telling :, tells : terms :, : : : : : : :, theoretical :, thing : :, : : :, : : things : : : : :, : : : think :,, unwilling : unreasonable : : :, : tract : :, :, : :, : : : : : :, :,,, : : :, : :,, : : : : : :, : : trade : tradeoff : transmit : Treasury : urging : treating : treatment : trial : tries : trigger : true : : : : : : : : truth : : : V usually : v : : :, use : : Alderson Reporting Company Official ­ Subject to Final Review , : , : : , :, (a) : vague :, varied : various : :, vast : : : :, view : :, : :, : : :, : vindicated : violate :, violated : violating : violation : : : : :, : violative : virtually : : virtue : W wait :, want :, : :, : : :, : : : : wanted : : : :, wants : Washington :, wasn't : waste : Water : : : :, : : : :, : : :, : : : waters : : : :, :, : : :, : :, : : :, : : way :, : : :, : : : : : : : ways :, we'll : :, we're : : : : : we've : : : Wednesday : weight :, : wet : wetlands : wherewithal : Wildlife : willfulness : willing : wonder : wondering : word : : words : work : worried : wouldn't : : : : : :,, writing : wrong : : X x :, : :,, Y Y : yeah : : : :, : year : : years : : : : Z , : : : : : (b) : : : (b) : : ­ : : : , : : : : :, : : : : , : : , : : , :, : : Alderson Reporting Company 