 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XKENTUCKY ASSOCIATION OF :HEALTH PLANS, INC., ET AL., :Petitioners :v. : No. -JANIE A. MILLER, COMMISSIONER, :KENTUCKY DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERT N. ECCLES, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.ELIZABETH A. JOHNSON, ESQ., Frankfort, Kentucky; on behalfof the Respondent.JAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. ECCLES, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFELIZABETH A. JOHNSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES A. FELDMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROBERT N. ECCLES, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, The Kentucky Association of HealthPlans versus Janie A. Miller.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. ECCLESON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ECCLES: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:When Congress enacted ERISA, it created aFederal regulatory structure for employers and unions tosponsor plans that provide health care benefits foremployees and their families. The vast majority of ERISAplans throughout the country have chosen to provide thesebenefits through HMO's or other managed care entities thatuse limited provider networks in order to deliver qualityhealth care at a reasonable cost.The Kentucky laws before the Court todaypreclude that use of limited provider networks and requirean HMO, and by using that term I mean to encompass avariety of managed care arrangements, require thosearrangements to allow into the network any providerwilling to accept the network terms. Because ERISA savesfrom preemption State laws which regulate insurance, thequestion here is whether these any willing provider, or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC AWP laws, regulate insurance.QUESTION: Now, I take it these laws have becomefairly common --MR. ECCLES: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- around the country, so Kentucky'snot alone in having such a law.MR. ECCLES: Kentucky has a relatively broadlaw, Your Honor. Many of the laws are pharmacy solely,but they -- Kentucky is not alone, that's correct.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: Can -- can Kentucky exclude certainspecialties, like they say, we will not havechiropractors? In -- in Kentucky, can the plans do that?MR. ECCLES: No.QUESTION: In other words, they have to be opento various subspecialties?MR. ECCLES: There are -- there are differentlaws about that. The Kentucky law by itself, in thedefinition of provider, includes a variety of specialties,including chiropractor, and there's a separatechiropractor any willing provider law also, but thequestion here is whether that law regulates insurance, andlast term, in Rush Prudential versus Moran, the Court saidthat a law regulates insurance when insurers are regulatedwith respect to insurance practices. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC AWP laws do not regulate insurance practices. They do not affect the risk of financial loss that'stransferred by the HMO policy, they do not change theterms of the policy at all, and they do not change thebargain between the insurer and the insured.QUESTION: But they -- they do have something tosay about who's going to be available as a doctor on theplan.MR. ECCLES: They -- they change the network,that's correct, Your Honor. They -- through a -- theypotentially change the network. The law itself creates nochange. If the provider elects to join the network, andis willing to accept the terms --QUESTION: But isn't that a change in thepolicy? Doesn't it give the patient a right he otherwisewould not have?MR. ECCLES: No, Your Honor. It -- it gives thepatient no right he would otherwise not have. If you lookat the exemplar policy that's in Exhibit C to the jointappendix, you will see nothing that's changed in thepolicy terms.QUESTION: Well, there's nothing in the policyterm that is changed in -- in the literal sense of achange in language, but it seems to me that it does meanthat under a policy subject to a law like Kentucky's, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person who joins the HMO, in effect the person who obtainsthe insurance, has a far greater choice, in -- in effect,in -- in the expenditure of benefits under that policythan he otherwise has. He's getting something under apolicy subject to the Connecticut law -- the Kentucky law,that he does not get under a policy without that law, andthat is a breadth of choice about who is going to treathim.MR. ECCLES: Not necessarily, Your Honor. Thechoice, you know, exists if the provider elects to jointhe network, and it's entirely --QUESTION: Well -- well, sure, but I mean, thepoint of the statute and the point of the case is thatproviders do elect, and to the extent that they elect,the -- the person subject to the policy has a choice thatis a -- a breadth of options that otherwise are not goingto be available.MR. ECCLES: Potentially. In a --QUESTION: Even -- not potentially. I mean,even -- even if nobody elected -- even if nobody electedto join, what has happened by reason of this law, is itnot the case that the term of the policy is changed, thatoriginally the policy said, we will pay for your treatmentby a limited number of individuals whom -- whom we -- whomwe approve, and that policy is now changed to, by reason th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of this law, we will pay for your treatment by anyindividuals who want to join our plan. Isn't -- isn'tthat a different policy?MR. ECCLES: Not -- the policy does not changein that way, Justice Scalia. What -- what the policysays --QUESTION: It's not rewritten, but doesn't thelaw have that effect, to -- to effectively change the termof the policy?MR. ECCLES: No -- no, it does not, and thereason is, what the policy provides is, we will pay forcare from participating physicians, from networkproviders, and that is still the policy. The -- before,with or without the AWP law.QUESTION: Well, to use your term, physicians,before the law, is defined as those physicians whom we arewilling to accept as part of the plan, and after the law,the definition of participating physician is any physicianwho wants to join the plan.MR. ECCLES: It -- it has taken away the HMO'sability to select, that's correct --QUESTION: It's --MR. ECCLES: -- but the definition of who -- itis still limited to participating physicians who meet itsown -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In -- in your opening remarks, yousaid it doesn't change the bargain. It seems to me thethrust of Justice Scalia and Justice Souter's questionsis, it does exactly that.MR. ECCLES: But the -- before or after the AWPlaw, the participant has no right to choose any particularprovider. The participant has the right to use thenetwork physicians under the terms in the policy.QUESTION: Yes.MR. ECCLES: After the AWP law, if a providerjoins the network, the participant still has exactly thesame right. The network has a different composition.QUESTION: But -- but that -- that really doesnot seem to make sense to me. The purchaser has the sameright, in theory, certainly to go to any physician in thenetwork, but the HMO has been required to expand thenetwork.MR. ECCLES: Under that hypothetical, that'scorrect, Your Honor, you know, if that's --QUESTION: What's hypothetical about it?MR. ECCLES: Well, we don't know the effect ofthe law on the networks --QUESTION: Well, for instance, here, if it'schiropractic services, and let's assume the HMO did notpreviously include chiropractic physicians as providers, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC after this law, if a chiropractic physician in goodstanding were willing to come in under the HMO, then theHMO would have to take that physician, and then the -- thepatient would have a possibility, at least, of having paidservices seeing a chiropractor that formerly would nothave been available.MR. ECCLES: That -- that would be asignificantly different law, Justice O'Connor, and forthis reason. In that case, which is generally referred toas a mandatory provider law, it's very much like themandatory benefit laws that this Court has held to besaved. That changes the legal rights to get -- of theinsured to get that type of care, and it changes the riskunder the policy.QUESTION: No, well, why -- why is what I saiddifferent from what happens here?MR. ECCLES: Because the terms of the -- thenetwork would already provide for chiropractors. The onlyquestion is how many would come in. This law would notregulate that. That's regulated through other aspects ofKentucky law.QUESTION: Well, it -- it's -- maybe I'm under amisapprehension as to how the bill -- I -- I thought thatthe -- one of the examples given in the brief was, a womanis being treated during the term of her pregnancy, she th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC changes her employer, she wants the same doctor to --to treat her, and she is the one that can initiate therequest to the HMO, please allow this doctor to treat me,and the doctor then says yes, I'm willing to be bound bythe terms of the HMO, and -- and she has that doctor. That seems to me to significantly increase the bargainthat she made.MR. ECCLES: But the -- the bargain in thatcircumstance, if it -- if it works out that way, she --she is able to stay with the doctor, but under -- only ifthe doctor can get into the network, and is willing tomeet the terms of the network. It's entirely up to thedoctor to come in.QUESTION: Yes, but before the law, the networkcould have refused him categorically, even though he werewilling to meet the terms.MR. ECCLES: That -- that's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: I -- is --QUESTION: I hear you, I just don't see that --that you -- you make much headway in saying that isn't achange.MR. ECCLES: Because the -- the change is thelegal right of the insured, which was never to anyparticular provider, and that's still true after the --the law. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I don't -- you -- you're reallyasserting that -- that two insurance policies are exactlythe same, their terms haven't changed, or their termsaren't different, where one says you can get yourautomobile fixed, we will pay to get your automobile fixedby these companies, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and theother one says, we will pay to get your automobile fixedby any company that is willing to do the job up to ourstandards, and -- and you think those two insurancepolicies are saying exactly the same thing, that there'sonly a hypothetical difference between the two.MR. ECCLES: I -- I think the difference betweenthat hypothetical and -- and mine is, the -- the standardwith or without the law is still, if the provider comesinto the network, and you have the right to the networkprovider, and that's all.QUESTION: The thing I don't understand is, ifyour view is correct, why are you objecting to the law?MR. ECCLES: We believe that the lawinterferes --QUESTION: Doesn't have any impact on yourbusiness.MR. ECCLES: Yes, it couldn't, Your Honor, itprecludes the plans from limited networks, and what thatdoes, and this is the point made by the FTC staff, which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has been writing States objecting to these laws, is itcreates an uncertainty in the network, because the bargainthat's been made, the noninsurance bargain between the HMOand the providers is, it's altered, although the policy isnot, and -- and suddenly, the providers who are in thenetwork already, they -- they signed up for a differentdeal, which was a limited network. They may not want thedeal they've got, because they'll have less patient volumethan they thought they were getting.It also adds significantly just administrativecosts to deal with more providers, and it's also moredifficult to monitor quality with a larger network, so itdoes have -- it's the uncertainty of what the law's effectwill be that --QUESTION: But you're complaining about the --the increase in the number of providers, and it's thatincrease that is what might be desirable from thepatient's standpoint.MR. ECCLES: Well, we're really complainingabout the uncertainty that's created, that the networkscan no longer be selective, which has quality and costimplications, including fee implications.QUESTION: The -- the any willing providerstatutes have been around now for sometime. I understandthe case that you're making in its most dramatic is, this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC spells the end of HMO's, because the whole thing worksonly if they have few doctors and lots of patients, so thedoctors have a guaranteed patient flow. Has that happenedin States with any willing provider laws, that there areso many doctors who are coming in that the doctors whowere in in the beginning now say, the rates have to goway, way up, because we don't have any guaranteed patientflow any more?MR. ECCLES: I -- I can't tell you about thenumber of doctors, Justice Ginsburg. The studies that arein -- cited in, particularly in the amicus briefs, suggestthat there's been about a percent increase in costarising out of --QUESTION: If that's so, I mean, since -- I'mnot sure of the relevance of this, but I mean, if itturned out that this law or others like it drove up costsfor no advantages, couldn't the Federal Government stopthem by -- under Medicare and Medicaid, wouldn't they haveenough power, or would they, to simply write regulationssuch that they won't reimburse States for -- if thesecircumstances were quite bad?MR. ECCLES: I -- I'm not sure they could do itin -- in that avenue, through Medicare or Medicaid. TheFederal Government could obviously do it directly with itsown law on the books, which would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: That would require an act ofCongress.MR. ECCLES: Yes, that's correct.QUESTION: I want to -- you think they don'thave the authority?MR. ECCLES: I -- I don't think it would dothe --QUESTION: But anyway, as far as the harm isconcerned, a) we don't know that there's any harm.MR. ECCLES: Right.QUESTION: b) We don't know that the Governmentcould deal with it in some other way, and so it's prettymuch irrelevant to our decision, is that right?MR. ECCLES: Right. Right. What is relevant iswhether, as the Court said in Moran last term, these areinsurance practices, and the Court's --QUESTION: Then we're back at Justice Scalia'squestion.MR. ECCLES: The --QUESTION: Is the whole distinction that herethe direct beneficiary is the provider? That is, theeffect of the any willing provider law has opened the doorto the provider, whereas in Rush and in Ward, it was theinsured himself or herself?MR. ECCLES: That -- that's certainly a major th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC part of our distinction, Justice Ginsberg.QUESTION: Is -- is there anything more thanthat that -- here, the patient is the indirect beneficiaryof opening the door to the provider. In those two cases,it was the insured. There -- there was no third partyinvolved. It was just the insurer and the insured.MR. ECCLES: The -- the patient, I would say, isa potential beneficiary, but without rehashing that, thosetwo cases, a legal right was created for the insured. InWard, the Court said that was a mandatory contract termthat had been added by using the notice-prejudice rule,and Rush added the option of seeking external review andthose -- and described it as a legal right enforceableagainst the HMO. Here, there is no such legal right, andwe believe that in order to be an insurance practice underthis Court's precedents, the practice must either affectthe spreading of risk, which any willing provider laws donot do --QUESTION: But that was not true, that was nottrue in either --MR. ECCLES: That's right.QUESTION: -- Ward or --MR. ECCLES: Or, as in Ward and Rush Prudential,must affect the legal rights of the insured. The -- theCourt has used a formulation of that phrase in -- in many th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of its Savings Clause decisions, including those two.We -- we also think the Court has approachedthis through a common sense inquiry. That's how it beginsthe Savings Clause inquiry, and on a common sense basis,nobody contends that the provider contracts themselves areinsurance contracts, and nobody contends that theproviders are part of the business of insurance. Instead --QUESTION: Yes, but nobody -- nobody canseriously deny, on the common sense criterion, that aperson who gets HMO coverage -- whether it's subject to alaw like Kentucky's, is getting a far greater choice,potentially and, I presume, actually, since you're here,than a person who signs up for an HMO without the choiceguaranteed.MR. ECCLES: But --QUESTION: In a common sense way, someone isgetting a different kind of coverage, i.e., a breadth ofchoice under the medical coverage, that otherwise wouldn'tbe available.MR. ECCLES: I -- I think the common senseapproach can be viewed by looking at this Court's decisionin Royal Drug, and particularly if you look at the factualparallels with this case.If the Kentucky statute, the general any willing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provider statute can be disaggregated into a bunch ofseparate statutes, each about a different provider, thatthe term, provider, includes podiatrists, physicians,optometrists, and pharmacists, so we have here effectivelyone part of the statute is an any willing pharmacystatute, that's functionally indistinguishable from thestatute that was before the case in Royal Drug.QUESTION: Well, considered by itself, if -- ifyou simply narrow to the provider subcategory ofpharmacists, I -- I assume you're right, but if you lookat the -- at the broad category that is covered by thisstatute, there is one, I think, significant differencebetween this and the -- and the limited pharmacy coveragein Royal Drug. I think the difference is this. Pharmacycoverage basically is -- is coverage for -- for benefitsthat are fungible regardless of where you get them.The super-aspirin, the industrial strengthMotrin is going to be the same no matter what drug storeyou get it from. Medical coverage, however, is not. Itis really important to patients to -- to choose a doctorbecause of the personal relationship, and therefore, Idon't see the -- the precedential force of Royal Drugin -- in a physician coverage; a -- a physician optionkind of case like this.MR. ECCLES: But under the Kentucky law, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC patient has no right to choose the family doctor.QUESTION: Well, the -- the patient, in fact,is -- is given in practical terms a breadth of option. It's true the patient can't force a doctor to sign up withthe HMO or force the HMO to take on a particular doctor,but in practical terms, there are going to be more doctorsavailable under a Kentucky kind of regime, and in thatsense, the patient is given a breadth of options thatotherwise wouldn't be available. That seems to me to beimportant when one is selecting physician coverage in away that is not important when one is selecting drug storecoverage.MR. ECCLES: I -- I understand the point,Justice Souter, although the -- the option and the -- thepreference don't match up perfectly. Even if there is abroader range of options, they don't necessarily include adoctor with whom the patient has a prior relationship.QUESTION: Absolutely -- absolutely right.MR. ECCLES: But returning to the pharmacy, it'strue that the aspirin is all the same wherever you go, butthe -- the agreements at issue in Royal Drug, besidesgiving the benefits of pure convenience, the ability toget the drug at the corner drug store, which is notnothing, also gave a very important financial advantage ifyou -- if your pharmacy were participating, and -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes, but another difference is,there -- there is an any willing provider law here. There's no any willing provider law in Royal Drug. Therewas a private arrangement among the --MR. ECCLES: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- with the -- the Blue Cross.MR. ECCLES: That's correct, Your Honor, but theeffect that the agreements that were being regulated inBlue -- with Blue Shield and Royal Drug, the Court heldwere not part of insurance.QUESTION: Right.MR. ECCLES: And we have functionally the sametype of agreements here, an agreement between the HMO andthe pharmacy or other provider, and they also should notbe part of insurance. They're -- they're outside theinsurance relationship, and -- but it was important --I want to make this point, important potentially to thepatients, the insureds in Royal Drug, that -- that theirpharmacy became a -- a participating pharmacy. It was notinconsequential.QUESTION: You mean just as a matter ofconvenience?MR. ECCLES: Besides convenience, Mr. ChiefJustice. The example in the Court's opinion was takenfrom the brief of the United States as amicus. They th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC posited a -dollar drug at retail, and if you got it at aparticipating pharmacy it cost $, if you got it at anonparticipating pharmacy it cost percent more, or $.Presumably those numbers are indexed since now, and -- and greater, but it was of great interest tothe insured whether the pharmacy was participating or not. It made a large cost difference, and yet the Court said itis not insurance in part because it was not affecting, wasnot integral to, was not changing the legal rights of theinsured-insurer relationship.QUESTION: It's an antitrust case, then.MR. ECCLES: That's correct, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: I would think maybe that makes adifference.MR. ECCLES: That's argued in the briefs thatit -- that it makes a difference, and we understand it'san antitrust case. We -- we still think besides thedirect, factual parallel with the fact that Kentucky hasan any willing pharmacy statute, that Royal Drug is stillthe correct analysis for -- it gives the correct analysisas to the McCarran-Ferguson factors really for tworeasons. One is, that's what this Court has appliedconsistently in its Savings Clause case -- cases.It -- it -- this Court said in the first SavingsClause case, Metropolitan Life versus Massachusetts, that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Royal Drug analysis was directly relevant to the ERISASavings Clause, so it has the virtue of familiarity andprecedent, and the -- the standards, the McCarran factorsmake sense here. They're objective factors that give somecontent to the subjective test, the common sense test.But the -- the second piece of -- of the manyattacks that have been made on the -- the relevance ofRoyal Drugs in the brief is, it -- it's argued in thebrief that this Court in Fabe took a broader view, lookedto a different clause of McCarran-Ferguson and said it'sbroader, that insurance regulation can be a littlebroader, and it's geared to protect the performance of thecontract, and we don't shy away from that. The anywilling provider laws have nothing to do with theperformance of the HMO policy here. They just do not addto that policy at all.It's argued in the briefs through hypotheticalexamples that they are effectively Kentucky's regulationof HMO's, the adequacy of the networks and so on, and weare accused of wanting to undo all regulation of HMO's. That's not our position here. The line we would drawwould preserve most of the State's regulation of HMO's,but these laws are not laws that are substantiveregulation of insurance, the AWP laws. They are notadequacy laws. They are not continuity of care laws. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Kentucky has laws like that on its books.QUESTION: How would you characterize them?MR. ECCLES: I would characterize them as a lawthat gives a right to a provider and makes it difficultfor HMO's and ERISA plans, but gives nothing ofenforceable right to the insurers.QUESTION: Well, you -- you don't like thelabel, insurance. Would you call it a health care law? You said it's not an -- an insurance law --MR. ECCLES: It -- it might be considered ahealth care law, Justice Ginsburg, that's correct, and inthat case, it would not come within the Savings Clause,but it's a law that regulates the contracts between theproviders and the HMO's.Now, just to go back slightly over what I justsaid, we are not here challenging the basic concept ofState regulation of HMO's. Where we think the Court hasdrawn the line, and where we would urge that it continueto draw the line, is to say that a law regulates insuranceif it affects risk-spreading, which this does not.The risk here is the risk of financial loss fromneeding medical care. ERISA actually has a helpfuldefinition that makes that clear. The definition of anemployee welfare benefit plan, which is the kind of planwe're dealing with here, is a plan that provides benefits th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC for medical, surgical, or hospital care, or benefits inthe event of sickness. That's the risk.QUESTION: I -- I recognize that we have therisk-spreading and the factors, and then we have thecommon sense test -- we can all have tests floating aroundhere. It -- it seems to me that this just does regulateinsurance.MR. ECCLES: But it regulates only thenoninsurance relationships, Justice Kennedy. It -- it'sexactly what the Court held was not insurance in RoyalDrug. They're external to the insurance relationship, andthey don't change the insurance relationship at all.QUESTION: How do you -- what about MetropolitanLife? What about -- you have a -- you have a contract theState says -- I would have thought the harder thing, whichI don't think any more, is, is -- is an HMO an insurer. We went over that in that other case, Rush, and it's quiteclear that States regulate them as insurers, so we knowthey're insurers.Now, if any State tells an insurer,Mr. Insurance Company, when you write that contract, youhave to put in it mental health benefits, isn't that --that's part of the business of insurance, or not?MR. ECCLES: That's absolutely regulation of thebusiness of insurance, and that's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: All right. Now, here what they'resaying is, you have to put in, use any physician benefits. I mean, it's the same question.MR. ECCLES: Well, what --QUESTION: How do we -- how do you get out ofthat?MR. ECCLES: Sure. The distinction is, our testis, effect the transfer of the risk, and in that case,there is suddenly a new covered risk, the risk of needingmental health care is covered by the policy and, if that'snot at issue, and the Court has had recent decisions whereit has not analyzed risk-spreading, found it unnecessary,it's always looked at the second McCarran factor. It'salways considered, you know, whether the legal rights ofthe insured are being regulated here, are being protectedby the State regulation in the insurer-insuredrelationship, and in that mandated benefit case, they'reclearly getting a new legal right which they do not haveunder any willing provider.QUESTION: But you would not consider the -- thebenefit of having the selection among physicians as abenefit?MR. ECCLES: That's -- in a colloquial sense, ofcourse, if all these things fall into play.QUESTION: So you say it's purely financial. As th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC long as you pay the bills, that's the only thing theinsurance was intended to cover.MR. ECCLES: If all these eventualities fallinto place and you do have a broader choice, that'sobviously, in a colloquial sense, of some benefit, butit's not what benefit means under, and insurance meansunder the Court's Savings Clause process.QUESTION: Well, of course, the -- the criteria,the way we refer to that criterion under the McCarran-Walter trio is -- is not in terms strictly of legal right,though that will satisfy it. We ask whether it's integralto the policy relationship, and I suppose something can beintegral -- integral to the policy relationship eventhough it is not expressed literally in terms of policylanguage which grounds a conventional right.MR. ECCLES: That -- that's correct, JusticeSouter, it is phrased in terms of, integral to therelationship. However, when the Court has described thatfactor in Pilot Life, in UNUM versus Ward, and RushPrudential, it's used terms, Rush Prudential, a legalright to the insured enforceable against the HMO.QUESTION: No -- no question that that certainlyis a -- an example of something that is integral.MR. ECCLES: Right.QUESTION: But I would suppose that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC difference in -- in the kind of policy choices that we'vebeen talking about would be regarded as a -- by apotential HMO subscriber as -- as integral to what he ispurchasing when he signs up with -- with one HMO ratherthan another.MR. ECCLES: Our point -- in Pilot Life, theCourt described the second factor as not satisfied becausethe, you know, the cause of action does not define theterms of the relationship, and we would say, you know,that has not -- does not occur, either, under any willingprovider.If there are no further questions, I'd reservethe balance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Eccles. Mr. --Ms. Johnson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ELIZABETH A. JOHNSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. JOHNSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:As a matter of common sense, Kentucky's anywilling provider statutes regulate insurance because theyare solely directed at the insurance industry. Thesestatutes apply only to Kentucky insurers issuing Kentuckyhealth benefit plans. Petitioners are insurers regulatedby the Commissioner of Insurance. The health benefit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC plans that they offer are exclusively regulated by theCommissioner of Insurance.These statutes are located in subtitle A ofthe Kentucky Insurance Code.QUESTION: But that's -- they could just as wellhave been in something labeled, Health Code. This is notlike -- I mean, things that regulate risk, you'd say, ohyeah, I'm going to find that in the Insurance Code --MS. JOHNSON: That's --QUESTION: -- but here, wouldn't it have been --suppose the law had been written to say that no doctor canjoin a closed plan. It would be the same thing, wouldn'tit?MS. JOHNSON: If that law was not in theInsurance Code, first of all it would not be enforceableby Commissioner Miller. Second of all, insurers are theonly entity that builds networks for the benefit of theirinsured. When an insurer decides to offer a managed careplan, they tie in the network of providers to the benefit. Thus, the terms in-network benefit, out-of-networkbenefit. Therefore, if that law was on the books and wasnot enforceable against the insurer, the insurer wouldcreate closed panels, and they wouldn't be able to haveany doctors --QUESTION: Well, there would be the equivalent th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of disbarment. A doctor, a rule, a regulation of themedical profession is, doctor, you cannot join a closedplan. It seems to me that would accomplish the very samething, but it would be in their Health Code. Unlike somethings -- it can't be that everything that the InsuranceCommissioner does is therefore regulating insurance withinthe meaning of this legislation.MS. JOHNSON: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg,but this Court has found that relevant to the inquiry, andthe fact that this is a insurance law that is onlydirected toward those insurers regulated by theCommissioner of Insurance is very important, and it isrelevant, and the fact that these statutes are in subtitleA of the Kentucky Insurance Code, which dictates thebenefits to be included in a Kentucky health benefit, andthe requirements for those insurers offering those plans.The common sense test is also met because thesestatutes regulate an insurance practice, and that practiceis the practice of insurers offering managed care plans tocontract with providers for the benefit of their insureds.QUESTION: I -- I would -- I would besympathetic to your case -- I -- I keep bumping up againstthe Royal Drug case, where it seems to me all of thepractical things you say about this case could have beensaid there. The -- the contract really is -- is altered, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the contract of the insured. Under one situation, he hasto go to a certain drugstore, under another situation hehas his choice of drugstores which may provide lower cost. Even if it doesn't provide lower cost, it's a greatconvenience to be able to go around the -- around thecorner, and yet we said that, you know, limiting thenumber of drugstores with whom the insured could deal didnot affect the business of insurance.MS. JOHNSON: Your Honor, Royal --QUESTION: How do you distinguish that from thiscase?MS. JOHNSON: Your Honor, Royal Drug is bothfactually and legally distinguishable from the presentcase. First of all --QUESTION: I know it is factually. I don't careabout factually. Tell me why it's legallydistinguishable.MS. JOHNSON: Well, legally distinguishable isthat you're -- in Royal Drug you were looking at oneFederal statute. In the present case, you're looking atanother. In Royal Drug --QUESTION: Well, now, wait. You -- you want usto abandon the -- the proposition that what constitutesthe business of insurance is the same under -- under theantitrust laws as it is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: As it is here?MS. JOHNSON: I believe the --QUESTION: Unless you want us to abandon that,then -- then what you've just said doesn't make any sense.MS. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor. I believe theanalysis in Royal Drug was -- was appropriate and -- andaccurate for an antitrust analysis as opposed to analysisunder the Savings Clause, which this Court has said --QUESTION: So you say the same analysis does notapply. You're saying that the McCarran-Ferguson criteriado not necessarily apply to ERISA. I mean, maybe theyshouldn't, but that's certainly new for --MS. JOHNSON: No, Your Honor, they are relevant,as this Court has said, but they are not required, and inthis Court --QUESTION: They are relevant but not required?MS. JOHNSON: In this, in Metropolitan Life thisCourt came up with a -- a broader test than the commonsense test, and that test is tested by the McCarran-Ferguson factors that were developed in Royal Drug --QUESTION: I see.MS. JOHNSON: -- but they are not required. They are relevant. They're guideposts.QUESTION: So the very -- the very factor that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC qualifies as -- the very same factor. Let's assume thatthey were factually the same. The very same factor thatqualifies as part of the business of insurance in ourantitrust analysis could nonetheless qualify as notbusiness of insurance under ERISA, is that -- is thatright?QUESTION: Vice versa.MS. JOHNSON: In an ERISA case, this Courtstarts with --QUESTION: Vice versa means the same.MS. JOHNSON: -- the common sense test, andunder the common sense test this Court looks at whether ornot --QUESTION: No, but just answer yes or no to whatI just said. I think you got -- I think you -- I thinkyou want to say yes.MS. JOHNSON: Would you please restate yourquestion? Thank you.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Let's take the very same factor, likethe exclusion of certain pharmacies, which -- which wasthe case in Royal Drug. That very same factor couldconstitute the business of insurance under ERISA, and yetnot constitute the business of insurance under theantitrust laws, because we're applying a different test, a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC common sense test. Is that your position?MS. JOHNSON: The common sense test controls inERISA preemption analysis.QUESTION: So your answer to my question is yesor no?MS. JOHNSON: In your analysis is there a Statelaw that requires, or is it the Royal Drug --QUESTION: Well, in the ERISA case there is, inthe antitrust case there isn't. I mean, that's what makesantitrust different from ERISA, I think.MS. JOHNSON: Right.QUESTION: But -- but they both focus on thevery same factor, the provision of -- the ability of theinsured to select pharmacists. Now, you say that thatcould be the business of insurance for ERISA, and yetcould not be the business of insurance in antitrust cases. Yes or no?MS. JOHNSON: Yes.QUESTION: Okay. I think that's the right --MS. JOHNSON: Yes. Yes. Yes.QUESTION: That's the right answer. I mean,for --(Laughter.)QUESTION: For you it's the right answer.MS. JOHNSON: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But I'm not sure it's the rightanswer for me.(Laughter.)MS. JOHNSON: Yes.QUESTION: And may I ask a follow-up question,then? If the whole difference, then, is this, quote,common sense test --MS. JOHNSON: Yes.QUESTION: -- I'll tell you frankly what myproblem is. I read the Sixth Circuit opinion, I said,yes, that makes common sense, and I read Judge Kennedy'sdissenting opinion and said, yes, that's common sense,too, so what --(Laughter.)QUESTION: These -- these are rational judges onboth sides, they both made good arguments, and they bothconformed to some sense of what goes on in the real world,so what is the common sense test?(Laughter.)MS. JOHNSON: Well, Justice Ginsburg, it's avery broad test, and I -- I think it -- it's looking atthe whole picture, and the fact that this law is focusedon regulated insurers, risk-bearing entities that areunder the control of Commissioner Miller, and it regulatestheir insurance practices. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years ago you might not have had the issuewhere providers -- that insurers were contracting withproviders for the benefit of insurers, but that is a -- avery prevalent practice in the insurance industry today,and the State Departments of Insurance regulate thatpractice, and in Kentucky it's heavily regulated.On page of my brief, I -- I set forth manyKentucky statutes that regulate the insurer's relationshipwith the health care provider for the benefit of theinsured. These statutes were also set forth on page ofthe Solicitor General's brief. That is a common practicein -- in the insurance industry today, and it's a heavilyregulated practice.The --QUESTION: Also, I guess if you were taking theview that the language business of insurance could meandifferent things for purposes of section (B) of McCarran-Ferguson in here, you'd find support for that in RoyalDrug itself, isn't it, which said that maybe the meaningof those words in (A) and (B), although they're the samewords, is different.MS. JOHNSON: It is different, and -- YourHonor, and in Royal Drug was -- this Court made it clearthat they were trying to decide whether an insurer'spractice of entering into provider agreements was -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC constituted the, quote, business of insurance for thepurpose of meeting a very narrow exemption from theantitrust liability.QUESTION: Well, it isn't only that. I thinkthe statutory language refers to the regulation of thebusiness of insurance, and in the insurance case in RoyalDrug there was no official regulation, only privateregulation of the agreement, whereas in this case you havepublic regulation, so it's conceivable that here you haveregulation of insurance, and there you don't count aprivate agreement as the kind of regulation that thestatute's speaking about.MS. JOHNSON: That's true, Justice Stevens, andin --QUESTION: That isn't what the Court saidthough, is it?QUESTION: Yes, it is.(Laughter.)QUESTION: You can continue with your argument.(Laughter.)MS. JOHNSON: The McCarran-Ferguson factors arealso met. As the Sixth Circuit noted, the second factoris clearly met. These statutes regulate an integral partof the policy relationship between the insurer and theinsured. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In managed care plans, provider agreements areessential. In managed care plans, and under Kentucky law,certificates of coverage cannot exist independently fromthe provider directory. These statutes simply prohibitinsurers from arbitrarily limiting the number of providersthat they contract with for the benefit of their insureds.These statutes allow insureds greater access tothe health care provider of their choice, and I think thisis -- is clearly seen in KRS -A-()(k), whichrequires the insurer to disclose that they are willing tocontract with any willing provider. This simply puts morecontrol to the insured in their relationship with theirhealth care provider, which is a very personal and uniquerelationship.QUESTION: Royal Drug says that the spreading ofrisk is an indispensable characteristic of insurance. Itthen holds that the pharmacy agreements do not involve anyunderwriting or spreading of risk. Now, why aren't thosetwo propositions as -- as true here as they were in RoyalDrug, that the spreading of risk is the essence of -- ofinsurance, and that an agreement between the provider ofthe goods or services and the insurance company is notpart of the spreading of risk?I mean, maybe Royal Drug is wrong, but I -- Idon't see -- I don't see how you -- how you get out of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that box.MS. JOHNSON: Well, again, Justice Scalia --QUESTION: And I don't like the, you know,common sense test, I know it when I see it. What I worryabout, the -- the common sense test is that we willapprove those things that we like, and disapprove thosethings that we don't like. I mean, who likes a privateantitrust arrangement that -- that limits choice, so youjust say, common sense, that's not the business ofinsurance, and who doesn't like something that enables --enables the insureds to -- to have a greater selectionin -- in doctors, so we say, common sense says, that isthe business of insurance.I -- I don't trust common sense.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I -- I want some rule of law that --that I can adhere to. I thought we had one in Royal Drug,and I -- I'm just not persuaded about why insurance is onething there, and it's something else here. I mean, if --if, indeed, the spreading of risk is what insurance isabout, then --MS. JOHNSON: Your Honor, the Sixth Circuit didfind that Kentucky's any willing providers transfer orspread policyholder risk. As the Sixth Circuit noted,these statutes open -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But how does it spread the risk,actually? It's hard for me to see that it does that.MS. JOHNSON: Justice O'Connor, when a -- whenan insurer sets up a managed care plan and structurestheir benefits to be in a managed care plan, they havetied in the network of providers to that benefit, and whenyou have a statute on the books that allows the insuredand the health care provider greater control to continue arelationship, and common sense tells us that an -- aninsured will seek an out-of-network provider in order toensure continuity of care and that unique relationship,what these statutes do is, they --QUESTION: I -- I don't see how that spreads therisk. I understand you think there's a practical benefitto the insureds --MS. JOHNSON: Yes.QUESTION: -- but how does it spread the risk,please?MS. JOHNSON: It -- Your Honor, it increases therisk for the insurer that the insured will not have toseek treatment from the out-of-network provider. However,as this Court has noted, all three McCarran-Fergusonfactors are not required to be met. This Court reiteratedthat last term in Rush Prudential versus Moran.Unless there's any more questions, I will th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conclude by saying that Kentucky's any willing providerstatutes are laws that regulate insurance, and thereforeare saved from ERISA preemption.Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Johnson.Mr. Feldman, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES A. FELDMANON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. FELDMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, what would be an exampleof a measure which did spread the risk, as that term wasreferred to in Royal Drug?MR. FELDMAN: Well, I think one example would inMetropolitan Life against Massachusetts, certainly I thinkeverybody -- I understand everybody here to agree that alaw that required an insurance policy to include insuranceagainst a particular risk would spread the risk, but Ithink what -- in this case also comes right -- it spreadsthe risk at least for purposes of -- of ERISA for thisreason. What this law is, is a condition on the spreadingof risk, the insurer is saying, we are going to spread therisk so long as you go to an in-network provider, and theState here is regulating that condition, and really it's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC analogous -- it has to do with the performance of therisk-spreading.QUESTION: So, you're -- you're saying the firstMcCarran-Ferguson factor includes a provision thatdetermines the way the insurer manages the risk, eventhough it may not affect the risk as between the insurerand the insured.MR. FELDMAN: I think it does -- not quite. I think it actually does -- it does affect that risk,but I think it's a condition --QUESTION: No, but I thought that was theargument you were making right then and there.MR. FELDMAN: It's a condition on the spreadingof risk, or a condition on the performance of theinsurance contract, and in the Fabe case, which was aMcCarran-Ferguson Act case, but involved a differentprovision of the McCarran-Ferguson Act than at issue inRoyal Drug and the Pireno case that followed it --QUESTION: Well, how, as a practical matter,does it affect the risk here? Is the -- is the riskincreased for the insurance company under this law becauseit -- under -- under the Kentucky law it has to pay forchiropractic services, where otherwise it would not, sothat's an increase in the risk? Is that -- is that yourpoint? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: It would -- I guess -- for you --it certainly could be -- I think semantically it could besaid to just increase the risk in just that way. I thinkfor me, I'm more -- it's more comfortable to talk abouta -- it removes a condition on the spreading of risk. Therisk would be spread under -- without this law so long asyou go to a provider who the HMO has said we're going tolet into our network, whereas here --QUESTION: That's what -- that was going to bemy second question. It seems to me that's the risk-spreading.MR. FELDMAN: Right, and here the risk-spreadingis so long -- we're going to spread this -- such-and-sucha risk, but so long as you go to any willing provider, andthat's a different condition.QUESTION: But it doesn't spread the risk.QUESTION: It doesn't.QUESTION: I mean, it just doesn't, does it? I mean, it's simply an ordinary -- it's -- what it's aregulation of is, if the risk eventuates, the insurer hasto carry out his side of the bargain in this particularway.MR. FELDMAN: Right.QUESTION: It's a regulation of the goods orservices that an insurer provides. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: That -- that's correct.QUESTION: Now, if you're going to --QUESTION: And the risk is a condition, is ahealth condition of the patient that will be covered.MR. FELDMAN: Yes, but -- but it's reallyexactly the same as what this Court faced in Fabe,where --QUESTION: What's the name of the case?MR. FELDMAN: Department of Treasury againstFabe. In that case, what was at issue was a prioritystatute about how to distribute the assets of an insurancecompany after it has become insolvent, and it had nothingto do with the contract as to what -- what risks theinsurer was going to insure, but what the Court said is,it does have to do with the performance of that contract,because if the assets are spread in a certain way, theinsurer will actually get paid -- the insured willactually get paid if that risk results, and otherwise not.QUESTION: What -- what if the risk were tied --the risk is that the patient becomes ill and needs --MR. FELDMAN: Yes.QUESTION: -- medical care, isn't it?MR. FELDMAN: Yes, and this is a condition onthat, but I don't --QUESTION: So -- so how -- how does this measure th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC spread the risk, or why does it not spread the risk?MR. FELDMAN: It -- it operates as a conditionon the spreading of risk, because without this law,there --QUESTION: Well --MR. FELDMAN: -- the risk will -- it's -- theinsurance policy says we -- you -- we will spread thisrisk among all our insurers. If you get ill, we're goingto pay for it so long as you satisfy a certain condition,and what this law does is, it alters what that conditionis.QUESTION: Which is to say, it doesn't spreadthe risk, so if the other case means you have to have arisk, then you lose.MR. FELDMAN: Right, but the Court --QUESTION: But it doesn't -- I thought that thatother case has -- since it involves the provision by aninsurer of goods and services, and a regulation of how,when the risk eventuates, it is pretty similar, and so thedifference is, what they say in footnote , I guess,which is probably what was going on here, which is thatwe're interpreting not the McCarran Act's effort to allowStates to regulate insurance. We are interpreting whatthey call the secondary purpose, and that purpose was toimpose a narrow -- narrower limitation on the reach of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC antitrust laws.MR. FELDMAN: Right, and -- that is true, andthe Court repeated that in Royal Drug, and in Pireno, andin Fabe, in all of those McCarran-Ferguson Act cases itmade exactly that point, and it --QUESTION: But is that the key distinction, oris there another one, too?MR. FELDMAN: Well, I think that's the mostimportant one, but there's a number that are related. Inthe ERISA context, for example, the Court has added -- theCourt said, well, we first look as a matter of commonsense at the insurance policies. It didn't just say, weare going to apply the McCarran-Ferguson Act to ERISA, andit shouldn't be surprising that there are therefore somedifferences between the two, or otherwise it would havebeen unnecessary for the Court, as the primary test, tolook at the policy as a whole.Second, in the ERISA context, the Court hasspecifically said that not all three factors are necessaryto be found in order to find that something regulatesinsurance.QUESTION: This is all very sophisticated, butI -- it just seems to me that what constitutes the --insurance in one -- in one situation ought to constituteinsurance in another, and it -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's just common sense.QUESTION: -- it's just common sense.(Laughter.)QUESTION: And -- and what -- and what we'redoing when we -- when we deny it is -- is exercisingpolicy judgments about whether we think the -- theparticular thing that's been done is desirable or notdesirable.MR. FELDMAN: I -- I don't -- I don't thinkthat's correct, and I -- I don't think it should besurprising that there are some differences between ERISAand the McCarran-Ferguson Act, not only because of thepolicy differences, but there's a noted difference inlanguage between what -- the statute that the Court wasconstruing in Royal Drug and in Pireno, and with the oneit's construing here.QUESTION: So you don't think that the -- thatunder ERISA it's important that what is regulated is thebusiness of insurance?MR. FELDMAN: Well, ERISA just says, regulateinsurance.QUESTION: I understand that, so you think itdoesn't have to be the business of insurance. It -- itcould be other aspects of the insurance -- of theinsurance company? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: I think the Court recognized thatthere can be a difference --QUESTION: Right. Like what buildings theinsurance companies have to be in, and other things?MR. FELDMAN: No, but I --QUESTION: I mean, once you depart from thebusiness of -- the business of insurance concept in theMcCarran-Ferguson line of cases, it seems to me, wasessential to make sense of it, and it's just as essentialto make sense of the ERISA prescription, it seems to me.MR. FELDMAN: I think it's because of thedifference in language that the Court from MetropolitanLife on has adopted a different analysis in ERISA, andthere's actually two differences. One is that in RoyalDrug and in Pireno, which involved the antitrust exemptionthat has to be narrowly construed, you were just talkingabout a -- a law that is -- that is in -- that is -- thebusiness of insurance.In the Fabe case, which involved the other partof McCarran-Ferguson, which saved State laws in the areasof traditional, in the area of traditional Stateregulation, it talks about regulating the business ofinsurance.In ERISA, you're now one step farther away,because now it just says, regulate insurance, and I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those laws are differently worded, and there's everyreason to give them a somewhat different scope.QUESTION: Have we ever --QUESTION: Have you --QUESTION: -- analyzed a case that way insolving these problems? Have we ever relied on thatdifference in language, Mr. Feldman?MR. FELDMAN: Well, in the -- I think the Courtin the Pireno case, for -- oh, the difference in language?QUESTION: Of regulation of insurance versusregulating the business of insurance?MR. FELDMAN: I -- I don't think the Court hasrelied on that specific --QUESTION: No.MR. FELDMAN: -- language in any of its cases sofar, because in most of the cases everything has lined upand it hasn't had to, but I will say that in the ERISAcases, there's now a couple of them where the Court hasmade clear that all three of the McCarran-Fergusonactors -- factors don't have to be applied in ERISA, andthe Court has never reached that conclusion under theantitrust exemption in the McCarran-Ferguson Act.QUESTION: Well, that would be ridiculous toreach it, since the three factors are what the McCarran-Ferguson Act is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FELDMAN: Right, but by recognizing thatthey -- that they're not all -- specifically holding thatthey're not all necessary in ERISA, I think the Courtagain recognized that there can be a divergence in --between the two areas.QUESTION: And one reason, I suppose, is thepresumption against preemption which we are trying tomaintain in ERISA.MR. FELDMAN: That's right. That's right.And I -- I would like to add one other thingabout the -- what's been called the common sense test,which is, I do think the Court has given substantialcontent to it in its cases. It talks about a regulationthat homes in on the insurance industry, or is aimed atthe insurance industry. It is relevant how the Statecodified it because, as the Court said in -- as recentlyas Rush, I think, the term insurance acquires itscoloration and meaning from State law, State practice, andState usage, because what Congress was trying to do waspreserve State law in an area of traditional Stateauthority, and therefore, the codification in theInsurance Code is of relevance.And finally, at the very least, a State law thataffects the contract between the insured and the insurer,which this one does, has a necessary effect on that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contract and, in fact, a substantial one. That, althoughwhat is insurance may be broader than that, something thatdoes satisfy that I think clearly is insurance underthe -- the common sense --QUESTION: Mr. Feldman, can I ask you aquestion? Do you suppose, if, in the Royal Drugsituation, there had been an insurance regulation thatrequired the insurance company to give the patient anoption between generic and nongeneric drugs, that thatwould have been the regulation of the business ofinsurance?MR. FELDMAN: I think it probably would havebeen, and I -- I think that would, of course, have beenanalyzed under the other half of the McCarran-Ferguson Actif it was a State regulation of that sort.That concludes my -- Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Feldman.Mr. Eccles, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT N. ECCLESON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ECCLES: I'll address four points, if I may.First, as to the argument that a condition isremoved in the policy by operation of Kentucky law, that'snot true. Before and after the Kentucky law, thecondition on getting payment from a -- from a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC participating physician is identical. All that's changedis that outside network. The law, just so I'm clear, doesnot, by itself, require a network to admit a chiropractorwhen it has no chiropractic coverage. That's a differentlaw. If it did that, we would say that definitely affectsthe legal rights of the insured and would be a mandatedbenefit law such as the Court sustained.Second point, we are not -- a comment was madeby counsel for the Commissioner about regulations ofproviders providing benefits to the insurers. Some do,and those -- the line we would draw, say, if it's aregulation of a provider such as a continuity of care,such as a hold harmless provision that prevents theprovider from billing for the balance above the networkrate, that clearly affects the legal rights of theinsured, and would be saved under our test.Third, Royal Drug, it's this Court's precedentsthat have said the Royal Drug analysis is directlyrelevant to the ERISA Savings Clause. It was the dissentin Royal Drug who said that pharmacy agreement is integralto the relationship. You can't have it without -- youcan't have the insurance without the pharmacy agreement,but that was said in the dissent. The Court rejected thatview, and who is in the participating network is not partof the benefit of the insured. The insured just has no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right to decide what doctor to go to, or any legal right.To address -- fourth and finally, to addressperhaps more concisely the question of why do we care, ifthis isn't going to expand the networks, it's -- it hurtsus even if the network doesn't expand in the slightestbecause if nothing changes, if no choices or options areexpanded, the uncertainty that has resulted is added tothe administrative cost. It's affected the ability to beselective. You have these networks --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Eccles.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 