 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XJOHN ASHCROFT, ATTORNEY GENERAL :Petitioner :v. : No. -AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, :ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioner.ANN E. BEESON, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFANN E. BEESON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFTHEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, John Ashcroft v. The American CivilLiberties Union.Mr. Olson.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERGENERAL OLSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:All three branches of our National Governmenthave repeatedly determined that pornography causessubstantial, incalculable damage to our children, thatassisting parents in protecting children from that damageis a compelling national interest, and that pornography iswidely available and readily accessible to our children onthe Internet.The Child Online Protection Act is Congress'response to that urgent national problem. It was draftedafter testimony, hearings, and findings in direct responseto explicit and detailed guidance in this Court's Reno v. ACLU decision explaining how to solve the problemof Internet pornography in a constitutional manner.COPA directly responds to several of the Court'sexplicit suggestions in its Reno v. ACLU decision. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In the first place, Congress gave explicit, substantivemeaning to the terms, harmful to minor, utilizingstandards developed over several decades by this Courtdescribing what would be prohibited in the terms used bythis Court in the context of minors. I will not get intothe specifics of that, because those are before the Court,and the Court is quite familiar with them.The Court also added, however, in response tothis Court's explicit suggestion, the third prong of theso-called Ginsberg-Miller test, that the material taken asa whole would have to lack serious literary, artistic,political, or scientific value for minors, an objectivestandard developed by this Court to protect the producersof communications. Congress limited the statute tocommercial pornographers at this Court's suggestion, thosewhose trade or business, in an effort to produce profits,are engaged regularly in the production of explicit sexualmaterial for profit.QUESTION: In your view, is the provision thatit has to be objectionable to minors, is that a nationalstandard?GENERAL OLSON: Well, as -- the reference tocommunity standards in the statute is in the first andsecond and prongs of a three-part test. This Court hasintroduced that community standard provision to protect th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the communicator from individualized determinations byjurors, and from particularly sensitive, or particularlyinsensitive communities.The Court has explained again and again that itis an average standard. It is an adult approach to whatmight be prohibited from the standpoint of damage tominors. The Court has repeatedly said that it might be --it doesn't refer to any specific geographic limitation. In fact, in the Hamling case and in the Jenkins casedecided by this Court several years ago, the Court made itclear that the community standards prong does not have toapply to any specific community.QUESTION: But Mr. Olson, isn't the problem withthat argument that the definition also refers to theaverage person, so it's working average in by a separateprovision. If that is where the average comes in, thendoesn't the reference to community have to mean somethinggeographical if it's going to mean anything at all?GENERAL OLSON: Well, this Court has repeatedlysaid -- for example, in the Hamling case the Court waslooking at a geographic standard that covered the entireState of California. The Court said in Hamling andJenkins that the standard doesn't have to have anyspecific geographic limitation.QUESTION: But did it -- did that -- and I just th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC don't remember this. Were we dealing there with a statutethat separately referred to kind of an average personstandard? Because the problem that I have here is, if yousay, well, it's -- what it's trying to get at is a norm,it's already built the norm in on a different textualbasis, and therefore if it's already built that into thedefinition, and it then additionally speaks of communitystandard, then that's where I have the problem, so in thecase that you refer to, was the definition the same? Didit have the two prongs?GENERAL OLSON: Well, yes, because the Court wasin that case applying the two -- the other two prongs thatthis Court --QUESTION: No, no, but I mean, did it have theaverage person provision in the definition?GENERAL OLSON: It wasn't in the definition inthe statute itself. It was what this Court read into --QUESTION: Okay. Well, now we've got it in thestatute itself, so in effect I guess you're saying thereference to community standard, or the reference toaverage, one or the other, is essentially redundant in thedefinition.GENERAL OLSON: Well, it may be, but what theCongress was attempting to do was to develop and put intothe statute the protections which this Court over the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years have said are very important to protect thecommunicator.QUESTION: You're saying it's a belt andsuspenders definition.GENERAL OLSON: Well, what this Court hasdecided is that something to prevent jurors fromdeciding -- imposing their own individual standards, orimposing the least sensitive standards of the community,or the most sensitive standards of the community.QUESTION: General Olson, there's one thing thatyou -- some new thing comes up in your brief. We go fromMiller, where there was a geographical base, and I knowyou said that the Internet is not geographical base, butyou use a term that, what is harmful to minors isreasonably constant across the United States. Now, isthat reasonably constant something looser than, say, theserious value as a limitation on what would qualify asharmful to minors?GENERAL OLSON: Well, there is two parts tothat. The serious value standard is an objective standardthat this Court and other courts are entitled to examineclosely, and have examined closely to make sure that therearen't any aberrational prosecutions or limits imposed.With respect to the community standards, whatthe Congress was attempting to do was to make sure that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people didn't impose individual limitations with respectto how they were judging the material with respect to theother two prongs of the statute. I hope I have answeredyour question, but --QUESTION: Well, the words that I used, theyinvoke Miller, so it sounds like Congress didn't write anyword formula that was any different, but you saysomething -- it's not --GENERAL OLSON: That was a finding, so to speak,by the House committee that there is not with respect --years have changed since the Miller and the Hamling case. We're now in an era of national television, nationalmedia -- some of those standards were articulated at atime when the community of the United States was much moreisolated and insular in various different parts. We arenow talking about a national media, national television,national communication, the Internet reaching millions andmillions of households.What Congress felt, that there would not besubstantial variation between what the average adult wouldfeel would be harmful to minors under the very specific,itemized, detailed standards, prong , prong , and thenwith the value-added prong --QUESTION: What was the basis for thinking thatthe harmful to minors would be reasonably constant to a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC greater extent than what is obscene?GENERAL OLSON: Well, the House report thatspecifically talked about that did not explain. I shouldhasten to -- did not explain what the individual electedMembers of Congress were thinking when they came to thoseconclusions. I think it's a reasonable thing to conclude,is that Members of Congress are reflecting the judgmentsthat they develop as a result of running for office andbeing in a national legislature.That's exactly what we expect Congress to do,and what Congress did in this case was apply thosestandards, and those instincts, and those judgments in away in which it was in every conscientious way attemptingto comply with the instruction that came from this Courtin Reno v. ACLU as to how to do it.QUESTION: Well, I think it's a difficultquestion. I don't know what the rule ought to be, but ifyou have a trial in State A, say a western State,California, can you bring in an expert from New York andfrom five other States, experts to tell the jury what thecommunity standard is there, or does the trial judge rulethat irrelevant?GENERAL OLSON: Well, the courts have permittedexpert testimony with respect to that, but there's a greatdeal of supervision that the trial courts and the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC appellate courts impose with respect to that to make surethat these definitions are being applied in anonaberrational --QUESTION: In your view, how does it work? Ihave a California jury. Is it proper, or is it necessaryfor that jury to consider what the standards are in otherparts of the country before it returns its verdict?GENERAL OLSON: I would submit, Justice Kennedy,that yes, that would be possible. The Hamling instructionI think is instructive. The Hamling instruction was thestandards generally held throughout this countryconcerning sex, and matters pertaining to sex, the averageconscience of the time, the present critical point in thecompromise between candor and shame at which the communitymay have arrived at here and now.In other words, that standard -- and thedefendant in that case argued to this Court that that is anational standard which this Court in Miller said was notrequired as a matter of the First Amendment.Interestingly, in Hamling, the defendants inthat case argued just as the plaintiffs in this case do,that a national standard is both required and would beprohibited. In other words, they want to have it bothways.QUESTION: They want to have it neither way. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL OLSON: They want to have it neitherway. Either way, it would be unconstitutional, and thisCourt has specifically addressed that by saying that it --that jurors are allowed to draw from their experience,which necessarily comes from the community in which theyreside, but that Congress felt in this case that therewould be relatively constant standards throughout thecountry. This is a facial challenge.QUESTION: Well, when you say relative --GENERAL OLSON: There's no evidence --QUESTION: You say relatively. I'd like you tobe specific. That is, would it satisfy you if this Courtsaid, when it says the words, average person applyingcontemporary community standards, we instruct the jurythat the word community means the United States taken as awhole?GENERAL OLSON: I think that this Court has saidthat that is not a requirement of the First Amendment, butfrom the --QUESTION: I know. I'm not saying it's arequirement --GENERAL OLSON: Yes, sir.QUESTION: -- of the First Amendment. Suppose,having read the legislative history, I came to theconclusion that that, in light of all the constitutional th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC difficulties, is just what Congress had in mind, andtherefore I wrote in the opinion, community means theentire audience at which this is aimed, likely the entireUnited States.GENERAL OLSON: I --QUESTION: Now, if those words were in theopinion, would you consider that you had won this case?GENERAL OLSON: I think I would, Justice Breyer,and I think --QUESTION: So that satisfies you.GENERAL OLSON: And I think that would be a --the statute is readily -- to use the words of this Court,the statute is readily susceptible to the narrowingconstruction, if that's how you would regard that, or aleveling construction. I --QUESTION: Now, would you tell me what thedifference is between the construction that Justice Breyerhas suggested and the result of your argument that thethird prong, the value prong, is in fact an objectiveprong and hence a national -- I assume it's a nationalstandard. It's an objective prong, and therefore that ineffect eliminates -- as I understand your argument, theapplication of that prong eliminates a lot of theidiosyncracy that might conceivably come in under a strictgeographic standard. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Is there a difference between the constructionJustice Breyer is suggesting and the result that we wouldget if we accepted your argument about the effect of thethird prong?GENERAL OLSON: I don't think so. I think thatwhat Justice Breyer is suggesting is a jury instruction ora judicial construction which would apply to prongs and, and that what you're saying is absolutely correct also,we submit, that that is precisely what this Court has saidthat third prong is there for. I should --QUESTION: Oh, I wasn't necessarily saying it. I was saying that I think you're saying it.GENERAL OLSON: Well then, I agree with yourconstruction of what I'm saying.QUESTION: Of you, okay.(Laughter.)GENERAL OLSON: I think it's a very importantpoint to make, that the Court has said that that isanother way in which we protect the speaker fromaberrational, highly --QUESTION: Well, but aren't you then saying tous that Congress, when it used the word community, reallymeant to say national?QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC GENERAL OLSON: Well, I suspect, JusticeStevens, that the people who assisted the Members ofCongress in drafting the statute read this Court'sdecisions, as there's every indication in the twocommittee reports and in the hearings that were taken,that the Court was attempting in every way to live up tothe standards of this Court. This Court was saying thatthe First Amendment does not require a national standardwith respect to community standards, but this Court hasnot been entirely --QUESTION: I think you're answering my questionby saying yes.GENERAL OLSON: Well, what I think -- no, Idon't necessarily think that the Court -- that theCongress was intending to impose a national standard,because this Court had said that it wasn't required underthe First Amendment, and that the community standards didnot have to be judged by any particular geographical area.QUESTION: I'm not trying to find out what theConstitution requires or what our cases might haverequired. I'm just asking you what you think the wordcommunity means, as used in this section of the statute.GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think what Congress wasattempting to do was come as close as possible to adoptingwhat this Court had said in the context of obscenity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Now, I should hasten to say that to the extentthat the Third Circuit felt that the community standardsmakes it unconstitutional in the context of the Internet,that -- those community standards are -- this statuteprohibits obscene material on the Internet, too, andcommunity standards don't work for material which isharmful to minors. They don't work probably forobscenity, either.QUESTION: I don't know where we are here --QUESTION: Do you think it's possible for aNorth Carolina jury to sit in judgment of a particularpornographic transmission and decide whether this wouldoffend the standards of Las Vegas and New York City? Imean, doesn't any jury necessarily apply the standards ofits own community? Aren't we really talking about animaginary distinction here?GENERAL OLSON: Well, yes, Justice --QUESTION: Let's assume that you instruct thejury, jury, you must apply a national standard. What doessomeone who's been raised his whole life in North Carolinaknow about Las Vegas?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I would submit that thejudge would instruct the jury, and the judge examining thedecision of the jury afterwards in appellate courts woulddo exactly what this Court has said. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC As long as the juror is attempting to apply hisjudgment or her judgment with respect to adultperceptions, based upon all the input that the juror mayhave with respect to what is generally harmful tominors -- the dilemma that this has caused, causes here,both for Congress and here in this Court, is that we wanton the one hand to make sure that idiosyncratic judgmentsare not being imposed on the transmitter of information. On the other hand, we don't want such wide variations thatthere would be difference in community --QUESTION: I suppose a defendant could call anexpert witness in the case in North Carolina and say thatin New York this is fine. I don't know how much attentiona North Carolina jury would pay to that.GENERAL OLSON: I think the defendants can puton expert testimony with respect to what general standardsare, to use the phrase in Hamling, country-wide. Now, Ishould say --QUESTION: But then the trial judge mustinstruct the jury, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, thisis a national standard, and that's consistent with whatJustice Breyer suggested to you, that we might consider inputting in the opinion, so it's a national standard.GENERAL OLSON: I'm not objecting to that. Ifthat is the readily accessible -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I think we're asking what theCourt -- which the Congress wanted. Now, I can sympathizewith the Congress when they're not exactly clear on whatthis Court's decisions mean, but we need to know how itought to apply to this case in the context of theInternet. The Internet would be very different than alocal bookstore.GENERAL OLSON: I think that is a reasonablesolution to the problem, and is consistent with whatCongress was saying.Congress was also aware that this Court has saidover and over again that the same material may be judgeddifferently by different juries from place to place, andthat that is not a constitutional impediment. This Courthas also said --QUESTION: General Olson, in this context, ifyou could -- I didn't get a clear answer to my question. Maybe I'll put it this way. Is there greater judicialcontrol, either by the trial judge or the appellate judge,with respect to the serious value standard than there iswith respect to the national standard for community --GENERAL OLSON: Yes. That's what this Court hassaid again and again, and we of course accept that, andthat is -- Congress accepted that as well.QUESTION: And is your point, then, we first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC take out that category. If it's serious value, it's out.GENERAL OLSON: Yes.QUESTION: And it's only when it doesn't haveserious value, then you get into the question ofnational --GENERAL OLSON: Yes, that's right, but rememberthat -- it seems important to emphasize that thesedefinitions are highly specific with respect to thematerial which is prohibited. It's not just saying tojurors -- the obscenity statute doesn't have any of theselimitations in it. U.S.C. just talks in very, very generalterms, so what Congress was trying to do here is be muchmore specific than the obscenity statute, which this Courthas accepted for or years by importing these kindsof definitions into it. What Congress felt it was doingresponsively was not only defining what was prohibitedvery specifically, but then incorporating those specificstandards, just as you suggest, Justice Ginsburg.The other thing that this Court has said is thatthose who are choosing a medium to make available tochildren material which is harmful to children, over whichthe person who is disseminating that information, thosewho wantonly decide to pollute the stream from which weall drink have a responsibility to take the minimal steps th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC necessary to reduce the harm that's being caused byputting that material into the stream.What we have as a result of this are substantivestandards that Congress developed based upon the teachingsof this Court with respect to obscenity, applying thosestandards to minors, as this Court suggested isappropriate and a part of a compelling national interestin the Ginsberg case, the Ferber case, and Sable case, andother cases where the Court has suggested that somethinghas to be done, and is entirely appropriate to be donewith respect to minors.And then the third thing that Congress did wasadopt a solution to the problem which is consistent withwhat or so States have in these blinder laws, magazineracks displays, the books, materials that this Courtconsidered in the American Booksellers case with respectto what would be permissible to prevent children fromseeing damaging materials in bookstores.Now, that is -- so what we have as a result ofCOPA, Congress listening to this Court, lowering the ageto and under, making it apply to commercial speech andnoncommercial speech, returning parental control, adoptinga device that this Court has considered in the Sable caseand considered in this case. The language of this Court'sdecision in Reno v. ACLU said that the age verification th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC system is technologically and economically feasible, isalready in use, and would provide a defense to thosecommercial purveyors of pornography, so Congress listenedto that, adopted that system, put into place for theInternet the same standard that already exists in the -State blinder laws with respect to access of minors tothese materials, so --QUESTION: Did Congress take account in any ofthis -- I mean, one objection that's raised is, it's allfutile, because you're just giving competitors fromabroad -- they will come in and fill the gap if U.S.providers are not available. You're not going to besaving children. You'll just be getting it from outsidethe U.S.GENERAL OLSON: Well, the Congress didexplicitly consider that. COPA applied to material ininterstate or foreign commerce. The Government willprosecute where it can material that comes in from abroadwhere it's capable of doing it, but Congress alsorecognized that it would not -- was not going to allow theperfect to be the enemy of the good. It was going to dealwith those problems, or those portions of the problem thatit could address.Now, we understand and we have acknowledged thatit may well be that there are circumstances under which th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC these limitations can be avoided. There may be certainforeign purveyors that Government are not able to trackdown or obtain jurisdiction over, but what Congress wastrying to do is deal with as much of the problem as itcould in as constitutional a manner as possible.QUESTION: And maybe Congress wouldn't mind evenif the child pornography industry flourished, at leastdrive it overseas. That wouldn't exactly be a bad result,would it --GENERAL OLSON: Well --QUESTION: -- in Congress' mind?GENERAL OLSON: Well, I think -- and the Courtconsidered a case earlier this year of the damage thatthat industry does, earlier this term. Yes, there's twoparts to that, Justice Scalia, the damage of the industry,the domestic industry itself is incalculable, but thedamage to the recipient, to the children, are alsoincalculable, so that might address part of the problem,but Congress in this --QUESTION: But here, at least from the exhibitsthat you gave us, it doesn't seem that this material --there are no virtual children, no real children. This isadult stuff, at least.GENERAL OLSON: Yes. We're not talking aboutthat aspect of the issue that you're considering in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC other case, but what I was simply trying to address isJustice Scalia's question, that this is a major problem. We understand from the legislative history that explicit,adult material, not just on the Internet, is an $ billionindustry. According to what Congress decided in thiscase, there are , sexually explicit commercialpornography sites on the Internet.This is readily accessible to children. It isalmost -- anyone with any experience with the Internetwill tell you that children can find it readily, and findit as long as they can type and read they will find it,and will find it by accident, and once they find it byaccident -- the House committee points out that if youtype in the words, White House, www.whitehouse.com, youwill find offensive, explicit pornography, and it's veryhard to get rid of.QUESTION: And much of it you say -- if Iunderstand you correctly, you -- this law doesn't touch --I mean, I was impressed at that set of exhibits. Yousingled out three that you said would not be excluded as amatter of law.GENERAL OLSON: Possibly.QUESTION: Oh. So you're saying maybe theothers --GENERAL OLSON: Well, one of the ones that we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC were concerned about is a series of very explicitpictures, and I think the Court knows which ones I'mtalking about. We -- I went and did some additionalresearch on that. That is -- that are photographs of anart exhibit, and one art gallery that was several yearsago that is a small portion of a large compilation. Justice Ginsburg, I think that -- I don't know how thatwould come out when all of the evidence came in withrespect to that.Those photographs were pulled out of context andput in the exhibits. That's why this material has to belooked at as a whole, under these specific standards.I'd like to reserve the remaining part of mytime for rebuttal, except to say that this is a facialchallenge, and we are dealing with the possibility ofstriking down or not allowing the enforcement of a statutewhich we -- this Court and Congress and the executivebranch is a necessary, narrowly tailored, carefullycrafted solution to a desperate problem.QUESTION: Thank you, General Olson.Ms. Beeson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ANN E. BEESONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMS. BEESON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court: th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC COPA, just like the Communications Decency Act,makes it a crime to communicate protected speech to adultson the World Wide Web. The Government, as JusticeGinsburg just noted, has now conceded that COPA applies tomuch more than commercial pornographers. They say intheir reply brief that under COPA they can prosecute apopular online magazine, Salon Magazine, one of ourclients, and the leading fine art vendor on the web forproviding a few items that are deemed harmful to minors ontheir web site.The affirmative defenses in COPA --QUESTION: Excuse me. If they're providingthose items, and if those items are pornographic, thenthey are commercially in the pornography business. Whatdifference does it make that they do other business aswell?MS. BEESON: Justice --QUESTION: I don't see why Salon or any othercommercial operator should be immune by saying, well, youknow, all of my business isn't pornography, just a littlebit.MS. BEESON: Justice Scalia, whether or not wetalk about them as commercial pornographers, the fact is,the speech they communicate, which even the Government Idon't think would label them commercial pornographers in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the sense that we imagine, first of all, two of the threeexhibits are not pictures at all. They're written text. They're stories, and the point is that all of this speech,by definition, all of the speech targeted by this law isby definition protected for adults.This statute would make it a crime for speakersto make that information available, and the defensessimply do not solve the problems. They're the same twodefenses that were in the first statute. There's nochange at all, credit cards or adult access codes.QUESTION: Can you think of an example ofsomething that would have serious literary, artistic,political, or scientific value for an adult, but it wouldnot have it for a -year-old?MS. BEESON: Yes, Your Honor. I think that --QUESTION: You can?MS. BEESON: I think that all --QUESTION: I've had trouble.QUESTION: -year-old.MS. BEESON: I think that all of our client'sexhibits are precisely that sort of material, and that, ofcourse --QUESTION: You think -- I looked at some of theexhibits, and I think -year-olds are prettysophisticated, and I don't understand why they wouldn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have, Salon Magazine, the same kind of value for a -year-old that they have for a -year-old.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, the --QUESTION: It's , actually, isn't it? We'retalking about years old.MS. BEESON: Yes, I think it is , in fact.QUESTION: All right, -- .MS. BEESON: There are --QUESTION: There are even quite mature -year-olds who know about --(Laughter.)MS. BEESON: There are many communities in thiscountry --QUESTION: That's, I think, the question in thecase, correct. You're saying in some communities --sorry, I didn't --MS. BEESON: I'm saying -- perhaps in even mostcommunities that believe that providing any informationabout experiencing sexual pleasure, about sex toys, toteenagers, is sinful and is definitely harmful, and --QUESTION: That's probably so, but I mean, whatJustice Breyer is addressing and what I was concerned withwith Mr. Olson was his argument that the third prong, thevalue prong, in effect, sort of sands off the rough edges,and it gets the -- in practical terms it gets the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC community peculiarity out of it, and is that -- obviouslyyou don't agree with it. Why is he wrong in that?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, first of all, I thinkbecause all of the millions of speakers, including ourclients on the web, they are the ones that have tounderstand this law, and as Mitch Pepper, who runs aSexual Health Network which provides specific informationabout how to experience sexual pleasure to disabledpersons, testified, I think very strongly, based on myinterpretation of the words in this statute, even with theserious value prong, that value prong is value for minors,and he has to believe, as he testified, that discussion ofmasturbation, oral sex, anal sex, descriptive positioning,all of that can be construed as pandering to the prurientinterest of minors.Those are the -- these are the speakers who aregoing to be subjected to criminal prosecution under thislaw, and let me clear, our clients don't ever want to comebefore a jury. That's the problem, of course. They --QUESTION: Oh, but the particular issue isreally not the third prong. That's not before us, I takeit. The issue before us is the question of communitystandards, and so does it satisfy you if the Court were tosay -- or, say I wrote an opinion. I'm just thinking ofmyself -- write an opinion that says, the word community th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC standards does not mean individual localities. It doesmean the Nation.MS. BEESON: Absolutely not, Your Honor, for tworeasons which I want to explain. First of all, undereither standard this statute is unconstitutional, and thatis clear, and that is because of the very strong deterrenteffect it has on adult speech. Through all of thesespeakers who are targeted under this law, they really haveonly two choices, and just to give one example --QUESTION: That was true in Hamling, too. Therewas considerable deterrence, just because you didn'tknow -- if you sent stuff Nation-wide, you didn't knowwhere you might be prosecuted.MS. BEESON: Mr. Chief Justice, there's a veryreal distinction here, and that is that Hamling was aboutthe obscenity standard and this is about the harmful-to-minors standard, and my point is that --QUESTION: Just a minute. Will you explain whyyou think that's a distinction?MS. BEESON: Because by definition all of thematerial targeted by the statute is protected speech foradults. Adults have the right to access it, even thoughchildren don't. In the obscenity context, obviously, evenadults don't have the right to access the material.QUESTION: No, that's true, but you run -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people in Hamling ran the same risk. They may havethought their stuff would not be found to be subject tothe community standard, but a jury might find otherwise,so that's just what you're complaining about.MS. BEESON: Well, the range of speech, however,of course, protected speech that is limited by the -- byany harmful-to-minors display statute. It's just bydefinition greater, again because the entire category ofspeech is protected for adults. It's not like you're justarguing about the margin of what is obscene for everyone.QUESTION: Well, in obscenity cases, whether itwas obscenity or not depended upon the communitystandards, so you were really taking your chance when youpublished something nationally you were subject to theleast -- highest common denominator of obscenity. Whyshould it be any different for pornography than it is withobscenity? It seems to me that Hamling and the othercases establish that it is no violation of the FirstAmendment to subject a publisher to differing standardsthroughout the country. If we did it for obscenity, Idon't know why we cannot do it for pornography.MS. BEESON: Again, most importantly, YourHonor, under any standard -- under any standard, COPA isunconstitutional --QUESTION: Okay -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BEESON: -- because it would deter such agreat amount of adults from accessing --QUESTION: But going back to Justice Breyer'squestion, if we construed the statute the way he hassuggested, isn't it clear that we would have to vacate thejudgment in this case and send it back? We're not here tomake a final judgment on the statute. We're reviewing theinjunction, and if we construed it his way, we would haveto vacate, wouldn't we?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I don't believe so,because we have a very strong record here, which again theThird Circuit explicitly affirmed the findings of fact bythe district court that show that adults are going to bedeterred by this law, and that is because what the lawrequires is that you put screens in front of all of thematerial that again is protected to adults, and bydefinition, if you're Different Light Bookstore, which isone of our clients --QUESTION: But that's not a community standardsproblem.MS. BEESON: It's a -- Your Honor, it's aburden-on-speech problem.QUESTION: Yes, but I --QUESTION: It may be a burden on speech, butlook at the question we took. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I'm trying to get you to ask --answer one specific question, and I'll try once more, allright.The question in front of us, presented iswhether the court of appeals properly barred enforcementon First Amendment grounds because the statute relies oncommunity standards to identify material that is harmfulto minors. That's the question before us. You have reasons why this statute is unconstitutional. I'd likeyou, for the purpose of this question, to forget aboutthose reasons. I want to know if, in respect to thisone reason, that the community standards -- that's what'sin the question -- if we were to say the word communitymeans national, then would you concede -- would you sayyou've won, or you've lost, or --MS. BEESON: Yes.QUESTION: That -- how does that affect thecase, to answer that question nationally?MS. BEESON: Yes, and our answer is that evenunder a national standard this law clearly violates theFirst Amendment.QUESTION: I know that, but is the right thingto do, then, for us to say, court of appeals, you werewrong about the meaning of the word, community standards. It is a national standard. There may be other things th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC wrong with this statute, in which case, go and considerthem, but this isn't one of them.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, we -- again, if thatwere the course that you decided to take, we do not thinkthat the appropriate thing would be to vacate theinjunction, but whether to leave the injunction in place,and then --QUESTION: Not vacating the injunction, vacatethe order of the court of appeals and say, you considerthese other points.MS. BEESON: Again, Your Honor, I don't thinkthat that would be a helpful or useful exercise in thiscase, because of both the strong facts we're working onand also just to talk about the problem of the nationalstandard which, of course, was referred to when Mr. Olsonwas speaking.You know, as the Court said in Miller, anational standard would be an exercise in futility. Willjurors have to decide base on their own sense of communitystandards whether or not something is patently offensiveand prurient?QUESTION: But why is it okay for obscenity butnot okay here for -- not for -- I'm putting it toofavorably. It isn't okay for obscenity. It is okay fortaking your chance on whether what you publish is obscene. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BEESON: And the --QUESTION: But it's not okay for taking yourchance on whether what you publish is pornographic andharmful to minors. Why should there be any differencebetween the two?MS. BEESON: Well, for one reason of course, oneof the crucial distinctions here is the nature of theInternet, and that is one of the arguments that the ThirdCircuit discussed. It is very distinct from handling inSable in the sense that this is not a situation wherepeople who put their speech up on the web have any way oflimiting their speech to only certain communities.QUESTION: But you're only talking aboutcommercial speech, something that people are going to haveto pay to see.MS. BEESON: Justice O'Connor, the Congress veryexplicitly wrote the definition of commercial speech inthis statute so broadly that it applies to much more thanpeople who primarily communicate what is termed commercialpornography.That was the point before. They explicitly saidthat anyone who includes any material that is harmful tominors is covered by the law, and again, according to theconcession in the Government's reply brief, if you'reartnet.com, one of the leading fine art vendors, and you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have a series of Andre Serano photographs on your site,you can be prosecuted, and also, of course, this is notmaterial that is for sale.There is no requirement that you're actuallyselling the material. It's only that you intend to make aprofit. As the district court found, the vast majority ofcontent on the web is available for free to users.QUESTION: Well, Hamling didn't rely at all, theopinion in Hamling, on the fact that the people couldchoose where to circulate. I mean, they in effect said,you do it at your own risk.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I think that's a verydifferent conclusion to reach when you're talking about anenvironment in which you can control where you send thematerial. If you're a regular magazine distributor, youknow where you're sending your magazines. On the web --QUESTION: Do you mean --MS. BEESON: -- if you want to communicatelocally, you can't.QUESTION: You mean, we would have to make thisexception even for obscenity, even for out-and-out stuffthat's so far beyond that it's not even just pornography. You would say we could not allow community standards to beapplied --MS. BEESON: Your Honor -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- on the web, for obscenity.MS. BEESON: We think that that is a verydifferent question, and that is not a necessary conclusionfor the reason that I said before and that is because, bydefinition, a national standard for what is displayed asharmful to minors on the web would impact far moreprotected speech than a national standard for obscenity,which is by definition unprotected for adults as well asminors, and to put it another way, no adult has the rightto materials that are obscene in even the most tolerantcommunity.QUESTION: It seems --MS. BEESON: All adults have the right tomaterials.QUESTION: -- the issue is howunconstitutionally unfair it is to the publisher,regardless of how many publishers are covered. You'resaying it's okay to do this for obscenity but somehow notfor pornography. It seems to me if subjecting you to arisk Nation-wide is an unconstitutional thing, you'regoing to go to jail just the same, whether you're going tojail for pornography or obscenity.MS. BEESON: We are saying --QUESTION: If we cannot use community standardsfor this, I don't see why we can use it for obscenity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. BEESON: We, of course, don't think you needto even reach that question, but to the extent that youdo, again, I think that it is quite a different questionbecause of the amount of protected speech that isimpacted. It's just not -- it is not so clear thatunder -- with obscenity a national standard would benearly as problematic as it would when you're talkingabout making available materials which are clearly, bydefinition, protected for adults to receive.What COPA does is to prevent speakers from doingthat, and requires them to make this unwelcome choice,which is, you either set up costly screens that the recordshows are going to drive away your users, or you self-sensor, and if you're a Different Light Bookstore, or youare the Sexual Health Network, or you're the artnet, afine art vendor, it's only rational, and of course theytestified to this, you are going to self-censure, becausethat was the only option that will ensure that you're notprosecuted.QUESTION: But what about the Government'sposition that of all the exhibits that are at least in therecord presented to us, there's only three that they say,even as a matter of law, might be subject to prosecution,so they're giving you a clean bill of health on all theseothers, and they say it's really a very narrow category, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not the broad category that you're describing.MS. BEESON: Justice Ginsburg, in fact thatconcession in the reply brief makes us more nervous thanever, and that is because the Government has changed theirmind. They very clearly argued at the district court thatour clients, none of our clients even had standing toraise the constitutionality of this action because theywere so clearly protected.Now, suddenly, here we are before the SupremeCourt, and they say, oh, no, we changed our minds, some ofthem can be prosecuted. That very much implies that theycould change their mind again in the future --QUESTION: Ms. Beeson --MS. BEESON: -- and in fact the speech isindistinguishable from many other exhibits that are in thejoint appendix before you.QUESTION: Ms. Beeson, let's talk about artnet. Do you really think that when artnet puts out the AndreSerano photographs, do you think it expects to avoid beingheld under this statute because of (a), that it wouldhope that the average person applying contemporarycommunity standards would find this material as a wholenot designed to appeal to or pander to the prurientinterest, or do you rather think that artnet's protectionwould surely be sought under (c), namely, that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC material taken as a whole possesses serious literary,artistic, political, or scientific value? Isn't thattheir real protection?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, they really do notbelieve it is their protection, and that again is becauseit says, serious value for minors, and that, of course, isone of the primary distinctions between this category andobscenity. There are many people who would think that thefine art --QUESTION: The national standard -- I guess Ihave to go back to that, but I didn't get an answer. Right now, your clients could worry that they would beprosecuted under the Miller standard, and the onlydifference is minors, and so I find it very hard to thinkof an artistic work that one would say has serious valueto a -year-old but not to a -year-old. That, to me,seems impossible.Now, you give me an example of such a thing.MS. BEESON: Well, Your Honor, the Governmentitself is saying that art --QUESTION: That's their opinion. I'm asking foryour opinion.MS. BEESON: I'm sorry, Your Honor, but they'rethe ones that are going to prosecute my clients.QUESTION: That may be, but the very fact that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC your clients could be prosecuted does not mean they winthis case, because after all, they might be prosecutedunder Miller, too, and everyone agrees that that's thelaw, so I'm asking you for your opinion, if you can findan example of a work of art that would have serious valuefor a -year-old but not for a minor, and I'm telling youI can't think of one, and the reason that I ask you is,I'd like you to try to think of one.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, with respect, webelieve that all of the exhibits that we have put in, theartistic ones and the literary works, the column, the nudeartworks by several clients, all of these could betargeted under the statute, and again, what the effect,the First Amendment effect of the statute is whether ornot our clients legitimately feel like they have to self-censure under this law as compared to the obscenity law.They don't believe that their works are obscene. They know that some communities will find them harmful tominors, and for that reason what they are going to do is,they're going to self-censure, and what it's going toeffectively do is have COPA driving a certain category ofspeech protected for adults from the marketplace of ideasthat is the web.QUESTION: Are you saying that you have to givesome effect to Congress' words? It didn't say serious th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC value, period. It said, to minors, and that's differentfrom serious value that we're accustomed to dealing within the obscenity area, so for the Court to say, well,Congress just used those words, they didn't mean anything. That's I suppose what you're saying is of concern.MS. BEESON: Yes, Your Honor, and the history ofthe harmful-to-minors definition, that is one of theprimary points. The point is that even though peoplemight think that artistic words that are explicit, and youknow, references to homosexuality that are explicit, havevalue for adults, many, if not most communities find thatthat same material does not have value for minors.And again, to address your question, too,Justice Breyer, about the -year-old or the -year-old,there is nothing in this statute that defines minor as the-year-old. The Government has been, again, pushing aninterpretation of that statute.QUESTION: But I thought you might -- I mean, Ithought that the word, for example, for minors comes outof cases that permit the Government to require certainmagazines to be placed in certain places in thebookstores, or in the retail shops, with brown covers, soperhaps there's some experience, since we have worked withthe words, for minors, of something that has to be doneunder that law, but doesn't fall within Miller. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I mean, I just wanted to get your views on it.MS. BEESON: Yes, absolutely. I think therehaven't been that many cases on the books because, again,those statutes are much easier to comply with, and that'swhat the courts have found, but even in those cases thecourt has looked very carefully at whether or not therewas a significant deterrence effect on adults, and in theblinder rack cases, none of which dealt with the uniquenature of the online medium, in which, as our recordsshowed, up to percent of users would be deterred fromaccessing speech that had a screen in front of it. Now,that is the finding of the district court.The blinder rack cases didn't deal with thatkind of situation. None of them would require adults todisclose their identity, or to register before obtainingthe access to protected speech, and there is certainly norecord of the strong deterrence, and importantly, in thosecases there was no record of an equally effectivealternative, and that is something that I really think weneed to get to, because here the district courtspecifically found that there was an alternative that wasequally effective, and that is the use of blockingsoftware, user-based blocking programs, and in fact --QUESTION: But you're saying that it -- you'resaying, which was an issue last time around, it's up to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the parent, Government can do nothing. The blocking, Itake it, is something that the parent would buy andinstall. The question is whether Government can doanything, and I think your answer is no.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, we believe thatCongress did two things already that we're not challenginghere. First of all, it established a study commission tolook into other options for protecting children, and afterthe statute was enacted, that same study commission,Congress -- and so I don't think, with respect to Mr.Olson, that he's correct that all three branches ofGovernment are on the same wavelength here. I think thatwe have some difference, and that is, Congress' owncommission has now concluded also, which is equal to thedistrict court's findings, that user-based blockingsoftware is actually more effective than credit card andadult access code screening.Just to remind the Court also that the Courtspecifically found that the Government didn't prove thelast time around, in Reno v. ACLU, that those screeningtechniques, credit card and adult access codes, willactually prevent minors from accessing the content. Thesame is true here. There's no evidence that those areactually effective, whereas the district courtspecifically found user-based alternatives are effective, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and then Congress' own commission concluded the samething.QUESTION: Well, of course, all this goes tothese other aspects of the statute. As I understand wherewe are in the argument, the court of appeals decided forreasons that I think we cannot criticize on this recordthat it's going to sustain this injunction based on thecommunity standards problem, and we're asking you, if thecommunity standard is national, doesn't that solve thatproblem, and I'm coming away from this argument with theimpression that you're saying, well, I'm not going tobother to help you on that, because there are so manyother things in the statute I want to talk about.MS. BEESON: Yes, I'm sorry.QUESTION: But that doesn't help me answer thisquestion.MS. BEESON: Right, and I don't mean to leavethat impression. I -- what I'm saying clearly is that webelieve that even if you were to read a national standard,it would be unconstitutional, because the real effectwould be precisely the same as the local communitystandards interpretation is, and that is, the leasttolerant community would get to set the standards foreveryone on the web, since web speakers have no way todetermine where their audience is. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But is it not true that --QUESTION: Then you're saying that a nationalstandard can't be enforced with any jury.MS. BEESON: I don't think that it can, becauseagain jurors are going to have to enforce that. You'regoing to have to have still a jury decide what is patentlyoffensive and prurient, and I think they're going to dothat naturally based on where they're physically located,in their own community.QUESTION: Then you're -- and I don't mean thisdismissively, but I think we have to accept this. You'resaying there in fact is no way to regulate this.MS. BEESON: Your Honor, I'm saying that thereisn't any way to make it a crime to display materialharmful to minors on the web.QUESTION: Yes.MS. BEESON: That is our position, and again,that we believe is very consistent with many otherstatutes that have recently been struck down by the Court. Just last term in the Playboy case, in, you know,obviously the Reno v. ACLU case, the Denver Area case, Imean, in the last years I count at least six statutes,some of which weren't even criminal statutes like thisone, which I think has an even stronger potential forchilling speech, that were struck down because of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC burden on adult speech.QUESTION: No, but I'm not -- again, I'm notasking you the global question.MS. BEESON: I understand.QUESTION: I'm just asking you the question thatgoes to the specific issue that we took for review, andthat is the legitimacy of basing an injunction, orsustaining the district court's injunction on thecommunity standards portion of the statute, and myquestion to you is simply, I take it you're saying thatthere is no way to write a standard into the statute, callit community, call it national, call it some third thingthat you dream up, that will ever sufficeconstitutionally.Forgetting the rest of the statute, forgettingthe rest of the problem, just on the touchstone of thestandard, there's no way to do it, and I think your answeris no, there is no way to do it.MS. BEESON: There is no way to do it, andagain, I do want to be clear that I think that we candivorce the rest of the language of the statute, evenaside from the deterrence issues, and what I mean by thatis, because the statute was written so broadly as to coveranybody who had even just one image, for example, becausethe statute was written to include not just images but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC text, I think, you know, I think those problems stillremain even just looking at the textual language, even ifyou're focusing just on the community standard versus thenational standard, and that's another reason why we don'tthink that fixing that problem is enough to save thestatute.QUESTION: May I ask another sort of generalquestion? Do you think there's any way in which Congresscan deal with the problem of what they call teasers, whicheveryone would agree would violate the standard here, andwould also not have serious artistic value?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, one way they could dothat, of course, is through more vigorous prosecution ofobscenity and child pornography, which again --QUESTION: No, no, I'm assuming nonobscene --MS. BEESON: Nonobscene.QUESTION: -- but clearly pornographic teasers.MS. BEESON: Well, I mean, I of course don'twant to be the one to rewrite the statute, but I do think,as I suggested before, that if they --QUESTION: But I'm asking if it's your positionthat that's beyond the power of Congress to control.MS. BEESON: I think that a statute that didjust apply, for example, to web sites who were actuallyselling things already -- this one isn't limited to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that -- and secondly, web sites who the predominantportion of their site was actually harmful to minors. That would certainly be closer to just addressing teasersthan this statute is.QUESTION: You still haven't answered myquestion. My question is whether it's beyond the power ofCongress to control the teaser problem.MS. BEESON: Justice Stevens, my answer is thatI think if they wrote a statute -- are you asking mewhether I think that statute would be unconstitutionalalso, because of course, I have to argue yes, it would be,but it would certainly be -- you don't have to believe meon that.clear --(Laughter.)MS. BEESON: Obviously, and you know, just to beQUESTION: Just on this one, right?MS. BEESON: -- that would be -- that's what Imean. That's a very different statute than this one. Itwould be one narrowly tailored to the --QUESTION: No, but one of the things we have tobe concerned with is, there is a genuine problem thatCongress is trying to address, and if your position is youjust forget about it, that you've got to live with theproblem, that's quite a different position than if you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think, well, there's a less restrictive alternative thatwould accomplish what the Congress is trying to do, andyou're suggesting to me there isn't a less restrictivealternative.MS. BEESON: Well, the less restrictivealternative for actually protecting children is the user-based mechanisms, and that again, the -- Congress itselffound to be actually more effective at protectingchildren.Just to refer to the exhibits that were put inby the Government, every single one of those sites thataddress the teaser problem, all of those were blocked byall of the major --QUESTION: What would Congress do, pass a lawrequiring parents at their own expense to impose user-based screening?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, we certainly believethat the Federal Government could --QUESTION: I mean, that's not a solution. Thatis not a solution within the power of Congress.MS. BEESON: No, and we don't think it needs tobe, because we think, of course, the ultimate decisionought to be resting on parents, where it always has, tomake a decision as to whether they --QUESTION: You're saying, in answer to Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Stevens, in your capacity as a lawyer, that whateverstatute Congress came up with, you would believe in thatcapacity was unconstitutional. You're not prepared to saythat there's any statute that is constitutional. I'masking about what you think, not what I think.MS. BEESON: We are not prepared to say that anystatute which significantly burdens adult speech isconstitutional, and I think that is very consistent withthe opinions of this Court, as in the Playboy case and theDenver Area case.In sum, I just want to say that the web providesaccess, as we all know, to more speech by more speakersthan any other communications medium in history. COPAthreatens to transform this dynamic medium into one thatis fit only for children. We believe the preliminaryinjunction should be affirmed.QUESTION: Let me ask you a modification to myquestion. Do you think it would be within the power ofCongress to require everyone who is in this area ofspeech, which is protected as to adults but maybe not asto minors, to put a XX on their material that goes ontothe web site so that the software could pick up that XXmore effectively?MS. BEESON: Your Honor, the problem with thatwould be, of course, without some kind of mechanism that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC then allowed parents to --QUESTION: No, that's right, but then that wouldsimplify the problem of buying -- of setting up softwarethat could screen out this stuff.MS. BEESON: I think that it might have somecompelled speech concerns, especially, again, where you'retalking about a medium where you have these individuals --just because it's commercial businesses doesn't meanthere's a big -- you know, a lot of employees to makethese determinations. We have clients who are singleindividuals who are working out of their home. I thinkthey're just not going to be able to do that. Whatthey're much more likely to do instead is to self-censor,so I'm not sure that that would be a solution.We believe that a much better solution -- andCongress agreed with us. The Justice Department itselfwrote a letter to Congress before this law was passedsaying that they think that upholding this statute woulddivert valuable resources away from the more importantissues of prosecuting the child pornographers.QUESTION: Ms. Beeson, last time we had acolloquy with the Government on this subject, and theywere candid to say, we're not trying simply to maximizeparents' choices. We think Government, qua Government hasa concern for the children, so even if you have parents th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC who don't care at all what their kids see, the Governmenthas an interest in seeing that children -- and your pointabout the effectiveness of a blocking device doesn't go tothat at all. The Government's saying, we have anindependent interest, and we can do something.MS. BEESON: Yes, I do believe that that issuecame up in the Playboy case last term, and the Court, youknow, did rule that again voluntary -- we can't assume,especially without a record to the contrary, that parentsare going to fail to act.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Beeson.MS. BEESON: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Olson, you have minutesremaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERGENERAL OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.Justice Ginsburg, this Court has specificallysaid and held in the Ginsberg case that the Governmentdoes have a responsibility, and this Court has repeatedlysaid there's a compelling national interest in addressingthat responsibility. It is not just helping the parents. It's an independent, as this Court put it in the Ginsbergcase, independent responsibility to do something toprevent damage, which everybody agrees is damage to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC children.What we're hearing from the plaintiffs in thiscase is the same sky is falling defense that everythingpossible is going to be precluded and taken away fromadults, and that some of the same parties were making inthe American Booksellers case, and this Court sent thatback to Virginia and asked the Virginia court to examinewhether all of these publications and materials were goingto be covered by the statute, and it turned out that noneof them were, and then the case wended its way back to theFourth Circuit, and it resolved itself in these statutesthat were used, that Congress uses as an analogy, theblinder statute.Now, what our opponents say now is that thisblinder statute applied to the Internet is somehowintrusive, expensive, intolerable, burdensome. But whenyou go into a bookstore to look behind the rack, you haveto do that in person. Sometimes, if it's a - or one ofthese convenience stores, it may be on a camera.In the Internet, you have to identify yourselfwith a credit card, which many people do anyway. Thesescreens already exist, as Justice Stevens' questions focuson. It is the teasers that are in front of the screenthat Congress was attempting to get at, so in many casesthese screens already exist. There's a privacy provision th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC built into the statute that prevents the adultidentification services from sharing the information as tothe identity of the person using it.I would submit, or the Government would submitit's quite obvious that this is less intrusive. As thisCourt said in Reno v. ACLU, the system already exists, andit's already in use, so what -- and the definitions -- oh,and the other point that several of the questions havefocused on is if community standards are not permissibleon the Internet, which is what I understand our opponent'sposition to be, those go out the window with respect toobscenity, because those are the same standards that thisCourt developed.Now, what will happen then, as a result ofaffirming the Third Circuit's decision, is that all of theobscene material which is now behind the screen will be infront of the screen, and all these children will now notjust be seeing the teasers, but the effect of the ThirdCircuit decision is that they will be seeing everythingthat anybody, any of the commercial pornographers want toput on the Internet.Now, the definition of commercial, that is thesame definition. Congress understands what those wordsmean. It made it clear that it was talking about peoplethat are in the business of making a profit as a regular th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC trade or business in dealing with the provision ofmaterial which is sexually explicit, and damaging tominors.It's a definition that already exists, that thisCourt is quite familiar with. It's in U.S.C. , theobscenity statute. The same definition of commercial isin that statute that Congress adopted for this statute.Finally, with respect to the national standardspoint, I don't think Congress intended to adopt a nationalstandard. I think what they were trying to do is developa standard based upon what this Court said in Hamling, andspecifically in Jenkins, which was decided the same day asHamling. The jury instructions need not specify whatcommunity, and so forth. I won't repeat the wholedefinition there, that the definition of communitystandards does not have to be geographically limited.Congress suggested that there wasn't going to bemuch variation. They didn't -- Congress didn't feel thatthere would be much variation anyway, and this Court hassaid there can be some variations from place to place andtime to time --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralOlson.GENERAL OLSON: -- and if you're in thatbusiness you're taking your chances. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 