 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XRICHARD L. MATHIAS, ET AL., Petitioners ::v. : No. -WORLDCOM TECHNOLOGIES, INC., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, December , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOEL D. BERTOCCHI, ESQ., Solicitor General of Illinois,Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioners.BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the Respondent United States.PAUL M. SMITH, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of theRespondents WorldCom Technologies, Inc., MCI WORLDCOMNetwork Services, Inc., MCImetro Access Services LLC,and Focal Communications Corp. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOEL D. BERTOCCHI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFBARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the Respondent United States ORAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL M. SMITH, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents WorldComTechnologies, Inc., MCI WORLDCOM Network Services,Inc., MCImetro Access Services LLC, and FocalCommunications Corp. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOEL D. BERTOCCHI, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentfirst this morning in Number -, Richard L. Mathiasv. WorldCom Technologies.Mr. Bertocchi. Am I pronouncing your namecorrectly?MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, you are, Mr. Chief Justice.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOEL D. BERTOCCHION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BERTOCCHI: Good morning, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:The local telecommunication provisions of theTelecommunications Act of introduced competition intolocal telephone markets. The act did so in sections and . Section imposes the obligation tointerconnect, and requires incumbent carriers to enterinto agreements that will provide access to theircompetitors to those incumbents' networks.Section prescribes procedures under whichthose agreements, contracts, as they are, are negotiated,arbitrated, approved, and filed, and the act stops there. It does not go on to interpret -- to discussinterpretation or enforcement of those agreements.From its title through its text, section th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC demonstrates that Congress was silent regardinginterpretation and enforcement. Nonetheless,interpretation is not unaccounted for, because into thatsilence, under preexisting law, stepped the States. Thatpreexisting law, still good under the act, notpreempted or repealed by it, provides that theinterpretation of these contracts is a State law processwhich has been deliberately left by Congress to Stateregulators, including State judges, who will apply Statecontract law to those provisions.QUESTION: Can I ask a very preliminary, quick,I hope -- and I hope you'll have a conclusive answer. Ican't get an answer. It's a procedural matter. I take ityou won below.MR. BERTOCCHI: We --QUESTION: You won on the merits.MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes.QUESTION: All right. Now, I've always thoughtthat you appeal from a judgment, basically. The judgmentnow under the Seventh Circuit says, you win. But whatyou're saying is, their reason was the wrong one. Weshould have won because there was no jurisdiction or therewas a Fourth Amendment bar.MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And the reason they gave for our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC winning was wrong. Well, I didn't think you could appealthat kind of thing. Judges make mistakes in theirreasoning all the time. I do, too, and if you couldappeal from the reasoning of an opinion, as opposed to thejudgment, we'd be here days a year, so -- and I can'tfind a case where that happened, so is that -- and I hopethere's a conclusive answer to what I say, because it'sterrible if the case washes out for that reason.MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I believe theconclusive answer is that our assertion that there was nojurisdiction over us and that we -- if there wasjurisdiction over us and over this cause of action, we areasserting immunity as a claim that we can bring regardlessof the result on the merits.QUESTION: And is there any precedent at allwhere that's ever happened before?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I cannot -- I'mafraid I cannot cite you to any. I believe that thesequestions are preserved regardless of the merits. Icannot point you to --QUESTION: Does the opinion below cause you somekind of continuing injury?MR. BERTOCCHI: Well, it does, Your Honor, inthe sense that it is going to, if it stands, result in ourcontinuing to be brought to Federal court, in spite of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC immunity that we assert, and it is going to continue toplace these cases in Federal court even though we believethat they are properly State court cases completely, andthat our State court should have the opportunity to reviewthese, to review all the matters that are raised, and tofulfill both their duty to apply State law and theirobligation to consider whether their State lawconstruction in any way is inconsistent with Federal law.QUESTION: There's a patent case in U.S.that says -- where the lower court ruled both oninfringement and on the validity of the patent, and theperson who sought to -- had won on one of them. ThisCourt said you could have a decision on the other point. That might be of some help to you.MR. BERTOCCHI: I appreciate that, Your Honor,and I will have a look.QUESTION: Except, isn't it the ordinary rulethat when -- there may be a special consideration in thatpatent context, and maybe yours is also, but I had thoughtthat reasons that went against the judgment winner do notget any kind of preclusive effect, so that you would notbe bound by this jurisdictional holding which was againstyou. You prevailed on the merits, you have that judgment,so you don't -- you're not stopped, precluded fromrelitigating the case. In other words, the two go th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC together. If you can't appeal it, then you're not boundby it. Isn't that --MR. BERTOCCHI: I understand, Your Honor. Ibelieve, though, that we -- that the district courts ofthe Seventh Circuit would consider themselves bound by theSeventh Circuit's decision, and we would have to go tocourt to litigate that, which we believe would be aviolation of our immunity, and in addition, we believethat the jurisdiction would not be there, and by doingthat we would essentially be being kept out, as we havebeen kept out of our State courts for at least some periodof time, and in that sense I believe that there is acontinuing injury that results from this.QUESTION: Your injury results at least in aformal sense from the fact that, in order to get thereview which the companies sought, they made your Stateregulators defendants in a case, is that correct?MR. BERTOCCHI: They subjected them to -- theindividual commissioners to suit and made them defendtheir rule, yes, sir.QUESTION: But the essence of what they were --the essence of what the companies were claiming was notsome kind of right asserted against the State as asovereign entity or against these regulators in officialor individual capacity. The essence of what was going on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was an attempt to review in effect a regulatory decision. Why does that implicate immunity in the sense that weusually think of immunity in Eleventh Amendment issues tobe implicated?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I think it does sofor two reasons. First, if you take a look at thecomplaint that Ameritech filed, Ameritech asserted in itscomplaint that it had been injured by the actions of theState commissioners.QUESTION: Well, but that's -- anyone who losesa case has been injured by the actions of the judge whomade a mistake of law, or by the regulator in a regulatorycase, so that in itself doesn't take it out of the usualattempt simply to get review of a judicial or a quasi-judicial decision that you say is wrong.MR. BERTOCCHI: That's correct, Your Honor, butthe result -- the other thing that the complaint does is,it names the individual commissioners as defendants. Itsubjects them to the jurisdiction of the Federal court,and it raises issues as to whether -- which we have arguedat great length in all of our briefs, as to whether thatviolates sovereign immunity.QUESTION: But that's a formality. It seems tome that by naming them the -- those who are appealing aredoing nothing more than saying, look, these people in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their adjudicatory capacity made a mistake, we want thatmistake reviewed, in the same sense that people work theirway up through levels of appeal in the judicial system,and that certainly is not a classic example of the kind ofimplication of State sovereignty which the immunitydoctrines and the Eleventh Amendment have addressed. Iguess I'm saying, is this really a case that implicatesEleventh Amendment immunity?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, we believe it does. I will admit that as things have turned out, in light ofthe fact that the district court and the Seventh Circuitdid not disagree with the decision of the commission,there have -- none of the parade of possible bad thingshave happened to us. There has been no injunction enteredagainst us. There has been no contempt proceeding. Atthis point there might not be an award of attorney's fees,but that's because of the way the case came out.QUESTION: Is it your position that the privateparties could have brought the case to the district courtwithout naming the commission?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, not in thisinterpretation case, no. We believe we were necessaryparties, but we believe that because we believe these areState actions and that we are -- and we are necessaryparties under State law to administrative review. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But does that, again, put you in anydifferent position from a State commission in a run-of-the-mill utilities case, even within -- let's say justwithin the State system, to keep it simple? In some,maybe all States, if there is an appeal from a rate orderthe regulatory body can be represented by counsel and say,you know, we got it right, don't reverse us, but they arenot regarded as parties to litigation in the classicsense.So you could have been -- I guess what I'msaying is, you could have been heard, which is one of theconsequences of the way they went about this procedurally,but you could have been heard without being a party in theusual sense.MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, given the fact thatthis was a Federal court reviewing a State proceeding, wemight well have been able to be heard if the districtjudge had allowed us in, and again, as I indicated -- andI believe this is still in response to the question -- ithas turned out that because the district court agreed withus, nothing has happened to us that doesn't happen to usin State court when our decisions are affirmed.But in State appellate proceedings from IllinoisCommerce Commission orders, when the appellate courtdisagrees, it enters a decree that invalidates or in some th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC way amends or remands the order. That is not the type ofrelief that is contemplated in the full range of a Federalequity suit in which commissioners are named asindividuals or even, I would submit, in a case in whichthe State commission were named as a party.In this case, Ameritech did not sue the Statecommission, for reasons I'm not quite sure I understand,but we're willing to, because we're here, assume that thecommissions are -- commissioners are an acceptablesubstitute, but even in that instance, the order isentered by the tribunal, by the appellate tribunal on theState side against -- an order is entered that simplysupervenes the commission's order.In this instance, Ameritech filed a complaintasking for the Federal court to enter orders that arespecifically directed at the commissioners and, if theyhad sued the commission, would have been specificallydirected at the commission. That is relief that we don'tbelieve is contemplated by the statute, but we also thinkit's significantly -- it could be significantly different. It hasn't turned out that way -- excuse me. It hasn'tturned out that way in this case, because the districtcourt and the Seventh Circuit have agreed on the merits,but it could have, and that was our concern, and that iswhy we are here, because we don't know how it's going to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC turn out in the next case.Your Honors, these proceedings, interpretive ofthe contracts as they were, did not take place undersection . That qualifier is critical to jurisdictionunder section (e)() and, indeed, limits any applicationof (e)(). It does not make any difference -- respondentshave devoted a substantial amount of energy to this, butreally it does not make any difference if we are talkingabout an action, a case, a determination, whatever it isthat the commission does still must be done under inorder for jurisdiction to attach under (e)(), and inthat respect the text and scope of section is plain. It goes as far as the filing, the formation and filing ofthe agreement --QUESTION: Where do we find section in thebriefs?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, if you take a lookat the blue brief in -- we've attached both sections and as an appendix, and starts at page a of thatappendix.QUESTION: Suppose that you're in the Statecourt and you've won, and they've sued you in the Statecourt, and then suppose that their claim is the following,the agreement as interpreted by the commission does notmeet the requirements of section , including the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regulations prescribed in the FCC pursuant to section ,and then the judge asks you this question: Counsel, whereis the law that says it has to meet the requirements ofsection , including the regulations prescribed by theFCC pursuant to section ? Where is that law? What wasthe answer?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, if we're talkingabout an interpretation case, the answer is essentially acombination of State law, which now makes compliance withFederal law, with the act, a requirement, and the generalrequirement that in any case that a State court hears, itnot contravene Federal law. That law --QUESTION: It's not in ?MR. BERTOCCHI: No, Your Honor, it's not, if weare talking about an interpretation. To read thatlanguage into is to suggest that an interpretation isreally a modification, and I think those things are verydistinct concepts of the law.If it happens during an approval process, that'sdifferent, but that would be my response. I think in theend the result would be the same, because the State courtis clearly required in any case, and certainly in one ofthese cases, to determine whether it -- its decision, itsconstruction of the contract follows Federal law. That'swhat the commission did in this case, and that's what the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Illinois appellate court would do.QUESTION: Are you saying that in a postdetermination interpretation case, that the commissiondoesn't look to and , it can't look there?MR. BERTOCCHI: It -- well, Your Honor,interestingly enough, in this case it can't, because thiswas -- the provisions that deal with reciprocalcompensation in this case were negotiated, and they're notrequired to comply with the act, but even in a case wherethere had been an arbitration, and where there was anissue with respect to that, I believe that certainly thecommission -- certainly the court could look to Federallaw and see if there was anything that didn't comply with and .QUESTION: I mean, it's just a very odd conceptthat the State commission launches this vehicle havinglooked at the Federal law, and then subsequentinterpretation doesn't involve Federal law. It's just --that's just hard for me to understand.MR. BERTOCCHI: I think the interpretation willinvolve Federal law in many instances, Your Honor, but theinterpretation cases are going to be driven by State law,and this case is another good example of that.In this case, the way the commission, I think,looked at this case is the proper way. They construed the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC contract first and then determined whether theirconstruction violated any Federal law, including FCCrulings, and decided that it did not, so I am not at allsuggesting --QUESTION: What if they had decided that it did? I think that's the question. What if they had decided,having construed it, well, you know, this is really whatit says, but boy, if we interpret it this way, it violatesthe act? Then what do they do?MR. BERTOCCHI: Then I think that they wouldhave to construe it differently. They would have to --QUESTION: How can you construe it differently? I mean, it says what it says.MR. BERTOCCHI: Well, they cannot -- they are --QUESTION: So then they're not doingconstruction any more, they're doing application ofFederal law.MR. BERTOCCHI: I think, Your Honor, in thatinstance, if they wanted -- if the contract could survive,what they would do is, they would say the Federal lawsuperseded whatever State contract principle they appliedin construing it in the first place.QUESTION: Well, there isn't any Federal law ofcontracts. There may be a lot of Federal law oftelecommunications, but the two could certainly be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC regarded as separate, I think.MR. BERTOCCHI: Exactly, Your Honor. There isnot a law --QUESTION: And if they came to that conclusion,that although they construe the law of contracts to havereading A, nonetheless reading A violates or does notviolate the Federal statute, do you still maintain thereis no Federal jurisdiction to review that, neither underthe provision at issue in this case nor under ?MR. BERTOCCHI: We do maintain that, Your Honor.QUESTION: Even though it's no longer aninterpretation question? They are no longer interpretingthe contract. They have interpreted it, but they say,having interpreted it this way, we find that this wayviolates Federal law, and therefore we disallow it, andthere's still no review of that --MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes --QUESTION: -- under ?QUESTION: Well, it seems to me your position on and in response to your question from Justice -- isvery likely well-taken. I think your position is isharder to defend. How do you defend that?MR. BERTOCCHI: Well, Your Honor, with respectto section , we start our analysis back at section. We believe that -- and I think that the case that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC comes closest to describing the way this would work is theJackson Transit case.Jackson Transit -- in Jackson Transit, the Courtseemed to assume jurisdiction but went on to say, wehave to take a look at congressional intent to determinewhether those contracts which are required to be in placeby Federal law, whether litigation over whether thosecontracts are binding and what they mean should take placein Federal or State court, and we believe, again, that thesilence regarding interpretation in section and theremedy provided in section (e)() suggests that that isthe remedy that Congress intended to be made available.QUESTION: But you're relying on silenceregarding interpretation, and in the hypothesis we werejust discussing, it was no longer an interpretivequestion. The State court, or the State commission haddecided the interpretation. Having decided it, they movedto another question, does this interpretation violate theFederal statute?MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, Your Honor --QUESTION: You say they have to move to thatsecond question, and if they do, they just override theirinterpretation, but that's no longer an interpretivequestion, it seems to me, at that point, so yourdistinguishing of section doesn't -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I -- it is no longeran interpretive question, but the proceeding is still aninterpretive proceeding. We read to cover a certaintype of proceeding that leads to approval and ends at avery particular point.Respondents point out that this is not the endpoint for disputes under the contract, and that iscertainly likely to be true, but it is the end point forhow far goes, and the fact that Federal issues maycome up afterwards does not change the fact that Congressin (e)() provided a very specific remedy that wasdesigned to review matters that were decided in theapproval process. We believe that that jurisdictionalrestriction operates both with respect to (e)() andsuggests that it applies under -- that a limitation shouldbe placed on jurisdiction as well.QUESTION: But it suggests there's a largelacuna between the approval process and the interpretationprocess, which is -- you know, I can understand how youcan construe that way, but I think you have to read as precluding jurisdiction, and I think that's amore difficult question.MR. BERTOCCHI: It is more difficult, YourHonor, but I believe that that's what it does. We'retalking about -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Isn't it -- isn't the difficultythis, that -- I mean, we don't lightly imply a negative on jurisdiction, and it's perfectly possible to read thesentence in subsection () as simply saying, whatever theState commission may do in applying these two sectionsgets Federal court review, and going no further thansimply to make it clear that you do get Federal courtreview of it, in effect as a regulatory matter. If youread it that way, which the text certainly allows you todo, stands.MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I believe that toread it that way and then -- and to includeinterpretation, enforcement proceedings under it wouldessentially read the words under under the statute. Certainly there is a difference between the language, theword determination and the language in the actualpreemption provision in (e)() that says, approvals orrejections, but -- and the respondents argue that thatsuggests that determinations is a broader term.Our position is that it doesn't matter whetherit's a broader term, but our -- that if it's not under, it doesn't matter what kind of action it is, andinterpretations and enforcements are not covered by thatstatute. It's a very particular statute that goes only sofar and no further. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC In addition, it seems that that argument and theuse of those words is somewhat inconsistent, because theUnited States suggests that the more specific terms in(e)() suggest that determinations must mean anything thathappens in a case related to these contracts, but it seemsto me if approvals and agreements in (e)() is a narrowterm, then approvals and agreements, which is all addresses, is -- must be read equally as a narrow term,and it's inconsistent to say that determinations under goes beyond that.QUESTION: Well, approvals, agreements andarbitration. You would agree that would be covered, too?MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes.QUESTION: Yes.MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And did you say -- did I understandyou correctly to say that if this particular issue hadcome up at the time of approval, then there would beFederal court review, so if something -- the character ofthe issue has nothing to do with it. It's just, if itcomes up in one proceeding, Federal court, if it doesn'tcome up simultaneously, the very same question doesn'tcome up simultaneously, then you have this split.MR. BERTOCCHI: Exactly, Your Honor. We believethat that procedural difference is the basis for the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC distinction, but we believe that that distinction isentirely rational is in accord with what happens in thelife of contracts.In real life, in contracts outside the contextof telecommunications, issues will come up in negotiationand maybe there'll be a contract and maybe there won't. If the same issue comes up once the contract is in forceand the parties can't reach an agreement, which they havethe opportunity to do in any case, then they have to go tocourt, someone has to go to court to get it enforced, sothe notion that the timing of an issue affects where it'sgoing to be litigated is not at all surprising, and isentirely consistent with what we believe Congress' intentwas in .QUESTION: Yes, but in an ordinary privatecontract, if the State court refuses to enforce thecontract, let's say on the ground that it would be acontract combination or conspiracy in restraint of tradeand thus violate the Sherman Act, you would be able to getreview of that determination in Federal court, wouldn'tyou?But you're saying that this contract can beoverridden and disallowed by a State court on a Federalground with no review of that Federal ground by anyFederal court, so that you can have different th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interpretations of the Sherman Act all around the country,with no Federal court being able to review it.MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, my belief is that ifa State court invalidated a contract on Federal grounds,appeal would be to the State appellate court, and theFederal court that would be able to review thatdetermination if it was wrong is this Court, so there isalways going to be a Federal court that can determinethat. What -- and the --QUESTION: We can review it because there is aFederal question involved --MR. BERTOCCHI: If that were --QUESTION: -- but for purposes of there'sno Federal question involved?MR. BERTOCCHI: For purposes of , there maybe Federal issues involved, but we believe that there is aspecific congressional intent, reflected in thespecificity of -- you can look at it as silence, oryou can look at it as specificity -- in the specificity of to have these matters litigated in State court, andagain I would cite Jackson Transit for the propositionthat whether there is an arising under question under does not mean you still don't look to the question ofwhere the contracts are litigated.In that case, the contracts had to be there th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because of Federal law. They had to be honored because ofFederal law, but there was a legislative intent that wasdiscerned by this Court to have those -- the binding -- tohave the litigation concerning those contracts take placein State court.QUESTION: Why --QUESTION: Let's assume we can --QUESTION: Why would they?MR. BERTOCCHI: I'm sorry.QUESTION: I mean, you know in order to --QUESTION: That's my question, too.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I'm going to ask the same question.QUESTION: In order to win your point, youhave to show that Congress really wanted thisinterpretation that you're giving of , right, it reallywanted it and had a pretty good reason for it.MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: What's the reason? I mean, itcreates a pretty big mess, doesn't it? We're going to getinto a new jurisprudence of what's an interpretation andwhat's an approval, and you're going to start splittingthe documents apart and it sounds to me like a mess, and Idon't know why -- maybe Congress wrote those words, butwhy would they want such a thing? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I think they wouldwant such a thing because the Telecommunications Actrepresents a change in the way utilities are regulated,and although everybody agrees that that is true, I thinkthat the respondents misapprehend the change. The changeis to reduce regulation over the parties totelecommunications transactions once access is assured. The interest in this case was access, and once that's overwith, these are to be -- these cases are to be treated, Ibelieve, like regular contracts cases.This case, again, is a good example. It wasdriven by State law and the Federal questions came upafterwards in determining whether the construction wasproper, and in that instance I think Congress intended toleave the matters to State -- to the State commissionunder State law and to State courts.QUESTION: No, but that still doesn't explain --I mean, you've still got the mess that Justice Breyerreferred to. Why would Congress want to legislate thatkind of bifurcation that makes for all of this confusion?MR. BERTOCCHI: Your Honor, I think Congresswould want to do it because it recognized that most ofthese cases were going to be like this one. This is not acase about access, which is --QUESTION: And Congress would have wanted this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to happen?MR. BERTOCCHI: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why?MR. BERTOCCHI: Well, Your Honor, I think --this, in the sense of State courts deciding, construingthese contracts and then deciding any incidental Federallaw questions under their normal obligation to do so. Yes, we think that's what they wanted, and we think that'swhat they wanted because they would recognize, as in thiscase, that these cases are State-law driven.The goal of the act is access. This case is notabout access. The respondent, the competing telecomcompanies had had access, they will have access, they haveit today, and they will have it tomorrow. This case isabout whether Ameritech owes them money. That is acontracts case. It may implicate Federal law, as anyState contracts case theoretically could, but we believethat Congress wanted them to be treated as contractscases.I'll reserve the remainder of my time, if I may.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bertocchi.Ms. McDowell, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT UNITED STATESMS. McDOWELL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC may it please the Court:The Federal district courts have subject matterjurisdiction over cases contending that a State publicutility commission has construed and enforced aninterconnection agreement in a manner contrary to Federallaw. That's true whether one looks specifically atsection (e)() of the act, or more generally at --QUESTION: Well, let's look specifically at ,and (), where it says in any case in which a Statecommission makes a determination under this section, andall the section talks about is approval.MS. McDOWELL: Well, Your Honor, the sectionestablishes specific procedures to be followed at thearbitration and approval stage.QUESTION: But it talks only about -- you agree,don't you, that it -- substantively it deals only with theapproval?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, but theseagreements exist only by virtue of section . The Statecommissioners have authority to regulate these agreementsonly by virtue of section . They're subject to thestandards of section , and --QUESTION: But all it talks about is approval. I don't think you've answered my question.MS. McDOWELL: No, it doesn't speak specifically th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC about interpretation and enforcement.QUESTION: Speak specifically or any other wayabout it.MS. McDOWELL: But this Court said in theArdestani case, for example, that under a statutoryprovision means subject to or by authority of, and Statecommissions are acting by authority of section whenthey're construing and enforcing interconnectionagreements. They have no other authority under Federallaw to do that.QUESTION: Well, Ms --QUESTION: Do they have authority under Statelaw to do that? If we asked the Solicitor fromIllinois -- I didn't have time to ask him -- what is theauthority by which the State commission proceeded in thiscase, what would he have said, do you think, and wouldyou -- and is that the same as your position?(Laughter.)MS. McDOWELL: Well, we don't have to guess,because the State commission specifically said whatauthority it was proceeding under, and it cited bothsection and Illinois law, and certainly a Statecommission, whenever it takes an official act, is actingat least in part under its own State law --QUESTION: Absent -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: -- and here it's acting alsoacting under section .QUESTION: So you say it -- are you saying thatnecessarily the State commission must be acting under ?MS. McDOWELL: When it's regulating aninterconnection agreement that's established by virtue ofsection , yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: --QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, I -- go on, Tony,finish.QUESTION: Well, I was just going to say, refers to public interest, convenience, and necessity. Isthat a Federal standard, or does that just incorporateState standards from State to State, or is it a little bitof both, because most States have a formulation somethinglike that.MS. McDOWELL: Well, it's a Federal standard. It's a standard that's been incorporated in thecommunications laws for many years. The States, pursuantto section (e)(), are allowed to also imposeconsistent State standards in the course of theirapproval, and interpretation we would say of theinterconnection agreements as well, but it's basically aFederal standard. It's one under which the FCC couldpromulgate regulations to instruct the State commissions th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and to --QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, I have a problem withother language in this (e)(). One of the arguments youmake is that it doesn't make any sense to bifurcate theseproceedings, that they should all be in the Federal court,the interpretation as well as the approval. The problemis, the only thing that (e)() allows the Federal districtcourt to determine is not the interpretation of thecontract. It does not give the Federal court authority todetermine what the contract says. It only gives itauthority, I quote, to determine whether the agreement orstatement meets the requirements of section and thissection.Now, in some cases, there may be a disputebetween the parties as to whether a particularinterpretation will violate the Federal rules, but thereare going to be a lot of other contract disputes that havenothing to do with whether there's a violation of theFederal rules. Now, are all of those contract cases goingto go to State court, and all of the contract cases thatsomehow involve the question of whether the agreement orstatement meets the requirements of this section, do theygo to Federal court, or do you just ignore those words,that limitation? To determine whether the agreement orstatement meets the requirements of section and this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC section, that's the only authority the Federal court has.MS. McDOWELL: I agree with you, Your Honor, andthe --QUESTION: So you're still going to have somebifurcation? You're still going to have some contractcases that go to the State court, and some that go to theFederal court? Is that --MS. McDOWELL: Well, you may have bifurcation,or there are other alternatives. For example, at theinterpretation and enforcement stage the parties would befree to go to State court. There's not an exclusivedirection of the parties to Federal court, as there is atthe approval stage under section (e)(), and in some ofthese cases State commissions may waive their sovereignimmunity and decide that they would rather have theseclaims heard entirely in Federal court, and that would bepermissible as well under the supplemental --QUESTION: What about under ? Would you sayeverything gets into court under , whether it dealswith deciding whether the agreement meets the requirementsof this section or not? You would say the contract is aFederal contract, so that under even theinterpretation of that contract gets into Federal court,wouldn't you?MS. McDOWELL: We're not pressing that argument, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Your Honor, although Ameritech --QUESTION: Well, gee, you ought to, becausethat's the only thing that will stop this terriblebifurcation that you're so worried about. It's stillgoing to be a mess. You're going to have some cases inFederal court and some in State court.MS. McDOWELL: Well, there may be some suchcases, but as I was suggesting, there are alternatives tothat. In addition, there may not be that many cases inwhich there's a viable claim that a State commission hasinterpreted an agreement contrary to Federal law.These cases have typically come up only withrespect to this particular issue of compensation forInternet calls, a very important issue to the carriers,and one that they've been willing to litigate extensively,but it's not clear at this early stage in theimplementation of the act that there are going to bea large number of claims of this sort, so the thought thatthere are going to be -- there's going to be a bifurcationproblem in every case is not clear, at least at thisstage.QUESTION: I'm still not entirely clear on whatyour position is if the -- if there's an interpretationdispute that doesn't raise any Federal question at all. Do you agree that that has to be resolved only in a State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court, or do you think they have a choice of forum?MS. McDOWELL: Unless there was some basis forFederal jurisdiction, they would have to go to State courtfor that --QUESTION: The only question is, do they have topay on Tuesday instead of Thursday, and that's governed bysome State common law rule or something. That, you wouldagree, could not be litigated in Federal court?MS. McDOWELL: We haven't yet taken a definitiveposition on this question, Justice Stevens. Ameritech isarguing that these contracts, interconnection agreementsare pervasively Federal, similar to a Federal tariff, sothat every question that arises under them is necessarilyFederal.We think for purposes of this case, and what thecourt of appeals decided, what's relevant are only thoseclaims that contend that a State commission has violatedthe act in its interpretation of an agreement, sothere may be a large category of cases that can come toState court and that would present only issues of Statelaw.QUESTION: But, and could not go to Federalcourt. That's the other part of my question. I didn'tquite get your answer to that.MS. McDOWELL: Well, yes, unless there was a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC waiver of sovereign immunity by the State commission anddiversity or some other basis for jurisdiction.QUESTION: Well, even if there's a waiver, Imean, what is -- you have to have Federal jurisdictionbefore you can sue in Federal court.MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, and there may bediversity. Diversity was asserted, for example, in theNorth Carolina case.QUESTION: Well, assume there's no diversity,just a normal State law. I'm still not quite clearwhether you say yes or no. Do you agree with the carrierthat it is a pervasive -- like a tariff, so that anythingrelating to it raises a Federal question, or do you agreethat they are a category of contract issues that couldonly be regulated at State, or litigated in State court?MS. McDOWELL: We see it as a difficult questionon which we haven't taken a definitive position. Thequestion ultimately is one of Congress' intent, andcertainly there is much in the statute to suggest thatCongress was creating federalized contracts. These arenot simply private party agreements. They are Federalregulatory instruments.On the other hand, Congress also left room forStates to apply their own consistent standards undersection (e)(), and Congress also expressly preserved th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC existing State and Federal law to the extent that it wasnot expressly preempted, so it's a more difficult questionwhether these contracts are entirely Federal, and we havenot take a --QUESTION: In all of the instances projected byJustice Stevens, do you think the State would be anecessary party, or would there be any cases in which, acontract dispute where the State isn't a necessary party? The State is a necessary party because it goes firstthrough the commission?MS. McDOWELL: We don't think they're necessaryparties. We think they're valuable parties to havebecause it makes it easier to enforce the Federal courtor, indeed, a State court judgment, but we think that inthe ordinary case --QUESTION: Well but doesn't -- even in the caseJustice Stevens describes about paying Tuesday orThursday, isn't the presumption that there would have beena State commission order which is now being set aside?MS. McDOWELL: Yes, or its enforcement is beingenjoined. Typically, though, a --QUESTION: And they're not a necessary party,then?MS. McDOWELL: No. To the extent that therewill be two adverse parties to the proceeding, one th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC challenging the State commission's order and one defendingit, the party defending the order can ordinarily beexpected adequately to represent the State commission'sinterest.QUESTION: District judges aren't parties to anappeal from their decisions, are they?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, and certainlyFederal statutes are often challenged in cases in whichthe United States is not involved.QUESTION: But if the FCC were performing thisrole -- take Virginia's statement -- and you are appealingthe FCC's order, all those cases are you against thecommission. Isn't it -- isn't that routine?MS. McDOWELL: That's correct. That's thestandard practice in the Federal system, and when the FCCacts in the place of a State commission the FCC'sdecisions will be reviewable in a proceeding in the courtof appeals under the Hobbs Act, in which the FCC is namedas a party. That's the standard procedure, as weunderstand it, and most States as well, that the agencyissuing a decision will be a party to proceedingschallenging it. We don't see that as essential, though,in this particular context. We see no particular reasonto think the parties will not abide by the Federal court'sdecision, and that the State commission also will not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC abide by that.QUESTION: And the -- I mean, I take it thereason you assume that is that the commission is not aparty in interest in the sense of having a personal stake. They have the same kind of stake, I suppose, that anyjudge does when an order of his gets appealed, but that'stheir only interest.MS. McDOWELL: That's correct, Your Honor.If I could turn briefly to the sovereignimmunity questions, as several courts of appeals haverecognized, this is a straightforward Ex parte Young caseagainst State officials. The case is seeking prospectiveinjunctive relief to include their enforcement of ordersthat are alleged to be contrary to Federal law. Ex parteYoung itself was, the underlying action was one againstState regulatory commissioners, and there have been manycases in this Court that have involved Federal challengesto State regulatory decisions of this nature.We see nothing in section (e)() or anythingelse in the act that suggests a congressional intentto preclude this sort of ex parte Young --QUESTION: Ex parte Young, though -- I'm tryingto recall the facts. It was decided even before I was onthe Court.(Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It was enjoining a Minnesota AttorneyGeneral, wasn't it, from doing something in the future?MS. McDOWELL: From enforcing rate orders issuedby the State commission. The specific case before theCourt was contempt sanctions against the Attorney General,but the underlying case was also against the Stateregulatory commissioner. Also, in Ex parte Young theCourt cited a number of prior decisions as authority,including Reagan v. Farmer's Loan & Trust, which wasanother similar type of action against State regulatorycommissioners.We have --QUESTION: It's also -- would you correct -- aslong as we're on Ex parte Young, as I understand it, in Exparte Young, there was no action brought until theexecutive branch of the State said, we're going to takecertain action here in accordance with this order. Inother words, they -- Ex parte Young was not broughtimmediately upon the issuance of the State rate order --MS. McDOWELL: I think it --QUESTION: -- as simply to review the order.QUESTION: It was brought because a -- somebodyin a different branch or agency of the Government said,oh, now we are going to take some action under that whichis, in effect, going to hurt the person who brought the Ex th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC parte Young action. Is my understanding correct?MS. McDOWELL: As I recall, and my understandingmay be inaccurate, the case was brought before anyenforcement action had actually been threatened or taken.QUESTION: But the Attorney General of the Statewas going to enforce it, isn't that right?MS. McDOWELL: Oh, I think the Attorney Generalwas expected to enforce it. There was a specificMinnesota statute, as I recall, that --QUESTION: He had to.MS. McDOWELL: -- required him to enforce therate orders, but I don't think that that was critical tothe Court's holding. There are many, many cases,including several, in fact, against members of theIllinois Commerce Commission, that have involvedchallenges under Ex parte Young to rate orders and othersorts of regulatory orders.QUESTION: Do you think it's sustainable to saythat there has been a waiver because -- by participationin the State scheme, so that you don't need Ex parteYoung?MS. McDOWELL: We've argued that as well, YourHonor. That's dependent on whether the statute wassufficiently clear to put the State commissioners onnotice that by exercising Federal regulatory authority th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC under the act they would thereby be subject to suit inFederal court.QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell.Mr. Smith, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL M. SMITHON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS WORLDCOM TECHNOLOGIES, INC.,MCI WORLDCOM NETWORK SERVICES, INC., MCIMETRO ACCESSSERVICES LLC, AND FOCAL COMMUNICATIONS CORP.MR. SMITH: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The complaint that Ameritech filed in this casein Federal court specifically alleged not only that theICC had misinterpreted the interconnection agreements atissue, but also that its order requiring payment ofreciprocal compensation for a particular category of callsviolated several specific sections of theTelecommunications Act as well as several allegedlyapplicable FCC rulings.For that reason, our position, and I'm arguingtoday for WorldCom and several other companies who hadsigned interconnection agreements with Ameritech and alsowere sued as codefendants along with the ICC, our positionis that the complaint stated straightforward preemptionclaims alleging ongoing violations of Federal law by Stateofficials and therefore those claims were within Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdiction and also actionable notwithstanding theEleventh Amendment.Where we differ with Ameritech and actually withthe final respondent AT&T is on the question that wasbeing discussed earlier, which is the scope of validFederal claims in enforcement cases, and specificallywhether a claim of mere misinterpretation of aninterconnection agreement raises any Federal issue or not. Our position is that in most cases, at least, a claim ofmisinterpretation of an interconnection agreement wouldraise claims only under State common law contracts andtherefore has to be treated as a State law claim, but interms of this case, since the contract -- the complaintdid allege violations of the statute and FCC rulings,there certainly was jurisdiction, we believe.Now, let me turn first to the jurisdictionissue, and then I want to get to --QUESTION: Before you get into that, you'reseparating interpretation of the contract from violationof the Federal law.MR. SMITH: Yes, sir.QUESTION: Does that mean the State still hascontrol over what the contract means? It's still a Statecontract, and the ultimate determiner of what the contractmeans ought to be the State, if it's State law, right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SMITH: Certainly it ought to be done byvirtue of some analysis of the intent of the parties, ifit's a negotiated agreement. There also are agreementswhich are imposed through arbitration, and then thecommission is essentially analyzing its own intent inimposing --QUESTION: Yes, but different States havedifferent approaches. They may even have different rulesof evidence and so forth. What's going -- I don't see howthe Federal Government gets into this business withouttaking on itself the burden of interpreting thesecontracts.MR. SMITH: Well, Congress, Your Honor, veryspecifically turns over responsibility for developingthese contracts, reviewing them, to State commissions, andin the process of doing that says that while the Statecommissions have to follow various substantive standardsin , they also are authorized in more than one place inthe act to impose their own policies that are notinconsistent with the Federal policies, and it also saidthe parties can negotiate agreements notwithstanding thesubstantive provisions of the act, and that the Statecommission can't overturn them unless they find that theyviolate the public interest and necessity.So what you have here is a very clear th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognition by Congress that they want these to be realcontracts, not merely orders applying Federal standards,and that there will be lots of issues which under thisCourt's ruling should be viewed as State law contractissues that will come up in the enforcement proceedings,so we don't see any basis under Jackson Transit and thisCourt's other cases dealing with the development ofFederal common law for saying that the contractinterpretation rules, the rules for determining how thecontract ought to be read, ought to be elaborated as amatter of Federal common law in the Federal courts ratherthan through analysis of State common law which alreadyexists.Now, these cases will be sometimes in Federalcourt and sometimes in State court, because there will besome times when there are Federal claims that are broughtthat can sustain a motion to dismiss. I don't happen tothink these claims would have sustained a motion todismiss, but --QUESTION: What if you have a case in which oneof the arguments made by one of the parties is that if youinterpret the contract this way, it will violate theFederal act? Does that stay in the State court, or isthat a Federal question?MR. SMITH: I see that as a Federal question, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Your Honor. I don't think there's any question aboutthat. That is essentially what Ameritech claimed here. The district court and the court of appeals, of course,rejected that on the merits, but their claim was that thisinterpretation was barred by the FCC's interpretation ofthe act.QUESTION: Well, I mean, interpretation isbarred? I mean, if a contract says something, it veryplainly on its face says something that violates theFederal act, there's only one way to interpret it.MR. SMITH: Their claim was that even if that iswhat the parties intended, that Federal law had evolved tothe point where that was preempted by Congress, or by theFCC.QUESTION: I just don't understand how you playthat game. I mean, you're assuming that it's alwaysambiguous whether you can interpret in a -- so that youcan interpret it in a way that violates Federal law or ina way that doesn't, and that somehow therefore thatinterpretation becomes a Federal question. Even if that'scorrect, it's certainly not always true that there is thepossibility of interpreting it in a way that does notviolate Federal law, and I guess you're saying thatnonetheless, in that case, the case becomes a Federalcase. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SMITH: I'm not sure I really meant to saythat every case becomes a Federal case. I think there arelots of situations in which the interpretation as done bythe commission is then a matter -- whether that's corrector not is a State law issue.What I meant to answer in response to yourquestion was then, if a party says that interpretation ofwhat the parties really intended has somehow brought thecontract into some inconsistency with applicable FCCregulations, that's a Federal claim. At the same time, ifthe commission says, we think they probably intended this,but we're not going to do that because we think Federallaw requires us to do Y instead of X, that also raises aFederal question.QUESTION: Okay.MR. SMITH: But if they're merely looking at theintent, there will be lots of situations where there isn'tany Federal preemption because the law, after all, says ifyou negotiate it, the substantive provisions of don'tapply. In most of those situations, you're going to haveState law contract issues which will be then analyzed bythe State commission and, absent some additional Federalissue that comes along, the place where that would beappealed would be the State court, in my understanding.QUESTION: And it could not be appealed in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal court?MR. SMITH: Unless there was some odd situationinvolving diversity, my sense is -- my understanding is --QUESTION: Well, I guess the claim would be,look, the very contract that you're interpreting is acontract which is authorized, and authorized only byFederal law, and that's enough to get us into Federalcourt, and you reject that position.MR. SMITH: Our position, Your Honor, is thatunder Jackson Transit, that the fact that the Federalstatute requires that a contract exists but doesn'tspecify the terms of the contract, in that situation thecontract itself remains a matter of State law.QUESTION: Well, aren't we slightly outside ofthat situation, because there are some Federal standardshere, aren't there?MR. SMITH: Well, actually, as to negotiatedcontracts, the Federal standards --QUESTION: They can be --MR. SMITH: -- are very, very loose.QUESTION: I see.MR. SMITH: It has to either be discriminatoryor a violation of public interest, which is -- and thespecific rules of don't apply.QUESTION: Is public interest a State concept or th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a Federal concept?MR. SMITH: I would view that as something thatis authorizing the State commission to --QUESTION: It has to be State on your --MR. SMITH: -- to apply its -- no, obviously,they can look at Federal policies if they want to, but Iwouldn't suggest that it's inherently Federal in the waythat the Solicitor General does.Now, there are other situations that could comeup. A contract could expressly incorporate Federal law,and that might or might not create a Federal claim. ThisCourt has wrestled for years with the issue of whenFederal law incorporated into State law causes of actiondo or don't create Federal question jurisdiction.In other situations, the State commission mighthave imposed the terms of the contract in an area wherethe parties didn't agree, and in that situation, if theyare imposing it by virtue of their interpretation of theFederal regulations, and then that particular clause islater interpreted in some way that deviates from theFederal regulations, that might well be a Federal claim aswell.QUESTION: That issue we've been wrestling withfor years exists in one of these cases, doesn't it? Imean, don't one of these contracts refer to Federal law? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SMITH: Well, there have been assertions,Your Honor, that that's the case. My reading of thesecontracts is that they make -- that they -- and certainlyin this case, the Illinois case, it specifically gives adefinition of when reciprocal compensation will be paid,and both the commission and the two lower courts all saidthat this is not a case where there has been anincorporation of Federal regulations. This is a casewhere we can divine the actual intent of the parties, thatthese calls should be treated as calls where thiscompensation would be paid.And so what they said was, this is not anincorporation case, and I believe the contract in theVerizon case, to come next, is the same, that there was anintent at the time that was -- that the State commissionshave said we're going to hold you to -- even thoughFederal law may have moved on, every time it moves on theysay, if you agreed to something else, you're still stuckwith it, and that's what the courts in both of these caseshave said as well as the commissions.Maybe if I could turn, then, to the EleventhAmendment issues, it is certainly our view that the fivecircuits that have said these cases presentstraightforward Ex parte Young cases, those circuits arecorrect, because they do involve, in situations where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there is a Federal claim being asserted against an actionof a State commission, either an enforcement case or anapproval case, a claim seeking an order bringing the Statecommission into compliance with Federal law, and it is, Ithink, an ongoing violation of Federal law, because whenthey approve and enforce an interconnection agreement, orthey enforce it in some way, interpret it in some way,they are then telling the parties that they have to liveby that interpretation during the term of the agreement.QUESTION: You think the commission is anecessary party, then?MR. SMITH: It's our position that they are anecessary party, but to use the technical term under theFederal rules, if there was a reason why they can't besued and that the case can't go forward, then they may notbe an indispensable party. The distinction is drawn inRule between those two. Certainly, they've --QUESTION: If that's the case, then, it sayswe've got an unusual action here, because we're talkingabout parties who have no personal or even officialinterest except as interpreters of law.MR. SMITH: That's true, Your Honor, but whatmakes them a necessary party is that the private partieshave an interest in having the administrative body thathas told them to do X be bound by a ruling from the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal court which they're trying to get which says don'tdo X, do Y, and that --QUESTION: You're in effect saying that theymight dispute the application of the Supremacy Clause. That's --MR. SMITH: And the reason why a Federaldistrict court is not named as a defendant in the court ofappeals is because the court of appeals has the power in aunitary system to direct the district court to dosomething. When a Federal court, though, is --QUESTION: Yes, but the State court is not namedas a party when a case gets from a State supreme court ona Federal question here.MR. SMITH: Right, but I think --QUESTION: It's assumed that they will respectthe Supremacy Clause if there is a Federal declaration oflaw, and why shouldn't the same assumption govern if thereis Federal review of a State order on, in effect, aFederal question jurisdiction basis?MR. SMITH: It may be factually true that mostof the time State commissions will obey Federal courts,but years of jurisprudence under Ex parte Young andbefore all follow the Federal administrative model and saythat as to Federal -- State executive officials, when theyviolate Federal law, that you name them as a defendant. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Oh, I agree. The only thing that Ihave been suggesting takes this out of that simple case isthat you don't have, I think, here the classic case of theState executive official. You have a State regulator thatis acting in a kind of a quasi-judicial capacity, and itseems that one way to look at it would be to think of itmore as a court than as an executive office.MR. SMITH: Well, Your Honor, though, the -- alarge number of these Ex parte Young cases, going back tothe Reagan v. Farmer's Loan case that Ms. McDowellmentioned, an Ex parte Young, cases involving rate-makingcommissions, railroad commissions and others that are --have always been named as the defendants. In theirofficial capacity the individuals are named, and thatReagan case in said that's not an Eleventh Amendmentproblem.You're not really suing the State, you're suingthem to bring them into compliance with the Federalstatute. Ex parte Young, the defendants included not justthe Attorney General but also the rate-makingcommissioners, and that is just the way it's done, and Idon't think it has any, as you have suggested, any greatintrusion on the sovereign interests of the State to havethem named.In fact, that's the essence of Ex parte Young, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that it's not an intrusion on their interests to have thembrought into compliance under the Supremacy Clause, and itwould be, I think, an odd rule to say, well, we're goingto start having review of State actions, or some categoryof State actions in Federal court for compliance withFederal law where we don't name the defendants as -- theState as -- State individuals as defendants.QUESTION: Well --MR. SMITH: Now, there's been a number of otherarguments raised against the application of Ex parte Younghere. I don't think any of them is very substantial. There's a notion that somehow there's an elaborateremedial scheme here comparable to the one in SeminoleTribe, but in fact there isn't any elaborate remedialscheme in the statute. It just says you can sue Statecommissions in Federal court, or to the extent we'rerelying on , there's no scheme at all.We also have an -- the invocation of the Larsoncase which was discussed by this Court in detail inPennhurst. Larson, I believe, is the case that you applyin a situation where you don't have Supremacy Clauseconsiderations at stake.Essentially, what the Court said in Pennhurstis, when the Supremacy Clause is at issue, we basicallyallow lawsuits to proceed against all prospective ongoing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC violations of Federal law by State officials, but Larsonprovides a test that says where you're suing withoutSupremacy Clause considerations to enforce State lawagainst State officials or Federal law against Federalofficials, in that situation you try to differentiatebetween mere violations of Federal law and violations thatare so serious that we won't treat the State official orthe Federal official as an agent of the State any more. That is not the test that ought to be applied under Exparte Young, and certainly has not been applied in thepast.We also have the Fourth Circuit's analysis inwhich it undertook an entire sort of ad hoc balancing testtrying to weigh State interests against Federal interests. I think this Court is clearly on record as saying that inthe Ex parte Young context we're not going to get intothat kind of balancing test. The balancing test of theFourth Circuit I thought was particularly unfortunate,because basically what that Court did is, it looked at themerits of the case and said, well, we don't think that theFederal claims are very strong here, so therefore we'regoing to say there's no ability to sue the State under Exparte Young, and that doesn't seem like a very helpful wayto go about -- thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Smith. Mr. Bertocchi, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOEL D. BERTOCCHION BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. BERTOCCHI: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.In response to questions from Justice Souter,adjudicative context really provides the reasoning that Exparte Young doesn't apply here. Contrary to whatMr. Smith said, the statute doesn't say you can sue Statecommissioners in Federal court. (e)() doesn't referenceState commissioners at all.This case is in a sense more like Larson thanLarson. Larson was not about whether the case -- whetherthe authority for the contracting official came fromFederal or the State law. It was about thecharacterization of what he was doing, and the Courtassumed he was wrong in what he did in that instance, andin this instance, in the adjudicative context, it makeseven more sense.Certainly with respect to, I believe, Mr.Smith's remark about a -- Mr. Smith referred to the fact,or there was a question about the fact that the commissionmight dispute the application of the Supremacy Clause, andcertainly, if a commission did that, if a commissiondeclined to follow Federal law, that would be a differentstory, and undoubtedly there would be some ability to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC correct that action.But the Illinois commission isn't doing that. As a matter of fact, the Illinois Commerce Commission hasnever tried. This is, I think, correctly characterized asa quasi-judicial proceeding, not executive or legislative. It is not accurately compared to rate-making cases, whichare much more legislative.This is adjudication of a contract issueregarding a particular contract, and in that respect Iwould go back -- that would lead me to the last point Iwant to make, which is that this is a case about acontract to which the act does not apply. It'sinteresting, Mr. Smith said he didn't think the complaintin this case would survive a motion to dismiss, and yethe's here arguing that it belongs in Federal court.I'm assuming that -- and I may be wrong. Idon't want to speak for him. I'm assuming that the motionto dismiss would be an attempt to throw it out of Federalcourt. These cases, this case is a contract caseregarding a contract to which the act does not apply, andsection (a), which allows the courts to negotiate --allows the parties to negotiate contracts any way theywant clearly suggests that they have the right to do sowithout regard to Federal law.In this instance, Ameritech has put Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allegations in the complaint. One of them is that thiscontract violates the act, but if you look in their brief,they'll see -- you'll see that they say that this can't berestricted to violations of Federal law because innegotiated cases that would allow jurisdiction to move onto the -- to move to what they call the vanishing point. We agree with that entirely. Jurisdiction overinterpretation does go to the vanishing point.The only way Federal issues are going to come upin these cases is if State courts construe a contract in acertain way and then disregard Federal law. That is notwhat the Illinois Commerce Commission is going to do.Thank you, Your Honor.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Bertocchi. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 