 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XLANCE RAYGOR AND JAMES GOODCHILD, Petitioners :::v. : No. -REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:HOWARD L. BOLTER, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalfof the Petitioners.MARK B. ROTENBERG, ESQ., Minneapolis, Minnesota; on behalfof the Respondent.PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supportingRespondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD L. BOLTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners MARK B. ROTENBERG, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent PAUL D. CLEMENT, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFHOWARD L. BOLTER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Lance Raygor and James Goodchild v.the Regents of the University of Minnesota.Mr. Bolter. ORAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD L. BOLTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BOLTER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Section is a constitutional and sensibleresponse by Congress to the serious procedural problemsthat were facing the Federal courts prior to . Thoseprocedural problems arose due to State claims that werepending in the Federal courts at that time under thisCourt's, what was then called, pendent jurisdiction and isnow called supplemental jurisdiction. The problemspecifically was what happens to those State claims thatare pending in Federal court when the expiration of thestatute of limitations on those claims occurs. The courts were faced with a dilemma at thatpoint, do they dismiss these claims and risk having themnot be refiled in the State court or do they retain those-- the supplemental jurisdiction over those claims anddecide issues that might be better suited for the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts when they don't -- when the Federal court no longerwants to exercise that jurisdiction.QUESTION: What -- what's wrong with, as somecourts did, conditioning dismissal upon -- upon theplaintiff's -- upon the defendant's agreement to -- towaive the statute?MR. BOLTER: The problem with that solution,Justice Scalia, is that there is no guarantee that therewould be an agreement to waiver. The defendant is -- it'sup to the defendant to agree to that waiver and to saythat they will -- they will not bring up that statute oflimitations defense in State court.QUESTION: Right, and if he doesn't waive, then-- then you proceed in Federal court because it's just not-- not a proper -- proper basis for dismissing it. What's-- what's the matter with that solution? MR. BOLTER: In that -- in that situation, itmight work. There might be supplemental jurisdiction andthe plaintiffs will not lose their claims. However, that is just one court's potentialsolution. There were a number of solutions that werebeing attempted at the time with varying effectiveness. It didn't guarantee, across the board, that plaintiffswould be able to bring those State claims in Federal courtand be assured that they would be -- that they wouldn't be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC forfeited if the statute of limitations ran out. One -- one possible solution to the problemdoesn't make unconstitutional. was a -- was ageneral response to a general problem that was occurringbelow.QUESTION: How about the Solicitor General'ssuggestion that we construe the statute so as not to applyto nonconsenting -- actions against nonconsenting States?MR. BOLTER: To do that, the Court needs toaddress the threshold question of whether the statuteabrogates in -- in the first place, whether tolling is anabrogation of the State's immunity, and we contend that itis not. QUESTION: Well, but the Solicitor General says,as I understand his brief, that we would avoid thatconstitutional question if we construed the statute in themanner that he asked us to construe it.MR. BOLTER: If the -- if that scenario wastaken and -- and the construction is -- is construed notto apply to the States, there will be seriousconstitutional problems that will be created by thatconstruction, particularly depriving the -- the Federallitigants of their access to the Federal forum. QUESTION: Well, what constitutional provisiondo you say would be violated if we followed that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suggestion? MR. BOLTER: The right -- the due process rightsof a plaintiff to have their cause of action heard in a --in a certain forum, to make sure that they would havethose claims heard. QUESTION: What case supports your positionthere? What case from this Court? MR. BOLTER: I don't know if there's a casethat's -- oh, I'm sorry. I take that -- that's the Logancase that -- that shows that a -- that a plaintiff has aright to have their -- their cause of action heard.QUESTION: But not to have a cause of actionheard in Federal court against a State.MR. BOLTER: That -- that's correct, not to have-- not to have it heard in -- in the Federal court againstthe State, but to have it heard in some forum. The way --QUESTION: But suppose the State decided itwasn't going to waive its immunity. As I understand it,in Minnesota, you could bring this claim within days. The State has waived its immunity for suit in its owncourt.MR. BOLTER: That's -- that's right. QUESTION: So -- but it -- you're not suggestingthat it had to do that, otherwise there would be a dueprocess violation. If that were so, then the State th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doesn't have any immunity because due process would compelit to -- to answer. MR. BOLTER: What we are saying is that the dueprocess violation would be if you construe the statute notto apply to the States, you don't have the protection oftolling a State claim against a State in Federal court. And if a State asserts its constitutional defense ofsovereign immunity, that claim could be barred, but be --in --QUESTION: But it wouldn't have been if you hadfiled a protective action. Suppose you had -- with thisuncertain question of Eleventh Amendment immunity fromsuit in Federal court, you could have, on the same day youfiled in Federal court and took a chance on that, filed aprotective action in Minnesota State court.MR. BOLTER: We -- we could have filed aprotective action, but the -- that has -- I think thereare two parts to that -- that answer.First, we could have filed a protective action,but there's no guarantees that the State would have stayedthat action. It might have -- it might have forcedlitigation on that matter, creating res judicata andclaims preclusion issues in the Federal court. It mighthave sought to dismiss it because of claims splitting.And the next part of the question is that the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Supreme Court of Minnesota said that this was afacially unconstitutional -- section --QUESTION: But wouldn't it -- it wouldn't haveoccasion to say that -- as I understand it, whenduplicative actions are brought, the second court, the onewhere you file second, generally although it's notcompelled to do this, will say, okay, prior actionpending. We'll stay this case till the other one isfinished.MR. BOLTER: They -- they could do that, but thepoint is that it wasn't -- there was no guarantee thatthey will. They might also choose not to stay it and notto clog up their dockets and have -- have cases affectingtheir statistics. QUESTION: You have -- you're using a lot ofmights. Do you have any -- do we know how Minnesota Statecourts treat the prior action pending plea? Do theydismiss or do they keep it? MR. BOLTER: They -- if the claim is filed inMinnesota on -- they will not dismiss if it was clear thatthe Federal court would not have exercised jurisdictionover that Federal -- over that State claim. And in Minnesota, it was not clear at that time,and it's still not clear because the -- the university andthe States have this constitutional defense which they can th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC assert or not assert. It's at their discretion. In fact,some of the cases that we've cited show that Minnesota,the university, has litigated cases, on the merits inFederal court, State and Federal claims. So, the point there is that we didn't know thatthe court would not exercise jurisdiction over the Stateclaims, and if we were to file with that knowledge in --in State court, they could have dismissed on claimssplitting or claim preclusion ground -- or claimssplitting grounds because the Federal court might haveexercised jurisdiction. It was not clear.QUESTION: It seems to me the principle you'rearguing for -- I'm just not sure what its -- what itsboundaries are. The principle, as I take it, is when --when the Federal Government creates a Federal cause ofaction, any State law that impedes -- and -- and allowsthat Federal action to be brought in Federal court, anyState law that impedes the bringing of that action inFederal court can be repealed by the Federal Government. How does that apply, for example, to simplestatutes of limitations? Let's -- let's assume you -- youhave a Federal statute of -- of a year for certain -- fora certain transaction or occurrence. The State statutefor the same transaction or occurrence and the State'scause of action is just months. Now, would you argue th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that because of the difficulty of claims splitting and soforth, the Federal Government can prescribe by statutethat the State cause of action shall be extended to months? MR. BOLTER: No, that's not what we are saying.QUESTION: Well, why not? If you say no, thenyou acknowledge the principle that, you know, there aresome problems that have no solution, and -- and the merefact that you're making the Federal cause of action moredifficult has nothing to do with whether there's Federalpower to -- to solve that particular problem. MR. BOLTER: The -- the scenario that you justposed about the -month and the -year time limits -- youcould still file that State claim in Federal court within months. You have to comply with the -- the State cause-- the State statute of limitations. It's just in a forumthat maybe the State will ultimately object to.QUESTION: Yes, but the Federal Government wantsto give you months in its courts. That's -- that's thepolicy that it's decided. We want to give you months,and here's a State which has a State cause of action. Itis -- it is putting you to the choice. You either foregothe -- the State cause of action or -- or you -- you filewithin months. Doesn't that impede, to some extent,what the Federal Congress wanted to happen? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOLTER: I think in your -- in thathypothetical, it probably would impede, but that's not thesituation that we have in front of us. QUESTION: Oh, I understand it isn't, but -- butI -- but the principle you're arguing for, it seems to me,leads to that conclusion, that the Federal Government can-- can reconfigure State causes of action willy-nilly sothat they don't impede the bringing of Federal causes ofaction in Federal court as Congress wishes.MR. BOLTER: What the -- what the statute doeshere, if it's applied to a State, is it tolls the timelimit. It doesn't -- it doesn't change the time limit forthe -- the statute of limitations. If we were to filethis claim on the th day, (d) wouldn't apply.QUESTION: Well, I -- I wonder about that. Myunderstanding is -- correct me if I'm wrong, please --that the Federal statute gives you an extra days.MR. BOLTER: It gives you the -- the tolling --the tolling provision runs for days after the timeafter the dismissal.QUESTION: Well, and so if you -- if -- if as inthis case, I think you file on the last day or the next-to-the-last day in the Federal court, then you're given anextra days. So, you do reconfigure the State statute,contrary to your suggestion. And -- and I have a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC significant problem with that. It might be that thetolling provision is necessary in order to make theFederal courts operate and exercise their jurisdiction inan efficient manner, but this statute goes beyond that andgives a longer statute of limitations. MR. BOLTER: Well, it gives a longer tolling --QUESTION: It does reconfigure the statute oflimitations. MR. BOLTER: I would respectfully disagree thatit reconfigures the -- the statute of limitations becauseit's -- the statute -- the State statute has to becomplied with in order for to -- to be triggered. Ithas to be filed within the appropriate time period. And-- and that meets the statute of limitations objectivesthat the State was seeking when it -- when it created that-day period. The fact that it's being tolled after it'sbeen timely filed is not -- that's -- that's not a coreinterest that's protected by the State sovereign immunity. Tolling a statute that has been complied with, in thiscase filing within that days --QUESTION: Well, it hasn't been complied withunder State law. If -- if the State law acknowledged thefiling in Federal court as -- as satisfying the statute oflimitations, you wouldn't be here. The problem is theState law says you have to file the action in State court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC within the statute of limitations period, and we're notgoing to give you any grace period for a false start thatyou made in Federal court.MR. BOLTER: Well, the -- the State statute issilent on tolling. It's not a condition of -- of theState's waiver of that -day period and --QUESTION: But the State court here found thatthe State district court did not abuse its discretion insaying there wouldn't be any tolling, did it not? MR. BOLTER: That's what -- they found thatthere was no abuse of discretion, but that was -- that --the State court's initial decision there was based on a --an erroneous interpretation of Pennhurst II when --QUESTION: Well, but that presumably is up tothe Minnesota courts to decide when the -- when the Statestatute is tolled. MR. BOLTER: They have the discretion to decidethat, but it's our position that the tolling provision of(d) can also toll that time period because it's notabrogating the State's sovereign immunity. It's not --QUESTION: Well, but you know, you say it isn'ttolling because it's -- it doesn't really go to the lengthof the statute of limitations, one. But it does, youknow. If you say the -- if you want to say a statute oflimitations is tolled for a year, obviously that extends th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the time that the State law would have allowed.MR. BOLTER: But it doesn't defeat the purposeof -- of the statute of limitations and -- and the need tofile in a timely fashion with that State statute to beginwith. And I think that's what the -- the State -- the --if the State has a core interest in the statute oflimitations, that's what it would be, is that claims arefiled within that time period. Now, whether it's filed ina -- in a jurisdiction to which the State ultimatelyobjects is -- is another point. QUESTION: That isn't self-evident. I mean, ifwhat you're saying is true, every State wouldautomatically allow tolling when suit is filed in aFederal court within the State statute period. If it wereself-evidently true that the State policy is not at alloffended by that, you wouldn't have a problem and youwouldn't be here because every State would say, well, itwas filed in Federal court. That's good enough for us.But it isn't good enough for a lot of States. And -- and, you know, it's their policy we're talkingabout, and their policy is you must file in State courtwithin the limitations period. QUESTION: May I ask you a sort of preliminaryquestion I'm kind of puzzled about? What is the source ofthe Federal Government's power to enact the statute at th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC all?MR. BOLTER: Article III to control the lowerFederal courts gives the -- the Government the power tocreate these -- these Federal practices and procedures, inthis case, the -- the way to address combined Federal andState claims, as well as its -- its -- the powers toprotect individuals from losing their due process rightsto have their claims heard and -- and burdening the accessto the Federal courts.QUESTION: So, it's Article III you rely on.MR. BOLTER: Yes, Article III and -- and partlyon the equal -- equal protection for -- to allowplaintiffs to have access to Federal courts and bringtheir Federal claims and their State claims if they -- ifthey need to do that as well. QUESTION: It would just -- when Congress passedthis, Congress I -- I assume was just thinking it wasregulating the procedure in Federal courts, that it wasexercising that power to implement Article III. And what you said about due process, I didn'tsee any sign of that in the history of . But you'renot suggesting that before , people were denied dueprocess because there wasn't a tolling provision. MR. BOLTER: In some circumstances, they werebecause of the claims -- the combination of the claims th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC splitting and claims preclusion laws in the State courtsand States and the statute of limitations on those pendentclaims if they were brought in Federal court could resultin a denial of a forum for that State claim if -- if aFederal claim was also asserted. QUESTION: Is there -- is there any indicationthat Congress, when it amended , relied on anythingother than Article III? Are you suggesting it relied onsection of the Fourteenth Amendment? MR. BOLTER: I don't think it's -- that it'sexplicit in the congressional --QUESTION: Well, is it implicit?MR. BOLTER: I think it's implicit in there thatthey're --QUESTION: Where do you find that?MR. BOLTER: Well, the protections that it --that it provides --QUESTION: I mean, I'm -- I'm talking about whatCongress thought, not what you think. MR. BOLTER: I -- I'm not sure I understand yourquestion, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Well, my question was, is there anyreason to think that Congress, when it made thisamendment, was relying on section of the FourteenthAmendment, in addition to Article III? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BOLTER: Aside from nothing explicit, Idon't -- I don't know what Congress was thinking otherthan what I could speculate. QUESTION: Well -- well, don't we know that thiscame out of the Federal Courts Study Committee? MR. BOLTER: Yes, it did come out of the FederalCourts Study Committee? QUESTION: And so -- and Congress took thesuggestion of that Federal Courts Study Committee, and asfar as I recall, in that report, they were talking aboutthe authority of Congress to regulate the procedure inFederal courts. MR. BOLTER: That's right. I think that goes tothe Article III, I guess I -- if I'm not -- if I'mmisunderstanding Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: Suppose we were to conclude that thisstatute must rest upon Article III. We -- we reject yourdue process and equal protection suggestions. What's theclosest case that you have where we have sustained a powerlike this pursuant to Congress' authority to establishtribunals under Article III?MR. BOLTER: I have to think about that for justa second. QUESTION: Is it Terrell/Taro v. BurtConstruction Company where the State cannot condition the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC filing of articles of incorporation on a waiver of theright to go to Federal court? It can't burden the rightto go to Federal court? MR. BOLTER: That -- I think that is an example. I think probably Nash is also an example. QUESTION: Although I think Terrell/Taro wasprobably a Commerce Clause case.MR. BOLTER: I'm not sure, Justice Kennedy, ifit was or not. I think Nash, though, was also -- I think Nashgets to your question as well. QUESTION: Which -- which case? MR. BOLTER: The Nash -- the Nash --QUESTION: Florida Industrial Commission. MR. BOLTER: Nash v. Florida IndustrialCommission. QUESTION: Nash. MR. BOLTER: I -- I couldn't hear Mr. ChiefJustice. But I think that case also talks about burdeningthe Federal rights in an NLRB case. QUESTION: Going back to the statute oflimitations point, I -- I should know this, but if I filea complaint in the Nevada State courts and the Nevadacourt said, this doesn't belong here, there's nojurisdiction, the cause of action arose exclusively in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC California, and it dismisses, and you then file inCalifornia, is there tolling as a general matter?MR. BOLTER: In that situation with -- with twoStates, I would say that unless it was within the timeperiod of California, it would probably not be tolled inthat situation. QUESTION: All right. Well, that -- that seemsto me very similar to what we have here.MR. BOLTER: Well, we have a filing in Federalcourt here with -- with a statute that -- that directlyaddresses the tolling --QUESTION: Well, but you're -- you're -- well,it does or it doesn't. But you -- you indicated earlierthat the statute of limitations was not in any wayextended because it was tolled by the filing. But it isextended by this additional days. You basically have-- what was it? -- the plus . You have daysnow, almost double. MR. BOLTER: Well, I think that the tollingprovision is different. I mean, it does give additionaltime, but it doesn't extend the time period that the Statewas open and exposed to liability. It doesn't extend that-day period. They were already notified of it. They --they were put on notice. They had the -- they knew thatthey were going to be sued and it was brought in -- within th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that -day period. The fact that it was suspended during a timeperiod where the State was in Federal court at its own --its own discretion, it would be -- it would be harmful tothe plaintiffs to have the State be able to use the delayin time that it's pending in Federal court to bar theclaim from being brought after that in State court.QUESTION: Mr. Bolter, what you said might be soif the only purpose of the statute of limitations wererepose, being notified on time that you're subject tosuit. But there are certain statutes that have beencalled so-called built-in statute of limitations where thelimitation is considered part and parcel of the rightitself usually when it's in the very same statute, andthat seems to be the kind of limitation that we have here. We have a State that is giving up its sovereign immunity,but only on these terms. So, why isn't this a built-instatute of limitations? So, by necessity there would beharm when the State says it's the right -- we conditionthe right on you bringing suit within days.MR. BOLTER: They didn't make, as a part of thatcondition, anything about tolling. That's -- that's Ithink the -- the first point, and -- and that's what thisstatute is doing, is tolling. It's not changing that -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that right, that built-in right that you talk about, tothe -day period. That -- that still has to be compliedwith. But this is talking about tolling, which is adifferent -- it's a different animal here, but it doesn'textend that time limit, that -- that built-in time limitsimply by tolling. It suspends it from running out but itdoesn't extend it. I couldn't have filed that claim days after it was sued. I had to file it within daysor else it would have been barred, and would not haveattached. QUESTION: But I take it you're saying thatwhether you regard it as built in or whether you regardthe policy as simply a policy of repose, Article III poweror section power is what it is, and -- and it canaccomplish what this statute wants to accomplish. MR. BOLTER: Yes. QUESTION: I don't know why you rely just onArticle III or on section , which I think is prettyremote in this situation. Why -- why don't you rely onthe underlying Federal statute? There will always be someFederal power that justified the Federal cause of actionwhich is the subject of this extension provision. Let's assume it's a Commerce Clause cause ofaction. Under the Commerce Clause, the Federal Governmentcould have, if it wanted, eliminated the State cause of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC action entirely, couldn't -- couldn't it? It could havesaid, we -- we preempt any State action in this field, andthe whole State cause of action would be washed away. Ifit can do that, why can't it do the lesser act of notwashing away the State cause of action, but just saying,you know, if you bring suit in Federal court on thisCommerce Clause cause of action, you get another daysor whatever, days, whatever it is? MR. BOLTER: Well, it doesn't -- it doesn't --QUESTION: Wouldn't that work? That -- thatmakes me feel a lot more comfortable than just relying onArticle III.MR. BOLTER: Well, I don't think that itwashes --QUESTION: I'm trying to help you. (Laughter.)MR. BOLTER: I don't know that I understand. Are you saying that they had power under the Commerce --if they had power under the Commerce Clause, could they dothis?QUESTION: This statute itself piggy-backs onwhatever substantive Federal statute exists out there, youknow, whether it's under the Commerce Clause or under anyother Federal power. And -- and that Federal power wouldallow the total elimination of the cause of -- of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC State cause of action. Why -- why is it unreasonable toallow a mere extension of the -- of the State limitationson that State cause of action?MR. BOLTER: Well, I guess I don't disagree thatit's not unreasonable to toll this -- these statutes oflimitations. QUESTION: Do you know of any case in which thisCourt has held that Congress, when passing a statute ofits own, could totally forbid a State to enact a similarstatute?MR. BOLTER: I'm not aware of a case like that,Your Honor. QUESTION: Neither am I.QUESTION: Mr. Bolter, in any event, thatwouldn't take you very far because so often these pendentState claims are garden variety State tort law, contractclaims, are they not? I mean, there's the big Federalclaim, and then you latch onto that the State common lawclaims. So, the State common law claims could arise outof the same transaction and occurrence, depend on the samenucleus of facts, and yet not be just a State counterpartof the Federal statute. Don't you -- don't you have that in -- in civilrights cases? Let's say, bring a claim against apolice officer and then you latch onto it State common law th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC claims for assault and battery? MR. BOLTER: Yes, and -- and that's what we havedone in this case, or that's what we -- that's what this-- and that's what this statute protects against, losingthose claims. I -- I'm not sure if I understood your question,Justice Ginsburg, about can you do that in Federal court,I mean, latch onto those Federal claims? Yes. I mean,that -- that is what supplemental jurisdiction is about inthis situation. So, I don't think that that's -- that'sappropriate to do that. And -- and it goes back to givingthe State a choice of whether it wants to be there or notby exercising its constitutional defense of sovereignimmunity. I mean, I think the key -- one of the key thingshere is that this -- that the tolling does not abrogatethe State's sovereign immunity because it's in ajurisdiction that it wants to be in at all times. Thechoice is its own. And the sovereign immunity coreprinciples described by this Court in its jurisprudencehave been whether and where a State can be sued, and itdoesn't infringe on those core interests. Tolling hasnever been identified as a core interest of -- ofsovereign --QUESTION: Just whether and where and not when. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Right? So, the Federal Government could -- could overrideState statute of limitations on sovereign immunity casesno matter what because it's not really part of sovereignimmunity. MR. BOLTER: I don't --QUESTION: The State says, I'm willing to besued for year, and you say the Federal Governmentdoesn't have to observe that year. It can say, well,you know, it's years instead. MR. BOLTER: No. I think that the -- that year has to be respected, but this is about tolling. It'snot about changing a statute of limitations. This isabout tolling the time period for it to run out.If there are no further questions at this time,I'd like to reserve the remainder for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Bolter. Mr. Rotenberg, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK B. ROTENBERGON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. ROTENBERG: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Your Honors, it's critical to focus on thefundamental issue of federalism presented in this case;namely, is it Congress or the State that has the power todecide when that State can be sued by its own citizens in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its own courts?QUESTION: So, in your view, the Soldiers andSailors Relief Act -- all of the soldiers in Afghanistan,when they come back and they find that their statute oflimitations has run out, Congress does not have the powerto extend the statute. Is that right --MR. ROTENBERG: Your Honor --QUESTION: -- in your opinion? MR. ROTENBERG: Under --QUESTION: I mean, there's presently a statutethat says when they come back, people who are in the armedforces, they will discover that the statute of limitationsin the States has been extended for months. In your --or however long necessary. In your opinion, that'sunconstitutional. MR. ROTENBERG: Your Honor, the -- the logic --it may be unconstitutional is the direct answer to yourquestion. The logic --QUESTION: All right. Now, what about -- whatabout tort reform? Suppose in the tort reform statutesthat pass, there is a provision that somehow in there isfavorable to a plaintiff. That could happen. And if thatdoes happen, then the State doesn't want to follow it,unconstitutional to apply it. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Breyer, the -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thrust of Alden against Maine is that Congress does nothave the power under Article I to force a State to submitto a private suit for damages in its own courts.QUESTION: All right. Is it constitutional forCongress to pass a copyright law or a -- any of these tortstatutes that are federalized and say that the Statescannot pass a statute that gives a cause of action in tortthat is different? MR. ROTENBERG: Your Honor, the answer to thatquestion would depend on Federal preemption principles.QUESTION: Correct.MR. ROTENBERG: Under the Commerce Clause --QUESTION: Now, they -- they can preempt. Fine.Then if they can do that, why can't they shapethe cause of action in the State so that it correspondswith Federal law by, for example, extending a little bitor not extending too much the statute of limitations?MR. ROTENBERG: The reason they cannot do -- theCongress cannot do that, Justice Breyer, is because thisstatute, (d), represents a blanket attempt by Congressto extend statutes of limitations without regard to theexistence of an independent power in Article I, such asthe war power which may suffice to protect --QUESTION: That -- that power will always existin the Federal cause of action that has been brought in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Federal court. MR. ROTENBERG: It will exist, Your -- YourHonor, in -- in the --QUESTION: In every case to which this -- thisstatute applies, there will be involved a Federal powerunder Article I.MR. ROTENBERG: Well, not in this case, YourHonor, and this case is a perfect example of the -- of thesituation. This -- this Court held that, in fact, therewas no power under Article I to hail the State intoFederal court in an age case. So -- and -- andpetitioners here --QUESTION: No, but that's -- essentially you'regoing back to the Eleventh Amendment. I mean, your -- Iunderstand your Eleventh Amendment argument, but you'retrying to overlay an Article I argument on that, and Ithink that's where we're having -- having our difficulty. But as I understand it, your ultimate answer to thedifficulty is the Eleventh Amendment. MR. ROTENBERG: We -- Justice Souter, we havetwo arguments, yes. The -- the essential point of -- ofAlden relates to causes of action against the Statesovereign, and this Court in Alden has established acategorical rule that a State's power to condition itswaiver of immunity is -- is not subject to the Article I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC power of Congress to amend. In Alden, this Court heldthat, to the extent Maine chose to consent to certaintypes of suits, while maintaining immunity in other typesof suits, it has done no more than exercise its privilegeof sovereignty concomitant to its constitutional immunityfrom suit. So, that is the first and most important pointhere. With regard to the -- the plenary authority ofCongress to adopt a sweeping statute of limitationsalteration in -- in the States that applies to anunlimited type of claim, you have to look at whether therewas an express intent to abrogate and --QUESTION: May I interrupt you?MR. ROTENBERG: -- and that would take you intoa -- a section , Fourteenth Amendment type analysis. And --QUESTION: May I ask you this question as apreliminary matter? Putting the Eleventh Amendment to --to one side just for a moment, because I do understandyour position there, assume this was a suit against apublic utility and the -- and they -- Minnesota providedan especially short statute of limitations for that publicutility. Would -- would you think the -- the Federalstatute would be unconstitutional as applied in such acase, or would it be valid? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROTENBERG: The -- the statute isunconstitutional if the Court needs to address thequestion of legislative power, Justice Stevens, becausethere is no case upholding a congressional power to enacta sweeping expansion of statute of limitations --QUESTION: There's no case upholding it, no casestriking it down. But -- but in any event, you think thestatute would be unconstitutional even if you didn't havea State defendant. MR. ROTENBERG: That's right, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, that -- that goes quite far. What -- what is your reasoning there? MR. ROTENBERG: The reasoning there, Mr. ChiefJustice, is simply that since the Founding Convention,it's been clear that the powers of Congress are definedand limited, and the residual legislative power does notrest with Congress. It rests with the States under theTenth Amendment under this Court's decisions in Marburyand the -- as recently as United States against Morrison.The -- the point of the matter is, Your Honors,that my able petitioners' counsel here has -- has failedto suggest any case law that supports the enactment of a-- of a change in the State statutes of limitations that'sunhinged from a particular exercise of power --QUESTION: But -- but Article III is certainly a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC particular power. MR. ROTENBERG: Yes, Your Honor. But thetribunal --QUESTION: Mr. Rotenberg, did -- did theMinnesota Supreme Court go that far? I thought that theirdecision as to the unconstitutionality of relatedonly to cases in which the State was the defendant. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice --QUESTION: And to the extent that you're askingus to consider this broader theory, you're asking us totake that up -- to go beyond where the Minnesota SupremeCourt left off. MR. ROTENBERG: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, that'scorrect. The Minnesota Supreme Court did not hold thatthe statute was unconstitutional as applied in all --QUESTION: And your position -- your positionwould, as Justice Breyer suggested, mean that the Soldiersand Sailors Civil Relief Act is invalid, insofar as ittolls State statute of limitations as well.QUESTION: In actions against the State.QUESTION: This would -- this -- this would be abig surprise, I think --MR. ROTENBERG: Justice O'Connor --QUESTION: -- to members of the armed forces.MR. ROTENBERG: Justice O'Connor, the -- the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Why -- why do you want to go thatfar? Why don't you stick with what the lower courts didand talk about the Eleventh Amendment? What -- whatpossible advantage is it to you to make this sweepingargument you're making? MR. ROTENBERG: Justice O'Connor, it iscertainly sufficient for this Court to address only theAlden principle, as Justice Kennedy just mentioned, andrestrict the holding to a State sovereign --QUESTION: And in that regard, what's the matterwith the Solicitor General's approach that says thestatute was never intended to cover nonconsenting States? Don't interpret as applying. What's the matter with that?MR. ROTENBERG: Justice O'Connor, we agree withthe Solicitor General that the statute can and, indeed,should be so construed.QUESTION: I guess then the next case -- thenthe next case we'll have is where the soldiers and sailorscome back and they would like to sue the State. Maybeit's a pension. Maybe it's a tort. Maybe it's acontract. There can be many, many things in States that-- where the residents have a cause of action, and I guesseven your minimal position would make it unconstitutionalfor them to do so. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Breyer, this Court has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC not addressed the intersection between its holding inAlden against Maine, which establishes a categorical rulethat Congress is disempowered from forcing a State todefend itself against its own citizens in its own Statecourts, and the -- the war power. That case has not beenpresented, and I would suggest to Your Honors --QUESTION: Well, the war power is -- is anArticle I power. I mean, a minute ago I thought you weremaking a -- a flat Article I argument. MR. ROTENBERG: Yes, Justice Souter. The -- my-- my understanding of this Court's jurisprudence in thisarea -- and Alden isn't the only case that stands for thisproposition, of course -- is that Congress, acting withinits Article I power, is -- has no authority to abrogatesovereign immunity. Now, it hasn't -- Your Honors have notspecifically faced what I would submit is a verychallenging issue, as suggested by Justice O'Connor'squestion. Do we really mean each and every exercise ofArticle I power, even and including the war power toprotect sailors abroad?QUESTION: Well, what would -- what wouldpossibly be the ground for distinguishing. The State hassovereign immunity or it doesn't. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Kennedy, I agree, and I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC think that the practical answer in our federalism is toallow the States to exercise good judgment with respect totheir tolling provisions. It -- it strains theimagination --QUESTION: Precisely. They can waive if theywant to. MR. ROTENBERG: Exactly.QUESTION: Well, that's what bothered me. Thismay just be a misprint or something, but quite clearly theState of Minnesota has the power to say that our consentextends to this tolling provision, doesn't it? It could. It could come out the other way if it wants to. And,indeed, they say that the equitable tolling applies totheir statute, don't they? All right. Now, I read their opinion. I'veread this six times. Not six, but only two. Let me notexaggerate. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But -- but when they get to the --QUESTION: It seemed like six. Right? (Laughter.) QUESTION: When -- when they get to the point,this very point, it says, however, we read Alden torequire the university's waiver of immunity be limited tothe -- be limited to the parameters set forth in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statute; i.e., days. Well, Alden has nothing to do with that. Butthey seem to think -- and after all, they did say thatthis statute says days, but it doesn't mean days inrespect to equitable tolling. But they seem to think thatour case Alden required them to limit it to the days,which of course it doesn't. So, they seem to be under a misapprehension inthat respect, and I would like you to address that, whatwe should do about that. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Breyer, I agree with youthat Alden does not compel a particular interpretation ofState law. That's certainly true. It is also true that the Minnesota Supreme Courtunanimously determined that the -day limitation on itswaiver of sovereign immunity is -- is part and parcel ofthe statute, as Justice Ginsburg previously mentioned, andis an aspect of its -- of its sovereign immunity and in --in addition said that the equitable tolling principlecould be applied. But it's important to recall that theMinnesota courts apply the equitable tolling principles inan extremely conservative fashion. QUESTION: Yes, but my question, of course, is,what do we do about that sentence in the opinion whichsays, we read Alden to require that the waiver of immunity th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC be limited to days? MR. ROTENBERG: Well --QUESTION: That's -- that's -- if they had saidexactly what you just said, I wouldn't have my question. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Breyer, this Court neednot affirm every sentence of the Minnesota Supreme Court'sdecision. It only need affirm the judgment, and thejudgment can be affirmed simply by reference to the fact,the constitutional fact, that Alden proscribescongressional alterations of -- of State waivers ofsovereign immunity. QUESTION: Mr. Rotenberg, because sovereignimmunity is kind of a peculiar objection -- that is, theState -- it's up to the State to waive it or not. It'snot like a case where the Federal court wouldn't havesubject matter jurisdiction. Shouldn't, at least for theperiod that the State stood silent, which I understand wasabout months, in Federal court -- at least for thatperiod, shouldn't the State be treated as having beenlegitimately before the Federal court not complainingabout it? So, for those months, at least, thelimitation ought to be tolled. MR. ROTENBERG: No, Your Honor. It -- it isn'ttrue that Minnesota stood silent for months. Theuniversity asserted its sovereign immunity defense at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC earliest opportunity, namely in its answer, and -- andnever in any way suggested a waiver of such a -- of such adefense. This Court has held repeatedly that waivers ofsovereign immunity by the States is not to be inferred andnot to be implied. QUESTION: What was going on? I understand, atleast from the dates, that this was raised months afterthe litigation commenced. What was going on? Usually ananswer is in -- how many days? MR. ROTENBERG: days, Your Honor. QUESTION: Yes.MR. ROTENBERG: And we filed our answerasserting sovereign immunity within that time frame. There's nothing the university could have done to savetheir claim. The -- they filed in Federal court merely hours before the statute of limitations would -- the -day rule would have expired even under theirunderstanding, meaning that a filing in the wrong courtsuffices to be a filing in the correct court. So, there'snothing the university did to delay whatsoever. Moreover, we filed a dispositive motion at -- ina timely way, consistent with the normal course oflitigation in this case. Most Federal trial courts preferthat dispositive motions not be filed seriatim. And we --we noticed the motion, and there was a scheduling order, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which plaintiff knew about, in the spring of , and wefiled the dispositive motion asserting our sovereignimmunity in June of '. And even if you would say that -- that somehowthe petitioners here were not fully aware, as they shouldhave been, that the university was asserting its sovereignimmunity from the get-go, by June , they had a motion, adispositive motion, and the filing in the State forumstill exceeded the days.QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose under the ruleyou're suggesting that we adopt the State could -- let'sassume that the claim is filed in the Federal court on thefifth day, and there's days more left. I suppose theState could just sit back and wait for days before itmoves to dismiss to allow the claim to go stale, underyour submission. MR. ROTENBERG: Justice Kennedy, that's possiblebut that was not what happened here, number one, andnumber --QUESTION: Well, it not only is possible. It'sthe necessary concomitant -- necessary sequence from therule you -- you propose.MR. ROTENBERG: Your Honor --QUESTION: It's not possible, it's necessary. That's your rule. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ROTENBERG: -- it isn't -- it isn't my rulealone, Your Honor. Pennhurst explicitly --QUESTION: It's the result you want us to adopt.MR. ROTENBERG: Yes, it is, Your Honor. ButPennhurst specifically suggests -- yes. Excuse me. Pennhurst explicitly says that the expedient of filing theclaim in the State court will avoid any danger of thiskind occurring. And -- and Pennhurst stands clearly forthe proposition that a filing of the State claim, aprotective claim, which petitioners' counsel hereacknowledged would solve the problem, and filing theFederal claim in the Federal forum is a constitutionallyappropriate expedient. Any contrary indication brings into question the-- the opinion of this Court in -- in Pennhurst bysuggesting that filing concomitantly in the State andFederal forums is somehow a due process problem.Let me conclude with an -- a closing observationabout the due process issue. Petitioners have not cited asingle case, not a single case, holding that the State'shandling of pendent claims, in the absence of section, somehow violated due process. And equallyimportant, Your Honors, petitioners do not seriously claimthat (d) is a valid exercise of Congress' power undersection of the Fourteenth Amendment to address any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC supposed due process problems. The record is simply bare.Moreover, due process cannot be the basis of anysupposed abrogation here because the first element ofabrogating the State's sovereign immunity, using section of the Fourteenth Amendment, is an explicit statement ofCongress. There is no such explicit statement of Congresshere. In fact, the record is silent as to any due processclaim either in the halls of Congress or in the -- in thecase law, at least as cited or referred to by -- bypetitioners. And most importantly, Your Honors, and inconclusion, whether there might conceivably be anunfairness in some hypothetical State situation, thisquestion of unfairness does not trump the Alden principle,that Congress cannot, by an observation of unfairnessfalling short of a due process issue, force a State tosubmit to suit against itself in its own courts. QUESTION: I suppose unfairness is whatsovereign immunity is all about, isn't it? MR. ROTENBERG: It may be seen that way by someplaintiffs, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Rotenberg. MR. ROTENBERG: Thank you. QUESTION: Mr. Clement, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. CLEMENT th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. CLEMENT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:When this Court confronts a general grant ofjurisdiction, like (a), it routinely infers that thestatute does not apply to nonconsenting States. Such aconstruction avoids difficult -- upsetting the balancebetween Federal and State powers. For similar reasons, this Court should construesection (d)'s tolling provision not to apply tononconsenting States. That reading avoids the difficultsovereign immunity questions posed by the application of aFederal statute to extend the State statute of limitationsagainst a nonconsenting State in State court.QUESTION: You -- basically you're saying clearstatement. Is that -- is that nub of your point? MR. CLEMENT: The nub of the point --QUESTION: The clear statement rule. MR. CLEMENT: -- is this Court should apply aclear statement rule to this statute, the supplementaljurisdiction statute, and since there's no indication inthe text or legislative history that Congress had anycontemplation that this would apply to nonconsentingStates, this Court should construe the provision as not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applying to nonconsenting States.QUESTION: Do you -- do you agree that in theabsence of a clear statement rule, there is no ambiguityhere that -- that would open the door to our giving thiskind of a construction? MR. CLEMENT: There is -- there is enoughambiguity in the statute, if the Court wanted to, to reachthe second argument that we offer in our brief, but Iwould suggest that the first argument we offer in thebrief, which you could call the clear statement argument,is a more narrowly tailored and focused answer to theconstitutional issues that are raised by applying thestatute to nonconsenting States. QUESTION: Well, you've only got minutes, andI'll leave it to you to whether you want to get into it. I -- I have trouble with the ambiguity argument. Iunderstand your clear statement argument. I have troublewith the ambiguity. MR. CLEMENT: Well, if I could, I would focus onthe clear statement argument because I think it does verynarrowly avoid the constitutional issue that's raised. QUESTION: Now, to -- to apply the clearstatement argument, do we not have to at least decide thatit does constitute an elimination of State sovereignimmunity to require the tolling of -- of the action th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC against the State?MR. CLEMENT: I don't think so. I think thisCourt only needs to decide that it would raise graveconstitutional doubts before it would need to apply the --the clear statement rule because, although in somecontexts, in the abrogation context, for example, a clearstatement rule assumes that -- that the Congress can'tconstitutionally do something, in other contexts asGregory v. Ashcroft, Will against the Michigan Departmentof -- of State -- in those cases, this Court has appliedclear statement principles even though they don't assumethe answer to the constitutional question. And that, ofcourse, is consistent with the way this Court approachesmatter as a general matter and its preference to avoidconstitutional questions. The -- the Court, for example, just last term in-- in Vermont against United States ex rel. Stevens,applied similar principles of statutory construction toavoid directly addressing the Eleventh Amendment --QUESTION: It's fine when you're dealing with anambiguous statute. Sure, just the mere presence of aconstitutional doubt will cause you to resolve theambiguity in such a fashion that it doesn't raise aconstitutional principle so you have sort of a clearstatement rule, unless it's a clear statement where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's a -- but those are ambiguity cases. You're -- you're purporting to forego relianceupon ambiguity and to say even assuming that the statuteis clear, you should not interpret it to apply to theStates. And now, do you have any case not involvingambiguity, where we have applied the clear statement rulewithout first finding that it is clearly an abrogation ofState sovereign immunity? MR. CLEMENT: Well, I think, for example, in theStevens case, this Court interpreted the term person notto include the State. What effectively we're asking theCourt to do here is interpret the term, any claim, insection (d) to say any claim except one against anonconsenting State.QUESTION: Well, I think in Atascadero weinterpreted the word person so that it did not include theState, even though you could say person means a lot.MR. CLEMENT: No. That's exactly right.And in Will against Michigan where the Court hadalready held that did not implicate EleventhAmendment issues, this Court nonetheless held that inState courts, the term person in does not apply to --to States or to State officers acting in their officialcapacities. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And I think all of those cases and the -- theCourt's decision in Gregory against Ashcroft and in Willall stand for the proposition that this Court can apply aclear statement type principle to avoid aconstitutional --QUESTION: How -- how do you respond to theSoldiers and Sailors Civil Relief Act as applied to Statesin tolling causes of action against the State?MR. CLEMENT: Well, I -- I think that -- that inorder to maintain consistency with our position in thiscase, we would have to ask this Court to apply a clearstatement rule in that case, and the current version ofthe statute would probably not apply to States under that-- under that theory. QUESTION: So, has that been happening? I mean,is it the case that the armed forces members have beensuing States or not under the act? MR. CLEMENT: We haven't seen that the -- thatthe issue of sovereign immunity arising in those contexts,and it very well -- well --QUESTION: And it could be just that --MR. CLEMENT: It very well may be, as counselfor the University of Minnesota suggested, that Stateswill have the good sense in those instances to waive theirsovereign immunity defense. I mean, the same principles th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that are going to motivate the Federal Government to passthe Soldiers and Sailors Civil Relief Act are going tomotivate State governments to waive their sovereignimmunity defenses in those claims. Now, it seems to me that -- two points I'd liketo make. First of all, it's worth focusing on the factthat even before (d), the informal Federal courtpractices for dealing with potentially untimely Stateclaims did not apply to nonconsenting States. JusticeScalia, you raised the -- the problem of conditioning adismissal on a withdraw -- of statute of limitationsdefenses. But, of course, under Pennhurst II, a State hasan absolute right to insist that the pendent claimsagainst it be dismissed. So, in that context, the Federalcourt would not be able to condition the dismissal on awaiver of a statute of limitations defense, nor would itbe able to retain jurisdiction over the claim. So, itstands to reason that (d) should no more apply tocases against nonconsenting States than the Federal courtpractices it replaced. Lastly, I would emphasize that thisinterpretation of section (d) does not placeplaintiffs in an untenable position or in anunconstitutional bind. Plaintiffs, in cases where theState objects to Federal court jurisdiction as a blanket th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC matter, have the same rights that they would have underPennhurst II. They can file both claims in State court,the Federal and the State, which seems a complete answerto any due process objections, or they can file parallelproceedings. Even if the State makes a decision whether toconsent on a case by cases, as Minnesota appears to do,the State -- the plaintiff can still attempt to getconsent in the first instance, and if it's not, it canmake a protective filing along the lines that JusticeGinsburg suggested.In the end, it seems that plaintiffs lack anycase law to support their due process arguments. I thinkthat respondent, in fairness, lacks any case law tosupport its -- its Article I legislative power argument. There's really no need for this Court to make anysignificant case law in order to decide this case if itsimply applies the clear statement test we suggest in ourbrief. If there's no other questions, I'll submit. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Clement. Mr. Bolter, you have minutes remaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HOWARD L. BOLTERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. BOLTER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I'd like to address something that was broughtup on -- again in questioning the university about being anonconsenting State. It is -- their arguments -- the --the university and the Solicitor General's arguments relyon the fact that they were a nonconsenting Statethroughout this whole procedure. And that's not anaccurate characterization of what went on here. When theywere sued in Federal court, they were not a nonconsentingState until months later when they brought that motionto dismiss.QUESTION: But they said they put it in theiranswer within days. MR. BOLTER: They did do that. QUESTION: And I think Mr. Rotenberg was quiteright that the whole impulse of the Federal rules is youbring all of your motions at once and not seriatim.MR. BOLTER: They --QUESTION: But they -- if they raised that --that Eleventh Amendment in their answer within the timeallotted, I don't think that you can say that it was a-month thing that they --MR. BOLTER: Raising the defense in the answerwas just like raising any other defense in that answer.They had to assert it or else they would risk a waiverargument later on. All that did was preserve their right th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to bring the -- the motion months later. QUESTION: Yes, but in preserving that right, it-- it certainly does not put them in the position of beinga consenting State.MR. BOLTER: Well, they were not a nonconsentingState.QUESTION: Look, what it boils down to is theyhadn't filed the motion to dismiss yet. That's what we'rearguing about, isn't it? MR. BOLTER: Yes, they had not filed the motionand until that motion was filed, the court can't rule onit. The court can't -- is not going to dismiss the claim,and there will be supplemental jurisdiction over all theclaims that are --QUESTION: Yes, but by the same token, you knowby the answer that they are not consenting tojurisdiction.MR. BOLTER: All we knew by the answer is thatthey were asserting an affirmative defense, just like theyasserted a statute of limitations defense or laches orwaiver. And none of those can be ruled upon by the courtuntil they are affirmatively brought before them to ruleon. They might have just decided not to do anything withit until the matter was tried on its merits, and they havedone that in another case, the Eldeeb case, which they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC received summary judgment on the merits of both State andFederal claims. QUESTION: Didn't you know also that you were atrisk of an interpretation of ? Justice Soutersuggested that there is no ambiguity, but at least there'sa respectable authority for saying there is and that thetolling of (d) is limited to cases covered by (c)and would not take in sovereign immunity.MR. BOLTER: We did not anticipate that thatcould be a construction of -- of -- of (d),otherwise we might have reevaluated whether or not tobring it. But that wasn't -- there was nothing to suggestthat that was the status of the case law --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Bolter.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 