 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XALABAMA, Petitioner ::v. : No. -LeREED SHELTON. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:WILLIAM H. PRYOR, JR., ESQ., Attorney General of Alabama,Montgomery, Alabama; on behalf of the Petitioner.CHARLES FRIED, ESQ., Cambridge, Massachusetts; on behalfof amicus curiae in opposition to the judgment below.WILLIAM H. MILLS, ESQ., Birmingham, Alabama; on behalfof the Respondent.STEVEN B. DUKE, ESQ., New Haven, Connecticut; on behalf ofthe National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers,as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. PRYOR, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner CHARLES FRIED, ESQ.On behalf of amicus curiae in opposition to the judgment below WILLIAM H. MILLS, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent STEVEN B. DUKE, ESQ.On behalf of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFWILLIAM H. PRYOR, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Alabama v. LeReed Shelton.General Pryor.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. PRYOR, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PRYOR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court: years ago in Argersinger v. Hamlin and thenmore than years ago in Scott v. Illinois, this Courtestablished the principle that, under the Sixth andFourteenth Amendments, a State is not obligated to providean indigent defendant in a misdemeanor case court-appointed and taxpayer-funded counsel, provided that thedefendant is not actually imprisoned upon conviction. years ago in Nichols v. the United States,this Court reaffirmed that principle. The Supreme Court of Alabama distorted thiswell-established and workable rule and held that aprobated or suspended sentence, which actually liberates adefendant to return to free society, nevertheless triggersa right to court-appointed and taxpayer-funded counsel. There are three arguments that I would like toaddress this morning. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you -- do you concede that theState can never impose the original sentence of time injail? MR. PRYOR: Your Honor, obviously that is not acourt -- a question that this Court has directly addressedin either Argersinger or Scott. Our best reading --QUESTION: I'm asking whether the State ofAlabama concedes that it can't ever impose that originalsentence. MR. PRYOR: Our reading of Scott is that -- thatwe cannot activate the suspended sentence. We acknowledgethat Mr. Fried, as an amicus, certainly has a plausiblereading that would allow the court to activate thatsentence. In our judgment, that original sentence relatesback to the original offense and that the court --QUESTION: What -- what happens in Alabama if --if a -- a criminal defendant is convicted of a misdemeanorand placed on probation and then violates probation? Doesthat enable the State to impose the original sentence forviolation of the probation?MR. PRYOR: Yes, ordinarily it would. But forthe problem presented involving an uncounseled defendant,it would allow the State to activate the suspendedsentence. QUESTION: Well, then we're jumping probably th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ahead into what you're going to tell us, but while we'reat this point, it seems to me that if -- if you say thatthe sentence cannot be reimposed, you're saying that theState courts are in the position of imposing a sentencethat is something of a rouse. Why should you put your owncourts in this position? I -- I just don't think it'svery sound for us to tell the State courts, well, you goahead and tell these people that they can -- might be putin prison, but that that won't really happen. It seems tome that that's your position. MR. PRYOR: Well, there's still a risk ofimprisonment, the same risk of imprisonment, under ourreading of Argersinger and Scott, that -- that isaccompanied with the judgment of a mere fine. Every courthas the power to enforce any judgment as an essentialaspect of the administration of justice through the powerof contempt.QUESTION: But you're -- you're treating thecontempt proceeding, in effect, as a separate proceedingthen, and I take it, though I'm not sure that I rememberthis from your briefs -- I take it that on -- on your viewof the way the scheme ought to operate in the contemptproceeding, before there could be any confinement on afinding of contempt, that counsel would have to beprovided then if -- if the individual is indigent and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC didn't waive it.MR. PRYOR: That's -- that's correct, JusticeSouter. QUESTION: So, it's the separate counseledproceeding that distinguishes your case from -- from thecase that Mr. Fried argues for. MR. PRYOR: That -- that's correct, JusticeSouter. And -- and at a minimum I would say, although Idon't think the Court has to ever address this questionbecause there's been no violation of probation -- at aminimum the State would have the same power to enforce itsjudgment that it would a judgment of a mere fine whichthis Court held squarely in Scott does not trigger a rightto court-appointed --QUESTION: From your point of view, GeneralPryor, what does the State gain as -- as opposed to whatthe Supreme Court of Alabama said, by following --following your -- your line of reasoning? I think asJustice Kennedy said, it -- it imposes a sentence, but asentence that everybody knows can't be enforced.MR. PRYOR: The State gains the powerful tool ofprobation to rehabilitate an offender that the Statebelieves is a good risk, a risk to return to free societywho can be rehabilitated, depending on whatever mechanismsof probation have been adopted by the trial court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Meanwhile, the State is preserving its scarce judicialresources to incarcerate more dangerous offenders andprovide counsel in more serious cases. QUESTION: But what -- how effective isprobation going to be if there isn't the threat of -- of asentence in case of probation violation? MR. PRYOR: I think at a minimum, the probationis going to be as effective as a judgment of a finebecause the State is going to still have the flexiblepower of contempt, whether civil or criminal in nature, toensure that its orders are followed and -- and willcontinue to exercise jurisdiction of the probationerduring that period of probation. QUESTION: Is it the -- is it the case inAlabama that probation cannot be imposed without asuspended sentence?MR. PRYOR: That is correct. Technically thatis how probation is imposed, Justice Souter. QUESTION: Wouldn't -- wouldn't we have at leasta more candid system or wouldn't the interaction ofArgersinger and -- and the Alabama system, as you viewArgersinger, produce a more candid system if -- if we tookthe position that, no, they can't impose a suspendedsentence, and Alabama would then presumably amend its lawsso that probation could be imposed without imposing a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC suspended sentence, and you on your view would have your-- your contempt remedy. We wouldn't be -- in effect, the-- the two systems wouldn't be producing this kind ofsilly effect of -- of a sentence which everyone realizesas such cannot be imposed. MR. PRYOR: Alabama certainly has the freedom toadopt I think either system without running afoul of theConstitution, which is the -- the issue before this Court.Although it might make more sense and not seem as silly toimpose probation without going through the mechanics of --QUESTION: Well, is -- is there any State whichimposes probation without a suspended sentence that youknow of? MR. PRYOR: I know from the amicus brief of theNational Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers thatthere are some States that impose, in fact, pretrialprobation, that that is something that --QUESTION: How about post-trial, after aconviction? MR. PRYOR: I just don't know. I know thatthere were several States that were cited in Shelton'sbriefly correctly that -- that used the same mechanismthat Alabama does. There were several cites --QUESTION: General Pryor --QUESTION: Well, what -- what authority would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would the State have to -- to put somebody on probationunless -- unless it is the suspension of -- of a judgmentof incarceration? I mean, can a State just go aroundsaying you're going to be on probation? MR. PRYOR: Well --QUESTION: It seems to me the only -- the onlyreason it -- it has that grip over the person is that --is that it has a right to incarcerate him. MR. PRYOR: The States certainly view that as aneffective mechanism in most --QUESTION: I'm not sure there's an alternativeto it. I'm not sure you can just pass a law saying judgescan put on probation whomever they want to put onprobation.MR. PRYOR: I think that -- that the Alabamalegislature has the inherent power to define what asentence is, whether a sentence is a fine or whether asentence is imprisonment. And in fact, I think the Statewould have the flexibility to define a sentence -- one ofthe sentencing options as -- as probation.QUESTION: I take it what they would do on thatscheme would be to say, upon conviction of offense A, thecourt may impose probation, and if the conditions ofprobation are violated and are shown in a separate trialor proceeding to that effect, the violation itself can be th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC punished. That would be the way the scheme would work,wouldn't it? MR. PRYOR: That's correct.QUESTION: If -- if Alabama wanted it. MR. PRYOR: If Alabama wanted it. But -- butthis is really -- in my judgment this would be elevatingform over substance because the -- the effect is the samewith whichever system Alabama wants to adopt --QUESTION: General Pryor, explain to me how someother States approach it. If I understand correctly,there is no trial. It's a deferred prosecution oncondition that the -- the defendant abide by certain termsand conditions. Is that how it works? MR. PRYOR: That's -- that's correct.QUESTION: And if -- if the defendant thendoesn't live up to it, then it proceeds to trial.MR. PRYOR: Then it proceeds to trial. QUESTION: How many States use a system likethat?States.MR. PRYOR: I believe the -- the brief listed QUESTION: Well, these are pretrial diversionprograms which have been very helpful in the drug context,but they're extremely expensive to administer. MR. PRYOR: Absolutely. Absolutely. And -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC many States may very well feel that -- that there'ssomething almost unseemly about using this kind ofbargaining process before you have adjudicated guilt orinnocence, and -- and the State certainly should havethe --QUESTION: Well, why is it any more unseemlythan the ordinary plea bargain? MR. PRYOR: Because at least in the -- in thecase of the ordinary plea bargain, the defendant comesforward and admits the wrongdoing. There's an indicia ofreliability there for the State that's not present in thiskind of pretrial system. And -- and the States who trusttheir system to adjudicate innocence or guilt may findthat that's a -- that the system that Alabama has is apreferable system. QUESTION: But Shelton was not given anypretrial diversion. He was convicted, was he not? MR. PRYOR: That's correct, and Alabama doesn'thave it in this context except with respect to drugoffenders. QUESTION: General Pryor, I can understand aline between a fine and any kind of confinement, andprobation may involve no immediate incarceration, but itdoes involve what could be very significant restraints onthe person. So, isn't it more logical to draw the line th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC between money only on the one hand and confinement, be itin jail or under terms and conditions of probation?MR. PRYOR: Justice Ginsburg, I'd say no for acouple of reasons. This Court has recognized thatimprisonment is an intrinsically different form ofpunishment that has special constitutional significance. The probation system is one that is meant more asrehabilitation and not as punishment to give an offender asecond chance in free society. And -- and even with thejudgment of a fine, as I mentioned earlier, there -- it --it is accompanied by the risk of imprisonment should thedefendant willfully refuse to pay that fine. So, even inthat context, in the judgment of -- of a fine, there is atleast that risk, the same risk that would exist under theregime that we propose.I do not discount the fact that probation has --can have serious restrictions on liberty, but it's not the-- the deprivation of liberty, the loss of physicalliberty, that is, physical confinement that this Court hasheld triggers a right to court-appointed counsel under theSixth and Fourteenth Amendments. QUESTION: Under your view, if you enforced thejail sentence through the contempt mechanism and reachedthe same result, I take it you now have a second jurytrial. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. PRYOR: Well, I guess it would be dependentin part on the nature of the contempt proceeding. If it'scivil contempt, if it's a direct contempt or an indirectcontempt, but if it's criminal contempt, I would imagine-- I say that. In Alabama, a criminal contempt procedureonly has a maximum term of imprisonment of days. So,I'm not sure that -- that there would be a right to a jurytrial. For more than --QUESTION: But then -- but then the contempt is-- is really not a substitute of an equivalent for the --for the imposition of the suspended sentence. They're notequivalent. If it's just days, that's not equivalent tothe suspended sentence.MR. PRYOR: Oh, absolutely. That's absolutelyright, although I would argue that -- that the threat ofimprisonment is still enough to give the probationer anincentive to follow the orders of the court. It'sabsolutely correct that there is a material differencebetween activation of the probated sentence in this caseand the use of -- of the criminal contempt remedy that'sprovided by the code of Alabama. There's no doubt aboutthat. The -- what is at stake in this case is -- isthe use of probation, a valuable tool for the States that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC allow them the freedom and flexibility again to ensurethat scarce judicial resources can be preserved for moreserious cases to provide counsel and to incarcerate moreserious offenders. If there are no further questions from theCourt, Mr. Chief Justice, I'd like to reserve the balanceof my time for rebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, General Pryor. Mr. Fried, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES FRIEDON BEHALF OF THE AMICUS CURIAEIN OPPOSITION TO THE JUDGMENT BELOWMR. FRIED: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:First, if I might just refer to the deferredprosecution point, which was raised by Mr. Duke in hisamicus brief and in one of the questions. I think that'sa red herring because, as Mr. Duke points out, thedeferred prosecution requires the consent of both theprosecutor and the defendant. Obviously, the kind ofprosecutions we have here are usually not consented to bythe defendant. I think it is --QUESTION: Why -- why is that a red herring? Because I got from your brief the impression that the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the -- there's a practical problem that a lot of States dowithout giving people lawyers. Perhaps thousands andthousands of cases say, go plead guilty. We'll give yousome light sentence that won't involve prison, but thenthey attach to that a suspended sentence. And what Iwondered is, well, isn't the solution to this to say --it's called pretrial diversion or pretrial probation orthey call it different names, but to say if you violatethe condition, what happens to you is not prison, whathappens to you is the trial that we haven't yet given youwith a lawyer. And I thought maybe that works as apractical matter in a lot of these States in a lot of thecases to which you referred. MR. FRIED: It -- it does work. For instance,we use it a great deal in the Commonwealth ofMassachusetts where there is a quite different rule from-- from the Argersinger rule where in Massachusetts we sayif there's a risk of imprisonment, you must get a lawyer. And a number of States have that rule which is perhaps whythey also have the deferred prosecution. I say it's a red herring because what we'reconsidering today is not the very best possible system butwhat is the constitutional minimum. Our emphasis in thebrief on Nichols is not in order to show that Nicholssomehow resolves this question in favor of allowing the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC probated sentence and in favor of allowing it then to beactivated on violation, but rather Nichols shows that thequestion is an open one. Nichols doesn't resolve it, butthen neither does Argersinger. And I think it's a mistakeand it's a mistake the Alabama Supreme Court made to treatArgersinger as having resolved this question. Argersinger made quite clear that there is acontinuum here all the way from mere due process, whichwas the law prior to Gideon, to a criminal -- to the rightof a criminal defendant having a counsel in any criminalcase. And it picked a point. It picked a point which theCourt recognized had a certain arbitrariness, and itpicked it for reasons of practicality and fairness. Andthose considerations of practicality and fairness requireno more than that there be counsel if the person issentenced immediately then and there to prison. The fairness aspect is, as the Illinois courtpointed out, that in these cases the defendant carries thekey to the prison in his own pocket. Whether he ends upin prison is a matter of his choice whether or not heviolates the terms of the probation. That's why I think Mr. Duke enters two more redherrings into the argument. The stay on appeal. Obviously in a stay case, the keys are not in the pocketof the defendant, but in the pocket of the appeals court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And the -day or $ prison which is executedimmediately, in those cases the fine is either an illegalfine under the -- this Court's decision in Bierdon -- theperson doesn't pay because he cannot, and that is itself aconstitutional violation -- or once again, he isimprisoned because he chooses not to pay. And once again,that is the fairness point. The keys are in his pocket.That is a reasonable place to draw the linebecause of the very important practicalities. Thepracticalities are the literally millions of misdemeanorcases, the very large number -- it's hard to say exactlywhat the number is -- the very large number ofprobationary misdemeanor sentences, and the fact thatthose probationary sentences overwhelmingly are intendedto serve a rehabilitative or preventive function. Don'tdrive again. Take a anger management course. Go tocounseling. And the -- this is meant to keep people outof prison, not to put them into prison. Unfortunately, if you insert a mandatoryformality into something which is a little bit like familycourt proceeding, necessarily you will have a perverseeffect. The State has to spend more time, has to spendmore resources. It will do this less frequently, but itwill make sure it gets more of, if you like, deterrentbang for its buck, and the result will be perverse. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC This system, as simply a constitutional minimum,allows the States the flexibility which this Court fromthe beginning, from Argersinger on, has recognized.QUESTION: You do allow the possibility thatcounsel could be provided in the event the probation isrevoked. MR. FRIED: I think that's a very realpossibility. Ganyon talks about that in terms of dueprocess, and I think the practicalities change --QUESTION: But the issue with the revocationhearing would not necessarily be whether he committed acrime. It would just be whether he violated a term ofprobation such as leaving the jurisdiction or something.MR. FRIED: That is correct. QUESTION: He can get counsel to defend himagainst that. MR. FRIED: That is correct. QUESTION: Not against the crime itself.MR. FRIED: That is correct. QUESTION: Well, it would -- it would alsocover, I take it, whether or not the plea was voluntaryand knowingly made originally. MR. FRIED: That could be brought up. Nothing-- nothing precludes bringing that up. What you have is afunnel with a very large opening, and in terms of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statistics, a very small tube at the bottom. It wouldnot --QUESTION: Well, is it your view that at theprobation hearing you reexamine the validity of theoriginal offense, the original conviction?MR. FRIED: The -- Alabama is a good example ofwhat is open at probation. In most jurisdictions, oddlyenough, not in Massachusetts -- in most jurisdictions, thecourt on probation is free to impose new -- the revocationproceeding -- new conditions, the sentence that hasalready been imposed, or a lesser sentence in light of allcircumstances, and it mentions specificallydepreciating --QUESTION: Yes, but all those alternativesassume the original conviction is valid.MR. FRIED: I don't see why in thoseproceedings --QUESTION: At least in a typical case. MR. FRIED: -- the lawyer could not argue, look,you're asking whether this will depreciate the gravity ofthe original offense. Let me tell you a little bit aboutthat. And I would think the judge would listen, and hehas the discretion to impose a lesser sentence. QUESTION: This is all pretty speculative, isn'tit, since that question doesn't confront us here? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. FRIED: No question. And I simply want toemphasize that that is open and is an important questionperhaps best considered in a case where it can be fullydeveloped. But I don't think the Court should decide thiscase on the assumption that that possibility might not ina later case be open. And I think that leaves the kind offlexibility which is very desirable in these low level butvery frequently encountered cases. I think that's whatwill serve the -- the Constitution and the interests ofrehabilitation best. QUESTION: Do we have any idea of the .million to . million people who are on probation formisdemeanors, of what percentage of those cases the -- theprobation -- or the defendant was not offered a lawyer? Imean, the relevant feature is --MR. FRIED: We try --QUESTION: That's a rather -- yes.MR. FRIED: We try to infer that in the brief. It's -- the statistics are not kept in a transparent oruseful way. But it may be in the hundreds of thousands. It may be in the hundreds of thousands because as -- as weexplain in our brief, there are a very large number ofpersons on probation who did not have lawyers, and givenArgersinger, we may assume that they were misdemeanors.So, it's a very large number. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But the number of persons who are actuallyincarcerated for breach of those conditions is quitesmall. It's in the thousands. And that's why I think itbecomes quite practical to offer an attorney to help inthat condition, but really I think very confining andperhaps with a perverse effect to require it as aconstitutional minimum in the much larger -- very muchlarger number of cases where the matter is firstconsidered. After all, if the person has to be sent toprison, that's a failure. I thank the Court for its attention. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Fried, and thank youfor your participation as an amicus.Mr. Duke, we'll hear from you. I'm sorry. Mr.Mills.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. MILLSON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. MILLS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:It obviously is apparent here that both thepetitioner and the respondent come to this Court relyingon the same authority, the -- primarily the Argersingerand Scott cases. It seems that the State is taking a rathershallow view, in our judgment, of the Argersinger and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Scott cases both as to their background and howArgersinger is -- is implemented and the effect of thatimplementation.QUESTION: Do you agree that neither of thosecases squarely control the outcome here? MR. MILLS: It -- it would be my position thatArgersinger does by the -- some of the pronouncements thatit makes.QUESTION: Certainly the holding does not.MR. MILLS: The holding does not certainly.And it would further be my position that -- thatthe Scott case has something to say to us about this issuealso, although the holding -- the -- the facts certainlydo not coincide with this case. It seems to me that the background of theArgersinger and Scott cases, of course, are the -- thePowell v. Alabama, Gideon v. Wainwright series of cases. And in those cases, it seems that the Court hasestablished the purpose of the Counsel Clause which if we-- if we reduce to its barest terms is this. The purposeof the Counsel Clause is to prevent, to the extent humanlypossible, the conviction of the innocent in an adversaryproceeding. That seems to be what Justice Sutherland saidin Powell v. Alabama and what Justice Black said in Gideonv. Wainwright, that what is to be done is to eliminate the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC risk that the innocent may be convicted.And when we come to the Argersinger case,although the -- the Gideon case had -- had spoken of thisas being a -- or nobel idea was the -- were the words used-- but I believe spoke of counsel for every defendant inevery case as being a constitutional ideal. I think inArgersinger, the Court was faced with the argument ofpracticability and expense and -- and the other argumentsthat -- that the State makes in this case, that themandate can't be absolute, that there must be someaccommodation to those arguments.And in Argersinger, it -- it seems that theCourt made those accommodations. And if we include --QUESTION: Well, the Court basically said, fineonly? Okay. We're not going to extend the SixthAmendment to that. Now, here we have a State that says, well, weknow we can't enforce the sentence. It's a toothlesstiger. We'll say probation, but it -- we don't mean it. I mean, we'll -- we'll maybe have proceedings, but we --we can never enforce the sentence. In light of that,should we be concerned here? MR. MILLS: Well, that -- that puzzled mesomewhat when the State made that concession in its replybrief that this was in -- in effect a sham sentence. And th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I see no authority in the law of Alabama or any otherState that I'm aware of that authorizes a court --QUESTION: Well, if that's the case, what do wethink about this? MR. MILLS: Perhaps we're dealing with a shamsentence. And perhaps that's the way the Alabama SupremeCourt treated it. But certainly there shouldn't be, fromthis Court or any other court, an authorization for atrial court to enter a sentence that can't be enforced.QUESTION: Would you just clarify one thing forme? Did the Alabama Supreme Court endorse that view, oris that the Attorney General?MR. MILLS: That's the Attorney General's view. What the Alabama petit court -- Supreme Court did wasmerely strike the sentence.QUESTION: I guess whether you strike it or notis a matter of State law, isn't it? I mean -- I don'tknow what the remedy should be for a sentence that's not-- not an enforceable sentence and the person writes it inthe -- the judge writes in the book, suspended sentence. And the State and everyone else, let's say, agree thatthat isn't a lawful sentence. So, the State Supreme Courtsays, erase those words. Strike them. Did anyone suggestthat was a matter of Federal law or what you do underState law when a -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MILLS: Well, I believe the Alabama SupremeCourt said it was -- it was a matter of Federal law. QUESTION: That it be struck rather than justleft to lie there unenforceable.MR. MILLS: I'm not sure they articulated inthose terms, but their -- their basis for reaching thedecision they reached was the Federal cases that deal withthe right of counsel. QUESTION: One of the things that didn't happen,we know for sure, in this case was that an offer ofcounsel. Was that merely a -- an inadvertence on thecourt's part or does Alabama not provide assigned counselfor indigents in -- in a misdemeanor like this? MR. MILLS: Perhaps it was inadvertence, but the-- the Alabama rules of criminal procedure have that as apart of the -- the processing of any -- any case. QUESTION: In any misdemeanor?MR. MILLS: Any criminal prosecution, yes, sir.QUESTION: All right. So that if -- if therehad been -- if there were an offense in Alabama thatcarried as much as a -day sentence, the State wouldprovide counsel for an indigent, at least if requested?MR. MILLS: Not -- not in those terms. Not -- Ibelieve the Alabama rules say where constitutionallyrequired. And of course the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So, they're not providing counsel inthese cases now because, I take it, the State's positionis it's not constitutionally required.MR. MILLS: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: At what point do they regard it asbeing constitutionally required? When the sentence canexceed months or what? What -- what I'm getting at is Iwant to know -- I want your response to the argument thatthere's going to be a -- a great practical difference ifwe say now you may not impose sentences like this at all,even though they're merely suspended. I want to know whatthe practical difference is.MR. MILLS: From the -- the wording of theAlabama Rules of Criminal Procedure about appointment ofcounsel at the present time, I would assume that the trialjudge must go through the process outlined in Argersinger,that is, make the pretrial determination of whetherimprisonment is a likely punishment in this particularcase, and if -- if so, appoint counsel. If not so,counsel is not appointed. QUESTION: Well, any imprisonment? day ofimprisonment? QUESTION: Isn't that what the Federal --Argersinger requires? MR. MILLS: I think that's what Argersinger th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC says.QUESTION: Okay. But Alabama, in other words,is not doing something eccentric in this respect. MR. MILLS: That -- that's correct. QUESTION: The -- the only difference thenbetween the cases in which -- misdemeanor cases, forexample, in which counsel is offered, if an individual isindigent, and counsel is not offered are cases in whichthe judge says in advance I'm not going to put this guyaway at all even if we convict him.MR. MILLS: Presumably that's the process that'sbeing followed. QUESTION: Now, do you have -- do you have anybasis to tell us what practical difference it would makeif the judge said, well, I may impose a suspended sentenceand therefore I will have to offer counsel because I readArgersinger as requiring that? Do you know whatdifference that would make in practical terms? How manycases would counsel have to be offered and potentiallyprovided for where it's not being offered and potentiallyprovided for now?MR. MILLS: I don't have any data that would --would support that, but it -- but it would seem that ifthe trial judge makes the pretrial determination that anysentence, whether -- whether immediate or suspended, is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC warranted or may be warranted in this particular case,that counsel should be appointed -- of course, that's theposition. QUESTION: I understand that. MR. MILLS: That's the position. QUESTION: Mr. Mills, there is one thing that Ithink is a piece of information that -- that is in therecord, and that is that most non-indigent misdemeanorsappear in court without counsel. So, the position thatyou're urging is kind of a superior justice for theindigents. Counsel, you would say, in every case where,at the end of the line, there may be any jail time,although most people who can't afford counsel do not havecounsel in cases of -- of this kind.MR. MILLS: That perhaps is correct. I supposemy response to that would be that that's -- that that's afree choice that the non-indigent makes.QUESTION: Isn't it true also -- isn't it truealso, at least according to some of the statistics quoted,that frequently these cases are not prosecuted by lawyers? They're simply prosecuted by the arresting officer. MR. MILLS: That happens occasionally inAlabama. It used to happen a lot. It's -- it's fairlyrare at the present time. But -- but that does happen. That does happen. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And, of course, in -- in Alabama, allmisdemeanors, except those that are initiated byindictment, the first trial is in a -- a district ormunicipal court where there's no jury trial. And the jurytrial, if there is a right to jury trial, comes only by a-- an appeal and a de novo trial in the circuit court,which is an administrative problem. I don't see that as a-- as a philosophical problem. It's -- it's still the --most misdemeanors are -- are being tried in courts wherethere is no jury, certainly all of them in the firstinstance or most of them in the first instance. It seems that the petitioner's positionoverlooks the fact that -- that the Sixth Amendment is --is prophylactic rather than curative. Now, its -- itsideal is to prevent the convictions, not to do somethingabout them after they occur. Now, let me jump right quick to -- to the pointthat Argersinger deals with it somewhat in that way. Argersinger is what we might call an outcome-basedanalysis of whether there's a right to counsel. And --and to that extent, maybe it's -- it's curative ratherthan prophylactic. But if -- if it is to be outcome-based analysis,certainly it ought to be the -- the total outcome not justthe immediate outcome, and if a suspended sentence results th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in incarceration, when the probation is revoked, thatcertainly is a part of the -- of the outcome thatArgersinger was -- was dealing that the trial judge isrequired to make some decision on before trial evenbegins. So --QUESTION: Do you suppose it would beconstitutional for the State to offer the defendant at theoutset the promise of imposition of a suspended sentenceif counsel were waived? MR. MILLS: If knowingly waived, I don't see aconstitutional problem with that. And I'm sure thathappens in fact. QUESTION: Is that done sometimes in Alabama?MR. MILLS: It -- it is. It is done. And, ofcourse, this is -- this is the distinction between the --the pretrial diversion mechanism that was addressedearlier and a trial. Most pretrial -- perhaps allpretrial diversions are by definition. QUESTION: Well, put in its raw form, if thejudge said, now, if -- if you agree not to have a counsel,I'll agree not to impose a jail sentence, that -- thatwouldn't be permitted. I mean --MR. MILLS: Yes, sir, and it seems if --QUESTION: I assume. Correct me if I'm wrong. I assume it wouldn't be permitted. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MILLS: I think that's correct. In fact, Ithink that's what Argersinger requires. I thinkArgersinger requires a trial judge to assure the defendantwho goes to trial without a lawyer that he's not going toget jail sentence. And if he can receive a jail sentencesomewhere down the line, the judge has given him a falseassurance. But --QUESTION: The -- the jail sentence would not befor the original crime necessarily but perhaps just forbreaking probation.MR. MILLS: Well, I couldn't speak to alljurisdictions, but certainly under Alabama law, therewould be no -- no way to impose a sentence for breakingprobation. It would either be the original sentence --QUESTION: Well, that's what I mean. But thereason this -- the original sentence now becomes effectiveis because he broke probation.MR. MILLS: This, of course, is correct. Thisis the -- the carrot and stick analogy which -- whichthe --QUESTION: Well, maybe I misunderstood GeneralPryor's argument, but I thought he was here arguing no, hewouldn't impose the original sentence ever. We'd justproceed on contempt, maximum days. Did I misunderstand?MR. MILLS: I think that's what he -- he said. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I'm sure he -- he told us the whole story about contemptunder Alabama law. Each day that a contempt continues canbe a separate violation, a separate contempt, and -- andcould warrant a -- an additional -day sentence. So,contempt -- if a person was cited for violating hisprobation because he quit his job --QUESTION: Well, but that wouldn't -- thatwouldn't involve imposition of the original sentence. That's something else. MR. MILLS: That --QUESTION: That was what I understood --MR. MILLS: That would be something else. Thatis -- that is for the contempt itself. QUESTION: What is your position in the case ofthe individual who refuses to pay the fine? No suspendedsentence of incarceration, simply a sentence of a fine,and he refuses to pay it. Assuming the facts areotherwise the same, he did not have counsel and he was notoffered counsel if indigent. Could the fine be enforcedby a contempt sanction? MR. MILLS: I think this Court has addressedthat issue that it constitutionally can, and I -- I assumethere's no -- no impediment to that under Alabama law.QUESTION: Well, does -- is there -- is theresome tension between the position you take about the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC inability of the State to enforce a -- a condition ofsentence or a condition of suspension in the position thatyou take or acknowledge about the ability to enforce the-- the sentence of fine? Why should the two cases bedifferent? MR. MILLS: Well, I think the -- the differenceis if the suspended sentence is imposed, a person is beingimprisoned because he committed a crime. That wouldnever --QUESTION: And if the fine -- if the fine isimposed, the fine is being imposed because the individualcommitted a crime.MR. MILLS: Well, this is true, but only if hewillfully refuses to pay it where he has the ability to doso.QUESTION: Well, is the -- is the differencethat you're making willful? That -- that violations ofthe conditions of suspension are not willful and refusalsto pay a fine are willful?MR. MILLS: Well, I believe willfulness --willfully refusing to pay a fine would be a -- aprecondition to -- to a contempt sentence.QUESTION: All right. Then let's assume thatwe're talking about the class of -- of breach of -- ofconditions of suspension that are willful. Let's assume th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there's a condition of suspension that says you will behome every night at o'clock to keep you away from the --you know, the bad influences you've had, and he willfullyrefuses. I take it your position is that the suspendedsentence still cannot be imposed. Is that correct?MR. MILLS: That -- that's --QUESTION: But that's just as -- the willfulnessfactor is the same in the refusal to abide by thatcondition as it is in the refusal to pay the fine. So,I'm having difficulty seeing why you -- why on your viewthe -- the two should come out differently. MR. MILLS: Well, the -- the fine and the -- thecontempt for willfully refusing to comply with some otherconditions, I -- I could not distinguish those. QUESTION: No.MR. MILLS: Of course, let me add one otherthing about the contempt process to -- to enforce. UnderAlabama law, it wouldn't save the State any money. Itwould -- in fact, it would cost the State a lot of moneybecause of the formalities required in a criminal contemptproceeding. There must be a separate proceeding. I thinkthere probably would not have to be a jury trial, butcertainly there would have to be counsel if it isanticipated that imprisonment will be one of thepunishments for willfully refusing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But -- but it would only -- it wouldonly undergo that expense where there has been a breach ofthe conditions of -- of probation. Whereas, you'rearguing that the State must undergo the expense of counselin all cases. The number of cases where there's aviolation of probation is -- is presumably quite small,and -- and to say that the State has to provide counsel inthose cases in order to get the contempt sanction is -- isnot nearly as much of an imposition as -- as you're urgingus to impose. MR. MILLS: Well, I would say one thing. Perhaps the -- the number of cases would not be as largeas -- as might be anticipated. Presumably in many of thesuspended sentence cases, the judge perhaps has alreadymade that decision, this is a possible jail case or thisis not a possible jail case. Or if he's made a decisionit is a possible jail case, appoints counsel, he may, ofcourse, impose a suspended sentence rather than animmediate sentence. So, perhaps many of the cases arealready being appointed counsel. So, the -- the numbermay not be that large.I thank the Court.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Mills. Mr. Duke, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF STEVEN B. DUKE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ON BEHALF OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CRIMINALDEFENSE LAWYERS, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING RESPONDENTMR. DUKE: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please theCourt:Were this a petty offense prosecution, perhapsthe only legitimate, appropriate question would be the onethat has occupied the Court thus far this morning, butthis is a not a petty offense prosecution. This is aserious offense prosecution. As such, it is a criminalprosecution within the Sixth Amendment. The Sixth Amendment guarantees counselregardless of the sentence or sanction imposed. There aretwo reasons why this is so. One is textual; the other iscommon sensical. QUESTION: You're not saying it would guaranteecounsel if only a fine were imposed.MR. DUKE: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice. The counselwould be guaranteed in any serious offense prosecution.QUESTION: Well, how do you reconcile that withArgersinger?MR. DUKE: Because Argersinger, Mr. ChiefJustice, was a petty offense case. Argersinger explicitlyassumed that if it were a serious offense case, therewould be the right to counsel. In fact, the lower courtsaid there would be a right to counsel, but the lower th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC court said he can't have a lawyer here because this was apetty offense. QUESTION: Well, but wasn't the basis on -- thebasis you're submitting now wasn't the basis on which theSupreme Court of Alabama ruled, was it? MR. DUKE: It -- it was not the -- therationale, but it -- it does support the result of theAlabama Supreme Court's decision. QUESTION: But I thought that the main issuethat we had here is the one we've been talking about, isyou have to give a person a lawyer when it is a pettyoffense. And the fact is that there's going to be asuspended sentence. So, what about that question? I mean -- and I -- I thought that Mr. Fried'smain point was don't do it because if you say you have togive a person a lawyer, where it's a petty offense and theonly key thing is is a suspended sentence, I'll tell youthere are ,, people who have received probation inpetty offenses. And there must have been some stick ifthey violated probation, and that stick is like asuspended sentence. So, deal with it when you worry aboutthe probation violation; don't worry about it up front. That's -- that's what, I take it, is basically theargument. And I've been waiting for you to talk because I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thought you might be a person who'd know the statistics. So, you might know if that's really so if -- or whichseems hard to get at how many of those $. millionwalking-around probation people did -- were never offereda lawyer. What's --MR. DUKE: We don't know. QUESTION: We don't know. So, what are wesupposed to do? MR. DUKE: The -- the studies that I've seensuggest that in misdemeanor -- petty misdemeanor cases,frequently the -- the people are offered a lawyer in a --in a group and it's suggested that most of them don't needlawyers because they're not going to jail. But I submit, Justice Breyer, that the -- thatthe real red herring in this case is treating this as apetty offense. This is not a petty --QUESTION: And it's not offense because? MR. DUKE: Because the authorized sentence inthis case was year, which made the jury trial right --guaranteed him a right to a jury trial under the SixthAmendment, and because this was a criminal prosecution.QUESTION: But the question presented is this. In light of the actual imprisonment standard establishedin Argersinger, refined in Scott, does the imposition of asuspended or conditional sentence in a misdemeanor case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC invoke a defendant's Sixth Amendment right to counsel?Now, I think what you're saying is that theSupreme Court of Alabama decision could be supported onanother ground, but I'm not sure it -- it fits within thequestion presented. MR. DUKE: Well, I submit it does, Mr. ChiefJustice, because as I suggested, Argersinger dealt with apetty offense. Scott dealt with the question ofimprisoning somebody, but the -- but the fundamentalquestion here that -- that this Court should not allowitself to get embroiled in it to repeat the mistake is totreat this as if this is a trivial case because -- or toput it this way, at some point someone has to ask thequestion how is it that this defendant in this case had aconstitutional right to a jury trial under the SixthAmendment because this was a criminal prosecution, but hedid not have a right to assistance of counsel.QUESTION: Our -- our cases have reacheddifferent results on those two issues.MR. DUKE: But, Mr. Chief Justice, the -- theScott opinion, which you wrote, did not actually addressthe serious offense -month distinction because theparties were not addressing it.QUESTION: Where do you get that from? You'reappealing to the text of the Constitution. Aren't all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC misdemeanors criminal offenses?MR. DUKE: All --QUESTION: Aren't all misdemeanors criminaloffenses? MR. DUKE: They're criminal offenses but they'renot criminal prosecutions.QUESTION: And -- and what does the Constitutionsay? MR. DUKE: Pardon?QUESTION: And what does the Constitution say? It says in all criminal prosecutions. MR. DUKE: Yes. QUESTION: So, if you're appealing to theConstitution -- and -- and you say it's clear language. Idon't think it is. But if -- if you think it's clearlanguage, you should be arguing that even in pettyoffenses you're entitled to counsel.MR. DUKE: I -- I don't think I have to arguethat, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: No, only if you rely on the text ofthe Constitution, which is what I thought you were doing.MR. DUKE: I'm saying that the right to a jurytrial exists because and only because it's a criminalprosecution under the Sixth Amendment. Logically,therefore, if it is a criminal prosecution under the Sixth th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Amendment, then there is a right to counsel because theSixth Amendment says there is. But what the right tocounsel should be in petty offenses is a different issue.QUESTION: Why? It's a criminal offense. If --if you're arguing --MR. DUKE: It's a criminal offense --QUESTION: -- from the text of the Constitutionthat says in all criminal prosecutions, it includes pettymisdemeanors as well as what you call major misdemeanors.MR. DUKE: I'm not arguing that all pettyoffenses are criminal prosecutions. They plainly are not.QUESTION: I know you're arguing it. MR. DUKE: They're not. QUESTION: They are not criminal prosecutions?MR. DUKE: No, otherwise there would be a rightto a jury trial. There is not a right to a jury trial.QUESTION: Has this Court held that there is acongruent right to a jury trial and --MR. DUKE: No. QUESTION: No. All right.MR. DUKE: But nor has it --QUESTION: Now, before I wrote an opinionsigning on to that, I'd like to see a brief. MR. DUKE: Nor has it --QUESTION: I'd like everybody to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DUKE: Nor has it held otherwise.QUESTION: What? MR. DUKE: Nor has it held otherwise.QUESTION: Fine. But before I decide somethinglike that, I'd like to have everyone present their pointof view. I actually read the briefs. I'm interested inboth sides. And -- and suddenly to decide it in thiscase, what would you suggest we do? I'm not going todecide something like that myself without having it fullybriefed. And -- and so, what would you suggest we do withthis case? MR. DUKE: Then -- then I urge the Court to atleast reserve the issue of what is the appropriate rightto counsel in a serious offense where, as in this case,the defendant has a constitutional right to jury trial.Let me just briefly quote Justice Powell, joinedby then Justice Rehnquist, on the following proposition. Wherever the right to counsel line is to be drawn, it mustbe drawn so that an indigent has a right to appointedcounsel in all cases where there's a right to a jurytrial. If there is no accompanying right to counsel, theright to a jury trial becomes meaningless. No Justice ofthis Court, so far as I know, in the last years hasdisagreed with that proposition. QUESTION: But the jury trial line is months' th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC imprisonment, isn't it? MR. DUKE: Yes.QUESTION: And here, under Argersinger, it couldbe day. MR. DUKE: Argersinger dealt with a stop-gapissue about where there's no right to a jury trial, can wedeny counsel, and Argersinger said no, not if you send theperson to prison because that's the basic due processproposition. There's no -- it's not a criminalprosecution under the Sixth Amendment. It's a due processissue as in Powell against Alabama. It's fundamentallyunfair to send somebody to prison without giving him alawyer. With respect to the -- the argument that Mr.Fried makes, that this is essentially a little bit of anextension of Nichols, there's no way that a -- thesentence in this case could be activated, imposed without,in effect, holding that the defendant can be sent to jail,convicted of a crime and sent to jail, without providinghim a lawyer. This Court --QUESTION: Well, it doesn't follow that he couldbe sent to jail without providing him a lawyer in thesubsequent proceeding. MR. DUKE: Yes, but --QUESTION: I mean, in Nichols, after all, we had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC another conviction, and we had a lawyer representing theindividual when the question came up whether the firstconviction should be considered and so on. And that maywell be so, let's say, on -- on Mr. Fried's view. Therewould be a subsequent proceeding, and there would at least-- this is not a position he's arguing for this morning,but it would be consistent with his position that counselbe provided in that subsequent proceeding. MR. DUKE: Yes, but the crucial difference isthat the defendant under this proceeding that Mr. Fried is-- is urging the Court to approve -- the defendant wouldbe sent to jail without his guilt ever being determined ina criminal trial in which he was represented by counsel. Never. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Duke. General Pryor, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF WILLIAM H. PRYOR, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. PRYOR: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.QUESTION: General, what was the -- assumingthat Mr. Fried's position is adopted by the Court, what isthe maximum time that the Alabama trial judge couldsentence the violator to? What's the maximum time inprison?MR. PRYOR: The suspended sentence was days, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: The suspended sentence of days.MR. PRYOR: That's -- that's correct. QUESTION: Can I ask you before --MR. PRYOR: Yes, Justice Breyer. QUESTION: There are -- at the bottom line ofthe Alabama Supreme Court has two phrases in it. Thefirst one, it says, we reverse that aspect of his sentenceimposing days of suspended jail time. We reverse. MR. PRYOR: Right. QUESTION: Then it goes to say, we telleverybody to the trial court vacate that aspect whichimposed the suspended jail time. Those are two things. We reverse and we tell them to vacate. As to the first, we reverse that aspect, theState of Alabama agrees because they were there arguing inthe Alabama Supreme Court that a real suspended sentencethat meant something could be imposed, and here you'resaying it's not a real sentence because we can never carryit out. So, am I right in thinking it's the second partthat you disagree with and not the first part? MR. PRYOR: We're trying to make sense, as weunderstand it, of -- of the application of the rule ofactual imprisonment. And I will acknowledge Mr. Fried maybe right, and if so, we would welcome that. But our th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC understanding of Argersinger and Scott is we cannotactivate the suspended sentence --QUESTION: I'm not really asking about your -- Ijust want to know if you agree or you disagree with theirpart which says we reverse that aspect of the sentence.MR. PRYOR: No. No, Justice Breyer, I don'tagree with that. And -- and the reason I don't agree withthat is because Mr. Mills said something that I think iscorrect when he said that the Alabama Supreme Court struckonly the suspended sentence and based only on Federal law,and what I contend is a misapprehension of Federal law.But the suspended sentence itself is not a sham. It's adevice to allow the court to impose probation, which is ata minimum then fully enforceable through the same powerthat's available to the -- to any court to enforce anyjudgment, including a mere fine, which Mr. Mills concedesdoes not trigger a right to court-appointed counsel.Now, I wanted to address one of the concernsraised by Justice Souter as to the practicality. Thereare some aspects -- some statistics we know as to thepracticalities that are helpful, but I will admit we don'tknow everything that we need to know. We know that thereare approximately , misdemeanors each year in theState of Alabama. Those are addressed in our reply brief,the yellow brief. We know that approximately , of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC those result in supervised probation. We don't know fromthe administrative office of courts in Alabama how manyresult in unsupervised probation. We also know in Alabama -- this is not addressedin our brief, but I checked it with -- with information inState government -- that between -- there are between, and , attorneys in Alabama who accept court-appointed work. Unfortunately, the fact that we don'tknow is how many of these cases, whether supervised orunsupervised probation and in misdemeanor cases, involveindigent defendants. But I hope that's at least somewhathelpful. QUESTION: Let me ask you one more question. And I -- I don't imagine your statistics show this, but Iwant to pass it up. Out of the , do we know, A, howmany of those were fine-only cases, not suspendedsentences, but fine-only cases, and B, how many of thosewere motor vehicle cases? MR. PRYOR: Were -- were?QUESTION: Were motor vehicle cases because themotor vehicle cases take you out of this problem, Iassume, in fine situations because if the fine isn't paid,the motor vehicle -- I mean, the -- the motor vehicle lawssimply provide a -- a purely civil administrative means of-- of remedying the problem. And if they are a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC substantial part of the , then the -- the fear of whatthis will do, in fact, is somewhat -- the Alabama SupremeCourt's view is -- is somewhat lessened. Do you knowthose numbers?MR. PRYOR: No, I don't. But -- but I do knowthat , lawyers to take -- when we have ,supervised probation and some number in excess of that ofunsupervised probation, still means that it's a dauntingtask. Justice Ginsburg, the point that you raisedabout the cost of counsel not being incurred by moreaffluent defendants I think is relevant from thisstandpoint, when you consider that it is reasonable thenfor the State to preserve its own resources, just as amore affluent defendant would -- would preserve itsresources not to incur the cost of counsel in this kind ofcircumstance. As to the argument that Argersinger wouldrequire the trial judge to inform the defendant that asentence of imprisonment will not be imposed becausecounsel is not being appointed, that is not whatArgersinger or Scott require. Argersinger and Scottmerely deprive the trial court of that remedy uponconviction, but there's no requirement that the defendantbe informed of that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC As to Mr. Duke's argument that -- that there's adistinction made in those decisions between petty andserious offenses, it's -- it's simply not there, and --and this is a misdemeanor case. It's clearly a criminalproceeding where the defendant not only enjoyed a SixthAmendment right to retain counsel, but the record showsthat he clearly understood that right to retain counsel.Thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, GeneralPryor. The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 