 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWATCHTOWER BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, INC., ET AL., Petitioners :: : v. : No. - VILLAGE OF STRATTON, OHIO, ET AL. : : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:PAUL D. POLIDORO, ESQ., Patterson, New York; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.ABRAHAM CANTOR, ESQ., Concord, Ohio; on behalf of theRespondents.DAVID M. GORMLEY, ESQ., Solicitor General, Columbus, Ohio;on behalf of Ohio, et al., as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. POLIDORO, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners ORAL ARGUMENT OFABRAHAM CANTOR, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents ORAL ARGUMENT OFDAVID M. GORMLEY, ESQ.On behalf of Ohio, et al., as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFPAUL D. POLIDORO, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the Petitioners th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, The Watchtower Bible and TractSociety of New York, v. The Village of Stratton, Ohio.Mr. Polidoro.ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. POLIDOROON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. POLIDORO: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court:It's : Saturday morning in the Village ofStratton. Good morning. In light of recent events, I'vemade a special effort to come to your door to speak to youabout what the Prophet Isaiah has referred to as somethingbetter. That's the good news Christ Jesus spoke about,the good news of the Kingdom of God.It is a criminal act to go from door to door inthe Village of Stratton and deliver that message unlessone has first obtained a permit from the village to do so. It is also illegal to go from door to door and hand out aleaflet that says, democracy is wonderful, please votenext week.In drafting a permit scheme designed to addressfraud and privacy that includes those interested in purediscourse, Stratton has eliminated the ability to engage th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in door-to-door, one-on-one political advocacy. As such,we submit the ordinance is overbroad and unconstitutional.QUESTION: I don't see how it has eliminated anychance of a political -- going door to door in a politicaldiscourse if you register with the mayor and you can't beturned down if you fill out that form. You can go door todoor, except where there's a no-trespassing sign.MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we are not suggestingat all that a resident cannot post a no-trespassing signand keep all away from their door. However, in order toget the right to go to that door, one must go to themayor, give his name, give a brief description of thecause they want to speak about, as well as theirassociation or affiliation.We believe that this Court in McIntyre saidthere's an interest in having anonymous works enter themarketplace of ideas, and that unquestionably outweighsany interest in requiring disclosure as a precondition toentry.QUESTION: Well, do you focus on the right ofanonymity, or the right of unrestricted speech, as of thetime you get to the door, or when you go to the mayor'soffice, because our most recent cases talk about going tothe door, and that's where your brief focuses on.It seems to me that what you've begun with, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's also troubling to me, is that you have to make thedisclosure to the mayor as well, so I take it those aretwo different parts of your case.MR. POLIDORO: Correct, Justice Kennedy.QUESTION: But you emphasize only the latter,really, in your briefs. Are the records that the mayorkeeps, are they open to the public?MR. POLIDORO: They are, absolutely, indeed,Your Honor. Under Ohio State law those records are opento the public, so anyone would be able to go to look atthe record, which would include the name, your message,and your associations.QUESTION: So you would have no objection tothis statute if you didn't have to give your name?MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we --QUESTION: It's perfectly okay to say, you can'ttalk to anybody without getting a permit, so long as youdon't have to give your name when you get the permit?MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we believe the nameis the constitutional infirmity in deed.QUESTION: That's the only problem, so if thiswere revised somehow so that all you had to give was areference, maybe somebody in the community who would vouchfor the integrity of these Jehovah's Witnesses, that wouldthen be okay, because they wouldn't have to -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor --QUESTION: The only problem is if they have togive their name. You see, I would have thought you wouldhave objected to the necessity of going to the mayor andsaying, please, Mr. Mayor, can I talk to your citizensgoing house-to-house, but that's not your problem. Youronly problem is that you have to disclose your identity.MR. POLIDORO: No, Your Honor. We do notbelieve that anyone needs to go to the Government forpermission to speak to their neighbor about any message,most importantly, a message --QUESTION: I think that's the strongest part ofyour case.MR. POLIDORO: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: But you call them neighbors, but Itake it in many cases they're simply strangers who comeinto town.MR. POLIDORO: Well, actually, Your Honor, inthis circumstance the Village of Wellsville, which is aneighboring village, has assumed responsibility forpreaching door to door in the Village of Stratton, andmany individuals are, in fact, known to each other, andthat's common in most areas of this country. We don'tbelieve that one is required to go to the Government toget permission to speak to a private resident owner when th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the power belongs to that private resident owner to keepall away from their door if that owner so chooses.QUESTION: Can you tell me why that is? I agreethat at some level it seems contrary to our traditions,but if we can focus just on going to the mayor's office,it seems to me that one of the strongest parts of yourcase is that you have to identify your cause. That seemsproblematic to me. Is that part of your case, and if so,what is the root constitutional principle that's violatedthere?MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, Jehovah's Witnesseshave a long historical memory as to what they've sufferedat the hands of municipalities --QUESTION: Well --MR. POLIDORO: -- purely to go door to door tospeak the good news. In this instance, the village iscompelling disclosure of name, cause, and associationalinformation.QUESTION: What's wrong with identifying thecause?MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we believe that underthis Court's holding there are some individuals who do notwant to identify their cause. It opens them up, asMcIntyre said, to official retaliation, to economicretaliation, to social ostracism, and perhaps, as McIntyre th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC said, they just don't want to disclose more of theirprivacy than they have to.We don't believe that on this record the villagehas shown a necessity to so incumber pure discourse thatis not the source of harm. There's no allegation in thiscase that pure religious speech, or pure political speech,cause the harm that the village seeks to protect itsresidents against.QUESTION: But I take it your argument only goesto the political speech, because as I understand it,Jehovah's Witnesses do not object to identifyingthemselves, and your concern is with the overbreadth thatgoes into the political sphere, is that correct?MR. POLIDORO: That is absolutely correct,Justice Souter. Jehovah's Witnesses will, indeed,identify themselves at the door, but it's their personaldecision to do so.QUESTION: And yet the question that you phrasesays that this permit, which contains one's name, now,when we turn to the village's brief, they say, no, itdoesn't. The permit doesn't require any names. You haveto have your name at the mayor's office, the mayor has toaccept all-comers, as long as you're not fraudulent. There's no discretion that is what infected the oldprohibitions against the Jehovah Witnesses' speech, so th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC here anybody can go door to door. The name is at themayor's office. The name doesn't have to be disclosed tothe homeowner.Now, you said in your brief the name has to bedisclosed to the homeowner. They say in their brief, no,it doesn't, so which one is right?MR. POLIDORO: Justice Ginsburg, if I might, atthe joint appendix on page a there's a copy of theblank permit and it says, permit to canvass, to solicit,et cetera, and it says, in accordance with the relevantprovision of the statute, the mayor of the Village ofStratton, Ohio, has issued to the above applicant apermit, the above applicant a permit, so we believe on theplain language of the permit, the name is, indeed,disclosed.QUESTION: Did you ever apply for a permit?MR. POLIDORO: We never did, Chief Justice Rehnquist.QUESTION: So you don't know, as a matter ofpractical fact, how that would work out?MR. POLIDORO: That's correct, with respect toJehovah's Witnesses.QUESTION: It might be a number, applicantnumber .MR. POLIDORO: There's no showing, Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Souter, in the ordinance that there's any sort ofnumbering scheme.QUESTION: Well, no, there's no -- that's thetrouble, I think, with the argument. There is no showing,but I suppose the exhibit is consistent with a numberingas well as a naming system on the permit card.MR. POLIDORO: But Justice Souter, I believe theexhibit would be inconsistent with the concession of thevillage that name disclosure is, in fact, required at thedoor. At page of their brief, and page to oftheir brief, they do say that name identity is compelledto be disclosed by a resident or by a police officer infurther of his official business.QUESTION: They said about five times in theirbrief that the permit that must be shown to the policeofficer or the homeowner does not have a name on it --does not have a name on it. Now, it's very confusing, butthis -- I looked at this and said, well, maybe this is thebottom -- you have the application, then, you know, youtear off the bottom, and this is the bottom, and theapplicant is above, but the permit that you put in yourpocket doesn't have that name.If that's the case, then why isn't this casejust like the Buckley case, where this Court said, thebadge doesn't have to have the name on it, but we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC recognize that the Colorado law also says that with everyset of petitions the circulator has to have an affidavit,and that affidavit is filed with the petition, so there isan official record of the name and the address of thecirculator. Why isn't this just the same thing?MR. POLIDORO: It's different for two reasons,Justice Ginsburg. First, Buckley dealt with the mechanicsof the electoral process, and clearly that's a compellinggovernmental interest to ensure there's no corruption inthat process. The circulator in Buckley wanted to makeherself part of that process. The rules of that game arethat you submit your name when you submit the affidavits. We have something different here indeed. We have justpure speech unrelated to the mechanics of the electoralprocess. The interesting --QUESTION: I thought you were saying it onlyapplied to those who were engaged in the political -- Ithought that was the point of your overbreadth objection.MR. POLIDORO: I think there's a distinction,Justice Souter, to just pure speech, the dissemination ofinformation and ideas, and speech that in some wayinvolves the mechanics of the electoral process. You'regoing to do something with the information that you obtainfrom that householder, and then submit yourself to anarea, an arena that the Government has a right to have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC some play in. We don't submit that the Government doeshave a right in one-on-one intimate conversation aboutreligion or politics, to have a play there.QUESTION: But one of your examples was thatdoor to door solicitation of signatures for an initiativeto put on the ballot, and that's exactly what was involvedin the Buckley case.MR. POLIDORO: Yes, Justice Ginsburg, but thatdisclosure took place after the one-on-one disseminationof information was done. If that individual did not wantto submit those affidavits, she could have maintained heranonymity. The question is, when can the Governmentcompel you --QUESTION: She could not have been a circulator,then, because a condition of being a circulator -- shecould not have submitted her petition, because to submit her petition she has to have this affidavit, and I don'tsee -- I really can't see any difference in consequencewhether the official form is made before or made after. The point is that the name and address is in an officialrecord.MR. POLIDORO: Because of the compellinggovernmental interest that's involved, Justice Ginsburg,and that's the distinction. When we have one-on-one --QUESTION: That doesn't handle your example. I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean, why don't you just say it was a bad example? Youshouldn't have used the example. It's not worth yourtime. You shouldn't have used the example of a petitionercirculator. You are concerned about people who just wantto come up and say, I want to talk to you about why youshould vote for Smith.MR. POLIDORO: That's correct, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: Is that the case?MR. POLIDORO: It is, indeed, the case.QUESTION: Is it the case that your clientsdon't ask for any money, not a penny, and they don't sellBibles, and they're not selling anything, all that they dois say, I want to talk to you about religion? They don'task for any --MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, the record isabsolutely clear, in the Village of Stratton, Jehovah'sWitnesses did not ask for money. In other jurisdictionsthe record is equally clear that sometimes they willmention a voluntary donation arrangement. However, tomake our interest absolutely clear, what we're involvedwith in Stratton, we did not mention the voluntarydonation arrangement. We are not seeking a solicitationof funds. We're merely seeking to talk to people aboutthe Bible.Now, Justice Ginsburg -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Don't you hand out the Watchtower,too?MR. POLIDORO: We do, Your Honor, on a no-costbasis if someone's interested in reading it. We wouldsend that out.QUESTION: So you said just -- you brieflymentioned -- because you know, I've had many fineconversations with Jehovah's Witnesses. It's fine. ButI've never noticed any of them objecting to anything aboutgiving their name. I mean, is this a real issue here,that for some reason this particular group objects togiving their name? What's the situation?MR. POLIDORO: No, Your Honor, Jehovah'sWitnesses have no objection to giving their name. Theobjection to giving their name comes in the realm ofanonymous political discourse. Jehovah's Witnesses havefelt that this ordinance, which is designed to regulatebusiness transactions, need not have reached purereligious speech, need not have reached pure politicalspeech.QUESTION: But you would say that withoutreference to the name. Isn't your position that you don'thave to go to the mayor and ask for permission to talk toa neighbor about something that's interesting?MR. POLIDORO: That's correct, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC That's quite correct.QUESTION: Is that here in front of us? I mean,what I'm having a hard time getting our hands on is, itlooks as if a group of people who really don't mind givingtheir name are objecting to the name of a different groupof people who might not, and those might be people whomight want to say, vote for Smith, and what's worrying meabout deciding this case in the context which is obviousfrom the briefs is, that might have considerable legalimplications for the question of whether you can requiredisclosure of campaign contributions, which is a totallydifferent issue, but would seem legally related, so I'dappreciate those three things that I've mentioned -- yousee what I'm -- what the blur is in my mind, and I'dappreciate your views on that.MR. POLIDORO: Justice Breyer, it has been ourcontention that the ordinance was drafted in an overbroadmanner, meaning reaching speech that was not the source ofharm, including our religious speech, but also includingpure political speech. When we put forth the interest ofthose interested in anonymous political discourse, thatwas under this Court's overbreadth doctrine, and we don'tbelieve that the Court has to wait until a violation takesplace to remove this potential weapon, some sort of weaponfrom the hands of the village. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Of course, to do that we would justsay, you can't require the names to be disclosed. We canstill require you to check in with the mayor before you godoor to door.MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we don't see how --QUESTION: Have you photograph taken, maybe, youknow. You don't have to give a name, but we'll have yourphotograph on file just in case. That's okay, then,right?MR. POLIDORO: No, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: That's what you want us to do?MR. POLIDORO: No, not at all. We don'tbelieve --QUESTION: I didn't think so.MR. POLIDORO: We don't believe that this Courtshould sanction a regulation of a Government that requiresone citizen to get a license to speak to another citizenat that citizen's home.QUESTION: Okay, but the basis -- as Iunderstand the nub of your argument is -- goes back toyour answer to Justice Ginsburg, and that is -- indistinguishing Buckley, and I think what you were sayingwas, in Buckley the Government had an interest because ithad an interest in checking the veracity of theendorsement solicitation, the petition solicitation th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC process, are these real people, go to the person who askedand check, whereas here, if we're not talking about thesolicitation of money and of signatures in a politicalsphere, there's nothing for the Government to verify, andtherefore there is no interest here, whereas there was aninterest in Buckley, and that's the distinction. Is -- amI --MR. POLIDORO: Precisely.QUESTION: -- stating your argument correctly?MR. POLIDORO: Precisely, Justice Souter.QUESTION: Okay.MR. POLIDORO: Precisely.QUESTION: The brief didn't mention -- you tookBuckley as being percent in your favor, and that'swhat surprised me, is that Buckley made the verydistinction that you say is inappropriate here, that is,face-to-face encounter, you don't have to have your name,but back in an official's office, you do.MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, I think that Buckleyfollowed on language in Your Honor's portion of theopinion in McIntyre, where you spoke to limited -- theremight be larger circumstances where identification mightbe required, and in the electoral process, the mechanicsof how an election works, those are larger purposes.We don't think those larger purposes are present th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC in one-on-one conversations --QUESTION: You have in your case -- most of theJehovah's Witnesses cases dealt with that official who wasexercising discretion to keep out the Witnesses butletting in the Republicans, and that was that line ofcases. Then we have the, what I call the Village Greenline of cases. McIntyre would fit in that category.But is there any precedent for saying that ifyou want to go into private homes in this town, we want toknow who you are, and -- but anybody, that applies toanybody, and we will give the permit to anybody.MR. POLIDORO: Justice Ginsburg, the onlyprecedent that I'm aware of with respect to identificationschemes comes from the dicta in Cantwell and Martin thatspeaks about a municipality, a municipality's interest inknowing strangers in the community when connected with thesolicitation of funds. I don't believe there's any --QUESTION: Don't you think that the practicearound the country of various towns and cities is torequire permits for people to go door to door inresidential areas? I think I even live in a communitythat probably does that. The concern may stem from aconcern about preventing burglaries and unfortunateincidents in the area, and they want to identify thepeople who are going door to door. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. POLIDORO: Justice O'Connor, my experienceis quite to the opposite, that after the battles betweenJehovah's Witnesses and the municipalities in the thirtiesand forties, municipalities have stopped attempting toregulate Jehovah's Witnesses by forcing them to get apermit to go from door to door. This is an experiencethat we're having in the past few years, that more andmore municipalities are now requiring not only a permitbut, as Justice Scalia touched on, finger-printing.QUESTION: Well, there was a story in the paperjust last week here about the double murder up atDartmouth, how the kids who did it went from house tohouse purporting to be taking a survey, and then what theywere actually doing was casing the houses for robbery, sothat's certainly something that a municipality can takeinto consideration, isn't it?MR. POLIDORO: Chief Justice Rehnquist, we thinkit's implausible to think that someone intent oncommitting a violent crime would stop at the city hall toget a permit or in any way be deterred, and in thecircumstance Your Honor posits of someone just going doorto door and observing, or taking notes, the ordinance inthis instance doesn't prevent that. The only time theordinance comes into play is --QUESTION: But it does give a record of who it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was, which would probably deter someone.QUESTION: I think you're wrong when you said,only if they speak, that the mayor requires anybody whorings door to door. That was my understanding of thisordinance. Anybody who rings door to door has to sign upin the mayor's office.MR. POLIDORO: No, Chief Justice -- no, JusticeGinsburg, I believe it's anyone who wants to go door todoor to discuss a cause, and that's the language of theordinance. It's the --QUESTION: Now, suppose --QUESTION: It goes broader than that. It wouldapply if you were leaving a leaflet saying, I repairroofs, or I do painting, and I'm just going to leave it atthe door. It obviously covers all of that without sayinga thing.MR. POLIDORO: Which is a speech interest,Justice O'Connor. That is a speech interest.QUESTION: But suppose I am concerned that themayor, in my view, or the Government has no right todemand previous registration or to give his consent beforeI go to my neighbors to talk about neighborhood problems,or whatever. What case do I put down when I write theopinion to that effect for --MR. POLIDORO: Excuse me, Justice Kennedy, I -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What's your best case, or best --what are your best cases for the proposition that it issimply unconstitutional for the Government to require apermit before you go door to door to talk about a cause? What are your best cases?MR. POLIDORO: Martin, predicated on Lovell,predicated on Schneider. There are interests that theGovernment may have to interpose themselves into thatprocess, Your Honor, but there has to be some sort of realsubstantial basis. We think the equity lies with --QUESTION: Most of those cases -- I thinkthey're the closest, too, but they're not right on point,because they were concerned with the discretion --MR. POLIDORO: Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: -- that the official had --MR. POLIDORO: -- there is discretion in thisinstance. If we look at the ordinance --QUESTION: And also may I say there's languagein those cases that suggests that it would be -- you readit yourself, this stranger has to identify himself orherself. That runs in those cases as well, but those wereall cases where the danger was the official who was goingto pick and choose, and it was wide-open discretion.MR. POLIDORO: If I might, Justice Ginsburg andJustice Kennedy, when we look at the ordinance on appendix th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a, and it's section .(b)), it says that the mayorcan ask for such other information --QUESTION: a of the petition?MR. POLIDORO: Of -- I'm sorry, it's our brieffor petitioners, Chief Justice Rehnquist, page a, section(b)(), such other information concerning the registrantand its business or purpose as may be reasonably necessaryto accurately describe the nature of the privilege desire.Now, in this instance --QUESTION: That has been taken out of the case.MR. POLIDORO: No. No, Justice --QUESTION: I thought that the only thing thatthe mayor asked -- isn't -- wasn't there something in thedistrict court opinion that cut that back?MR. POLIDORO: No, Your Honor. That is stillvery much in the case, and very much part of the case. The only thing the district court cut out was thereference to Jehovah's Witnesses in the administrativepaperwork. The Court also said that it was an onerousrequirement to make individuals list all the addresses onewanted to visit, and said the village could cure that.QUESTION: But I thought the village made aconcession. It says, all we're going to ask is the name. Didn't the village make that concession in some court?MR. POLIDORO: No, Your Honor, not at all. This th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC provision --QUESTION: I'll ask the village if they did,because I remember something that said we're going to askonly for the name and the address.MR. POLIDORO: No, it --QUESTION: Even if that's so, I mean, where aslight state of confusion is, I thought this case nowsounds very theoretical. I thought it would have to dowith requiring your name on a permit.Now I get into it, and I discover we don't knowif they require the name on a permit. Then I thought,well it had to do with requiring the name when you go tothe city hall, and now I see there's a problem herebecause your group doesn't mind, but you're trying to talkthrough somebody else. Then I thought, well, maybe itrequires a matter of discretion at the city hall, but thenI get a record which is forcing me to decide this on theassumption, all you do is go to city hall, and they giveit to you automatically. Then I thought it had to do withfraud, but there's no money.So now I think it has to do with somebody whogoes there and asks for a permit, which he getsautomatically, and what's the objection to that? Youdon't want to do it, and what's to be said on the otherside, not much -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)QUESTION: -- but I guess they'll say, well,here at least he'll read the rules. At least he'll seethat there are some people who don't want anysolicitation, and we can be sure that that will happen, soit looks like there's something on the one side and Idon't know how much on the other.QUESTION: Mr. Cantor, I'm confused here. Ithought that you object to this even if the name doesn'thave to be disclosed, and even if there is not excessivediscretion with the mayor.MR. POLIDORO: Exactly, yes.QUESTION: Is that your objection, that you donot want to have to go to city hall in order to ringdoorbells --MR. POLIDORO: Precisely, Justice Scalia.QUESTION: -- no matter what?MR. POLIDORO: Precisely.QUESTION: They want you there because they knowat least you'll find out which homeowners don't wantpeople around, and you'll read what the rules are, allright. Is that good enough?MR. POLIDORO: Justice Breyer, we have notcontested that provision of the ordinance, section .,which allows a homeowner to post a no-solicitation sign th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and then go to the village and say, I want this group andnot this group, has not been contested.QUESTION: But your position is, of course, thatGovernments always want to know what it's people arethinking, but they don't have any right to find out.MR. POLIDORO: Well, that's an expression of theresidents' interest in who they want. It's not theGovernment making the decision for them.Now, with respect to the --QUESTION: I'm talking about your clients.MR. POLIDORO: Your Honor, we --QUESTION: Take it. Take it. It's good.(Laughter.)MR. POLIDORO: I think that's an appropriatepoint Chief Justice Rehnquist asked. If I may reserve thebalance of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Polidoro.MR. POLIDORO: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Cantor, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ABRAHAM CANTORON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. CANTOR: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Stratton is exercising its police power when itseeks to protect the privacy of its residents, when it th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC seeks to deter crime. The no canvassing or soliciting onprivate property ordinance simply requires preregistrationand the carrying of a permit during the course of thedoor-to-door activity.QUESTION: Do you know any other case of oursthat has even involved an ordinance of this breadth, thatinvolves solicitation, not asking for money, not sellinggoods, but even, you know, I want to talk about JesusChrist, or I want to talk about protecting theenvironment? Is there -- have we had a case like that?MR. CANTOR: There is --QUESTION: The mere fact that -- I'm familiarwith something like -- maybe they've become current now,but the mere fact that I don't even know of such cases,over two centuries, makes me --QUESTION: You haven't been around that long.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I -- do you know of any?MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, there's no holding bythis Court that identifies this --QUESTION: Never mind a holding, a case. A casein this Court involving -- the breadth of this thing isnovel to me.MR. CANTOR: There is no case that identifiesthe breadth of this case, but perhaps that might be part th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the beauty, beauty in the sense that it is content-neutral, and that is --QUESTION: You think it's a beautiful idea thatI have to ask the Government for permission before I godown the block, where I don't know all of the people, Iwave to them but I don't really know them, I say, I wantto talk to you because I'm concerned about the garbagepick-up, because I'm concerned about our Congressman,whatever. I have to ask the Government before I can dothat?MR. CANTOR: No, Your Honor --QUESTION: It's astounding.MR. CANTOR: No, Your Honor. What we aretalking about is canvassers, hawkers, and those who aregoing door to door for a cause.QUESTION: Well, how about trick-or-treaters? Do they have to go get a permit?(Laughter.)MR. CANTOR: Interesting --QUESTION: Under this ordinance it looks likeit, doesn't it?MR. CANTOR: Your Honor --QUESTION: And they're soliciting, too.(Laughter.)QUESTION: They are. Does it cover them? I'm th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC serious.MR. CANTOR: The answer is no, and --QUESTION: Why not? Literally it does.MR. CANTOR: The track --QUESTION: You may not enforce it, but itliterally covers them, doesn't it?MR. CANTOR: That hypothetical was raised by thetrial court judge, Your Honor, and it was answered byMr. Bruzzese to the negative, and the reason why it wasanswered to the negative is that these people are not --who are going door to door are not seeking to communicate,they are begging candy, and therefore --QUESTION: That's Girl Scouts.MR. CANTOR: Yes, Girl Scouts would be covered.QUESTION: Or Christmas carollers?MR. CANTOR: Sale -- sale would constituteconduct that would be require --QUESTION: Or how about borrowing --QUESTION: This is really --QUESTION: -- a cup of sugar from your neighbor? Do I have to get a permit to go borrow a cup of sugar frommy neighbor?MR. CANTOR: No, Your Honor, I don't believe --QUESTION: This is really a novel argument. You're saying this thing is okay, this ordinance is okay th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because it addresses only communication.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Anything else is okay. It's onlycommunication that we're concerned about.MR. CANTOR: The limiting language, Your Honor,deals with canvassing and hawking of the area.QUESTION: Okay, go back to Justice Kennedy'sexample that started all of this. The neighbor wants togo up and down the street because he doesn't think thegarbage collection is very good. That's a cause. He'sgot to register, right?MR. CANTOR: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why?MR. CANTOR: Because it is not the type of causethat the communication is directed at.QUESTION: Well, who knows? I mean, where's therestricted definition of cause?MR. CANTOR: Within the beginning of theordinance.QUESTION: And what's the language that you relyon?All right, you're on page what?MR. CANTOR: I'm looking at section .. Itis in the respondent's brief, page a.QUESTION: a, okay. Okay, now tell me where th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're reading from, and let's go --MR. CANTOR: No canvasser, solicitor, peddlar,hawker, itinerant merchant, or transient vendor ofmerchandise or services who is described in . of thischapter, and who intends to go in or upon privateproperty, or a private resident of the village, for anyother purposes described in ., shall go in or upon suchprivate property or residence without first registering.QUESTION: Okay. Well, in ., where does thedefinition exclude people with a cause, like JusticeKennedy's neighbor who wants the garbage picked up?QUESTION: I mean, unless you're interpretingcanvasser very literally, in which case it wouldn'tinclude Jehovah's Witnesses -- why are Jehovah's Witnessescovered? Are they canvassers, solicitors, peddlers,hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient vendors ofmerchandise or services? They're none of those, are they?MR. CANTOR: The district court determined thatthey were canvassers.QUESTION: They were canvassers. So you have avery broad definition of canvassers, if it includesJehovah's Witnesses. I would have thought a canvasser wassomebody who said, I'm doing a survey, I'm canvassingpublic opinion, or something like that, but if it includesJehovah's Witnesses, it certainly includes the, you know, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the garbage canvasser, so --QUESTION: The dictionary says canvasser is aperson who's looking for a vote. It doesn't include themat all, at least the dictionary definition wouldn't, butyou've -- it's conceded that the city does -- what's thepurpose? That is, what -- your brief is all about fraud,but fraud seemed to have to do with money, and theordinance seems to have to do with money. I haven't readanything in your brief that says what the purpose is forrequiring these people who are not interested in money,not interested in selling, not even interested in votes,to go the city hall and register. What's the city'spurpose?MR. CANTOR: The city's purpose is to preventannoyance of the property owner. Chief Justice Rehnquistmentioned that there was a no-trespassing provision withinthe ordinance. There is also a no-solicitation -- there'sa no-trespassing portion in the ordinance. There's a no-solicitation portion in the ordinance. That portionallows a registrant who lives within the community and whohas private property to register with the community andindicate they do not want to be solicited, they don't wantto be canvassed.QUESTION: That's not challenged, as Iunderstand it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CANTOR: That is correct, Your Honor, thatis not challenged.QUESTION: All right, so given that, what's thepurpose of the registration?MR. CANTOR: The purpose is to prevent -- thepurpose of the registration, the initial registration isto identify who in the community is going door to door.QUESTION: Because?MR. CANTOR: Because of two factors, the privacyof the person who is --QUESTION: How does it work? Spell it out. Imean, how does it work? I mean, what's the connectionbetween the purpose and the result, which is you have tocome to the mayor and get a permit? It's not obvious tome. Maybe I'm being dim, but I don't see it. I see itwith asking for money. You want to know who's asking formoney so if they lie, you find out later, but wherethey're just interested in a cause, spell it out, if youcan, please, for me.MR. CANTOR: In Martin v. Struthers, Your Honor,in footnote , this Court relied upon the utilization of abook as well as an FBI bulletin to determine that thosewho go door to door may be doing so as a guise. The SixthCircuit Court of Appeals identified that you cannotdetermine who is going door to door with regard to the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC criminality aspect of it, and therefore it would notsuffice to simply say that just because you are having aconcern over money or sales, that that's enough. You cango door to door for a purpose such as spreading the new,giving additional information. That can be the outward,the outward point of view, but in reality it could besomething very different.QUESTION: It could be, and I suppose you couldsay everybody who gets up on a soapbox may provoke a riot,but you know, this seems to me one of the normal risks oflife. It doesn't let the Government go around making it aprivilege to go -- I love the last provision of theordinance -- what is it, .(b)() says that the mayorcan demand such other information concerning theregistrant and its business or purpose as may bereasonably necessary to accurately describe the nature ofthe privilege desired, the privilege of going about topersuade your fellow citizens about one thing or another. I just can't understand that.QUESTION: That was the provision that I thoughtwas out of it because of the concession that the citymade. If I'm wrong on that --MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, the provision remains. The provision is a catch-all to determine -- make surethat the identifying information is present, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC identification of the individual as well as the cause.QUESTION: Wasn't there some point when themayor said, all I'm going to ask is the name and theaddress?MR. CANTOR: The first five sections of thatsubsection give the information. That information isconsistent with this Court's suggestion in Martin v.Struthers at footnote as well as Cantwell.The purpose has also been discussed in thecontext, Your Honor, of how it would benefit thecommunity. There was testimony at the time of trial fromHelen MacMurray, chief of the public -- chief of theConsumer Affairs Section of the Iowa Attorney General'sOffice, and she determined that legislation of this typeis helpful because it deters individuals who have animproper motive from signing up and going door to door.QUESTION: Well, footnote of Martin has to dowith solicitation of funds.MR. CANTOR: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: And your ordinance is much broaderthan that.MR. CANTOR: That's correct, Your Honor. There -- it is indistinguishable to determine who wasgoing door to door. The -- Justice O'Connor had indicateda situation where people were claiming they were going th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC door to door prior to the commission of a murder. Theywere going for a reason that was --QUESTION: No. No. No, the -- footnote ofMartin v. Struthers --MR. CANTOR: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: -- you cited when we were talkingabout whether or not you can at least give your name, saidthis is necessary for those who solicit funds, but yourordinance goes much -- sweeps much more widely than thesolicitation of funds, so footnote doesn't support theordinance that is now before us.MR. CANTOR: I'm going to suggest to Your Honorthat it does, and the reason that it does is because itrequires identification information, and thatidentification information is necessary regardless ofwhether someone is going to solicit funds, or whether ornot he is going to go door to door for some other purpose,as a pretext.QUESTION: Well, what about using the telephone?I -- you know, that's a common ploy of people who want tocommit a crime. You know, my car broke down, can I usethe telephone. Is there a risk of that? Of course. Ofcourse there's a risk. So should you require everybodywho rings a doorbell to get finger-printed at city hallbefore you can ring a doorbell? That minor risk of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC crime occurring is enough to require everybody who wantsto ring a doorbell to register at city hall? Of course itisn't.MR. CANTOR: The determination of the nature andthe amount of risk is perhaps highlighted by MacMurray'stestimony. She found that legislation of this nature hadpreviously been suggested in communities where disastershad occurred. It was her opinion that, as a result ofthis type of legislation, that potential fraudulenttransactors decided to not register within the communityand would bypass it.In addition, it was an aid to law enforcement inthe event that there was, in fact, some type ofcriminality, and finally, it was an aid to the elderly,and it was an aid to the elderly because it gave them abright line to determine whether or not the individualbefore them was one that was properly registered. Inotherwise, it heightened the awareness of the propriety ofthe individual at the door.Both the district court as well as the SixthCircuit Court of Appeals determined that this was content-neutral legislation, that it applied to the parties inthis case --QUESTION: Well, McIntyre suggests that ananonymity requirement makes it content-based. What are we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC to do about that?MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, the issue in -- at theregistration aspect deals with that we are not at thepoint of persuasion. McIntyre was a automatic inclusureof information when the reader took the document and wasattempted to be persuaded.The pre-registration format is probably closerto Buckley, where that is the other end of the book end,where this is not at the point of persuasion. Buckley isafter the persuasion occurs, so we would suggest to youthat it is appropriate to register in advance of goingdoor to door to prove the purpose of the ordinance.QUESTION: Well, the disclosure means that itcertainly is not anonymous. How do we resolve the disputeon what the permit has to contain, whether it contains thename or not?MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, I would suggest thatyou would resolve it based on the record. The recordidentifies the permit. The record identifies anidentification of that permit, which is the testimony ofthe village's mayor, and it is found at page of thejoint appendix. That is the only information concerningthe identification of the permit.QUESTION: Well, we're not supposed to beresolving these back-door questions. In the first th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instance you can't tell from that form whether it has anapplicant's name or a number or nothing.MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, this case was tried onthe registration requirement. This, we would suggest toyou, is a belated attempt on the issue of the content ofthe permit to bring it before the Court.QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: You mean, it originally was that theyjust didn't want to register, anonymous or not?MR. CANTOR: No, Your Honor. The attack wasalways on the registration issue. The attack was alwaysto determine whether or not they were included within thephraseology --QUESTION: Right. Right.MR. CANTOR: -- of the language.QUESTION: Well, the question we took refers todisplay upon demand.MR. CANTOR: The permit --QUESTION: We've not limited the case to that.MR. CANTOR: The display, there is a display ofthe permit required on demand.QUESTION: One of the things in this record thatyou did delete, at one time you gave the homeowners achoice specifically of Jehovah Witnesses in or out, but --MR. CANTOR: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And that, now you've deleted that,but could the village say to the homeowner, it's yourchoice, you tell us who you want and you don't want, andwe'll enforce that, so if you don't want the JehovahWitnesses you don't have to have them, you don't want theDemocrats you don't have to have them? Would that bepermissible for the village to do to facilitate thehomeowner's choice?MR. CANTOR: The village would be acting as abulletin board. It would be the homeowner, the privateresident would be making a determination as to who wouldbe making the content, so in that type of a context --QUESTION: And the village could enforce thatprivate discrimination?MR. CANTOR: Your Honor, there is no requirementthat anyone decide that anyone allow someone else to comeinto their home whether for a good or a bad purpose. Theindividual has the right to exclude even valid ideas fromtheir home place. It is the privacy issue here that weare suggesting --QUESTION: Does the State -- when the Stateassists that private choice -- we're talking aboutlimitations on the State, not on the homeowner.MR. CANTOR: Well, we're only assisting -- theprior cases that this Court has considered deals with the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government being some type of a censor or a limiter of thespeech that is going.Stratton doesn't do that. Instead, it says,everyone's going to come to your door unless you registerto indicate no solicitation. At that point in time, theidentification of who can come to the door is identifiedby the resident of that dwelling. That information isprovided to the person who is going door to door not to goto this particular place if you fall within the framework.QUESTION: Suppose the homeowner said, onlyCaucasian solicitors?MR. CANTOR: No, I believe that that would beinvalid on its face. The -- it would not be differentfrom something in a title search situation, where therewould be something, a remnant from the forties.QUESTION: How is that any different from noJehovah Witnesses?MR. CANTOR: Because the issue there is thatthis is a speech that is not -- that they do not wish toaccept.QUESTION: That's very nice. I don't know. Idon't know. We have general trespass laws, and I supposeif somebody doesn't want a Jehovah's Witness to trespassand is perfectly willing to let everybody else trespass, Iguess the State might enforce that. I don't know. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. CANTOR: Well, the issue here, Your Honor,is dealing with whether or not this is a consensualintrusion. If it's with consent, then there is notrespass.With regard to no solicitation, it should bereminded that the record below would indicated that theJehovah Witnesses do not consider themselves assolicitors, and therefore would not abide by a nosolicitation sign, and that -- they, however, would abideby a no trespassing sign.QUESTION: I take it there are many gated, so-called private communities where the solicitor can nevergo in at all. I don't know, maybe that -- I assume that'sthe way they work. I'm not sure.MR. CANTOR: In the Village of Stratton --QUESTION: And in a sense, I guess you're justtrying to give your residents the protection that peoplehave when they live in a closed-in place.MR. CANTOR: That would be appropriate tocompare it to.QUESTION: Although I don't -- I haven't seenany cases. That would be like Marsh v. Alabama, perhaps.MR. CANTOR: Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Cantor.We'll hear from you, Mr. Gormley. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID M. GORMLEYON BEHALF OF OHIO, ET AL., AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTSMR. GORMLEY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The ordinance in this case differs from thestatute in McIntyre in two critical ways. First, itapplies only when someone goes onto the private propertyof a village resident. Of course, in McIntyre, that Ohiostatute required Mrs. McIntyre to put her name on a pieceof paper wherever she wanted to distribute it, on a publicsidewalk, even in her own home, outside a polling place,anywhere. This ordinance is much more narrow. It onlyapplies when the speaker wants to go onto someone else'sprivate property.QUESTION: Not necessarily. I mean, you'reenvisioning little cottages with a pathway up to the door. Don't you have anybody who's in an apartment building,where the Jehovah's Witness knocks on the door? He's noton that person's private property. He just knocks on thedoor.MR. GORMLEY: But Your Honor, the ordinance --QUESTION: Or maybe another house, that theydon't have a setback restriction, the door is right, youknow, right on the public sidewalks, knocks on the door. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. GORMLEY: But the point is, Your Honor, theordinance is designed to protect the concerns that villageresidents have, no matter how much space is between themand a sidewalk.QUESTION: That's a different point, but I mean,I don't think you can say that the difference is that thisinvolves only speech that occurs on private property, notnecessarily. Not necessarily.MR. GORMLEY: Nonetheless, Your Honor, the pointwould be that when someone knocks on a door, no matter howfar away they are from a sidewalk or a street, there isconcern on the part of the resident that this often astranger, certainly an uninvited person, is here on myproperty, perhaps just a few inches away from a publicway, but nonetheless coming to my home, perhaps asking toactually enter my home, and I think the village isentitled to say, we're concerned about that kind ofactivity.QUESTION: Oh, you're concerned about people whowere even not concerned about it. I mean, that's theproblem. Those people that are concerned can put up asign that says, no solicitors, but the village is sayingeven those people who welcome Jehovah Witnesses, they'resitting their lonely, they would love to talk to somebodyabout anything -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.)QUESTION: -- and these people still have to goregister with the mayor to get the privilege of ringingtheir doorbell.MR. GORMLEY: But Your Honor, that's nodifferent than the Frisby case decided by this Court years ago. It may well be that some people are notconcerned about picketing outside a home. Nonetheless,the Court upheld an ordinance there that was content-neutral and so described by the Court, and said a village,a city was entitled to enforce it. The same is true --QUESTION: Well, we have always said thatpicketing is an activity which is focused, it's constant,it repeats a message over a long period of time, andthat's simply different from a single encounter, which iswhat you prevent.MR. GORMLEY: Nonetheless, I think in bothsituations, Your Honor, the Government is rightlyconcerned about an activity that causes some publicproblem. In the one case, certainly annoyance of acontinuous nature, in the other, natural fear on the partof people when some uninvited person shows up on theirproperty, and --QUESTION: But that is met, as has already beenpointed out, by the opportunity to put up a no- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC trespassing, no solicitor sign.MR. GORMLEY: It addresses --QUESTION: Why does the ordinance have to domore?MR. GORMLEY: Sure, well, certainly notrespassing signs address some of the problem, but thoseoften provide after-the-fact remedies, if someone actuallyinvades the space you can prosecute, but by then you maywell not be able to find the person any more, and evenwith the no-solicitation registration form that thepetitioners have not challenged, that does not protect theperson who, for whatever reason, chooses not to put upsuch a sign.Perhaps people want to be visited by solicitorsonce they've registered and, in fact, it may wellencourage some people who would otherwise put up a no-solicitation sign on their property to take that down,because they now have confidence in this village thatthese people are registered, there'll be some way to trackthem down if something goes wrong.QUESTION: Well, what standard of review shouldwe apply, do you suppose, in looking at this ordinance?MR. GORMLEY: Well, I think that both of thecourts below applied the proper approach. It's a content-neutral, time, place and manner regulation. The mayor has th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC no discretion in terms of issuing the permits.QUESTION: Well, that would be intermediatescrutiny?MR. GORMLEY: That's what the court of appealscalled it, Your Honor.QUESTION: And under that standard, aren'tyou -- the Government required to show that it restrictsno more speech than is reasonably necessary to accomplishits interests?MR. GORMLEY: That's correct.QUESTION: I take it that's the standard?MR. GORMLEY: Yes, Your Honor, and I thinkthat's true here, because every time that someoneapproaches the private property, comes onto the privateproperty of a village resident, those residents arerightly concerned about who this uninvited person is, andwhat are they going --QUESTION: Why couldn't you serve all thosepurposes if you just print up some signs that people canput up if they want saying, no canvassers without apermit. People who want to get all that assurance can getit, people who don't, don't have to.MR. GORMLEY: But I think the village rightly isconcerned with having some information --QUESTION: Given, say, the imaginary signs, what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC is the purpose? What is the purpose to require them justto come down to the mayor?MR. GORMLEY: Because it gives some record onfile about who these people are, thereby giving villageresidents a little greater sense of security that ifsomething goes wrong when this person is on my land, I'mnot going to be left without any --QUESTION: If that person turns out to be a conman, too, it would enable a better chance of locating himto make --MR. GORMLEY: Absolutely. In the worst casescenario though, the purposes are certainly clear, Ithink.QUESTION: Can you give me an example of a conman who doesn't want any money or anything else?(Laughter.)MR. GORMLEY: Oh -- just coming into --QUESTION: We're serious.MR. GORMLEY: -- into your house, maybe he wantsto steal your property. I don't know if that'snecessarily taking money, but he might want to come inand --QUESTION: Potential thief, a person --MR. GORMLEY: Sure.QUESTION: A potential thief who is willing to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC rape and burgle, but stops short of failing to register atcity hall, right?(Laughter.)MR. GORMLEY: Your Honor --QUESTION: This gives your citizens treatconfidence that --(Laughter.)MR. GORMLEY: But, Your Honor, I think the factthat the ordinance is not going to catch everyone who'sgoing to do something wrong doesn't mean that the villageis not entitled to try to do something to give itsresidents some comfort. You probably passed people thismorning on the highway who don't have a license to drive. It doesn't mean the Government can't --QUESTION: The question is, how much? Hownecessary is it? We can all stipulate that the safestsocieties in the world are totalitarian dictatorships. There's very little crime. It's a common phenomenon, andone of the costs of liberty is to some extent a higherrisk of unlawful activity, and the question is whetherwhat this is directed at stops enough unlawful activity tobe worth the cost of requiring the privilege of ringingsomebody's doorbell.MR. GORMLEY: I think it does, Your Honor, andit's a very modest restriction. Remember, there's nothing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the mayor can do to prevent someone from getting thepermit. It's essentially a declaration that I intend togo door to door in your community, and whether the mayorwants to give it out or not, he's going to do it, but thatseems to me much different than a --QUESTION: It's so modest that we can't find asingle case reporting a single municipality that has everenacted an ordinance of that type. I don't think that'smodest.MR. GORMLEY: Well, but I think, Your Honor,it's a -- it shows that this village is perhaps trying totake some proactive steps that other communities have notto try --QUESTION: Do we know where the village got itfrom? I don't think it was original with this village,was it?MR. GORMLEY: I'm not sure. In Richard Riordo'samicus brief, he refers to similar ordinances in Plano,Texas, Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and Grand Rapids Township,Michigan. I believe that the village solicitor -- and oddtitle, the village's attorney came up with the draft ofthis ordinance on his own. There had been, as Iunderstand it, similar ordinances in this village datingback into the forties. My guess as they probably had thesame defects that Cantwell and other ordinances had. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: The mayor here said in histestimony -- it's on a of the -- I've never -- I neverhave denied anybody a permit. Nobody has ever asked forone.(Laughter.)MR. GORMLEY: I think --QUESTION: That's extraordinary.MR. GORMLEY: I think he was speaking about theJehovah's Witnesses, Your Honor. At the time of thehearing in the district court, six people had requestedpermits and received them. Those begin on page of thejoint appendix. I believe now people have receivedpermits.QUESTION: Could the city say, to facilitate thehomeowners' choice, we're going to say, nobody rings bellsfor anything, but the homeowner -- make the homeowner theone to come to sign up in city hall to say, I don't mindhaving solicitors.?MR. GORMLEY: Certainly that's the part of theordinance that the petitioners have not challenged here. Homeowners can both post the no --QUESTION: But suppose, in order to meet theobjection that the solicitors don't want to sign up, orthe canvassers don't want to sign up, the city says, well,we'll just have a total ban on ringing doorbells, but any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC homeowner who wants to have it can?MR. GORMLEY: I mean, given your -- the Court'sdecision in Martin, I'd be hesitant to say you can have anoutright ban on ringing doorbells or knocking.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gormley.MR. GORMLEY: Thank you, Your Honor.QUESTION: Mr. Polidoro, you have minutes.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF PAUL D. POLIDOROON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. POLIDORO: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice. IfI make a few points, please.Justice O'Connor asked a question as to whetherthis would apply to trick-or-treaters. I open to thejoint appendix, page , which is one of the no-solicitation registration forms, Your Honor. Indeed,trick-or-treaters are -- and specifically, point ,trick-or-treaters during Halloween are mentioned, sothey're encompassed under the ordinance.Too, I heard a point being made about theordinance being a way to help track down the bad guys. There's no independent verification mechanism in thisordinance at all. I can go to the village hall and sayI'm Abraham Cantor and get a permit and go from door todoor. Mr. Bruzzese at page, transcript page , andMs. MacMurray, page a, both recognized the ordinance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has no verification mechanism to tie in to the personwho's asking for the permit.With respect to discretion, Mayor Abdullahtestified that -- and this is in the transcript, pages and , that if someone came, gave their name, address,cause, and said they were unaffiliated with anorganization, he would likely not issue a permit to them. We believe that this is manifestly exercise of discretion.And lastly, Your Honors, I've heard our door-to-door activity be referred to as an annoyance to becompared to obnoxious picketing at the home. Irespectfully suggest that our activity indeed lies at theheart of the First Amendment.QUESTION: I wanted to ask you, if you'rethrough --MR. POLIDORO: Yes.QUESTION: -- I don't want to take your rebuttaltime -- as I looked at page and I thought that was alist of exceptions to the ordinance.MR. POLIDORO: It is, and what --QUESTION: So that in other words the trick-or-treaters are expressly excepted, just like Christmascarollers and the others listed.MR. POLIDORO: Well, what had happened there,Justice Stevens, they would be accepted if the box was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC checked and they were allowed, and on that particularform, no one was allowed at the door.QUESTION: You mean the person applying for theordinance has to check all these things to be -- I don'tquite understand how it --MR. POLIDORO: No, what --QUESTION: This is the homeowner who allowscertain solicitations. This is the homeowner's form.MR. POLIDORO: That's the homeowner's form.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr.Polidoro.MR. POLIDORO: Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 