 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDARYL RENARD ATKINS, Petitioner ::v. VIRGINIA. : No. -:- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, February , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES W. ELLIS, ESQ., Albuquerque, New Mexico; on behalfof the Petitioner.PAMELA A. RUMPZ, ESQ., Assistant Attorney General,Richmond, Virginia; on behalf of the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. ELLIS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAMELA A. RUMPZ, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES W. ELLIS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Daryl Renard Atkins v. Virginia. Mr. Ellis.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. ELLISON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ELLIS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:In , this Court, surveying the alreadygrowing evidence from a variety of sources that the peopleof this country oppose the execution of individuals withmental retardation, observed that that growing sentimentmight some day be manifested in legislation, particularlyby the States, which this Court identified as the sort ofevidence upon which it typically can rely in EighthAmendment cases. The evidence is now clear that the Americanpeople in every region of the country have reached aconsensus on that question. By every measurement andthrough a course of legislative enactments that isliterally unprecedented in the field of capitalpunishment --QUESTION: What is your definition of aconsensus, Mr. Ellis? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ELLIS: Mr. Chief Justice, the -- I woulddefine consensus -- and this Court had discussed it invarious terms in the cases, but I would distill from thecases in which the Court has described it that it is whenthe American people have reached a settled judgment basedon a --QUESTION: Yes, but I -- that's -- that's aperfectly sound phrase, but how do we go about figuringout when that occurs? I mean, how many States must be ona particular side? Does the population make anydifference? How about those factors? MR. ELLIS: Your Honor, there -- there has neverbeen a suggestion by this Court that it differentiatesamong States with regard to size, and yet obviouslylogically if -- if a -- an -- if a collection of statutesonly was found in the smallest of the States or the Statesof a single particular region, it would cut against theevidence that there was a consensus.QUESTION: And -- and how many States out of the do you need, do you think, for -- for a consensus?MR. ELLIS: This Court has never suggested thatthere's a particular number in response to that. And whenyou look at the cases, both that have found a consensusand that have not, they vary. QUESTION: Well, but you're saying there is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC consensus. So, you must have some figure that you'resubmitting to us. MR. ELLIS: I'm -- I'm not submitting on thebasis of a figure, Your Honor. I'm suggesting that readin their entirety, the Court's cases talking aboutconsensus seem closer to us to be a -- a totality of theevidence test but with the requirement that that evidenceacross the board have found expression unambiguously instatutes.QUESTION: Should we not look at legislativeenactments as the surest indicator of what the view of the-- the particular State is? MR. ELLIS: Yes, Your Honor, I think that youshould, and I took that to be the -- the teaching of thisCourt's opinion in the first Penry case. QUESTION: And looking at that, where do westand today? We have -- how many States have no deathpenalty at all? Is it ?MR. ELLIS: It's roughly .QUESTION: Yes. MR. ELLIS: It in part depends on how Vermont iscounted, but -- but it --QUESTION: And how many States have now enactedlegislation providing that a retarded person may notsuffer the death penalty? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ELLIS: There are now States as comparedto the that -- that were on the books or were about togo on the books, in the case of Maryland, when this Courtdecided the Penry case. QUESTION: Of course, not -- not all of those feel so strongly that it is unconstitutional to executesomeone with reduced mental capacity that they are willingto apply that to people who've already been sentenced. How many of those States have adopted that law onlyprospectively?MR. ELLIS: A number of them. Again, there's acategorization --QUESTION: I think there's quite a few. MR. ELLIS: We don't have a precise number.QUESTION: And that doesn't -- that doesn'tbespeak such a -- such a intransigent view that this isunconstitutional. I mean, you say, well, you know, wewon't do it in the future, but this person has alreadybeen tried and convicted, you know, go ahead. Does thatsuggest to you that -- that I think it's reallyunconstitutional or just that I think it's a good idea inthe future not to do it? MR. ELLIS: I guess I would characterize,Justice Scalia, the statutes not as having concluded thatthe practice was unconstitutional, but instead that it was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unacceptable. But that still leaves your point.QUESTION: Well, no, it doesn't. It just saysit's not desirable. That's all the statute suggests, itseems to me. And I -- I thought when you were talkingabout a consensus, you're talking about a consensus thatsomething is so -- so terrible that it should not bepermitted. And these States are permitting it. They'rejust not going to do it in the future. MR. ELLIS: I -- I would respectfully suggestthat they have not reached that judgment. In the bulk ofthe States that have prospective only language, that is tosay, some kind of bar -- and it varies among the statutesto looking backward to cases already decided. In the bulkof those cases, it was clear that there was no one withmental retardation currently under sentence of death inthat State. And so, passing a statute that wouldencompass people on death row in that State would havebeen unnecessary in the view of legislators and mighthave --that? QUESTION: How do we know that? How do we knowMR. ELLIS: The -- the discussion in the -- inState legislatures, there isn't legislative history inquite the way there is in Congress.QUESTION: Pity. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC (Laughter.) MR. ELLIS: I was going to say this must be asource of substantial disappointment. (Laughter.) MR. ELLIS: But -- but what -- what evidence wehave comes from recordings of the debates and, inparticular, journalistic accounts from -- from thosedebates. It -- it is clear from those that the -- thatthe concern of treating differently people who have beensentenced to death previously and those who would face acapital trial prospectively was not a principal concern. And I'm trying to come up with a State in which it wasknown that there was someone who had mental retardation ondeath row. The only State in which I might have reachedthat conclusion, there had already been a judgment byanother court that the individual involved -- it was inArkansas -- didn't have mental retardation.QUESTION: Mr. Ellis, would you -- would youagree -- you know, I'm not -- assuming I agree that --that when there is a -- a new consensus that theConstitution means something it didn't mean before theConstitution means that new thing, assuming I agree withthat, you -- you must agree that -- that we have to bevery careful about finding new consensuses, don't you? Because we can't go back. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I mean, if we find a consensus here that it isindeed unconstitutional to execute the mentally retardedand then it turns out that there are a lot of problems,that indeed in every case, every capital case, there'sgoing to be a claim of mental retardation and people cometo believe that in many of these cases you get expertwitnesses -- you can easily get them on -- on both sides-- people become dissatisfied with that. We won't be ableto go back, will we? Because the evidence of theconsensus is supposed to be legislation, and once we'vedecided that you cannot legislate the execution of thementally retarded, there can't be any legislation thatenables us to go back. So, we better be very carefulabout the national consensus before we come to such ajudgment, don't you think?MR. ELLIS: I would agree with you, JusticeScalia, that as the Court has said in various ways inseveral of the cases that the -- that the proponents ofthe view that there is a consensus bear an extraordinarilyheavy burden of demonstration. But the particularconcerns that you raise about the possibility thatsentiment might especially in the -- in the presence ofexperience enacting a statute swing the other way, whiletheoretically possible, is not borne out by the experiencein the States, but in particular in the States that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC enacted some years ago.QUESTION: Well, but Justice Scalia's basicpremise that it's a one-way ratchet is correct. Is itnot?MR. ELLIS: This Court has not had -- hadoccasion to address that in particular. The closest, Isuppose, that it has come is the Court confronting theambiguity with regard to the execution of individualsbelow the age of and -- and the presumption that theCourt reached in the face of that ambiguity. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Ellis, logically it has tobe a one-way ratchet. Logically it has to be because aconsensus cannot be manifested. States cannotconstitutionally pass any laws allowing the execution ofthe mentally retarded once -- once we agree with you thatit's unconstitutional. That is the end of it. We willnever be able to go back because there will never be anylegislation that can reflect a changed consensus.QUESTION: Of course, isn't it true that everynew constitutional holding is a one-way ratchet in exactlythe same way? MR. ELLIS: Not only in the area of the EighthAmendment but in others as well. We could all imagineways in which dissatisfaction with the ruling mightmanifest itself -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Ellis --MR. ELLIS: Yes. QUESTION: -- I guess there's no uniformdetermination of when someone should be regarded asmentally retarded. The standards probably vary somewhatfrom State to State, do they not? MR. ELLIS: Justice O'Connor, they varyremarkably little. The definitions are not framed inexactly identical forms because often States have adoptedthe definition that they employ for disability benefitspurposes or guardianship purposes or commitment.QUESTION: I guess my point is even if thisCourt were to say that it's unconstitutional to execute aperson who's mentally retarded, presumably it would stillbe open to the State to determine whether that individualis mentally retarded under the State's definition, or isthere some Federal definition you're asking us to employ?MR. ELLIS: It seems to me that the States wouldbe free to define mental retardation -- and, as I say,many use the definition they already have, that theirclinicians are accustomed to -- so long as the definitionthey chose carried with it the core principles of thedefinition of mental retardation that this Court discussedin Penry, that is to say, a measured intelligence in thebottom percent -- in the bottom -and-a-half percent of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the population or standard deviations below the mean,plus an impact on the real world functioning of theindividual and as --QUESTION: Well, this -- this actually links upto the consensus problem if you take -- I don't think apoll is relevant, but assuming you took a poll and sinceyou execute the retarded, I think most people would havein -- in mind an image of mental retardation which doesn'treflect the sophistication of the DSM which talks aboutmild retardation and defines somebody who's mildlyretarded as educable with an IQ of maybe as high as -- inthat range of -- of with -- with some -- with some roomfor statistical error. Do the States have some leeway indefining retardation that's any different than what's inthe DSM?MR. ELLIS: With regard to -- with regard todetails, as I suggested a moment ago, there -- there isroom for some difference, but with regard to the coreprinciples, which I take to be at the center of -- of yourquestion, are we describing the same group of people --QUESTION: Yes. MR. ELLIS: -- what we've discovered in theStates is that they've all come to essentially the sameconclusion, which is all the people who fall within theAAMR or DSM-IV-TR definition are the people that they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC chose to protect.And going to your earlier point about whatpeople know about the level of functioning of individualswith mental retardation -- yes, Your Honor -- there --other than parents -- parents I'd put aside -- there is, Ithink, no group in this country more aware of the varietyamong people with mental retardation and the levels offunctioning at each level than State legislators.QUESTION: This -- this goes to the -- where isthe burden of proof in a case like -- supposing your viewis adopted, the State charges capital murder. Is theburden of proof on the defendant to show that he'sretarded?MR. ELLIS: Yes, Your Honor. Every State thathas enacted a statute has placed the burden on thedefendant, although they have done it in somewhatdifferent ways. QUESTION: Mr. Ellis, what about this very case? There was some confusion, but the Virginia Supreme Courtseemed to doubt that this person would qualify as mentallyretarded. If -- if you would prevail, wouldn't there haveto be a remand on that question? MR. ELLIS: Obviously, in our -- we would not betotally disappointed if this Court were to resolve thatquestion, but the -- the likelihood and prospect of a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC remand obviously would be an appropriate response so thatthe Virginia courts who did not, in this case, have beforethem mental retardation as a legal question that was goingto decide anything -- it was simply an observation in thecourse of making --QUESTION: Well, what precisely did the VirginiaSupreme Court say about this defendant and --MR. ELLIS: I -- I think maybe the -- theVirginia Supreme Court's decision on that can be bestcharacterized as expressing concern as to whether or notthe individual -- in this case Mr. Atkins -- had mentalretardation because of the testimony of Dr. Samenow that-- that suggested that there had not been a fulldemonstration of the impact of his impairment in his life,the second prong of the definition --QUESTION: Can you tell me --QUESTION: Mr. Ellis, apart from the consensusargument and these details, what is the real reason behindyour position? What's wrong with executing the mentallyretarded?MR. ELLIS: In our view, Your Honor, the peoplewith mental retardation who have both that intellectualfunctioning as the core and it has manifested itself intheir life throughout their life -- those individuals inour view lack the culpability or blame worthiness because th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC their understanding of their actions, their understandingof the context in which their actions took place --QUESTION: Well, why are they subject tocriminal liability at all then? MR. ELLIS: They are subject to criminalliability because it isn't our contention that they, forexample, can't tell -- to use the -- the language in -- inVirginia's defense of insanity, that they can't tell rightfrom wrong. What we're suggesting -- so, we're notsuggesting they can't be punished. What -- what we're --what we are contending is that, though they can bepunished, the death penalty is different, and it isreserved for those whose understanding is sufficientlyclear that the penalty of death can be appropriate. QUESTION: So, nothing wrong with putting aretarded person -- we know that there's a problem withdefinition, but -- in -- in jail for life, solitary. Hecan exercise in a cage.MR. ELLIS: Nothing in the ruling that we seekhere would preclude the State from imposing the mostserious penalty it has other than the penalty of death. Most States do. A number of the States that have passedstatutes have explicitly provided in those statutes thatan individual exempted from the death penalty by thestatute will be subjected to -- and then it explicitly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC says, in some cases, life imprisonment without possibilityof parole, or whatever the heaviest penalty.QUESTION: Should the test be the same as forexecuting someone with a mental illness? We -- we havedealt with that, and -- and with the level ofcomprehension that someone must have in order to beeligible for the death penalty who has mental illness. Should the test be the same? MR. ELLIS: Your Honor, I believe you'rediscussing the Ford issue with regard to competence to beexecuted? I read the Ford case as suggesting that whetherthe individual had mental illness or mental retardation,if -- if that individual lacked the understanding asexecution became imminent, that they -- that the Statewould be precluded from executing. This --QUESTION: So, is that test not adequate here inyour view? MR. ELLIS: That test, it seems to me, is notadequate for several reasons. One is that the Fordholding focuses on a defendant and -- and his mental statelate in the process, as -- as execution is impending. Themental retardation question, as addressed by the States in-- in the years since Penry, focuses on the individual'smental functioning at the time of the crime. QUESTION: What -- what about our -- what about th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC our mental illness cases dealing with the time of thecrime? Why aren't they sufficient to indeed excusesomebody who couldn't help themselves? You're sayingthese people can help themselves. They did know thedifference from right to wrong, but what? They're --they're slower than others and therefore shouldn't beexecuted. MR. ELLIS: Yes. Their -- that theirunderstanding was, of necessity, limited by their mentalfunctioning.QUESTION: Their understanding -- I mean, theyhave to have known that what they were doing is wrong.MR. ELLIS: In order to be convicted in any ofthese States, yes. QUESTION: So, isn't that the only thing thatbears upon culpability? MR. ELLIS: It seems to me, Your Honor, that itis not because -- because under our system of capitalpunishment, as it has been shaped by the decisions by thisCourt, we don't say that the death penalty is availablefor everyone who can be punished. The Court, through avariety of mechanisms, including the mitigation system,has said that among those who can be punished, some can bepunished by death and others not. In a number of thosecases, this Court has reached categorical rules, which is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what we seek here.QUESTION: Yes, but -- but those rules werebased upon the fact that some people are not as culpable.Their crime was not as heinous and so forth. You have tonarrow the category to those people who are really morallyreprehensible. I do not see the necessary connection between --between intelligence and moral reprehensibility unless youtruly think that -- I guess the -- I guess the result ofyour argument is that there -- that there is more crimeamong -- among the mentally retarded because they don'treally understand the consequences of what they're doing. Is that a demonstrable proposition? I don't think it is. MR. ELLIS: It is not, and I think it's untrue.QUESTION: Yes, I think it's totally untrue. So, I don't --MR. ELLIS: So, what we're saying in -- inresponse to -- to your question, what we are saying isthat a person who commits an act -- who has mentalretardation, who commits an act which is subject topunishment, does so within the scope of the limitationsimposed by his disability. And that may allow him to forma criminal intent sufficient to satisfy the criminal lawfor punishment in general, but in our view and now theview of -- of the people of the States manifested in these th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC statutes and of the people manifested in the Congress,those individuals who can be punished, as individualsunder the age of can be punished, cannot be punished bythe penalty of death because, as this Court frequentlyreminds, death is different, a different calculus, adifferent set of concern. The judgment by the people asexpressed in their legislatures has been these areindividuals for whom we do not want the death penaltyused. It's not --QUESTION: And what is -- what is the reason? Imean, you -- you -- in responding to Justice Scalia'squestion, you -- you point out, well, these people passthe -- the test of -- of comprehension, which is acondition of culpability for execution. What test don'tthey pass? What is the reason for this emergingconsensus?MR. ELLIS: The principal reason -- and -- andit has changed a little bit as -- as the -- as the processhas gone on. The original and continuing principal reasonis that people, as expressed through the legislature, havereached a judgment that someone whose intellect is at thislevel and who has grown up with that limitation on theirability to learn -- because age of onset is part of thedefinition of mental retardation as well -- are notindividuals for whom death is an appropriate punishment. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: No. I realize that that's thejudgment they're reaching, and you want us to recognizethat judgment as now having constitutional significance. What I want to know is why are they reaching thatjudgment? What is the reason that elevates that judgmentto one of constitutional significance? I guess the -- the converse of my question iswe're not here simply to add up numbers and say, oh, whenit gets to , the result is different. You're -- you'reasking us to make a different kind of -- of -- draw adifferent kind of conclusion. And what I want to know iswhat is it behind the judgment of these emerging States asa reason that should recommend itself to us? MR. ELLIS: And -- and as I said, the principalfocus is on the understanding of people of what thelimitations imposed on people with mental retardation areand how it affects their comprehension --QUESTION: They know it's wrong but they don'tappreciate how wrong it is? MR. ELLIS: Yes. QUESTION: I mean, is that the idea?MR. ELLIS: It is -- it is that theirunderstanding of the wrongness of their action may beincomplete and in a sense immature in the same way or in aparallel way at least -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Ellis, I thought that you hadsaid something different in your brief, and it was thatpeople in this class have diminished capacity when itcomes to the life or death decision. I thought you saidthat they will be smiling in the -- and the jury will say,well, how inappropriate. They're not expressing anyremorse. That they will not be able to communicate aseffectively with their -- their counsel. That it's --that it's the image of this person when the life/deathdecision is made that they give false clues to the trier,to the jury, and that will disable counsel fromrepresenting such a person on that life/death decision. You haven't said anything like that in your oral argument.MR. ELLIS: And -- and that was the point I wasadverting -- was adverting to a moment ago, that theprincipal reason is, as I've suggested, the sharedunderstanding of the diminished culpability of people withmental retardation. But increasingly, especially in the last or years, there has been a second and secondary reason forenactment of the statutes which is a growing concern thatindividuals with mental retardation facing capital chargespresent a particularly and uncomfortably large possibilityof wrongful conviction and thus wrongful execution. The-- the cases in both Virginia and in Illinois over the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC last few years have made what I acknowledge is a secondaryargument but one which comes up in legislative discussionswith increasing frequency, that -- that in just the wayyou were describing, that the process of adjudicating in acapital case someone who has mental retardation and who'sunderstanding that -- is that limited may, through avariety of mechanisms, increase the likelihood of wrongfulconviction and thus unjust execution. QUESTION: Counsel is not able to bring that tothe jury's attention --MR. ELLIS: Counsel --QUESTION: -- and say, ladies and gentlemen ofthe jury -- in fact, he can bring mental retardation tothe attention of the jury as a basis for the -- for thejury's deciding not to execute the person, can he not?MR. ELLIS: He clearly can.QUESTION: There's no question that in allStates he can do that. MR. ELLIS: That's right. QUESTION: So, you're saying the jury is notconstitutionally even allowed to -- to be given theoption. And counsel can say to the jury, during thistrial, you -- you may see my client smiling inappropriateat some points. You should know that this is -- this is th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC because he's mentally retarded. He really doesn't fullycomprehend what is going on here and I ask you not to takehis -- his reactions into account. It seems to me thatwould just reaffirm the -- the more he'd smile, the more a-- the jury would say, boy, this -- this person reallyshouldn't be executed. He's not playing with a full deck,or whatever. MR. ELLIS: There may well be cases in whichthat would be effective in guarding against that concern,but that also backs into the problem this Court observedin Penry, which is in a case-by-case determination,particularly in cases in which juries are making thedecision, the mental retardation may in fact be a two-edged sword, that the -- that the juror, in evaluatingwhether or not to impose the penalty of death, may seemental retardation not only as a mitigating or potentiallymitigating factor, but it may also see it as tied toprospective dangerousness. That issue is -- is presenteverywhere it seems to me. It is particularly presentin --QUESTION: Isn't it present in all cases ofmental illness as well? MR. ELLIS: Is -- is the difficulty of case-by-case? Yes. It --QUESTION: Your arguments seem to be equally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC applicable to those who are mentally ill. It's a two-edged sword in effect. MR. ELLIS: It is but unlike mental -- in thecase of the mental illness, unlike mental retardation,there has not been a manifestation of a nationalconsensus, either in legislation or elsewhere, thatsuggests the American people have rejected the notion.QUESTION: But the reasons you put forward to usseem to me remarkably the same.MR. ELLIS: The -- the reasons that I'veoffered --QUESTION: Am I right? MR. ELLIS: -- would apply to other defendantswho don't have mental retardation.QUESTION: Right. MR. ELLIS: But -- but they are not so closelytied to the defining characteristics of a class as theyare here to have produced that consensus. QUESTION: All right. So, come back and tell ushow we know when there's a consensus.MR. ELLIS: Your Honor, it seems to me that Iread this Court's cases as saying that they will -- thatthe Court will look to -- that in prospective cases youwill look to a variety of forms of evidence, but that anyproffer of evidence of a consensus which does not have th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC substantial and in one case a discussion of recentformulation of that consensus into enactments by thelegislature will be viewed with skepticism or impact --QUESTION: How many States still allow theexecution of retarded?MR. ELLIS: Theoretically there -- there couldbe . There -- there --QUESTION: In how many of those States havethere been executions of retarded people since Penry thelast years? I count two. MR. ELLIS: We -- we cannot be sure but it isroughly two or three, yes.QUESTION: So, you -- you have less -- less thanhalf of the States that have capital punishment make anexception for the mentally retarded, and you say that thatconstitutes a consensus. Less than half.MR. ELLIS: Not by itself. QUESTION: I can see the argument that there's aconsensus on the other side since the other side seems tobe in the majority, but you say less than half representsa consensus.MR. ELLIS: I'm not sure that -- that we couldconclude, for example, that people in the States thatdon't have the death penalty approve its imposition or ifthey adopted a death penalty would include within the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC scope of this --QUESTION: But we're looking to legislation, and-- and we --QUESTION: But you're saying constituted aconsensus.MR. ELLIS: Well, that -- that is another way ofcounting. And I don't -- I don't want to slip into whatan amicus on the other side referred to as the counting ofnoses. This is a serious business, as this Court hasrecognized, and the fact that the Court has not treatedlarge States differently from small suggests that theCourt is looking at these enactments not only to count upthe jurisdictions that have adopted it, but also to seewhether the process by which they have been enacted isrevealing of a settled moral judgment, in this case amoral judgment of revulsion --QUESTION: Settled. But we also said in Penrythat -- you know, the argument was made to us that therewas an emerging consensus, and we rejected that. We saidan emerging consensus is not enough. There has to be aconsensus.MR. ELLIS: And our position, on the basis ofwhat has happened in the years since Penry, is that theconsensus that was then emerging is now manifest, both inthe legislation and in every other indicator we have of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC public sentiment. I'll reserve --QUESTION: You're not talking about polls ifyou're talking about public sentiment, are you? MR. ELLIS: It seems to me, Your Honor, that --that the polling information, which was quite scanty thenand is now quite full, as suggested in the AAMR amicusbrief in McCarver, is part of the picture. QUESTION: Well, wouldn't you expect if peoplefeel that way, it would -- it would be manifested inlegislation?MR. ELLIS: And increasingly it is.QUESTION: Yes, but are you saying that somehowpolls are to be considered in addition to legislation? MR. ELLIS: Polls, it seems to me, Your Honorare a way of -- of viewing the legislation, of seeingwhether or not the consensus the legislation appears toreveal is in fact --QUESTION: And I take it polls should beadmitted in -- if we're going to talk about polls ascontributing to this discussion, they should be admittedin the trial court and subject to examination by the otherside. Are any -- have any of yours done that?MR. ELLIS: I -- I don't believe -- I -- I'mtrying to think of a case in which polling has played a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC part in the trial court, and -- and I believe it has --none comes to mind. None comes to mind. I'd like to reserve the rest of my time.QUESTION: Very well. Ms. Rumpz. Am I pronouncing your namecorrectly?ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAMELA A. RUMPZON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. RUMPZ: Yes.Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:What is at stake here is this Court's long-established jurisprudence of individualized sentencing inmatters of the death penalty. Penry would have -- notPenry. I'm sorry. Atkins would have this Court removedfrom individualized sentencing one whole group of peoplebased upon one mere factor, and that is their allegedmental retardation.QUESTION: Well, the position of theCommonwealth of Virginia is that you can execute theretarded. Is that correct? MS. RUMPZ: Yes, the retarded individuals who,like Atkins, were found competent at the time of thecrime, competent at the time of -- to assist his lawyers,who were found guilty of a premeditated, deliberated, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC calculated murder, and who --QUESTION: So, any person who has criminalresponsibility can be executed no matter how retarded theyare. That's your position. MS. RUMPZ: That is the position of theCommonwealth of Virginia, yes. And they -- of course, thejury has to be instructed, in -- in keeping with Penry I,about the mitigating value of the defendant's mentalretardation.QUESTION: You -- you would not say no matterhow retarded. I mean, presumably there's some point atwhich the retardation is so severe that the person doesnot comprehend what he's doing. MS. RUMPZ: Exactly, Your Honor, but if --QUESTION: But short of that, you're saying --MS. RUMPZ: But short of that, exactly. Butthe --QUESTION: Then --MS. RUMPZ: -- the DSM-TR -- IV-TR recognizesfour different categories of mental retardation. As thisCourt noted in Penry, the profoundly or severely retardedare not likely to face the prospect of punishment, andthey're not really who we're arguing about here today. We're arguing --QUESTION: Well, why don't we say the same thing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC then about -- about children, about young people? So longas the State can prove the premeditation, thedeliberation, the -- the other requirements of -- ofmental culpability, let them be executed.MS. RUMPZ: But this Court has said that about-year-olds in Stanford.QUESTION: Well, let's take -year-olds. Would-- would you argue that -year-olds should be executed if-- if they have deliberated on -- on the act and -- andotherwise the State can prove the -- the mental element?MS. RUMPZ: I think that that's -- that'sunlikely to happen. But if -- if a person can deliberateand premeditate and if a person can commit a brutal,calculated, premeditated murder, and if a person is foundcompetent at the time he commits that murder and competentto assist his lawyers at the time of the trial, then we'renot looking at somebody whose culpability is in any wayless than yours or mine. QUESTION: Do you believe there is -- there isany role at all in -- in the -- in Eighth Amendmentjurisprudence, death penalty jurisprudence I guess, for --for general rules to the effect that, yes, there may insome instances, let's say, of retardation be -- be proofof -- that would at least be enough to get to a jury onpremeditation and -- and deliberation and so on, but that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the very fact of -- of retardation makes it unlikely inmost cases that this can be proven and makes the evidenceat least highly debatable, even in those cases that get toa jury? And therefore, the sensible thing to do in orderto avoid a high risk either of wrong conviction or in thecase of -- of the penalty phase a high risk of -- ofunsound judgments imposing the death penalty, there oughtto be a cutoff point of some sort. There ought to be acutoff of the high risk cases from the general rules ofproof. Do you -- do you take the position that there isno place in -- in death penalty jurisprudence for thatkind of a -- we'll say a high risk cutoff rule?MS. RUMPZ: A high risk cutoff rule of? I'msorry. I didn't follow exactly what you were saying.QUESTION: Well, I'm -- I'm assuming that, sure,there are cases of borderline retardation and so on inwhich the -- there would be enough evidence to get to ajury on the various mental elements for a -- for a capitalsentencing. I'm also assuming that in cases ofretardation, including retardation near the borderline,that that evidence is -- is highly debatable in mostcases, and it is sufficiently uncertain, it issufficiently debatable that there's a high risk that ajury is going to come to the wrong conclusion. It's goingto say, oh, yes, this person really is the worst of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC worst and sentence him in -- in a case in which thatreally is not so. And the reason for having a rule saying, we'regoing to have a -- a retardation cutoff -- a person who isretarded will be ineligible for the death penalty -- is toavoid those high risk cases and avoid the risk, in effect,of wrong imposition of the death penalty. That's why wewould have such a rule, quite apart from moral judgmentsor anything else. I'm just talking about this practicalrisk judgment. And my question to you is, do you say that ourdeath penalty jurisprudence should have no place for sucha -- a risk assessment rule?MS. RUMPZ: That's what individualizedsentencing is. That is the risk assessment rule. That'swhat juries --QUESTION: Well, it's -- its very clear thatwithin the category of those who ought to be subject tothe death penalty, there should be individual assessment. I'm asking whether you believe that in risky cases thereought to be rules to eliminate the risk. And I take ityour answer is yes, but I don't want to say that if -- ifI'm being unfair to -- to your position here.MS. RUMPZ: You know, I don't want to play dumbhere, Justice Souter, but I'm afraid I'm not understanding th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC what -- what you're asking me. I think that the riskassessments that you're talking about play into the -- theconcepts of individualized sentencing under the EighthAmendment. The juries make those assessments. The juriesdetermine whether someone is sufficiently culpable for thedeath penalty and they determine whether his mentalretardation is a mitigating factor sufficient to outweighgiving the -- the defendant the death penalty.QUESTION: Let's assume, because I'd like to getthe answer to Justice Souter's question myself -- let'sassume. You may disagree with it. MS. RUMPZ: Okay. QUESTION: Let's assume that there's a higherrisk of inaccurate determinations by a jury, both forguilt and -- and penalty, when the person is retarded. Let's assume that. You may disagree with that, but let'sassume it. MS. RUMPZ: Okay, I'll assume that. QUESTION: Justice -- Justice Souter asked thequestion, if there is that risk, is there a place in ourEighth Amendment jurisprudence for us to take account ofthat risk and draw some lines?MS. RUMPZ: No. I -- I think -- if I understandwhat you're asking is -- is -- does the Eighth Amendmentprovide exemption from the death penalty to a class of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC persons who may be at a greater risk for an inappropriatedeath sentence? I don't think the Eighth Amendment playsinto -- that's what the Eighth Amendment sets upindividualized consideration and individualized sentencingfor. QUESTION: Mr. Rumpz, I -- it's a hard questionto answer because I guess you -- you would need adefinition of what constitutes an inappropriate orimproper death penalty, and we haven't -- we haven'testablished any guidelines. We have said you must leaveit to the jury to take into account all mitigatingfactors. Whatever the jury considers mitigating it mayallow. In such a scheme, I don't know -- it ismeaningless to talk about an inappropriate death -- deathsentence. There are no criteria. It's up to the jury. Whatever the jury considers mitigating it may allow. And --MS. RUMPZ: Exactly.QUESTION: I guess you're talking --QUESTION: There -- there is not a proper or animproper death -- death sentence.QUESTION: I guess you're talking about a classof -- you said this class of people -- and I'm not sureyou meant that -- is no less culpable than you or me. ButI thought the class of people we're talking about is a th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC class of people that might simply barely understand what'sgoing on. Barely. So, they know right from wrong, butthey can't understand anything complicated. They have ahard time functioning. Their emotions are no moredifferent than yours nor mine, than anybody's. So, theyfeel things strongly. But they won't take in the natureof the punishment, in all likelihood, and they're quitecapable of following the leader, whoever is the leadernearby. And therefore, this class of people is differentenough than you, than me, that we wouldn't say they aresimilarly culpable. And I guess in of the States,people have reached that conclusion.All right. Now -- now, that's I take this case. And I say because I want you to disagree with me so wecan then explore that. (Laughter.) QUESTION: But I thought that that was -- Imean, there's an argument --MS. RUMPZ: I'll be --QUESTION: But I want you to address, A, I'vetried to make a point maybe they are not so culpable asyou or me. And second, an awful lot of people in theUnited States seem to agree with that. In fact, I -- now,those are the two things I want you to address. MS. RUMPZ: Well, first of all, I think this th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case is a perfect illustration of the first point, thefirst point being that -- that they are. If you are foundcompetent to stand trial and competent to assist yourlawyers, you are like you and me. Daryl Atkins had aperfect understanding of the system, knew all aboutmitigation evidence, recommended witnesses to testify inmitigation, was competent to assist his lawyers, said hewanted his retardation put in front of the jury if ithelped him. He had no deficits in understanding thesystem. Moving on to the second point, of the death penalty States have formed or have enacted some sort-- excuse me -- some sort of laws prohibiting execution ofthe mentally retarded. The Commonwealth's position,however, is that that is -- is not written in stonebecause many of the statutes don't provide for retroactiveapplication. So, you're looking --QUESTION: There was a time -- there was atime --QUESTION: The -- the question I have on that isyou want to say less than .MS. RUMPZ: I -- I sure do.QUESTION: I want to know why not far more than, and my reason for that is that in -- of the remaining -- there are two States that have executed retarded th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people, and they account, I gather, for about percent ofthe population. But in the remaining States that haven'tpassed this law yet, why would someone feel a need to passit? I noticed, which I copied here, that theGovernor of Texas said, I am -- I am going to veto thislaw because we do not execute mentally retarded murdererstoday. Now -- now, he might have been wrong about that inTexas. I don't know. But regardless, why would a Statethat never even has executions, but they have it on thebooks, feel constrained to pass a law?MS. RUMPZ: Well, I -- I think that -- that thefact that States have done so in the last years --it doesn't mean that that --QUESTION: Presumably those States wereexecuting a lot of retarded people, and that's why thelaws were passed. MS. RUMPZ: Well, that's an equally goodassumption. QUESTION: Well, I assume -- an even simplerassumption is that they were executing people. Let me ask you a kind of a -- a specific exampleof Justice Breyer's question. In -- in your calculation,how do you account for the -- for a State like the onethat I come from that has not executed somebody in over th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC years? Do you say, well, that's a State that apparentlyapproves of executing the retarded? Do you say that's aState that shouldn't be counted at all? How do youaccount for that in your calculus?MS. RUMPZ: I don't know what State you comefrom, first of all. (Laughter.) QUESTION: I'm from -- I'm from New Hampshire,and the last execution was in ' or '.MS. RUMPZ: I guess my answer to that is thatthis Court has said that societal consensuses are formed,and when you're looking to see whether there is a societalconsensus, you look to the statutes that the -- that thelegislators have passed. QUESTION: But that's what we're asking about,and Justice Breyer's question, as well as JusticeSouter's, is -- I think must recognize the premise thatone of the great facts of life in American Government islegislative inertia. Legislatures don't act unlessthey're prompted to do so. And a legislature is not goingto just sit down and say, oh, I think it's a good time forus to pass a -- a bill on -- against executing thementally retarded if there's no such person on death row. Legislatures just don't operate that way. MS. RUMPZ: Or there's no such person -- person th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC on death row who was not competent to -- to commit hiscrime, was not competent at the time of his trial, was notcompetent to assist his lawyers. There's a differencethere.QUESTION: What -- what do we know, Ms. Rumpz,about the situation in the States, the States whichhave prohibited the execution of the retarded? Had theyjust gone through a tremendous number of retardedexecutions? MS. RUMPZ: I suspect not. QUESTION: Do we -- is there any -- anything inthe briefs that indicates why these States passed thelegislation that they did? MS. RUMPZ: No, there's not. And -- and I canspeculate that it's a pretty pro -- anti-death penaltymachine out there working, but --QUESTION: Justice Breyer says only two mentallyretarded people have been executed in -- in the last Idon't know what. So, that couldn't explain these States. So, maybe legislatures do enact laws because theythink they're good laws to enact, and maybe that's why the did it. QUESTION: No, no. I said two in -- two, but itmay be a few more. That's what I'm not -- in two Statesin those States that haven't enacted the laws. Of course, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the ones that have enacted the laws don't have theexecutions, and some of them did execute mentally retardedpeople before they passed the law.MS. RUMPZ: Well, the Federal Death PenaltyInformation Center, if you get on their web site, saysthat since Penry was decided in , mentallyretarded --QUESTION: We've gone through those and -- andtried bit by bit, and most of them are in these States andthen some of them are -- have IQ's of or over. And Iwould say in that -- they're -- they're erring on the sideof counting mentally retarded. But if you draw the lineat , look below it, you get to the numbers I had. I'm looking to you for giving me the goodnumbers and -- and the lawyers. That's why I -- I figuredit out it was two States, but I'm not certain.MS. RUMPZ: I -- I think just because two Statesin -- in -- since have executed mentally retardedoffenders doesn't mean that there aren't mentally retardedoffenders in the pipeline waiting to be -- to becomeexecuted or waiting to go through their appellate processor -- or coming up to trial. You know and I know thatthis is a very slow process. These cases drag on foryears and years, decades. And -- and when you look to anumber like that, you necessarily have to figure in all -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Leave it at this, that since Penry --Penry. There's no consensus. Since Penry, States havesaid by law, no. And in the remaining States, we'repretty sure that two of them, accounting for about percent of the population, have executed mentally retardedpeople and maybe double that if you want, triple it. Saythere are percent, percent. Still, isn't that aconsensus? Why not? MS. RUMPZ: Well, I -- I guess I'd go back towhat Justice Scalia said in one of his opinions is thatthat may very well just be that juries and prosecutors andsociety believes that the death penalty ought to beimposed on the mentally retarded less often.QUESTION: Ms. Rumpz, if we stayed just with the plus the that don't have the death penalty, then weget up to what? MS. RUMPZ: . QUESTION: Three-fifths of all the States. Weget enough to, for example, block a filibuster in theSenate. That's a super majority. Why isn't that -- whydoesn't that suffice?MS. RUMPZ: For two reasons. First of all, Idon't think you can count as because in some ofthose States, you can execute the mentally retarded.QUESTION: Now, there was a time in this Court th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC -- it wasn't all that long ago -- when this Court wasmaking prospective declarations of unconstitutionality,this case and all future cases, not past cases. Maybe theStates that haven't made it retroactive haven't gotten upto speed on that once it's -- once we make a declarationof unconstitutionality, it's retrospective.MS. RUMPZ: Even given that, New York has in itsstatute specifically that people who commit murders, whilein prison, can be executed even if they're mentallyretarded. So, you have to take New York from the list. Mentally retarded offenders can be executed in New York.Second of all, I don't think you can add the non-death penalty States and -- to -- to a number of deathpenalty States to try to form a societal consensus.QUESTION: Why not?MS. RUMPZ: Well, because they may have somebearing on whether there's a consensus against the deathpenalty altogether. QUESTION: Right, and it includes that. I can'timagine that you would say you couldn't count thoseStates.MS. RUMPZ: Well, Wisconsin tomorrow may decideto adopt a death penalty statute, and if they do, they'llhave to affirmatively legislate a number of things. They'll have to pick an age where it can be imposed. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC They'll have to decide whether they're weighing or non-weighing. They'll have to decide whether they're going tohave a provision to execute the mentally retarded. All ofthose things have to be considered by the Statelegislature, and I don't think we can presume --QUESTION: Let me try this another way. Do you-- do you concede that if there is a consensus, whateverthat means, then this Court should make the determinationthat we're asked to make here? MS. RUMPZ: No.QUESTION: You don't agree that if there's aconsensus, then the Eighth Amendment would bar it.MS. RUMPZ: No. And -- and I think that --QUESTION: This Court said that might, indeed,be the law in Penry, but you say we were wrong there.MS. RUMPZ: No. I -- I refer the Court toSpaziano v. Florida where the -- where the Court said youdon't just nose count. You -- you have to look at thewhole -- the whole picture, and just because sister Statesdecide to do one thing or not do other things doesn'tnecessarily bind the -- the -- this Court and the otherStates. QUESTION: But you do not even accept the notionthat if there is a consensus and we find there is, thatthat answers the question. I take it you do not accept th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that.MS. RUMPZ: I think that Spaziano saysdifferent. QUESTION: Well, do you accept the view thatthere is in fact an evolutionary element in EighthAmendment jurisprudence, that in fact it does change as --as societal notions of reasonableness in terms of crueltychange? MS. RUMPZ: Well, this Court has said that there-- that there is. QUESTION: That's the answer. You don't have toagree with it. The Court said that. That's the positionI'm in too. (Laughter.) QUESTION: So, you -- you accept that as theframework that we are supposed to be working in. Yousubmit your case on the basis of that framework.MS. RUMPZ: That's what -- that's what thisCourt said in Penry. QUESTION: May I ask another question on alittle different line? I think there's been sort of aconsensus in the argument here that the number ofexecutions of the mentally retarded is rather small.MS. RUMPZ: Yes. QUESTION: And does not that reflect the fact th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that juries generally are reluctant to execute thementally retarded, to impose the death penalty on thementally retarded?MS. RUMPZ: I -- I don't know that that reflectsthat. That -- that could reflect a number of things. That could -- that could reflect mitigation versus non-mitigation. It could reflect -- the brief of the --QUESTION: Well, if -- if it is true, isn't --is that not one of the facts on which the Court relied inthe rape case, holding that the crime of rape could not be-- command the death penalty?MS. RUMPZ: Exactly. This Court looks at thelaws and the application of the laws.QUESTION: And the -- and the number of juriesthat refuse to impose the death penalty. And so, that'spart of the consensus is what the juries have done as wellas what State legislatures have done. Is that not right? MS. RUMPZ: That is exactly right. But I don'tthink that you can infer that because there are X many of-- of juries who have given sentences to mentally retardedthat that means juries are -- are reluctant to do it.QUESTION: There are very few executions ofwomen in the United States. There have been for manyyears. Do you think we should make an exception to thedeath penalty for women? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. RUMPZ: Absolutely not.QUESTION: Because juries so rarely impose it?QUESTION: No, but it is -- it is part of ourlaw. And I read you a sentence out of Coker againstGeorgia. It is true that in the vast majority of cases,at least out of , juries have not imposed the deathsentence. And that was one of the reasons why the Courtheld that the death sentence was unconstitutional. Isthat not correct?MS. RUMPZ: Well, I think that the fact thatwe're here arguing this case today is proof that juriesdo, in fact, give the death penalty to mentally retardedpeople. They -- they gave it -- the Commonwealth's briefis -- is -- got two or three pages of cases where --QUESTION: No. The point isn't that they neverdo. It's the point that they rarely do. MS. RUMPZ: And the fact that they rarely do,like I said earlier, could mean that juries believe, justas Atkins' team believes, that it -- that it should berarely imposed. QUESTION: Well, it -- it also may represent ajury's belief that it is a mitigating circumstance of suchforce that they should be spared the death penalty.QUESTION: Of course. MS. RUMPZ: And I agree. And in this case, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jury was specifically told about Atkins' mentalretardation. Two doctors testified about it at length,and two different sentencing juries, after hearing fromAtkins' expert witness, and after hearing the vile natureof his crime and about his prior felonies, jurorsgave him the death sentence. QUESTION: Ms. Rumpz, in making this cruel andunusual decision -- this is an issue that's come upbefore, but does what the rest of the world think aboutexecuting the mentally retarded -- should that have anyrelevance at all? I mean, we have, since the time we saidwe don't look to the rest of the world, been supporters ofinternational human rights tribunals in -- for the formerYugoslavia, for the former Rwanda. But is it still, wouldyou say, just irrelevant that most of the rest of theworld thinks that mentally retarded people -- because it'sinhuman to execute them? MS. RUMPZ: This Court has said previously thatthe notions of other countries and the notions of otherlands cannot play the deciding factor in what --QUESTION: Not deciding. I asked you if it wasrelevant. MS. RUMPZ: Well, it is relevant in -- asJustice Scalia said in one of his opinions, to determinewhether our practice is a historical accident or not. But th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it certainly is not relevant in deciding the EighthAmendment principle. QUESTION: Most of the world would not executerocket scientists. Isn't that right? Including theEuropean Union? MS. RUMPZ: Most of the --QUESTION: Would not execute rocket scientists.MS. RUMPZ: Yes, the majority of -- of the -- ofthe planet --QUESTION: So, we should abolish the deathpenalty --MS. RUMPZ: -- is opposed --QUESTION: -- if that's -- if that's to be a --QUESTION: I asked if it was relevant.MS. RUMPZ: And -- and --QUESTION: I didn't ask if it was dispositive.MS. RUMPZ: It's not dispositive, and it isrelevant once the Eighth Amendment principle has alreadybeen established. It's not relevant in establishingwhether something is cruel and unusual. QUESTION: Why do you need it after it's beenestablished? QUESTION: You don't. MS. RUMPZ: You don't. You -- you look -- youlook after the fact to see whether -- I guess my answer I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC guess is it's not relevant.QUESTION: That's what I thought.MS. RUMPZ: It's not relevant. QUESTION: I was going to -- I did not have achance to ask petitioner's counsel because his rebuttaltime was running up, but it's important to me. Mentallyretarded people constitute about percent of the generalpopulation. I've looked through the briefs and just couldnot find -- are there any statistics that you know thattell us what the prison population percentage of mentallyretarded people are? What is the mentally retardedpopulation of the criminal system generally? Do you know?MS. RUMPZ: I don't know, and it -- there --QUESTION: Would it be the same as the generalpopulation or higher?MS. RUMPZ: I -- I couldn't speculate. We don'tknow and it's not in this record what the -- what theprison population of mentally retarded people --QUESTION: What is the status of the legislationin Virginia on this point now? MS. RUMPZ: It was -- it didn't pass the House.QUESTION: It passed one house but not theother?MS. RUMPZ: Passed -- bicameral legislature --Virginia. Passed the Senate, didn't get out of the House. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Was it voted on in the House?MS. RUMPZ: I don't know. QUESTION: I thought it wasn't voted on.MS. RUMPZ: I don't believe it was voted on. Ithink it was -- it was -- it died in a committee I think. I'm not positive about that. I was actually here whenthey did that, and I wasn't -- I know that it -- it didn'tget past the House side of the -- of the General Assembly.To -- to sum up, the national consensus issue isthe key issue here today, and this Court needs to -- as --as the earlier argument or the earlier comments were, theCourt needs to recognize as, Justice O'Connor, yourecognized in Thompson and, Justice Scalia, you mentionedtoday, any decision this Court makes regarding this issueis irreversible. It is likely irreversible. These States who have enacted these laws, these States that have enacted these laws, the longest onehas been on the books for years. Some of them havebeen on the books for less than a year. On average,they've been on the books for an average of years. Well, a national consensus has to be broad,clear, and enduring. Certainly statutes with an averageage of years don't establish an enduring nationalconsensus against something. That's a blip in the radarscreen of public opinion, or to borrow from Justice th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Scalia, it's a pendulum swing in public opinion. Now,these State legislatures may decide in years --QUESTION: How can you say it's a pendulum swingwhen it's all in the same direction? I thought a pendulumwent back and forth. (Laughter.)MS. RUMPZ: It's a pendulum swing one way. QUESTION: It only goes in one direction at atime, doesn't it? (Laughter.) MS. RUMPZ: But -- but my point is this practicehas been allowed since the Bill of Rights was adopted in, and we have States, some of which can't decide inbetween themselves whether the mentally retarded should orshouldn't be executed, with an average age of years. Now, certainly years is insufficient to determinewhether there is an enduring national consensus againstsomething. These States, as somebody recognized hereearlier, may determine in or years that this is anexperiment that just didn't work. QUESTION: Well, do you accept that there's aconsensus and want to argue it's just not enduring? Orwhat is it you're arguing? MS. RUMPZ: No. I -- I think there's not aconsensus, first of all, and my backup position is if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there is a consensus, it certainly isn't one of anenduring nature. I don't think , even if you say all of the States and ignore the retrospective/prospective --I don't know out of is a consensus. It's not even amajority, let alone a consensus. But even putting aside that for the matter, you-- even if you put that aside, we don't anything that'senduring. We don't have anything that shows that thelong-term public opinion is against execution of thementally retarded. We have a blip in the radar screen ofpublic opinion which may change in years. It may changein years. If Osama bin Laden was brought back to theUnited States tomorrow, found to be mentally retarded andnot being able to -- to be executed, public opinion wouldchange, and there would be -- the blip in the radar screenwould go away and the public opinion would be somethingdifferent. But if this Court were to constitutionalizethe prohibition, the public wouldn't have any opportunityto change their mind.And as this Court has said before, the Statesare laboratories. The States are laboratories for novelsocial experimentation. Well, this experiment is justbeginning. This Court -- this -- there's -- there's --this Court should not call a halt to an experiment that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC has been on average for years, especially when, asJustice O'Connor, you recognized in -- in Thompson, thathalt could be irreversible. And if there are no further questions. QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Rumpz. Mr. Ellis, you have a little less than a minuteleft. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES W. ELLISON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. ELLIS: I'll endeavor to answer a couple ofthe questions that this Court has raised.First, with regard to Justice Kennedy's questionabout prison population, we don't have a reliablestatistic. There is some indication, especially for verylow level crimes, that there may be a higher level ofpeople with mental retardation than in the generalpopulation. With regard to the States, Spaziano, it seems tome is a very important case here because it says we're notsimply counting up States. We're seeing whether theStates have reached a moral judgment, have reached aconclusion that the -- in this case, the understanding ofpeople with mental retardation, their ability to controltheir behavior, their understanding of the context inwhich they behave, the maturity and responsibility with th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC which they reach moral judgments is -- makes the deathpenalty unacceptable. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Ellis.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 