 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XHILLSIDE DAIRY, INC., A&A :DAIRY, L&S DAIRY, AND MILKY :WAY FARMS, Petitioners ::v. : No. -WILLIAM J. LYONS, JR., SECRETARY, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, ET AL.; and PONDEROSA DAIRY, PAHRUMP DAIRY, ROCKVIEW DAIRIES, INC., AND D. KUIPER DAIRY, Petitioners :::::::::v. : No. -WILLIAM J. LYONS, JR., SECRETARY, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, ET AL. ::::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, April , The above-entitled matter came on for oral th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC argument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe Petitioners.BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioners.MARK J. URBAN, ESQ., Deputy Attorney General, Sacramento,California; on behalf of the Respondents. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners BARBARA B. McDOWELL, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners MARK J. URBAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROY T. ENGLERT, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, the Hillside Dairy, Inc. v. WilliamJ. Lyons, Jr., and a companion case.Mr. Englert.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ENGLERT: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:This is a case of inventive statutoryinterpretation by the Ninth Circuit. The statute at issuedirects the courts how to construe this act or any otherprovision of law, yet the Ninth Circuit interpreted thestatute rather inventively as an exemption from a provision of the Constitution. The statute protectsCalifornia statutes and regulations regarding two aspectsof California's composition regulation of packaged fluidmilk, yet the Ninth Circuit interpreted the statute,rather inventively, as an exemption for all aspects ofCalifornia's economic regulation of raw milk.Inventiveness may have a role to play in somecases of statutory interpretation, but not when thegoverning legal standard requires that Congress has madeits intent unmistakably clear. The Ninth Circuit's th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC statutory holding should be reversed.There is also a constitutional issue before theCourt involving the Privileges and Immunities Clause ofArticle . The Ninth Circuit should be reversed on thatissue as well, but not because it was overly inventive. The Ninth Circuit simply ignored, with no explanation atall, binding precedent from this Court requiring thatcourts look beyond the face of the statute to determinewhether, in practical effect, it draws a distinction basedon citizenship or residency.The California statutes and regulations at issuein this case draw a distinction based on where milk isproduced, and percent of dairy farmers live on theirfarms. To draw a distinction based on the State ofproduction is, in effect, to draw a distinction based on the State of residency, and the distinction should besubject to scrutiny under the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause. We do not --QUESTION: But as far as that clause isconcerned it wouldn't help you with the corporate, if youhad a corporate farmer. It would only work forindividuals.MR. ENGLERT: Only the individual petitionersare entitled to invoke the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause, yes, and there are individual petitioners. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: There are two individual petitionersI think in this group, is that so?MR. ENGLERT: A -- a husband and wife, Darreland Diane Kuiper, yes.Let me return to the statutory issue. This actor any other provision of law in section meansstatutory or regulatory law, not the Constitution. Why doI say that? Number , section is phrased as adirective to courts about how to construe particularbodies of law. Congress doesn't have the power to tellcourts how to construe the Constitution.It does have the power to tell courts how toconstrue congressional silence or inaction, and theMcCarran-Ferguson Act is a good example of the kind ofphraseology Congress uses when it wants to enact a Commerce Clause exemption, but section is a poorcandidate from the outset.Number , the canons of construction applied innumerous decisions of this Court, most recently theKeffler case in February, required that a general phraselike, other provision of law, be construed by reference tothe phrases that came before. Federal statutory andregulatory law is naturally paired with this act, butwould be very odd to throw the Constitution in as anafterthought through use of the phrase, other provision of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC law.Number , the legislative history is devastatingto respondents' position. The absence of a singlereference to the Constitution anywhere in the legislativehistory is quite significant, but it's not the strongestrefutation of respondents' argument in the legislativehistory. Rather, the very first paragraph of explanationof section in the conference report describes it as,quote, an exemption from the preemption provisions of anyFederal law respecting standards of identity and labelingfor fluid milk, close quote. That can be found on page of the blue brief.Number , and this is merely the clincher thatbuilds on the first three points, the standard is whetherCongress has been unmistakably clear in passing a Commerce Clause exemption. The evidence is so strongly the otherway that one might call it unmistakably clear thatCongress did not pass a Commerce Clause exemption, butit --QUESTION: This argument's probably betteraddressed to the respondents than -- than you, but do youunderstand the respondents to argue that the percentageof -- of milk solids which is one, and labeling, which isthe second part of the statute, simply will cease to existif -- if this pricing regulation is not upheld? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: No, that -- I don't understandthat to be their contention.QUESTION: I -- I thought that that was going tobe -- when I got into the case I thought, well, they'regoing to say that it's just impossible to have thelabeling, but I -- I don't understand them to argue that. I can ask them, of course, but --MR. ENGLERT: I -- I don't understand them toargue that either, Justice Kennedy. I think the strongestform their argument takes is, there is a relationshipbetween economic regulation of raw milk and compositionalregulation of packaged fluid milk, and any relationship isenough to satisfy this statute.QUESTION: Well, is it true that the pricing andpooling laws were adopted to help the milk producers comply with the fluid milk content provisions?MR. ENGLERT: I -- I don't think that'sfactually accurate, Your Honor.QUESTION: That was what the attorney in theShamrock case conceded.MR. ENGLERT: Not -- not --QUESTION: You don't agree?MR. ENGLERT: I'm sorry, Justice O'Connor. Hedid not concede that. What he did concede was that thefortification allowance -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Yes.MR. ENGLERT: -- which is a particular provisionof the stabilization plan, that is the pricing plan, notthe pooling plan, was adopted to help compliance withCalifornia's composition standards.QUESTION: And section does use the wordindirectly.MR. ENGLERT: It does, Your Honor, but it's veryinteresting to look at the parallel phrasing of section of the Farm Bill, U.S.C. , and the preemptionprovision of the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act,which is U.S.C. section -. Both use the phrasedirectly or indirectly.QUESTION: Yes.MR. ENGLERT: In the preemption provision of the NLEA, Congress was talking about was -- what waspreempted, and it was saying anything a State doesdirectly or indirectly to have labeling requirementsdifferent from Federal law is preempted.What section of the Farm Bill does is, itunpreempts California's standards for milk.QUESTION: Right.MR. ENGLERT: Now, unless California is preparedto say that it's entire pooling and pricing plans werepreempted by the NLEA in , which I don't think you're th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC going to hear from Mr. Urban, the entire pooling andpricing plans weren't unpreempted by section of theFarm Bill, either.Let me turn to the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause issue.QUESTION: Just -- just before you get there --well, maybe it's a part -- does -- do Nevada producershave a -- a Federal marketing order?MR. ENGLERT: Nevada, yes.QUESTION: And Arizona as well?MR. ENGLERT: Yes.QUESTION: They -- they -- do they opt out of itif they want to sell the milk to -- to Californiaproducers, or --MR. ENGLERT: Yes. The sales to California --or, to California processors, excuse me, are not regulatedby those milk marketing orders. The -- the seller and thebuyer would both have to be within the marketing order forit to be governed by the Federal milk marketing order, Ibelieve.QUESTION: I see, and -- and so far as theNevada and Arizona dairy farmers are concerned, they cansell to California without implicating any mechanismsunder the Federal marketing order?MR. ENGLERT: That's correct. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: Now, the court below didn't deal withthe Privileges and Immunities issue, right?MR. ENGLERT: Oh, it did actually, JusticeO'Connor.QUESTION: It did.MR. ENGLERT: It affirmed the Rule (b)()dismissal.QUESTION: Okay.MR. ENGLERT: It's on page A --QUESTION: Okay.MR. ENGLERT: -- of the petition appendix.QUESTION: All right.MR. ENGLERT: And its only reasoning was, thestatutes and regulations do not, on their face, refer tocitizenship or residency. The controlling precedent that absolutely precludes that reasoning is the Chalker casefrom this Court in , and respondents frankly have noteven made an argument for why Chalker should be overruled. Our own submission is that the years since Chalker wasdecided have strengthened its underpinnings a great deal,rather than undermining them.The Camden case from reinforces Chalker byrejecting a formalistic approach to the threshold questionof discrimination, and the Lunding case from just yearsago stresses the concern with, quote, practical effect, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC close quote, in this Court's Privileges and ImmunitiesClause jurisprudence. There's just nothing to justify theNinth Circuit's disregard of this Court's cases.I'd like to reserve the balance of my time forrebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Englert.Ms. McDowell.ORAL ARGUMENT OF BARBARA B. McDOWELLON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMS. McDOWELL: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Section does not indicate with unmistakableclarity that Congress meant to exempt from the CommerceClause any California laws, much less to exempt the particular raw milk pooling regulations at issue here. Indeed, section is most naturally read as protectingonly a narrow set of California's fluid milk compositionand labeling laws from invalidation only under Federalstatutes and regulations, not under the Constitution.First, Congress did not state or even imply thatthe Commerce Clause is among the provisions of law fromwhich section provides protection. Section directs how those provisions of law shall be construed,and Congress ordinarily does not direct this Court and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC lower Federal courts how to construe the Constitution, andunder the canon that general words are known by their morespecific companions, the words, any other provision of lawis understood to refer to the preceding words, this act,to refer only to Federal statutes and regulationsimplementing them.Section -- second, section protects onlyCalifornia laws regarding two specifically definedsubjects, the percentage of milk solids, and solid not --solids not fat in fluid milk products sold at retail, andthe labeling of those products. The laws challenged heredo not concern either subject. They instead concern howCalifornia handlers account to the California equalizationpool for purchases of out-of-State raw milk which may ormay not ultimately be processed into fluid milk products subject to the composition and labeling requirements.QUESTION: Ms. McDowell, as to the exemptionfrom the National -- from the Nutrition and Labeling Act,is this -- is this a special exemption that Californiahas, or do a number of States have congressionalexemptions from the Nutrition and Labeling Act?MS. McDOWELL: Well, this specific provision,section , applies only to California.QUESTION: Yes, but are there similar exemptionsin -- in effect in other States? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: Well, the Nutrition and LabelingAct does contain an exemption for maple syrup compositionand labeling that might have been designed to benefit theparticular States where maple syrup is produced. I'm notaware of the particular background of that provision.There's also an adjoining provision of the Farm Bill that provides further indication that Congressdidn't intend section to apply to all of the pricingand pooling laws. That's section (b) on page of thejoint appendix, which authorizes the promulgation of aFederal milk marketing order for California if Californiadairy farmers approve of one.Such a Federal milk marketing order would havecontained its own separate Federal pricing and poolingprovisions. It would necessarily have superseded the California pricing and pooling provisions at issue here. It seems unlikely that Congress intended in section topreserve the very pricing and pooling laws that section(b) and the Federal marketing order would supersede.The legislative history reinforces --QUESTION: But there -- but there was no -- butthere is no Federal marketing order that supersedes it, oram I wrong there?MS. McDOWELL: No, it authorized thepromulgation of one if California dairy farmers approved. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC California dairy farmers have not asked for a Federalmarketing order at this point.Under a Federal marketing order, by the way,handlers are required to treat milk from sources insideand outside the marketing order, marketing area similarly,so the same minimum pricing requirements that would applyto a dairy farmer within the marketing area would alsoapply if milk came in from -- from outside that area.QUESTION: Is the Federal --QUESTION: Why doesn't that resolve this case?MS. McDOWELL: Because there -- there is noFederal marketing order that applies to California, and ofcourse the --QUESTION: Oh, I -- I see. In other words itwould have to be a California marketing order treating Nevada milk, not -- not a Nevada marketing order sayingwhat happens when you go to California. All right.MS. McDOWELL: Well, if there was a Federal milkmarketing order for California, milk from Nevada would betreated the same as milk from California. Of course,Federal milk marketing orders aren't subject to theconstraints of the Commerce Clause, as are the Californiaorders.QUESTION: Has Congress ever provided a -- anexemption for anything that looks like this California th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC pricing and pooling scheme?MS. McDOWELL: Not that I'm aware of, YourHonor. And this is a particularly unusual Commerce Clauseexemption because it does benefit only one State. Itseems particularly appropriate in that circumstance toapply the clear statement rules and -- and to require anaffirmative indication that Congress wanted to allowCalifornia and only California to burden out-of-Stateinterests.QUESTION: I thought the only thing Congress hadever -- maybe there's something else. I thought it wasonly insurance that Congress had performed theextraordinary act of waiving the Commerce Clause. Isn'tthat right?MS. McDOWELL: That's certainly one of the most familiar instances of this --QUESTION: It's the only one I -- only one Iknow of. Is there another one?MS. McDOWELL: There are other instances inwhich Congress has affirmatively authorized particularaction by States. For example, the Northeast Bancorp caseinvolved a -- an authorization for States to essentiallydiscriminate against interstate commerce to prohibitacquisitions of local banks by out-of-State holdingcompanies, and when Congress enacts an affirmative th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC authorization one would think that then Congress isremoving any impediments that Congress can remove fromState regulation, but that's not the forum of theprovision at issue here. Rather, it applies only to thisact and other provisions of law which are naturallyunderstood to be Federal statutes and regulations.With respect to the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause, we agree that the court of appeals erred insuggesting that a statute can violate that clause only ifit discriminates on its face based on citizenship and --or residency. In Chalker, the Court recognized that astatute could also violate that clause if it discriminatesbased on some factor closely related to citizenship, suchas the location of a person's chief business office. Thedistinction drawn by the California regulations are somewhat similar.The lower courts didn't consider whether thatdistinction is closely enough related to State citizenshipto implicate the Privileges and Immunities Clause. Accordingly, we would ask that the judgment of the NinthCircuit be reversed with respect to both the CommerceClause and the Privileges and Immunities Clause question,and that the case be remanded.QUESTION: May I ask just one just one factualquestion? th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. McDOWELL: Yes.QUESTION: Am I correct in thinking Californiais the only State that does not have a Federal order?MS. McDOWELL: That's not entirely correct,Justice Stevens. There are portions of other States thatare not included in Federal marketing orders, either, I --I believe, and perhaps the entire State of Maine is not. California is unique, however, in, to the extent that ithas its own freestanding marketing program and, ofcourse --economy.QUESTION: Of its own, yes.MS. McDOWELL: -- California is the largestQUESTION: And my other question is, do you --does the Government think we have to reach the Privilege and Immunities issue to decide the case?MS. McDOWELL: Well, the Court grantedcertiorari on the Privileges and Immunities question. It's a narrow question. Ultimately, on remand, thePrivileges and Immunities claim may not have to be decidedbecause a ruling in petitioners' favor on the CommerceClause issue would provide them all of the relief thatthey're seeking.QUESTION: And it wouldn't take care of the --the ruling on the statute would take care of everything, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC but not Privileges and Immunities, because that coversonly individual persons, not corporations.MS. McDOWELL: That's correct. What we'resaying is that the entire case needs to be remanded forconsideration of the Commerce Clause claim on the merits,as well as the Privileges and Immunities Clause claim, andif the Commerce Clause question is decided in petitioner'sfavor, all of the petitioners would benefit from thatruling, so there might not be occasion to consider thePrivileges and Immunities Clause as well.If there are no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. McDowell.Mr. Urban, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MARK J. URBANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. URBAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:There are two distinct and separate inquiries inconstruing section . First, does it create a DormantCommerce Clause exemption for any California law, andsecond, what laws are within the scope of section ? As regards the first step, it is unmistakably clear thatCongress in adopting section intended to provide aDormant Commerce Clause exemption for at leastCalifornia's milk content and labeling laws. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC As regards the second step, the scope of section encompasses not just the milk content and labelinglaws themselves, but also the various means thatCalifornia uses to continue those laws in effect.QUESTION: How do you respond to youradversary's contention that when you use the wordconstrue, Congress does not ordinarily tell this Court howto construe a provision of the Constitution?MR. URBAN: First of all, in theMcCarran-Ferguson Act statutes the Court found that therewas a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption. In that casethey used the term construe. Second of all, I don't knowthat Congress is aware of the niceties of the differencebetween construe and interpret --QUESTION: Well --MR. URBAN: -- or it would have used both ofthose words.QUESTION: Well, certainly, looking over a largegroup of statutes that Congress has enacted, there may besomething to what you say.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But I -- I do think the -- the wordconstrued is simply out of place when Congress is sayingsomething to this Court about how to -- how to interpretthe Constitution. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. URBAN: But beyond that, Your Honor, the --they then say, construe to preempt, prohibit, or otherwiselimit. If they wanted to limit the scope of theprotection of section merely to preempt, theywouldn't have added two additional phrases, and inaddition to that, many of the preemption savings statutesuse the term, this act or other -- any other act ofCongress, or lists a set of acts or regulations. Theydon't simply have the statement of one act and then a -- ageneral term like, any other provision of law.QUESTION: Of course, Congress is sort of at aloss for words, because it -- it's only the CommerceClause -- that's the only provision of the Constitutionthat Congress can instruct us not to apply, so it'sunderstandable. Maybe out of respect for the rest of our body of law they -- they might use the word construe,right? I mean, we don't have any other examples ofwhere -- unless it was the -- the Religious FreedomRestoration Act, which -- which we did not uphold.MR. URBAN: That's -- that's correct, YourHonor. There's two ways that Congress can act to saveState laws. One is by a preemption savings statute, andthe other is by a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption. Andbeyond that, Congress can't affect the State exercise ofauthority through any means that involves the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Constitution, and that, the -- the first question then is,does section create a Dormant Commerce Clauseexemption.And then, as I indicated, the choice really is,is it preemption only or something more and the statuteitself, by using the terms, prohibit or otherwise limit,suggests that it is, or states directly that it issomething more. If they just simply wanted to have thisas a preemption savings statute they would have stopped atpreemption.And again, the argument was raised, well, whydidn't they mention the Constitution directly. None ofthe two areas where there have been cases in which theCourt has found a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption, oneof which is the McCarran-Ferguson Act and the other of which is the Northeast Bancorp case, was there mention ofthe Constitution. They -- they looked at -- at the total,at what the statute said, at what the context was in whichthose statutes were adopted, and -- and from thatconcluded that Congress had intended to fully regulate inthose areas or to provide a Dormant Commerce Clauseexemption.The petitioners have tried to use a doctrine ofadjustum generis, the laws are interpreted in the companythey keep. I've never seen an application of that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC doctrine where all you have is one statute or one itemmentioned, and then you say any others. Usually thatdoctrine's applied when you have three or four items.QUESTION: Mr. Urban, the problem, as I see it,is not whether they -- you might construe the language asbroad enough to cover the Dormant Commerce Clause, but thething it saves is, legislation regarding milk solids andfats and so forth, and doesn't say anything about savingpricing legislation.MR. URBAN: That -- that's true, Your Honor. That's the second inquiry, what is the scope of thestatute, and they are distinct inquiries, and it would bepossible for the Court to determine that the statutedoesn't cover pooling and pricing laws --QUESTION: Right.MR. URBAN: -- and still protect the DormantCommerce Clause exemption from milk content and labelinglaws.QUESTION: In -- although you would not prevailif we so held.(Laughter.)MR. URBAN: We -- if you so held, we would beback to the district court on the question of whetherthere's a Dormant Commerce Clause violation for the milkpricing and pooling laws, but the core intent of Congress th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC in enacting section , which was to protect and allowState milk content and labeling laws to have full effect,that would be protected, because we have the ShamrockFarms case from the Ninth Circuit that held that there wasa Dormant Commerce Clause exemption created for thoselaws.I want to --QUESTION: I thought those laws weren't directlybefore the court in Shamrock. I thought the fortificationprovision was.MR. URBAN: What was directly before the Courtin the Shamrock case, Your Honor, was a challenge to themilk content and labeling laws, and then the -- the otheritem that was before the court that was specific was thefortification allowance, which is a small part of the milk pricing and pooling laws, and then there was a generalallegation involving milk pooling and pricing that, uponwhich there was an admission made about the laws being --I think it was something, interwoven.QUESTION: But -- but surely we're not bound byShamrock if -- if we consider it not to be sound, not tohave sound reasoning.MR. URBAN: That -- that's correct, Your Honor. If the Court believes that there's no Dormant CommerceClause exemption at all -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: And I -- I -- and I must say, withoutknowing many of the details of -- of the pricing scheme,it seems to me that the labeling and -- and requirementsfor fortification with, I guess, nonfat solids can existperfectly well without your pricing scheme.MR. URBAN: Your Honor, as a general matter, youcan have composition and labeling laws without a pricingscheme. California's composition standards are uniquebecause they require fortification. That produces severalfeatures. One is that there's not a ready market to sellinto California with complying milk.If you didn't have pricing and pooling laws andyou went back to the free market, you'd be subject to thesame boom-bust cycle that led to the creation of thesepricing and pooling laws in the first place, and when you'd reached the point where the prices were very highand supplies were low, I think the -- the inevitableresult of that would be that the composition standardswould be undone and they'd simply revert to the Federalstandards.QUESTION: But -- but if that's so inevitable,it seems to me it would have been in .MR. URBAN: I -- I don't agree with that, YourHonor, because I think that what Congress did in , andthis goes to the scope of the statute, is that they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC protected the composition and labeling laws themselves,and they also, by using terms like, directly orindirectly, establish or continue in effect, regardingrather than regulating, referred to something more, andthat something more are the means that California uses toenable the laws to continue in effect.QUESTION: That's an ingenious argument, but Imean, if I understand it what you're saying is that ifwe -- if you didn't have the price controls, thencompetition would break out, and competition breaking outwould mean in -- if we were back in the thirties, thateventually everybody would go out of business but for onegiant milk seller who then would raise the price so highthat the people really getting angry at him, as opposed toonly paying $, which is considerably above the market level, they might have to pay $, even more.They'd really get angry, and this time, thoughthey don't get angry at the $ price, they'd start reallyshipping milk in from Arizona, and once they shipped inmilk from Arizona, maybe that wouldn't have the fortifiedstuff in it and they'd -- they'd amend the law so that youcould bring it in from Arizona and down would go thelabeling requirement as it stands today.Do I understand the argument correctly? I'veparodied a little, but I don't think I've parodied it that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC much.MR. URBAN: You did, Your Honor.(Laughter.)QUESTION: I did. Yes, I did.MR. URBAN: The -- milk is an -- is an unusualcommodity because it can't be stored, and like anycommodity, it's subject to periods, and we have this a lotwith agricultural pricing, where you have periods oflow -- you have high supply and therefore you'll have alow price. People leave the industry and then the cyclewill reverse, and it's when you reverse the cycle -- andthat's -- that is what happened with -- with milk that ledto the --QUESTION: I thought that's --MR. URBAN: -- formation of those laws, and it's also what occurs frequently with agricultural commodities. I mean, they're -- they're subject to a boom-bust cycle,and at some point in that cycle you're going to haveprices that are very high, and we -- we've had that happenin California to some extent for other --QUESTION: Like --MR. URBAN: -- other reasons, and -- and you --and at that point, and it did happen in California in ',as we've cited in the brief, there is a lot of pressure toundo the standards because they are -- they are more th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC expensive and you'll have limited supplies. I mean,that's -- that's the connection.QUESTION: May I ask, though, are the -- thepercentage of solids in the -- in the milk, is thatsomething -- that's something that's not determined by thefarmer. That's determined by the processor, isn't it?MR. URBAN: The raw milk that comes to a -- aprocessing plant varies to some extent in the amount offat and solids not fat.QUESTION: Right.MR. URBAN: Then the processor -- this is howCalifornia's processors are different from otherStates' -- adds in solids not fat in order to meet thestandards, and they have -- you know, this is allmechanized.QUESTION: And that is done even if the milkwhen it left the farm was deficient in fat solids.MR. URBAN: Correct.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: Generally speaking, what percentageof the raw milk comes in from out of State to California,of the total?MR. URBAN: My recollection is somewhere around to percent, most of which comes to fluid milkplants, which are the class plants. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: So it's generally a small percentage. I'm -- I'm not sure that I think that you're direconsequences scenario would play out.Do milk prices tend to rise and fall over a wideregion of the United States at the same time, or does ittend to be very spotty?MR. URBAN: California's prices rise and fall asan independent market. I don't know what happens in otherparts of the United States, and I want to -- aside fromthe sort of economic theory of the boom-bust cycle, it isa fact that California's own laws say that the purpose ofthe pooling and pricing laws is to provide supply andprice stability in order to allow for adequate supplies offluid milk at -- at prices that are reasonable toconsumers, and that the purpose of --QUESTION: How -- how does the latter part comein? I mean, if we have to write this, as I understand it,and I'd just as soon you correct, because I don't want tosay something if it isn't right. This is actually asimple system, it's not so complicated, and at the heartof it is simply, we could pretend that they want to paythe dairy $ a hundredweight indefinitely. That'sstable.And now the problem is, although you can say toeverybody, pay, a handler is paid $, when they do that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC they're going to discover cheese coming in from Wisconsin,and the cheesemakers are not going to be able to competeand still pay $, so they figured out in California,here's how we keep our cheesemakers in business. Wesubsidize them. We pay them $ because they can only sellat $. Where do we get the money from? We get it fromthe milk sellers.So they pay $ to pay the cheesemakers $ sothat all can pay $ to the dairies. That way, thecheesemakers stay in business despite Wisconsin, and themilk sellers, unfortunately the retailers have to chargemore and the mothers have to pay more for their milk, butthat in a way helps the people who want to eat a lot ofcheese. We don't know what happens to them if they eattoo much cheese, but --(Laughter.)QUESTION: -- there we are.But I mean, that seemed to me the essence of thesystem, and since that's the model that's in my mind, andsince it could become relevant, I'd like you to correct meif I'm not right.MR. URBAN: That -- that's -- that is the wrongmodel.QUESTION: All right.(Laughter.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. URBAN: The --QUESTION: And what is the right model?MR. URBAN: The right model is that the -- theprices are generally set, and they're recalibratedregularly, based on certain free market markers, likevarious cheese exchanges, et cetera, and then there areways for each of the prices to be adjusted, the class ,class , class , class prices to be adjusted so thatthey're -- they reflect in a sense an -- a open market,and there's also a desire to have these prices becomparable to the prices that are being paid on the, inthe Federal marketing orders so that that doesn't produceproblems, so there's not a subsidy from one class of useto another class of use.What there was was then a blending when you come to the producers of their revenues, and that's the pool,and that blending of revenues, they adopted a two-tieredsystem. One was a quota system, and one was all otherprices, and that really was set up because thequota-holders had contracts and commercial dealings withclass dealers which -- for which they got a higherprice, and the goal was to protect those -- those rightsand reflect those rights in the difference between a quotaprice and an everything-else price.QUESTION: Is it true that in-State producers of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC raw milk are guaranteed a minimum price for their milkunder the California scheme, but out-of-State producersare not?MR. URBAN: That -- that's exactly right. Thein-State producers are regulated. They get a guaranteedminimum price. Out-of --QUESTION: Yes, and the out-of-State producersare not.extent.MR. URBAN: Right.QUESTION: They're at a disadvantage to thatMR. URBAN: They're at both an advantage and adisadvantage. They're not regulated, so they have thedisadvantage that they don't have a guaranteed minimumprice, but they have the advantage that they can compete on price, so if they want to be efficient and undersellCalifornia producers they can do that, so they have both abenefit and -- both sides have a benefit and burden. Oneis of regulation versus nonregulation.I want to go into the legislative history ofsection , which was mentioned. When section wasadopted, the Federal law NLEA preempted California milkcontent standards, but that law only applied to fluid milkin interstate commerce. The House conference committeereport which petitioners cite not only described the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC preemption issue, but it also said that the purpose ofadoption of was to allow California to fully enforceand apply its -- its standards.It would have made little sense, in light ofthat congressional intent, for Congress to on the one handallow for a exemption from preemption but at the same timeallowed the exact same body of law to be subject to aDormant Commerce Clause challenge, which is, in fact, whathappened in the Shamrock case, yet that would occur, thatundermining of Congress' intent to have California be ableto fully enforce its own milk content standards, ifsection were held to be only a preemption savingsstatute.We've touched on the issue of the scope ofsection , and we're not claiming that the unmistakably clear standard applies to the scope, and we're certainlynot claiming that it's unmistakably clear that section applies separately to pricing and pooling laws. Whatwe're claiming is that section not only covers thelaws themselves, but the means to keep those laws ineffect, and in answer to questions --QUESTION: Who's your authority for that, forthe extension of the unmistakably clear principle?MR. URBAN: That it doesn't extend to --QUESTION: Yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. URBAN: First of all, we couldn't find asingle case where the Court has come back, after it'sdetermined there's a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption,for example with the business of insurance, come back andeach time it decides what is the business of insurance,that it says this is a Dormant Commerce clause exemptionso we have to use an unmistakably clear standard.The Court has interpreted, after it's found ageneral area of law that -- in which there's a DormantCommerce Clause exemption, that it's interpreted then whatis within that area of the law using standard rules ofstatutory construction, and -- and --QUESTION: And the cases would be what,Benjamin, something like that?MR. URBAN: Yes. Yes, Prudential Insurance v. Benjamin, but then when the Court's come back, forexample, in Royal Drug to look at what's the business ofinsurance, they've used standard -- you've used standardrules of -- of statutory construction.And you know, that -- that makes a certainamount of sense here, because you know, you have both apreemption savings statute and a Dormant Commerce Clauseexemption in the same statute, which is the case -- if youhave a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption you'd have toessentially have two sets of rules as to how you interpret th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the, what is being affected by that -- that exemption, onefor preemption and one for a Dormant Commerce Clauseexemption.That -- that doesn't -- doesn't seem logical. They should -- whatever Congress intended be covered bythe law should be interpreted the same, whether it's aCommerce Clause exemption or a preemption exemption.The second issue before the Court is thePrivileges and Immunities Clause, and when this issue wasconsidered by the Ninth Circuit they ruled that becausethe out-of-State dairy producers were not being regulatedbased on their residency, but that the regulatory schemeinvolved place of production, that the -- that thePrivileges and Immunities Clause didn't apply.That is fairly unexceptional, because the purpose of the Privilege and Immunities Clause is that itapplies when a State law deprives a nonresident who entersa State to engage in some protective privilege, thatthey're entitled to the same privilege and immunities as aresident of that State. There's no entry into the Stateby -- by the dairy farmers from Arizona -- if they cameinto the State to produce milk, they'd be treated exactlythe same as --QUESTION: What do you do with the Chalker case?MR. URBAN: The Chalker case is a case where th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there's -- there was different regulation when you cameinto the State. There was a tax if you did business in --you came into Tennessee and did business. There, thequestion was, they -- they didn't say residency per se. They said --QUESTION: Chief office.MR. URBAN: -- place of -- yes, chief office ofbusiness, and I think the Court correctly found, based ontheir common experience and knowledge, that that wassimply a pretext or a surrogate or a proxy for residency. That's not the case here. Here, it's a shipment of goods,milk into a State. It's -- it's a State regulatory --economic regulatory scheme, essentially, that's affectingthe goods themselves, and that's nothing like what'shappened in Chalker.QUESTION: Well, do you support the NinthCircuit's view that to be covered by the Privileges andImmunities Clause it has to be facially discriminatory?MR. URBAN: In the -- in the context of thestatutes that they had before them, yes. Whether that isa --QUESTION: I -- I would have thought that broadstatement was not accurate in light of Chalker, that itdoesn't have to be facially discriminatory to be covered.MR. URBAN: The distinction in Chalker, what was th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the discrimination was facial. It was based on where yourplace of -- of business was.If the Ninth Circuit opinion is beinginterpreted, or would be interpreted to say that if youhad some transparent proxy for place of residence, likethey did in Chalker, that that would somehow be foreclosedby the Ninth Circuit's decision, I think that would be amisreading of what the Ninth Circuit did. They took astatute that, as they indicate, merely regulated based onplace of production, not on residency.QUESTION: The two sentences -- I hadn'tunderstood that. They wrote two sentences on this in theopinion, and you're saying it's really the first sentencethat is the holding, that there is no violation withrespect to the individual dairy owners because the classifications the pooling plan amendments create arebased on the location where milk is produced, and the nextsentence is sort of a throw-away, and there's nothing inthe statute to the contrary.MR. URBAN: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: That's how you -- I see.MR. URBAN: In -- in summation, there -- the twoissues involving the section before the Court arefirst whether it establishes an exemption and second, itsscope. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC On the first issue we believe it's unmistakablyclear that there is an exemption established by tothe Dormant Commerce Clause. As to the second issue, webelieve that California's milk pooling and pricing lawsare within the scope of section .QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Urban.MR. URBAN: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Englert, you have minutesleft.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROY T. ENGLERT, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSQUESTION: It -- it seems to me, Mr. Englert, itmake -- does make a certain amount of sense to say thatyou should have one rule of construction for preemptionand for Dormant Commerce Clause, and you don't have two different rules for interpreting congressional intent withthe same statute.MR. ENGLERT: Well, Justice Kennedy, the Courthas said very consistently in its Dormant Commerce Clausejurisprudence that the intent of the Congress must beunmistakably clear.QUESTION: Were -- were those statutespreemption statutes as well? You see, here you have apreemption statute --MR. ENGLERT: In -- in some instances, they th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC were.QUESTION: -- and -- and the argument is that --but let's say that it was simply a preemption case that,well, directly or indirectly Congress doesn't want have tospell out everything, so it says indirectly, so this -- sothis is not preempted. Then you have a Dormant CommerceClause and you say, well, we have a different rule forthat. That seems a little odd.MR. ENGLERT: Well, that's what the Court did inNew England Power Company v. New Hampshire, and thestatute being construed, the provision of the FederalPower Act being construed in that case, like the statutebeing construed in this case, was not so much a preemptionclause as an unpreemption clause.The typical statute that comes before this Court alleged to be a Dormant Commerce Clause exemption is onethat says certain State laws are protected, or areallowed, and in many of those cases the Court has said,and New England Power v. New Hampshire is a good example,the Court has often said yes, those State laws are notsubject to preemption under Federal law, but there is nounmistakably clear Dormant Commerce Clause exemption.So the -- the Court's jurisprudence as I read itis really rather consistent in setting a higher standardfor exemptions for the Dormant Commerce Clause, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there's a reason for that, and the reason for that is thatthe Commerce Clause is part of the -- is one of thestructural provisions of the Constitution and, as thisCourt pointed out in the South-Central Timber case, theparticularly strong rule of construction ensures that allStates know what's going on and have their say in Congressbefore the protections the States have vis-a-vis one oranother -- vis-a-vis one another are altered.QUESTION: What is the answer to the last pointon privileges and immunities? I hadn't taken that in, andI -- I think it's been argued on -- on your side as ifwhat the Court had said was, well, the statute doesn'tcreate a classification on its face, doesn't create aclassification based on an individual's residency orcitizenship, which certainly it doesn't, and then you say quite right, but of course a statute nonetheless could dothat in effect, and -- and thereby have the same violationthat it would have had if it had been on its face, butthat isn't their point, and as I reread this they'resaying -- I think it does say what they say it said.What the judge was saying is, wait a minute,there -- there's no -- nobody here could say they're --they're discriminating on the basis of residency orcitizenship. That's not what the statute says. It'sdiscriminating on the basis of where the milk is produced. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC We don't care if he's a California resident or a -- or anAlaska resident, it's where the milk is produced, andthere's nothing in the statute as I read it, says thejudge, i.e. on its face, that says anything to thecontrary.Now, what's the answer to that argument?MR. ENGLERT: It's all true. It's -- it's --but it was just as much of a sin for the Ninth Circuit toignore the percent correlation between where dairyfarmers reside and where milk is produced as it was tosay, we don't look beyond the face of the statute.QUESTION: I see, you're saying it might violatethe Privileges and Immunities Clause even if -- or, why?MR. ENGLERT: It's -- it's exactly --QUESTION: The -- what -- it's a violation of the Privileges and Immunities Clause for a State todiscriminate against out-of-State commerce, because afterall, out-of-State commerce is mostly produced byout-of-State residents?MR. ENGLERT: I -- I'm not making that broad anargument, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: Then what is --MR. ENGLERT: I'm saying that in this case, asin the Chalker case, there is an extremely highcorrelation between place of business and residency or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC citizenship of individuals, and just as this Court said,we don't care that someone from Alabama could have aprincipal place of business in Tennessee, because mostpeople from Alabama don't have a principal place ofbusiness in Tennessee --QUESTION: Yes.MR. ENGLERT: -- so too, here, the Ninth Circuitshould not have cared that Nevadans could have -- couldproduce milk in California when percent of all dairyfarmers do produce milk in the State and, indeed, on thevery farm where they reside.QUESTION: So if Massachusetts passes astatute -- you know this area better than I at the moment,but if Massachusetts passes a statute and it says, we'refed up with nectarines from California, they're too woolly, and therefore no more nectarines from Californiacoming into Massachusetts, it's absolutely true, everynectarine farm down there is owned by a Californiaresident, none by Massachusetts residents. That violatesthe Privileges and Immunities provision, in your opinion,as far as individuals own the farms?MR. ENGLERT: I -- I certainly suspect it's aviolation, but we're we're not asking this Court actuallyto hold that there's any --QUESTION: No, no, I know that. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MR. ENGLERT: -- Privileges and Immunitiesviolation.QUESTION: I know that, but there's nothing tothe contrary --MR. ENGLERT: Just that there should be --QUESTION: Okay.MR. ENGLERT: -- substantive constitutionalscrutiny.QUESTION: Yes.MR. ENGLERT: The Ninth Circuit didn't give thiscase any substantive constitutional scrutiny.QUESTION: Yes, well, that's primarily theDormant Commerce Clause. I'm more familiar with thePrivileges and Immunity Clause argument. I'm lessfamiliar with how courts in this area --MR. ENGLERT: Right, but on -- on both issues,Justice Breyer, the Ninth Circuit declined to engage inany substantive analysis --QUESTION: I know. I know.MR. ENGLERT: -- with respect to the DormantCommerce Clause on the erroneous ground that it wasunmistakably clear that there was a Commerce Clause --QUESTION: Yes, I -- I understand.MR. ENGLERT: -- exemption, and with respect tothe Privileges and Immunities Clause on the ground that th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC location is not the same as residency or citizenship, andwe need not look behind location of production to askwhether it is so closely correlated with residency orcitizenship as to create an improper -- a classificationthat must be scrutinized under the Constitution.Mr. Urban pointed out that the McCarran-FergusonAct uses the verb construe, and rightly so, but what itsays the Court is not to construe as forbidding Stateregulation is Congress' silence. It is not a directivehow to construe the Constitution. It is a very properstatute, perhaps the model for how a Dormant CommerceClause exemption should be written. Don't construe oursilence to mean we want to stop the States from doingsomething. The statute here is very different. Thestatute here says, construe this act or any other provision of law in particular ways.Mr. Urban, in talking about section , saidat one point, the use of three different verbs, only oneof which is preempts, suggests that Congress' intent wassomething more than merely to negate Federal preemption. I respectfully submit that suggesting that Congress hadmore in mind is not enough to meet the unmistakableclarity standard. Under Gregory v. Ashcroft, anunmistakable clarity standard means it would be plain toanyone reading the act what Congress had in mind, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC merely saying the use of three verbs suggests somethingdoes not make it plain to anyone reading the act.I do think -- Justice Stevens asked Ms. McDowellif the Court needs to reach the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause claim. I -- I believe the Court does need to reachthe Privileges and Immunities Clause claim in the limitedway we have suggested and that is because, althoughMs. McDowell correctly said the petitioners might prevailon remand under the Commerce Clause and, indeed, I hope wewill, and if we do that will give all of my clients therelief that they need, we also might not prevail under theCommerce Clause, and I think we're entitled to pursue boththe Commerce Clause claim and, with respect to theindividual petitioners, the Privileges and ImmunitiesClause claim on remand.The -- Justice Kennedy asked me some questionsin my opening argument about the Federal marketing ordersin effect in Nevada and Arizona, and I -- I perhaps didn'tspeak with sufficient clarity about two aspects of that. The Federal milk marketing orders cover parts of Nevadabut not other parts. Some are and some are not covered byFederal milk marketing orders, but in any event, it'sworth making clear that the marketing orders fundamentallyoperate on the processors of milk, not on the producers ofmilk, so when we say the Federal milk marketing orders th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC operate in parts of Nevada, we're really talking aboutNevada processors. If you ship your milk to a Californiaprocessor it -- it is at no point governed by a Federalmilk marketing order.Whatever -- with respect to the unmistakablyclear standard, Mr. Urban made the argument that onceyou've found an unmistakably clear Dormant Commerce Clauseexemption, the unmistakably clear standard has no morerole to play and it's just a matter of ordinary statutoryinterpretation.This Court's cases, I believe, do not supportthat proposition, but he spoke specifically about theMcCarran-Ferguson Act cases in which the Court hasconstrued the phrase, business of insurance, without anyparticular thumb on the scale. Well, that is how the Court must construe the phrase, business of insurance,because Congress has delegated authority over an entirebusiness to the States.That's very different from this very preciselydrawn statute that speaks about two particular aspects ofCalifornia's compositional regulation of raw milk andsaying, well, let's just resort to ordinary principles ofstatutory interpretation to determine whether that alsoreaches economic regulation of fluid milk. Theunmistakably clear standard is still in effect, and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ingenious arguments about the relationship betweeneconomic regulation of fluid milk and compositionregulation of raw milk are not enough to meet thatstandard. In particular, it cannot possibly be the casethat the amendments to California's pooling plan aresomehow necessary to effect composition regulation. Themain thing the amendments did was not negate thepossibility that out-of-State milk would flood Californiato such an extent that there would be price effects thatultimately would have -- would have sanitary effects. What the amendments did essentially was say, we'regoing to intercept some of the revenue that wouldotherwise go to out-of-State processors at California'sborder and redistribute it just to in-State interests. We're going to take some of the money that they wouldotherwise get in their milk transaction and say, it mustgo to Californians, not to you out-of-Staters.That's the essence of the Commerce Clauseviolation in this case, and it's also inconceivable thatthat kind of regulation could be protected by thisstatute. If that kind of regulation is protected by thisstatute, then a regulation that says percent of everymilk check that would be written to a Nevadan must insteadgo to a Californian is protected by this statute, i.e., no th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC out-of-State milk, and that can't possibly be theunmistakably clear intent of Congress in section .One last detail, and it is just a detail. Mr. Urban said that to percent of the milk thatcomes into California is from out of State. I understandfrom a publication that's cited at page of our openingbrief called Dairy Profit Weekly that the actual number iscloser to percent. When Congressman Bill Thomas spokeat a field hearing -- thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Englert. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 