 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XUNITED STATES, Petitioner ::v. : No. -FRANCISCO JIMENEZ RECIO AND ADRINA LOPEZ-MESA. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalfof the Petitioner.M. KARL SHURTLIFF, ESQ., Boise, Idaho; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner M. KARL SHURTLIFF, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFMICHAEL R. DREEBEN, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, United States versus FranciscoJimenez Recio and Mr. Lopez-Mesa. Mr. Dreeben. ORAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:This Court has made clear that conspiracy is aninchoate offense, the essence of which is the agreement tocommit an unlawful act. QUESTION: What does the word inchoate mean? Irealize you're getting it from our opinions, but --(Laughter.) MR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, I believe thatit means an uncompleted offense, activities that have notyet progressed to the point of having violated asubstantive provision of the criminal law, yet whichrepresent a sufficient step to warrant legal interventionunder the doctrine of either attempt or conspiracy.QUESTION: It's the opposite of a choateoffense, I assume, is it not? (Laughter.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: Yes, Justice Scalia, except thatword seems not to have appeared in this Court's opinions. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Or in the dictionary. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Well, it is in the dictionary. I'mgetting it in a minute. It will take me a minute tonoodle while I get it out of the dictionary. But I -- I thought that it meant somethingthat's not yet formed. MR. DREEBEN: Well, in the case of a conspiracy,Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: I thought that's what the word meant.MR. DREEBEN: It -- it may -- it means thatwith --QUESTION: Incipient I suppose. MR. DREEBEN: -- with -- right. With referenceto the object offense. So a conspiracy is an agreement tocommit an offense. The offense has not yet been formed. It has not actually been realized, but the conspiratorshave agreed to commit the offense. And the law of conspiracy deems it appropriatefor society to intervene at the stage at which theconspirators have entered into that agreement so as toprotect society against two things. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: And taken some act in furtherance ofit? MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, under the drugstatute, this Court held in United States v. Shabani thatthere is no requirement of proof of an overt act in orderto punish a drug conspiracy. QUESTION: When does the conspiracy terminate,in your view? MR. DREEBEN: The conspiracy terminates, JusticeO'Connor, either when the conspirators achieve theobjective that they have agreed to carry out, or when theyhave abandoned efforts to do so. That fundamentallyreflects the principle that the essence --QUESTION: Or when one of them has abandonedefforts. I mean, if -- if one of them leaves theconspiracy, I suppose you have a different conspiracythen, or what? MR. DREEBEN: No, not automatically, JusticeScalia. QUESTION: Suppose one of them knows that it'sno longer possible and he leaves the conspiracy.MR. DREEBEN: That individual will -- in orderto accomplish a withdrawal from the conspiracy has to domore than simply leave it. The law of withdrawal of a --on withdrawal from a conspiracy requires that the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conspirator do some affirmative act to terminate theexistence of the conspiracy either by going to lawenforcement, or by communicating to his fellowconspirators that he's done with the venture and he's outof it.But the termination of the participation of oneco-conspirator through withdrawal or abandonment ortelling law enforcement does not terminate the conspiracy.The very nature of conspiracy is a group of individualswho have come together to carry out an unlawful act, andin order for the conspiracy to do that, it frequently willgrow and enlarge its membership. Other members may dropout. But so long as there is a common agreement to commita definable crime or unlawful act, the conspiracycontinues.QUESTION: What if all but one drop out? Doesa -- does a conspiracy continue as to that one? MR. DREEBEN: Well, this Court has neveraddressed the question, and I could find no cases in thecommon law that had addressed the question. Certainlyunder the common law, you cannot have a unilateralconspiracy, although the Model Penal Code would haveallowed that. There may, however, be policy reasons to holdthat once a conspirator has embarked upon his venture, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC even if all of the other conspirators are arrested andgive up the effort, that one lone conspirator who stillsoldiers on, without knowing that the other conspiratorshave abandoned it, might properly be held liable forseeking to accomplish the aims of the conspiracy. QUESTION: It's a conspiracy of one, so tospeak, right? MR. DREEBEN: If such an animal exists, it wouldbe a conspiracy in which all members but one haveabandoned the objective. In a case like this, however, where what happensis that two members of a multi-member conspiracy arearrested, one of them becomes a Government agent, theother one perhaps does not -- and it's not clear that hedid abandon the efforts to accomplish the goals of theconspiracy -- but there are many others at large who arecontinuing to carry out the conspiracy, the criminalagreement persists. And where the Ninth Circuit got off on the wrongfoot was by believing that a conspiracy ends when itsgoals have been defeated. When the object of theconspiracy has been defeated, the Ninth Circuit thought,the conspiracy is over.That, however, is contradictory to thefundamental principle of conspiracy law that the essence th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the crime is the agreement between the parties to carryout an unlawful act, and to take the --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, what about --QUESTION: Would you -- would you tell me whatthe conspiracy was that survived the -- the claimed end ofthe conspiracy? What -- what -- conspiracy to do what? MR. DREEBEN: Conspiracy to distribute anddeliver marijuana and cocaine. QUESTION: Was it the marijuana and cocaine thathad already been seized by the Government, or some othermarijuana? MR. DREEBEN: As the case comes to this Court,the conspiracy that survived was the conspiracy todistribute that cocaine and marijuana that had beenseized. But what's crucial is that those conspiratorswho remained liable were entirely unaware that theGovernment had intervened and frustrated the objective ofthe conspiracy. And I think that the hypothetical that makesclear why the Ninth Circuit went wrong is the instancewhere the Government enters the market in a reverse stingoperation and goes into the market as a seller, offeringto sell drugs, and a collective of individuals decides topool their resources and arrange to purchase the drugs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that the Government is offering. It is highly likely thatthe Government has no intention and never had anyintention of delivering actual drugs. Therefore, the goalof the conspirators is frustrated at the inception. Theydon't know it, but they could never accomplish the objectof their conspiracy. Yet, it's settled in the NinthCircuit and elsewhere that the conspirators can still beheld liable because their agreement to perform an actwhich, under the facts as they understand them, would beunlawful. QUESTION: And the difference between an attemptand the conspiracy, in the attempt you need a dangerousprobability of success or something along that line, butyou don't need that in a conspiracy case. MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. Conspiracyintervenes at an earlier stage, Justice Stevens. Thetraditional Federal rule is that in an attempt, you needthe intent to perform the illegal act, plus a substantialstep towards its completion. The law of attempt hasalways required a little bit more activity on the part ofthe defendant before the Government can intervene andpenalize it. And that's in part because of the need tohave some corroborating evidence that the defendantactually did intend to carry out an illegal act and toavoid penalizing something as a thought crime. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, the first trial in thiscase described a narrower conspiracy, did it not, than wasinvolved in the second trial? And would you explain whatthe difference was in the conspiracy charge initiallymade, and the conspiracy charge in the second trial? MR. DREEBEN: Well, the conspiracy charge,Justice Ginsburg, remained the same in both. In the --the indictment was not changed. It was a singleindictment that alleged the conspirators formed anagreement at a date unknown to the grand jury, but byNovember th, , to distribute and possess with intentto distribute cocaine and marijuana. In the original trial, the parties were unawareof the Ninth Circuit's decision in United States versusCruz, which forms the basis for the legal rule that theGovernment challenges here. And it, therefore, proceededon the -- what we believe to be the wholly correct theorythat respondents could be held liable for joining thatconspiracy on November th when they agreed to becomecouriers to move the drugs further down the road in Idaho. They did not know that the drugs had actually been seizedearlier by the Government and that the Government waswatching them. So the Ninth Circuit's ruling in Cruzmeant that what the Government had argued in the firstcase no longer was sufficient to support conspiracy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC liability.QUESTION: Is -- is there a temporal componentto your argument? If the initial defendants had beenarrested and detained for a month and then they got aroundto the sting operation, would it still be a conspiracy, ordoes it lapse after some reasonable time? MR. DREEBEN: It doesn't lapse through a periodof time, Justice Kennedy. What could cause the conspiracyto end is the conspirators' wholly abandoning pursuit ofthe objectives of the conspiracy. In other words, if allof the conspirators on the outside -- those who were inArizona on the sending end and those who were on Idaho onthe delivery end -- had all concluded that something hasgone wrong with this shipment, the drugs have disappeared,they could have abandoned the narrowest version of theconspiracy --QUESTION: But so long as one of the enddelivery people didn't know about it and thought that thedrugs were still on the way, he could continue to recruitpeople and so forth even if the principals had been injail for a month and the drugs had been seized for amonth?MR. DREEBEN: Well, the people who were in jailwere the couriers, not the principals. QUESTION: Well, let's -- let's -- all right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But even those -- some couriers had -- had been in jail. MR. DREEBEN: Correct, because so long as thoseindividuals who are involved in the conspiracy are stilltrying to accomplish its objective, the conspiracy isstill alive. And as the -- as in the case of theGovernment sting where there's never any drugs in theoutset, the conspiracy is impossible as a matter of factfor the conspirators to successfully accomplish. But ifit is accepted that that can be a crime, where there's aGovernment sting at the outset, then surely theGovernment's intervention in midstream doesn'tautomatically terminate the conspiracy as a matter of law,which is what the Ninth Circuit held. QUESTION: Mr. --QUESTION: But explain again what you mean now? If, instead of cocaine, it had been powdered sugar, canthere be a conspiracy conviction? MR. DREEBEN: Justice O'Connor, it would dependon whether the powdered sugar is supplied by theGovernment under the representation that it is cocaine, orwhether the defendants are actually seeking to movepowdered sugar knowing that they are seeking to movepowdered sugar. QUESTION: No. They think they're -- they havea load of cocaine and that was their intent, but th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unbeknownst to them, it's powdered sugar. MR. DREEBEN: Liability. Because the -- thequestion of conspiracy liability is judged by what theactor perceives to be the facts. QUESTION: How is that different from anagreement to receive stolen goods and then we find outthe -- goods are not stolen? That's -- that's notactionable I -- I had thought. MR. DREEBEN: Well, it is the same, JusticeKennedy, and -- and the uniform position in the Federalcourts is that it is. That would be a mistake of fact,and when the conspirators or the person who's attemptingto commit a crime has the intent to commit a crime andtakes a substantial step for it, the fact that unbeknownstto him some aspect of the universe is such that he can'tcomplete the crime does not defeat the accomplishment ofthe objective. QUESTION: Well, if -- for a conspiracyconviction, I mean, because the whole -- the whole purposeis to prevent people banding together for wicked purposes,but if -- if there's no conspiracy involved and he'smistaken in the fact, I assume there's no crime. MR. DREEBEN: No. The -- the modern rule,Justice Scalia, is that there is a crime. In thiscountry, the earliest case that addressed it and the case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that all of us are familiar with from law school is Peopleversus Jaffe, a New York Court of Appeals case from . And that case did, indeed, hold -- as Justice Kennedy hasdescribed it -- that if the person is receiving what hebelieves to be stolen goods and the goods are not stolen,he is not liable. But the modern focus on attempt law is on theintent of the actor to commit an illegal act, and the factthat unbeknownst to him there are circumstances thatprevent him from accomplishing the completed crime doesnot defeat his liability for an attempt. In other words, attempt law and conspiracy lawhave, to an extent, converged on the policy that theimportance of inchoate crimes is to get at dangerousactors. QUESTION: What case would you cite to us forthis notion under attempt law? Is -- is there anythingfrom this Court? MR. DREEBEN: There -- the only thing that thereis from this Court, Justice O'Connor, are two opinionsthat have addressed the obstruction of justice statute,Osborn versus United States and United States versusAguilar. In both of those cases, the Court was dealingwith a statute that didn't use the word attempt. It usedthe word endeavor. And the Court made quite clear that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the impossibility of the defendant accomplishing theobjective of his crime doesn't defeat liability. In Osborn, it was an individual who wasattempting to bribe a juror. Unbeknownst to him, theintermediary, who he was using to pay the bribe, wasworking with the FBI. And of course, the bribe was notgoing to be paid. The juror was not going to becorrupted. And yet, the Court held that an endeavor tocommit the crime is punishable.QUESTION: Does the Model -- Model Penal Codetake a position on this? MR. DREEBEN: Yes. The Model Penal Code goesvery far in the direction of the intent-based focus ofattempt law and conspiracy law. In the Model Penal Code,there is no defense for impossibility of any kind, fact orlaw. What the Model Penal Code does, however, isallow, in certain extreme cases that it wasn't able tocraft a principle for, a power to a judge to either reducethe grade of a crime or to dismiss it. And the Model Penal Code was thinking abouthypotheticals which have not come up in any cases that --that anyone has actually found, such as where anindividual believes that he can kill through incantationsand voodoo and sets about to do so. Under an orthodox, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC doctrinaire approach to principles of attempt law, thatindividual has the intent to kill, and has carried out asubstantial step. Many commentators have said that shouldnot occasion liability because it's inherently impossiblethat the actor will achieve his goal and in reality thatperson is probably not a dangerous individual who warrantspunishment. QUESTION: Well, what -- what's the differencebetween being inherently impossible and the other kinds ofimpossibility? MR. DREEBEN: Only a matter of degree, Mr. ChiefJustice, and for that reason, the Model Penal Coderejected a legal rule that would carve out inherentimpossibility and said that it's really something thatshould go to whether a judge should reduce the grade of acrime or dismiss it. Our position is that that sort of --QUESTION: Okay -- or dismiss it. They -- theyjust leave it up to the judge? It's a crime or notdepending upon -- is there any other instance where theModel Penal Code does this sort of thing? MR. DREEBEN: I don't know if there are anyother instances where the Model Penal Code does it, butour position is that the sounder approach is to --QUESTION: Extraordinary. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: -- leave those cases in the handsof prosecutorial discretion and the common sense ofjuries. The fact is that there really are nohypotheticals in real cases that resemble the killer byincantation. QUESTION: What did the Ninth Circuit rely on inUnited States versus Cruz? If -- if the law is as uniformas you say it is, what -- what did they rely on? Theymust have relied on something. MR. DREEBEN: The Ninth Circuit, I believe, madea -- a linguistic mistake. There are an abundance ofcases that say that a conspiracy ends when its goal iseither accomplished or defeated, and those cases, read incontext, mean that if the conspirators actually abandontheir efforts to complete the crime, or all of them arearrested and they're in custody and they're really not ina position to go forward anymore, the conspiracy ends atthat point. And frequently that sort of a determination ismade for purposes of the admission of co-conspiratorstatements under (d)()(E). You want to know whetherthe conspiracy is alive so you can determine whether toadmit post-arrest statements by one conspirator againstanother conspirator. And in those cases, it makes perfectsense to say that the conspiracy ended when all of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC co-conspirators are arrested and have given up. The Ninth Circuit took that language -- thelanguage referring to the defeat of the object of theconspiracy -- and took it literally, and the effect was tocreate a defense of factual impossibility. And the courtactually used those words. It was factually impossiblefor the conspirators to complete their crime. Therefore,the conspiracy was over as a matter of law. QUESTION: Is it the case -- four conspirators,A, B, C, D. A is arrested, out on bail. A makes a fewstatements which are overheard. Can you admit thathearsay against B, C, D, who are later found?MR. DREEBEN: It all depends, Justice Breyer, onwhether --QUESTION: I thought they couldn't. MR. DREEBEN: -- on whether he's stillattempting to achieve the goal of the conspiracy. Thereare a -- a number --QUESTION: You say, would -- in that --normally -- normally a person who's arrested, that endsthe conspiracy as to that person, doesn't it, at leastnormally? MR. DREEBEN: Well, not -- not necessarily,Justice Breyer. In this case, for example, one of the twoarrested couriers, Sotelo, reportedly told Arce, the other th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC arrested co-conspirator, that they should both tell a lieto the authorities and then try to escape. I mean,that --QUESTION: No, I'm not thinking of that. I'mthinking it is an -- there -- there is no reason tothink -- all we know about him is he's arrested and hehappens to mention something to a neighbor that hasnothing to do -- who has nothing to do with theconspiracy. This statement is not made in furtherance ofany conspiracy.MR. DREEBEN: Correct. QUESTION: It's simply made after A is arrested. As far as we know, A has nothing further to do with it.MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. So long as thestatement isn't made in furtherance --QUESTION: But -- that shows -- in other words,that shows what? That shows that although the conspiracyin your view continues -- B, C, D -- but A has withdrawn? Is that what it shows? MR. DREEBEN: No. What it may show is that thestatement wasn't made in furtherance of the conspiracy. If he's simply talking to his neighbor, it may not bedoing anything to carry out the aims of the conspiracy. If, on the other hand --QUESTION: Inadmissible, in other words, even if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC A has never been arrested? MR. DREEBEN: Right. The statement to beadmitted as a statement of a co-conspirator must be bothduring the course of and in furtherance of the conspiracy. So to continue your hypothetical, if you suppose thatA comes out, and then tries to communicate throughintermediaries that he knows where the drugs are and thatpeople should take efforts to secrete them before theauthorities seize them, then that statement could beadmitted as a co-conspirator's declaration.QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben, could we just clarifythis particular case? Why the -- the date of the thwhen the two people involved -- the proof as to them goesonly from the next day on? And why the -- theirconspiracy starts the day that the drugs are seized. Right?MR. DREEBEN: Correct. QUESTION: Although the larger conspiracy thatthey're part of began presumably much before that. MR. DREEBEN: Actually, I -- I think the -- theway the case comes to this Court, the involvement of thetwo couriers begins on November th, the day after thedrugs are seized, when they're recruited.QUESTION: Yes, but they're charged with aconspiracy dating from the th. Is that right? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: That's right. That's right. QUESTION: Although they don't enter the pictureuntil the th. MR. DREEBEN: As the case comes to this Court,that's right. When -- when the case was charged, theparties weren't focusing on Cruz and the case was justcharged in the way conspiracies normally are; namely, thegrand jury alleges that the conspiracy came into existenceby a particular date when it could be certain that it didcome into existence. It may have come into existenceearlier, and the grand jury's charge says from a dateuncertain, but at least by November , there was aconspiracy in place and the following four individualswere -- are to be charged as co-conspirators, plus othersunknown to the grand jury. Now, in light of the way the facts actuallypanned out at -- at the trial, and given the holdings ofthe Ninth Circuit that the Government failed to provepre-seizure involvement on the part of the respondentcouriers, the indictment might have more accurately beenwritten to say that on November th, at least, aconspiracy was formed, and by November th therespondents joined it. The --QUESTION: Could the Government have charged aseparate, second conspiracy if it had chosen to do so? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. DREEBEN: I don't think so, Justice Kennedy,because the crucial aspect of a conspiracy and a defining,limiting principle is the scope of the nature of theagreement. Courts have worked out a multi-factor test todetermine whether you have one agreement or twoagreements. And it focuses not on literal identity ofmembership or complete chronological co-existence of theparticipation of each conspirator, but whether there's acommon agreement which each is seeking to advance forwardin his own way and whether the excess of one is dependenton the efforts of the others. Now, in this case, construed most narrowly, theindictment alleges a conspiracy to move drugs, staring inPhoenix, Arizona, through Las Vegas, and all the way up toIdaho and then perhaps beyond that. That is theconspiracy in which respondents were involved assubstitute couriers brought in to move the truck from theKarcher Mall in Idaho to its ultimate destination. That'sthe same conspiracy that existed at the outset. Theoriginal couriers, had they not been arrested, would havecompleted the trip. So what you have is one commonagreement in which all participants are working to achievethe same goal, and there is only a switch of two members,the two couriers, midstream --QUESTION: But you were going back to -- I think th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you hadn't completed your answer to why it's okay thateven though the proof as to these two defendants starts onthe th, not on the th, it's okay to have theindictment say they were participants from the th. MR. DREEBEN: Justice Ginsburg, if you read theindictment as alleging that they were involved on the thand we didn't show that they were involved until theth -- and as the case comes to this Court, that's whatwe showed -- you have a variance between the allegationsof the indictment and the proof at trial. And the settledlaw on variances is that it is no defense for a defendantif the proof varies from the conspiracy charged in theindictment so long as the conspiracy that's proved up iswithin the scope of the indictment, a lesser includedconspiracy, so to speak, and the defendants suffer noprejudice from the variation. Now, in this case, everyone knew from the outsetthat the centerpiece of the Government's proof againstrespondents was going to be the observation of themdriving up after the call was placed to the Arizonasupplier of the drugs and getting into the truck anddriving the truck away down the highway in Idaho,following which they were stopped and gave completelyunbelievable stories about what they were doing drivingaround with a truck filled with drugs. There was no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC prejudice to the defendants in defending against aconspiracy that was proved up based on the events ofthe th because those events were always going to be atthe heart of the Government's proof that they were liable. So absent a showing of prejudice, the variance between theallegations of the indictment and the proof at trial doesnot warrant any relief. QUESTION: But your -- your principal argumentis not in response to variance. It's simply that onthe th they became -- excuse me -- they became part of aconspiracy that had begun at least by the th.MR. DREEBEN: That's correct. QUESTION: That's -- that's the essence of yourposition. MR. DREEBEN: That's -- the essence of ourargument is that -- and the Ninth Circuit in ruling thatthe evidence was insufficient did not rely on principlesof variance or principles of multiple conspiracies or anyother fact-based, record-based analysis that would showthat the Government didn't prove the conspiracy alleged inthe indictment. What the Ninth Circuit relied on was its holdingin Cruz which is that a conspiracy ends when theGovernment intervenes and renders its completionimpossible. And the Ninth Circuit, therefore, reasoned th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that respondents could not have joined the conspiracyalleged in the indictment because that conspiracy was, asa factual matter, over. Accordingly, the only way on theNinth Circuit's view that the Government could win thiscase is if the Government showed that respondents joinedthe conspiracy before the seizure of the drugs, or if theywere involved in a broader conspiracy that involved otherdrugs. Only under those two assumptions did the NinthCircuit think that the Government could prevail. And the Ninth Circuit held that the evidence wasnot sufficient to prove either of those otherconspiratorial activities. It never questioned that theevidence was overwhelming to prove a conspiracy toparticipate in the distribution of drugs on November th,when respondents showed up and got in the truck. And because the Ninth Circuit was wrong in itsholding that a conspiracy terminates when it becomesfactually impossible of accomplishment, the rest of itsanalysis also crumbles. I'd like to save the remainder of my time forrebuttal. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dreeben. Mr. Shurtliff, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF M. KARL SHURTLIFFON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHURTLIFF: Mr. Chief Justice, may it pleasethe Court, counsel:Mr. Sullivan and I expect that we were notinvited here to argue our view that the case below wasdecided on the sufficiency of the evidence question. However, having said that, we would not wish to have ittaken that we abandon that argument. Mr. Chief Justice, a number of the questionsposed seemed to go to the heart of what this case isabout. Justice Stevens asked, what was the conspiracythat survived? The Government argues at length in the brief andhere today that -- notwithstanding the charge in theindictment and the trial of this case below -- that byNovember th, , Mr. Recio and Mr. Lopez-Mesa could becharged with the crime. The fact of the matter is, isthat the indictment framed what this case was about byNovember th. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Shurtliff, the onlyquestion presented in the petition for certiorari iswhether a conspiracy ends as a matter of law when theGovernment frustrates its objective. Now is -- is -- arewhat you're about to say going to deal with that question?MR. SHURTLIFF: It is, Mr. Chief Justice,because that's the argument that the Government makes that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we should not sustain the Ninth Circuit decision in thiscase as framed by Judge Browning who formulated thedecision. QUESTION: Well, but the Government formulatedthe question here. MR. SHURTLIFF: I -- I understand that,Mr. Chief Justice, and -- and we do speak to that. The -- the question was posed, What conspiracysurvives, and I'm suggesting that no conspiracy survived,and that the answer is, is that the Government framed thecase as they would have it and that the issues that theGovernment talks about here today and in their brief atlength as to when the -- these two late-comers to theconspiracy enter -- came into it -- obscures that notion.Your Honor -- or Mr. Chief Justice, the -- thequestion posited in the -- in the petition for certiorari,with all due respect, I don't think has been really arguedhere much today by the Government. The -- the question iscorrectly whether a conspiracy ends as a matter of lawwhen the Government frustrates its objective. That is taken from the formulation of formerChief Judge Browning in this case below that he -- allthey said was -- in describing the case here and referringback to Cruz -- in Cruz we ruled that a defendant couldnot be charged with conspiracy to distribute illegal drugs th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC when the defendant was brought into the drug scheme onlyafter the law enforcement authorities had alreadyintervened and defendant's involvement was prompted bythat intervention. The Ninth Circuit didn't say that this was animpossibility case, that it was impossible for theconspiracy to continue as to other people. What the NinthCircuit said in that case was in these circumstances -- inthese limited circumstances, in Cruz and in Recio -- thatgiven the Government intervention in the objective of theconspiracy, given the Government intervention and theinvitation after that to join the conspiracy by Recio andLopez, that they couldn't join the conspiracy. It was anew --QUESTION: Why would impossibility caused by theGovernment be any different from impossibility caused bysomebody else? You -- you want to reframe -- you -- youthink that we could answer this question no, but stillfind for your clients because this is not justimpossibility simpliciter, this is impossibility producedby the Government. MR. SHURTLIFF: I think, Mr. Justice Scalia,that you could answer the question no and still find forour clients because this is not the case. This is not whythey were -- the Ninth Circuit reversed their convictions. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The --QUESTION: There wasn't impossibility at all?MR. SHURTLIFF: There wasn't impossibility.QUESTION: What was it? MR. SHURTLIFF: It was termination. Theyadded -- typically and historically --QUESTION: Well, why was it terminated? It wasterminated -- people didn't write notes to each othersaying, you know, Let's call off the conspiracy. It wasterminated, the Ninth Circuit found, because its objectwas no longer possible. I thought that's why they foundit had terminated. MR. SHURTLIFF: The object, Mr. Justice Scalia,was -- was frustrated by the Government intervention. The --QUESTION: But the Government's position isthere's only two ways a conspiracy can end. One we knowis not this case. They didn't succeed. The other, theGovernment says, is that the conspirators have to abandonit, not that it becomes -- there's an impediment to itscompletion, but abandonment by one person, if shewithdraws from the conspiracy and tells the police, forexample, or tells the co-conspirators. But animpediment -- another impediment -- doesn't stop theconspiracy from persisting. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And the Ninth Circuit I thought pretty clearlysaid, Yes, it does, and that -- wasn't there rather sharpdisagreement among the Ninth Circuit judges over this? They didn't treat it as a question of sufficiency of theevidence. MR. SHURTLIFF: Indeed, Justice Ginsburg, therewas sharp disagreement. Justice -- Judge O'Scannlain andeight other members of the court dissented from the -- notgranting the rehearing en banc. However, what -- the point I seek to make, notvery well, apparently -- is -- is that what the courtbelow did not say was that it was impossible to have aconspiracy, but that they added to abandonment andaccomplishment a new ability to frustrate or end theconspiracy. That is Government -- and -- and narrowly. Government intervention that frustrates its objective andthat Government intervention invited the new participantsinto it. And Justice Ginsburg, you -- you inquired as towhat -- or, Justice O'Connor, as to the -- as to the --what the Model Penal Code might say about that. And Iwould suggest that in that regard, Wharton, in describingthat, said -- suggests that the Model Penal court -- Codesuggests the position that if the conduct is, quote, "soinherently unlikely to result or culminate in the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC commission of a crime that no public danger is presentedwarranting defendant's punishment as a conspirator." And I think that's what the Ninth Circuit wassaying in this case, that if we look at this historicalpurposes of conspiracy -- and the Government has welltraversed that in its briefs and its reply brief -- thatthe gist, the gravamen of a conspiracy is thecombination that -- to agree to do something. Mr. Justice Kennedy, you inquired whether to dosomething that's not illegal is -- can be a conspiracy,and I suggest that that -- that's part of what brings ushere is the confusion as to when you can and cannot andought not have a conspiracy. QUESTION: Well --QUESTION: But there -- there is a public dangerpresented by people who band together to rob a bank evenwhen there is no money in the bank. It's utterlyimpossible. Right? That -- that's quite different fromthe -- the unquestionable fact that there's no publicdanger presented by people who band together to cursesomebody with -- with a voodoo doll. You can say, well,you know, That's a harmless conspiracy, but a conspiracyto rob a bank is not harmless. These are bad people, andif they don't do this bank, they may do another bank. Now, you acknowledge that that is a conspiracy th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC even though there -- a criminal conspiracy even thoughthere's no money in the bank. Right? MR. SHURTLIFF: Indeed, Justice Scalia. QUESTION: But you say it does -- it is not acriminal conspiracy if the reason there is no money in --in the bank is that the Government has removed the moneyfrom the bank knowing that there's going to be a -- abreak-in?MR. SHURTLIFF: There would be no conspiracy ifthe Government had intervened in that conspiracy early onand the involvement of the participants charged was onlyas a result of that involvement. QUESTION: So if the Government took the moneyout of the bank, that would be different than if there wasjust no money there from the outset. MR. SHURTLIFF: I'd think not, Mr. JusticeScalia. I think the -- the question would be what the --what the participants who were engaged to participatein -- in the robbing of the bank thought. QUESTION: They -- well, in both cases theythought there was money in the bank. In one case, theywere wrong because there was never money in the bank. Itwas a blood bank. Okay?(Laughter.) MR. SHURTLIFF: And -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: In the second case, there was nomoney in the bank because the Government, anticipatinga -- a robbery, had removed it. And you say that there'ssomething different about the second case.MR. SHURTLIFF: I -- I don't think there'sanything different, Justice Scalia --QUESTION: Okay. I don't think so either. QUESTION: Then what is your reason? I'm justtrying to get -- A, B, C, and D form a conspiracy todeprive a person of civil rights, to rob a bank, to commitan act of terrorism, whatever. They do it on January . On March -- in March, a Government agent infiltrates. Nowit'll fail. In April three more people join. All right?Now, why should the law not be those threepeople are just as guilty as anybody else? MR. SHURTLIFF: Mr. Justice Breyer, they can be,and they ought to be depending on the facts of the case,and that's why the --QUESTION: The facts of the case are just what Isaid. Now what? MR. SHURTLIFF: I think -- I think they'reguilt -- they -- I think they -- they're in on theconspiracy.QUESTION: You think they're guilty. Okay.MR. SHURTLIFF: They're guilty of the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC conspiracy. QUESTION: They're guilty and they joinedafter --MR. SHURTLIFF: Whether they're guilty or not isanother question. QUESTION: No, no. I'm -- all the facts arejust as I say. So, they're guilty, and now what they did is,after all, join it after the infiltration of theGovernment agent made it absolutely certain there would beno success. All right. Now, how is that different than thefacts before us? MR. SHURTLIFF: Because the facts before us arethat these two individuals joined at the behest of theGovernment, and that they were charged and tried foractivity before the date of November th, . Theywere -- the -- the Government's focus on this case wasnarrow. They weren't charged. And one of thequestions --QUESTION: Now -- now I take -- you say, numberone, you take my hypothetical and say, but the Government-- what did the Government do that was different from thehypothetical? The Government --MR. SHURTLIFF: Intervened. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Intervened. Yes, I got that. MR. SHURTLIFF: Frustrated. QUESTION: They joined it. MR. SHURTLIFF: They frustrated the objective ofthe conspiracy --QUESTION: That's true in my hypothetical too. Now what? MR. SHURTLIFF: And then they encouraged theparticipation by their intervention of the --QUESTION: Oh, they led. I see. The Governmentled my three extra people to join. MR. SHURTLIFF: Indeed. QUESTION: So you're saying it's like anentrapment. MR. SHURTLIFF: It's -- it's similar to, butdifferent --QUESTION: No, no. It's not quite as strong asan entrapment. So what you're argument is, is that wherethe Government has joined, thereby frustrating theobjective, and in addition brings about the circumstancesthrough which the later membership, A, B -- of my threeextra people take place, that's close enough toentrapment, plus the fact that the conspiracy can'texceed -- can't succeed. Put those two things togetherand you have grounds for not convicting. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SHURTLIFF: And you have --QUESTION: Is that the argument? MR. SHURTLIFF: And you have this case,Mr. Justice Breyer. QUESTION: And all right, and you have thiscase. But -- so it's like a -- a mix. It's like animpossibility/entrapment mix. That's the argument. MR. SHURTLIFF: Well, I -- I'm not --QUESTION: I'm not ridiculing the argument. I'mtrying to understand it. It's a -- it's an interestingargument. QUESTION: Is that what the Ninth Circuit said? That -- this argument you're making -- is that the basison which the Ninth Circuit held that this -- thisconviction couldn't stand? I thought it was just simply, you know, whetherthey were enticed in or not. The mere fact that -- themere fact that it was no longer possible to execute the --the conspiracy was enough. MR. SHURTLIFF: Mr. Justice -- or JusticeScalia, I -- I don't think that they got to the notion ofentrapment or enticement, and -- and that's -- I thinkthat -- and so I can't say that -- that that's part of thepredicate for how they got where they got -- went in thiscase. I think they focused on the Government intervention th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and the Government involvement without calling it thetypical terms of entrapment --QUESTION: It relied on Cruz, and in Cruz itsaid it extends -- the court said it extends conspiracyliability beyond reasonable limits to say that itcontinues when the product can no longer be delivered andall that remains is for a new recruit to be added. But there is no reason given for that in -- inCruz. There must be some legal doctrine that it restsupon. Impossibility or entrapment are the -- are the twocategories that we know. MR. SHURTLIFF: I --QUESTION: This is something else. I --MR. SHURTLIFF: Mr. Justice Kennedy, I think --I think the question was similarly asked to -- to theGovernment, and I -- I would probably agree with theiranswer. I think they relied on Castro, a predecessor casefrom the Ninth Circuit, and then they relied on anothercase. I think what happened -- I don't know -- was isthat -- like many of us, the more you study the area ofconspiracy, I think the more confused you get. And Ithink that's what Justice Jackson was talking about, and Iwould urge that we consider what he said because I think they -- they blended in and it's different -- it's hard to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dichotomize between impossibility and termination andmultiple --QUESTION: Well, I don't -- I don't know what'sconfusing about having people with a criminal intentwho -- who join a conspiracy with the intent to violatethe law being called conspirators. That's not -- itdoesn't sound like rocket science to me. MR. SHURTLIFF: But, Mr. Justice Kennedy, the --the -- in Cruz, he was invited to join the conspiracyafter -- only after -- the Government was sitting therewith the drugs and he was a late recruit to the process. He wasn't an early conspirator. In this case, thesepersons were invited to join only after the Government hadfully intervened. They could have stopped it then. Theonly activity was to get new recruits. And what the Ninth Circuit said in both cases --they didn't say they couldn't be charged with a newconspiracy. They could have been charged with it. Indeed, they left that open in both Cruz and here. Theycould have been charged in a new conspiracy for theactivities that they engaged in. QUESTION: Well, you think that thisdefendant -- these defendants could have been charged in anew conspiracy? It seems that -- that undercuts yourargument. I thought the whole purpose of this argument th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was to have some reasonable confines on how long aconspiracy can exist after everybody knows it's not goingto go forward. And now you say there was a secondconspiracy that could have been charged? MR. SHURTLIFF: I think they could have beencharged with a second conspiracy starting on the th. They weren't charged. I -- I --QUESTION: Mr. Dreeben said that was a variancewhether it was the -- they joined on the th or the th. The question is what did they join, and why should it makea difference?MR. SHURTLIFF: It should --QUESTION: If these defendants didn't know therehad been any seizure, why should it -- why should theirguilt turn on that factor? As far as they're concerned,this is a truck that has gotten by the Government'ssurveillance. MR. SHURTLIFF: Justice Ginsburg, the -- thequestion of variance is another one of those little thingsthat pop up and confuse some of us. But the issue in this case, there was novariance because the Government said, we indict you foractivity by November th, . The prosecutor stoodbefore the jury in his opening and his closing. Theinstructions all went to the issue, We will show that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC these persons were engaged in this activity for either asingle load -- the load at issue -- or that they weremembers of a larger conspiracy before November th, .QUESTION: But that's not --MR. SHURTLIFF: That's not variance. QUESTION: -- that's -- that's not part of thequestion before this Court. The question before thisCourt is whether a conspiracy ends as a matter of law whenthe Government frustrates its objective. And whetherthere might be some other grounds that the Ninth Circuitmight have decided it on, that is not before us.MR. SHURTLIFF: And as to that issue, Mr. ChiefJustice, as we said it in our briefs and I said it in mybrief specifically, I believe, that the policy that's comedown through the -- through the -- conspiracy is not thatold -- that there is no good reason why the answer to thatquestion ought not be yes, that a -- that a -- it isterminated as absolutely as if the conspiracy wereabandoned or if it were accomplished because there is nogood -- there is no chance of it being successful. There's no chance of the unified activity creating thedangers that we speak of and -- when we're -- when we'retrying to combat conspiracy. QUESTION: And that -- and that would follow --that would also be true if the project was impossible from th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the outset. Right? That -- I mean, that's what I don'tunderstand. You -- you say if -- if they enter in a --into a conspiracy to rob a bank in which there is nomoney, that can be prosecuted. Right? MR. SHURTLIFF: It has been, Mr. --QUESTION: Well, I know it has been, you say. But it can -- but it can be. MR. SHURTLIFF: Surely. Surely.QUESTION: Well, why doesn't that violate yourprinciple? You say there's no harm done there either.There is just as -- just as much no concrete harm thatcould have been done there except the harm of wickedpeople banding together, which is what -- what the crimeof conspiracy is directed against. Why should it make anydifferent -- difference whether the impossibility existsfrom the outset, or whether -- whether it -- it occurslater in the scheme. What -- why does that make anydifference? MR. SHURTLIFF: I think it probably should notmake much difference --QUESTION: No, I don't think so. MR. SHURTLIFF: -- in a lot of cases, but Ithink each case is fact-specific, Mr. Justice Scalia. AndI think in this case you have to look at what was charged,what was tried, and what the conspiracy was about. And -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: May I ask? Are the -- are theinstructions to the jury in the papers before us? MR. SHURTLIFF: I'm not real -- I'm not -- I'mnot really sure, Mr. Justice Stevens.QUESTION: Yes.MR. SHURTLIFF: The -- the -- we didn't do anexcerpt for the record. I think it's in the petition forcertiorari. QUESTION: The instructions are in the petition?MR. SHURTLIFF: Some of them are referred to. Idon't know that we've listed -- I don't think all of theinstructions are in the record here. The -- the instruction as to the conspiracy. And that's how it was charged that it -- that they had tobelong before or after -- before and not after. The --QUESTION: It says that the conspiracy began onor about that date, but then it says the defendants becamemember. It doesn't say the date the defendants becamemember.QUESTION: Why don't you proceed with yourargument? MR. SHURTLIFF: Thank -- thank you.The issues here raise difficult questions. Thewhole area of conspiracy raises difficult questions of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC interpretation and -- and law. I suggest, and we suggestthat the decision below is not as far-reaching as it mightotherwise appear, that Justice Browning formulated aresult in this case that's much narrower than what we'reabout. But on the other hand, having said that, andbeing here, the question is whether the Governmentintervention in these circumstances, in these extantcircumstances, ought end the opportunity and the abilityto join a conspiracy. We simply urge that frustration ofthe purpose of the -- by the Government -- invitation tojoin by the Government in these circumstances is no lessor is no more in keeping with the termination of theconspiracy than would be had they -- some of the peopleabandoned the conspiracy or had it been accomplished.The Government argues that the answer to thisquestion, if we answered it in the affirmative, wouldraise havoc with our ability to prosecute these kinds ofcases. We would suggest that that's not the instancehere. Here in -- here and in Cruz, as near as we cantell, Cruz has been cited once; this case not at all. It's not a set of circumstances that are likely to reoccuroften or with great --QUESTION: Suppose in this -- suppose in thiscase the truck had been apprehended in Arizona, and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC neither of the participants at that point cooperated withthe police except to tell the police that theirinstructions were to drive the truck to a certain place. Then without any Government intervention in calling Recioand his buddy -- Recio and -- and his co-defendant show upwithout any Government intervention. So we have theGovernment seizure, just as you do in this case, but thescenario plays out just as it was arranged without anyGovernment intervention. In that case, would you say thatthe -- that the conspiracy continued and these people areproperly prosecuted? MR. SHURTLIFF: Yes.QUESTION: May I ask --MR. SHURTLIFF: But that's not what happenedhere. The -- the -- they were intercepted --QUESTION: You're making it turn on theGovernment having a part in bringing in the latecomers.MR. SHURTLIFF: And -- and I -- I retreat againto the -- what they were charged with and what theindictment was and what they -- that we will prove thatthey were involved by November th, . We will provethat. That's what this case is about. That's what theykept saying and they argued that throughout. Now, here they want to suggest that -- that bygoing to the th, it provokes no prejudice on the part of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the defendants. That's not the case they were chargedwith. That's not the case that was tried below. And so,in your hypothetical, Justice Ginsburg, I think yes, butthere was no involvement and -- and depending on how theywere charged. And I --QUESTION: Counsel, it -- it looks like theinstruction to the jury said that a defendant may only befound guilty of the conspiracy charged in the indictmentif he joined the conspiracy at a time when it was possibleto achieve the objective of that conspiracy. Was that theinstruction given them? MR. SHURTLIFF: It was, Justice O'Connor. QUESTION: So that means the jury must havefound that -- that there was evidence sufficient to saythey joined before the impossibility occurred.MR. SHURTLIFF: Indeed. QUESTION: Did the Government object to thatinstruction, do you know? MR. SHURTLIFF: No. The Government supportedthat, Mr. Justice Stevens. QUESTION: What should happen if the trial judgefaithfully followed Cruz? And under Cruz, the jury shouldnot have found him liable, but we say that Cruz is wrong. Does it still have to go back for a new trial? Because the -- on page a of the appendix, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC instructions seem to say that -- one of two things. Youcan only find him guilty of the conspiracy if he joined itprior to : a.m. on November th. On the other hand,if you find there's a larger conspiracy, you can find himguilty, but that larger conspiracy must be to distributeother drugs than those that were seized. So I -- Isuppose the proof doesn't support either of thoseconspiracies. MR. SHURTLIFF: And -- and that, Mr. JusticeKennedy, is what the Ninth Circuit said, that it doesn'tsupport either the single load --QUESTION: What happens if we think thisinstruction was wrong? Under the evidence, the defendantsshould have been convicted, and that Cruz is wrong. Do westill have to send it back? MR. SHURTLIFF: I think, Mr. Justice Kennedy,you send it back to the Ninth Circuit for a determinationwhether, but for a decision that Cruz is incorrectlyapplied in the facts in this case, would the decisionbelow remain the same. And I suggest, with all due respect to theGovernment's position in this case, that the -- that itcould be concluded that notwithstanding the application ofCruz in the Ninth Circuit below, that the decision of theNinth Circuit could by -- almost by redacting it, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC eliminating the references to Cruz -- come to the sameconclusion. The evidence was just simply insufficient tosustain the conviction for either the single load or themulti-load before November th.QUESTION: Of course --QUESTION: Assuming Cruz is right. AssumingCruz is right.QUESTION: I'm assuming Cruz is wrong, and thenit would seem to me the evidence is fully sufficient toconvict if Cruz is wrong because it doesn't make anydifference if they joined it before or after : a.m. onthe th.QUESTION: Can I ask another question? Isthere -- is it conceivable that the jury found that theevidence after the impossibility was sufficient to sustainthe verdict? Because they weren't asked to find that. I mean, I don't -- as I understand Mr. Dreeben'sargument, there was plenty of evidence later on, that theyjoined the -- they joined an ongoing conspiracy, but thecharge didn't ask them to find that, as I -- maybeMr. Dreeben will comment on it in his rebuttal. I --MR. SHURTLIFF: I -- I think that's entirelycorrect, Justice Stevens. The -- the jury wasn't asked tofind that, and the -- and the Government was very carefulin the way they tried this case. We will show you that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC by, and the whole case was by. In the Ninth Circuit, theissue was whether by that date the indictment and the --and the trial. The -- if -- if Cruz is -- if Cruz is wrong, thequestion would still be whether these persons entered intoa conspiracy. QUESTION: And had you raised that furtherquestion in the Ninth Circuit? In other words, did you goto the Ninth Circuit and say, Apply Cruz, period, or didyou go to the Ninth Circuit with other reasons?MR. SHURTLIFF: Mr. Justice -- or JusticeSouter, we -- we went to the Ninth Circuit with -- withother reasons because the court --QUESTION: Okay.MR. SHURTLIFF: -- in the instructions thatwe've read did apply Cruz, and everybody was satisfied --QUESTION: I just wanted to know whether -- Ijust wanted to know whether you had raised anything beyonda Cruz point, and the answer is yes, okay. MR. SHURTLIFF: The sufficiency of the evidence,ineffective -- there were several issues raised and -- anddecided. The Government suggests that if we allow thisdecision to stand, that it would cause irreparable injuryand damage to the ability of the Government to prosecute th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC crime, to catch people who are miscreants, and that itwould make inordinately difficult the choices of theprosecutor in determining what and how to charge. Wewould suggest simply that that's the obligation of theprosecutors now. Cruz doesn't add any burdens to theprosecutorial responsibility. Thank you. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Shurtliff.Mr. Dreeben, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF MICHAEL R. DREEBENON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DREEBEN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:To address the jury instruction issue first, thejury in this case was instructed in accordance with therequirements of Cruz, and therefore, the jury was asked tofind whether there was evidence of respondents'involvement in the conspiracy before the seizure of thedrugs or, alternatively, whether they were involved in abroader conspiracy, not limited to the drugs that wereseized. At pages through of our reply brief at thepetition stage, we addressed the consequences of whathappens if this Court should conclude that the Cruz legalrule is incorrect. And in essence, our position is that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC any rational jury that found guilt under the Cruzinstructions also would have found that respondents wereinvolved in a conspiracy to distribute the very drugs thatthey drove to the Karcher Mall to pick up. That was thecenterpiece of the Government's evidence, that respondentswere involved in a conspiracy, and the fact that the jurymay have found that respondents were involved in a longerconspiracy, or in other conspiracies wouldn't detract fromthe rationality of its necessarily concluding that therespondents were also involved in this conspiracy. Even if this Court didn't agree with thatrationale or chose not to reach it, it's important to notethat the effect of the Ninth Circuit's holding is to findinsufficient evidence to prove the crime charged in theindictment. That doesn't leave the Government with theoption of pursuing a new trial on correct instructionswith the Cruz findings purged from them. It would meanthat respondents have permanent immunity from the crimethat's charged in the indictment. If this Court were toconclude that Cruz is wrong, and either this Court or theNinth Circuit also concluded that the jury instructionssomehow prejudiced the defendants, the remedy would be anew trial. It is also important, I believe, to note thatthe -- the principle that the Ninth Circuit has adopted th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would go contrary to what this Court has noted about theevolution of conspiracies. In a case called Blumenthalversus United States, which we did not cite in our briefs,but it appears at U.S. , the Court noted thatconspiracies involving elaborate arrangements generallyare not born full-grown. Rather, they mature bysuccessive stages which are necessary to bring in theessential parties. And in this case, two essential parties werebrought in not at the inception of the conspiracy, butafter events that the conspirators were aware of requiredthat new couriers were brought in. They were not awarethat the Government had seized the drugs, but they knewthat they needed new couriers. They brought them in. Under the principles of Blumenthal, that's all oneconspiracy. Respondents' counsel has mentioned the ModelPenal Code provisions. The Model Penal Code at section. addresses the question of impossibility under attemptlaw and concludes that the defense should not berecognized and at section . does the same forconspiracy. Finally -- thank you. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Dreeben. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 