 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCITY OF CUYAHOGA FALLS, OHIO, ET AL., Petitioners :::v. : No. -BUCKEYE COMMUNITY HOPE FOUNDATION, ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of thePetitioners.DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, insupport of Petitioners. EDWARD G. KRAMER, ESQ., Cleveland, Ohio; on behalf of theRespondents. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners DAVID B. SALMONS, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, in support of Petitioners EDWARD G. KRAMER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFGLEN D. NAGER, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, the City of Cuyahoga Falls versusBuckeye Community Hope Foundation.Mr. Nager.ORAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. NAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:In this case, the Court of Appeals for the SixthCircuit held that a municipality may be held liable indamages because it withheld the issuance of buildingpermits for a proposed housing project pending a citizen-initiated referendum election on the ordinance authorizing that housing project. In so doing, the Sixth Circuit failed toappreciate that the municipality's actions here were alltaken pursuant to pre-existing procedures set forth in thecity's charter, procedures that the city followed to theletter. As non-discretionary acts taken in the normalprescribed course, the municipality's actions here werenecessarily rational ones taken without discriminatorymotives and without treating the respondents here anydifferently than any other beneficiary of an ordinance th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC would have been treated that was subject to a petition.And for that reason, we respectfully suggest that theSixth Circuit --QUESTION: There's no evidence of some kind ofmisbehavior on the part of the city other than the bareclaim that they refused to issue the permit during theprocess of the referendum?MR. NAGER: That's correct, Justice O'Connor. Every official action of the city here favored therespondents. The city planning commission recommendedapproval of the housing project and of the site planauthorizing the housing project. The city council votedin favor of the housing project. QUESTION: Wasn't there some evidence that somecity official was -- sought to delay the proceedings for a period of time, not -- not officially. It didn't take --pass any resolution, but didn't they oppose immediateaction on a couple of occasions?MR. NAGER: Justice Stevens, prior to the citycouncil voting on the -- the ordinance to approve theproject, there was a lot of public debate, and in thatpublic debate, there were city officials who said we --we need to take time to hear the citizens -- citizens'concerns. We need to take time to understand what we'redoing, and there were even comments, we should fight this. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC We should fight this and delay this.QUESTION: Supposing one of those comments saidwe should fight this because we don't wantAfrican-Americans to -- to move where they're going tomove, would that make any difference? MR. NAGER: It -- it could make a difference. QUESTION: Because even -- if that had happened,it would still be true, as you pointed out earlier, thatevery official action taken by the city was favorable tothe -- your opponents.MR. NAGER: Well, if -- if the actions weretaken favorably to the opponents, it couldn't make adifference because at that point the alleged statementwouldn't have any connection to an adverse action. That -- that's the important point in this case because in order to have discrimination, either in violation of theEqual Protection Clause, or in violation of the FairHousing Act, you not only have to have a motive, you haveto have adverse differential treatment by the person --QUESTION: So what -- I'm trying to be sureI understand. I -- I think I understand your position. Is -- your position is that even if this ambiguousevidence was -- clearly showed racial hostility and that'swhy we're trying to delay it, there still would be nocause of action because everything the city did was in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC favor of -- officially was in favor of --MR. NAGER: That -- that's correct. QUESTION: So that really, we don't have to tryand draw -- to decide whether or not inferences ofimproper motive can be drawn from those statements. MR. NAGER: That's correct because in this case,all of the city's actions either favored the project ornon-discretionary actions.QUESTION: Now, what if the city had taken thesame official action that it took in this case, and everyofficial action either favored or was at least neutral,and yet the city officials went out and -- and whipped up,in effect, anti-black sentiment and -- and urged thefiling of the application for the referendum, would theanswer -- would the -- would the result be the same, that -- that there would be no way that the city could beheld liable?MR. NAGER: The short answer to that question isthe answer would be the same. Of course, if thereferendum were enacted, it went to a vote and it were putinto effect and it was racially motivated, that actionwould be subject to challenge because that would be, infact, an action of the city because they would haveadopted, under your hypothetical facts, an ordinance thatcould allegedly have a discriminatory intent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But isn't the -- isn't the delaysimply a -- even the delay in -- in an instance in whichthe ordinance is defeated simply a lesser degree ofdamage, but which would, nonetheless, be -- be subject toa claim?MR. NAGER: And the answer to that is no. Andthe answer to that is no because the delay that happenedhere is the delay that would happen with regard to anyreferendum that was subject to a referendum petition. Andthe record here is quite clear --QUESTION: Well, it -- there's -- there's noquestion that it -- it would, but is -- is the -- iseither the -- the statute in question here or the EqualProtection Clause blind to an obvious reason for thedelay? In other words, I -- I quite agree. We start withthe assumption that mere delay in governmental processesdoes not give rise to a cause of action, but when thedelay is induced by city officials for a raciallydiscriminatory reason, aren't we then in a different case?MR. NAGER: Well, it's a different case, butit's not different outcome here, and the --QUESTION: Why shouldn't it be a differentoutcome?MR. NAGER: Well, because under Monell and itsprogeny, as well as this Court's State action cases, the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC municipality can be held liable only in damages only ifthe city -- an official with the authority to authorize ithas authorized the discriminatory action that you'retalking about. In this specific instance, the -- everyofficial action favored the project, and the delay thatyou're talking about was authorized by a city chartercreated years before the fact. QUESTION: Well, the mechanism -- the mechanismis provided by the city charter. I guess what I'm getting at is that if cityofficials -- let's just say the mayor, for the sake ofargument, or the mayor and the city council -- in effect,do not establish a policy in the sense that they say, wewant to stop black housing projects, but they follow apolicy of trying to make it difficult for those housing projects to be approved, and one way they do that is byspurring the -- the request for referendums. Assumingwe're going to apply the Monell rule here, isn't that apolicy position of the city even within the meaning ofMonell?MR. NAGER: No, because they wouldn't have theauthority to do that. There's a difference between sixcity council members voting at a city council meeting asto what the actions of the city are, and six city councilmembers going out on their own in their private capacities th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and expressing their views as citizens, and -- and tryingto get other citizens to agree with them as to theirprivate views.QUESTION: But not --QUESTION: Well, supposing, Mr. Nager, that youhave, say, a -- say, a seven-member city council and it'sconfronted with a project like this. And one of the sevenmembers of the city council says that, you know, he'sopposed to this because he doesn't want African-Americansmoving into this area. The other six members of the citycouncil simply treat the thing on the merits. Does theaction of this one individual taint the whole action ofthe city?MR. NAGER: Well, it shouldn't. Under ArlingtonHeights and this Court's cases, the city could be held liable only if those authorized, in this instance amajority of the city council, had the -- thediscriminatory --QUESTION: What if the vote was four to three?MR. NAGER: Four -- if it was four to three infavor of the housing project --QUESTION: No. Against the housing project. MR. NAGER: If -- if they had discretionarypower, and four of them exercised their discretionarypower against the housing project on the basis of racially th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC discriminatory --QUESTION: Well, only one had the raciallydiscriminatory motive, one of the four.MR. NAGER: Well --QUESTION: The other three did it on the merits.MR. NAGER: I think there, there would be a goodargument that they would still -- that -- that theplaintiffs would have -- would have satisfied their burdenof showing but for the racially discriminatory motive,that the housing project would have been approved. Soin -- in that hypothetical, which is not the facts of thiscase, of course, they -- they would have had sufficientevidence to state a claim.QUESTION: And your difference in the two casesis, one, you have an official action taken. We deny theproject. Here you don't have that. But suppose there had been, to take the clearestcase, a tape of a meeting. The mayor, the legal director,the head of the city council, they all got together andsay, we want to kill this project and we know that themost effective way to do that is through this referendumbecause the people won't like it and they'll vote againstit. So they have a deliberate plan to string the thingout and then, as the last act, instigate a referendum.And as I take it, your argument -- you would -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you're saying even if you have that scenario, there wouldstill be no municipal liability. Am I correct?MR. NAGER: That's correct, Justice Ginsburg. It's obviously our hardest hypothetical, but it's also thesame answer. And it -- and one of the reasons it's thesame answer is because, remember, under your hypothetical,the notion is that if these city officials, not acting intheir -- exercising their official powers, but acting inthe role any citizen can, can go out and organize thecitizens of the community acting in their privatecapacities to get a referendum on the ballot and voteagainst it. Of course, that's what democracy is about. It's about politicians taking on causes on behalf ofpeople --QUESTION: Mr. Nager, I think -- I understand your argument as it applies to the city, but am I correctthat the mayor is an individual defendant in this case?MR. NAGER: He was. He was granted summaryjudgment by the district court on the ground that therewas no evidence that he in his individual capacity hadcommitted any of the acts that were alleged against him,and that he had not organized the campaign --QUESTION: But -- but wasn't that reversed bythe Sixth Circuit? MR. NAGER: No, it wasn't. That issue was not th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC taken up to the Sixth Circuit. QUESTION: Why is he a petitioner then?MR. NAGER: He's only here in his officialcapacity. He was sued in both his individual capacity andin his official capacity.QUESTION: I see. So there's no individualliability at stake here at all.MR. NAGER: No, not -- not --QUESTION: Is -- is the --QUESTION: I'd like to ask a question, which isthese have been very interesting hypotheticals, but areyou going to have time to talk about the questions that wegranted cert on?MR. NAGER: Well --QUESTION: And I'm interested -- what we have in front of us now at this point as issues.MR. NAGER: The issue that you have before us isthe Sixth Circuit's judgment is -- is -- because under theSixth Circuit's view there was allegedly evidence ofracial bias among the citizens that the municipality couldbe -- somehow be held liable for that. And that's wrongfor two reasons. One, it's wrong because the municipality itselfhas to have the discriminatory animus, and there's no --not only no evidence of that here, it couldn't have been th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the case since they -- of course, all of their actionswere voting in favor of it, or treating the actionneutrally. Secondly --QUESTION: Arguably the discriminatory animus onthe part of the citizens could invalidate the referendum.MR. NAGER: If it was voted on and put intoeffect, the alleged animus --QUESTION: No. Even -- even if it wasn't putinto effect. It -- if there were that animus, it -- itcould -- by our past cases anyway, if it could be shown,it would -- it would invalidate the referendum. But yourpoint is that whether the referendum was valid or invalid,the municipality would have had to stay the project. Itwasn't up to the municipality to make the judgment. MR. NAGER: That -- that is correct, JusticeScalia. I -- I do want to make clear that under thisCourt's cases, the Court has never said that -- that theFirst Amendment activity of a petition itself is subjectto an equal protection challenge.What the Court's cases say is if there is avote, either on a bill by elected representatives, or on apetition by citizens, that the end product of that, whichbecomes a law, can be challenged, and that private animusin that -- is contextual evidence for whether or not the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC people who voted on that final product were themselvesmotivated by discriminatory animus.QUESTION: You're -- you're talking about peoplewho vote in a referendum?MR. NAGER: Well, the -- the question is ifthere's a final product, was the -- the final law, wasthat racially motivated --QUESTION: But we -- we've never said -- we'venever tried to examine the motives of -- of the citizenrywho vote in a referendum on that sort of question, havewe?MR. NAGER: No, you haven't, Mr. Chief Justice. What the Court has said is, is that intent of the law isthe key test, and what the Court has said in ArlingtonHeights is because you can't look directly at the motives of the people who voted on it, whether they be legislatorsprotected by the Speech and Debate Clause or citizensprotected by the -- the secrecy of the ballot in thiscountry, they look at other indicia to determine theirintent. QUESTION: But Arlington Heights was a citycouncil, or --MR. NAGER: That's correct. QUESTION: -- was it not?MR. NAGER: That's correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: What -- what is --QUESTION: And here the referendum failed.MR. NAGER: That -- well, the -- we don't knowthe outcome because the respondents asked for the finalvote not to be certified. But what is important here, I think, to addressthe issue in this case, Justice O'Connor, is that the --the position of the Sixth Circuit here is that themunicipality is somehow supposed to inquire behind afacially neutral referendum petition and determine theintent and motives of people engaged in the FirstAmendment. QUESTION: Did -- did the city have discretionhere to go ahead and issue building permits while thereferendum process was pending?MR. NAGER: No, it didn't. Once the referendumpetition was filed, under the city charter, the -- at thatpoint, all the city council could do is repeal its ownordinance or submit the ordinance to a vote of the voters.QUESTION: So what is the claim in your opinionthat we are reviewing? I mean, I want it to be specific. The Sixth Circuit, insofar as its -- insofar as we'reconcerned, we're interested in what the lower courts held.MR. NAGER: Correct.QUESTION: What, in your opinion, is the claim th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that they're reviewing? Is the claim that these threeindividuals, the mayor, the clerk, and an engineer, actingin their official capacities, violated the FourteenthAmendment or other parts of the Constitution when theyrefused to issue the permit despite the petition anddespite the provision? Is that the claim? Or is theclaim they did something else as well? They stirred upthe petition people, or they did some other thing. MR. NAGER: Well, the -- the Sixth Circuit saidit was the former.QUESTION: Only the first.MR. NAGER: Correct. Respondents in their briefhave abandoned what the Sixth Circuit held and which wepetitioned and the Court granted cert to review to argue acompletely different theory.QUESTION: May I ask you, Mr. Nager, is thecomplaint in the record? I couldn't find it. In the --in the papers here?MR. NAGER: I don't believe that it is. No, Idon't believe -- I mean, it's -- it's obviously in therecord of the case. It wasn't reprinted in the -- in thejoint appendix. Unless the Court has further questions, I'llreserve the remainder of --QUESTION: Well, I -- I do. Weren't -- weren't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC there some other questions here, like didn't we grant certon three questions --MR. NAGER: Well, you did --QUESTION: Have they given up on the second one?MR. NAGER: Well, they've abandoned their claimthat they litigated and prevailed on in the Sixth Circuit,that they could proceed on the disparate impact theory.QUESTION: And the last is a due process?MR. NAGER: A -- a substantive due processclaim.Yes.QUESTION: Substantive due process? MR. NAGER: And the Sixth Circuit held thatthere was a triable question of fact as to whether or notthe city had acted rationally in proceeding forward with its referendum petition. And we would say that the simpleanswer to that was at that time, the city charter requiredthe city officials to do so and that judgment was adoptedby three courts until the Ohio Supreme Court several yearslater reversed itself on what the meaning of the Ohioconstitution was. But the subsequent reversal of thishighest court's evaluation of what the law was can'tchange the rationality of the acts at the time that theywere taken. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Nager. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mr. Salmons, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID B. SALMONSON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF PETITIONERSMR. SALMONS: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:Respondents challenge only the delay caused bythe city charter's neutral, longstanding provisionsfacilitating the orderly processing of citizen-initiatedreferenda to review ordinances passed by the city council. Such a challenge requires courts to balance the vitalFirst Amendment right implicated in the referendum processwith the equally valid goals of equal protection and fairhousing. In this case, that balance is clear. The city'sactions in giving effect to the properly filed referendumpetition cannot give rise to liability under the FairHousing Act or the Equal Protection Clause. It isundisputed that the referendum petition was faciallyneutral and that numerous reasonable, non-racial groundssupported it.It is also undisputed that the city's processfor handling such petitions was longstanding andrace-neutral. Under any conceivable standard, respondentshave failed to provide any evidence that the referendum th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC process was tainted with discriminatory motive either onthe part of the city officials or the petition organizers.QUESTION: Suppose it was. I mean, I don'tunderstand your brief from this point of view. You weretalking about an antitrust analogy. I mean, imagine aplaintiff in an antitrust case deliberately, to ruin hiscompetitor -- and no one doubts it -- files a case in thecourt. Now, no matter how evil that person was, I can'timagine or I haven't heard to date under the antitrust lawor any other law somebody who would sue the clerk of thecourt because he docketed the -- he docketed the -- theclaim -- he docketed the complaint. And according to whatyou've said, that's what's at issue here, that they're --they're simply carry -- now, I -- I need some explanation. I'm bringing it up because I'm quite honestly confused about that part --MR. SALMONS: Yes -- yes, Your Honor. Yes, YourHonor. To be sure, the analogy to the Noerr-Penningtonline of cases is not perfect in this case, but it -- it --QUESTION: I -- I bring it up because I'mconfused as to how in your mind you see this thingworking. I -- I mean, I suppose if a city has a totallyevil, horrible petition for a -- for a -- for areferendum, a person still could make it and the personwho's in charge of carrying out the -- the non -- the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ministerial duties himself would not be sued even if thatperson himself was evil. So -- so what is the -- what --what -- how does this all work in your mind?MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor. The -- theapproach that we recommend in our brief, Your Honor, isthat the Court undertake the question as to whether thepetitioning at issue was genuine or whether it was a sham. That's the same type of analysis the Court hasundertaken --QUESTION: Assume it's a sham. It -- they'reevil. They're horrible. MR. SALMONS: Yes. QUESTION: They're terrible. I would think evenan evil, horrible, terrible person has the right to go tothe legislature and petition and that the clerks who are to file that petition are themselves clerks, and they'reto do it even if they're evil themselves.MR. SALMONS: That is correct, Your Honor. I think there are two ways in which the city couldpotentially be held liable. I think this is not a casewhere the Court has to decide whether the city could everbe held liable based on the discriminatory motives of thereferendum petitioners because it's clear in this casethat the petitioning was genuine and this isn't a sham.QUESTION: But what -- what -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. SALMONS: But in the situation where you dohave a sham --QUESTION: What -- what do you mean by sayingthe petition was genuine as opposed to a sham in these --in this context?MR. SALMONS: I -- I think genuine here meansthe same it means in -- in the other contexts in which theCourt has used the sham doctrine, namely that it was aboutthe First Amendment activity. The -- the process that --that the city here --QUESTION: I just -- this is such a strangeargument. Why wouldn't we wait and see if some action wastaken by means of a referendum, passed and became law? Then wouldn't we be able to say that constitutes Stateaction at that point and you would subject it, conceivably, to an equal protection analysis if the issueis raised, and apply rational basis or whatever it is? I don't understand why you ever get to this sham actionand Noerr-Pennington.MR. SALMONS: Certainly, Your Honor, it -- inthe event that you have a referendum that's actuallyenacted into law, the Court would examine it in the waythat -- that you have articulated.We thought it was important to point out to theCourt that this process by which a city ordinance is, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC you will, stayed pending resolution of the referendum voteis a traditional and important part of the process forreferendums, but it is also a process that can give riseto abuse if you have a petition that is a sham. It's notabout the First Amendment process at all. It's simply --QUESTION: I don't --MR. SALMONS: -- taking advantage of the delay. QUESTION: I don't know what you mean by abusein a situation like this. I mean, presumably anybody hasa right to petition, and you know, the fact that maybethey won't get the necessary votes surely doesn't make ita sham.MR. SALMONS: That -- that is certainly true,Your Honor. But -- but I think there are -- to -- to getback to the original question, what I'm trying to --QUESTION: The reason I'm worried, in about minutes from now I'm going to hear the other side getup, and they're going to say this is a sham. Okay? I suspect. Now, that's why I want to understand therelevance of this. And I -- I come into this thinking if it's theNazis, the -- the most terrible racists that steal, themost terrible people in the world, if they're Americans,they can come in and they can vote and they can go totheir legislature and they can put anything they want on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the ballot. And the -- the people who are mechanically incharge of seeing that those things are voted on, that'stheir job, they should do it, and if those are evil andterrible and contrary to the Constitution, the courts willstrike them down when they get passed. Now, what's -- now, you explain how your thingfits into that. MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor. First of all,let me just say that there's -- there would be -- need tobe both an objective and a subjective component to thesham standard as there is in other contexts. But to try and address the question that youoriginally posed, it does seem to us that there are atleast two ways in which the city can be held liable in theevent that you have sham petitioning. One would be thatif the city officials themselves were part of the sham,and the other would be --QUESTION: Well, wait a -- what is --QUESTION: We're trying to find out what is asham. That's -- that's our basic problem. I don'tunderstand what is a sham. In the antitrust context --QUESTION: You -- you haven't told us.QUESTION: In the antitrust context, Iunderstand it because -- because there is the law, and --and you come up with a phony -- a phony law, you know, you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC can say it's a sham. But there's no law aboutreferendums. You could have a referendum on anything youlike. How can you have a wrong referendum --MR. SALMONS: Well, Your Honor --QUESTION: -- and thus a sham referendum? Itdoesn't make any sense to me.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, this Court's shamanalysis has to do with whether or not it's actually aboutthe First Amendment activity or it's just about an effort,in this case, to take advantage of the delay to interferewith someone's housing rights. We think that sameanalysis can apply here by inquiring as to whether, firstof all, the -- the referendum petition is objectivelybaseless. Is there any way that that petition couldhave -- be enacted into law and enforced? If, for example, you had a petition that said nominorities shall live in the City of Cuyahoga Falls,clearly that's a referendum that could never go intoeffect and never be enforced, and therefore, it may bestrong evidence that the process here is not aboutchanging a law of the city --QUESTION: So the clerk in that case -- theclerk of the court who says I'm putting this on theballot -- he's violated the law in putting it on theballot? Of course, if it's passed, it's totally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC unconstitutional. But you're saying that the clerksshouldn't even put that on the ballot? I mean, that wouldbe quite a novel proposition to me.MR. SALMONS: Your Honor, I -- I'm notnecessarily saying that the clerk shouldn't put that onthe ballot, but that would be one part of the analysis indetermining whether or not the process was being abusedand it was just a sham.QUESTION: Well, isn't -- wouldn't it be asham -- let me just put this on the table. As Iunderstand it, the Ohio Supreme Court said that this wasnot a legal referendum when it got all through withthings. And if everybody had known before the -- the casestarted that it was an illegal referendum, that would havebeen a sham, wouldn't it? MR. SALMONS: I -- I think that very well may bestrong evidence that it was a sham. This was about anattempt to abuse the process. It wasn't about anyprotected First Amendment activity. And -- and in thatsituation I think there is, in -- in addition to thepossibility, although I think perhaps unlikely that youcan hold the city vicariously liable based on the motivesof the citizens, I think that is a difficult question asto whether the actions of -- of the referendum -- thepetition signers, the percent who signed the petition th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC and file it, whether that action is the official action ofthe city with regard to the petition just as the action ofthe voters at the referendum vote is an action of the cityfor which the city can held liable. This Court need notaddress that in this case.QUESTION: May I ask your view on thehypothetical I asked to the other lawyer? Supposing itwas perfectly clear that the mayor and everybody else inthis used the referendum as a method of delaying agranting of the permit and that they did so for raciallymotivated reasons, would there be any -- any liability onanybody?MR. SALMONS: Potentially, Your Honor. I think,again, the -- the way in which the analysis would work isthe Court would need to inquire as to whether the petitioning was genuine in the sense that there was agenuine effort to try and change the city's ordinance. And if so, then the First Amendment would provideimmunity.QUESTION: Well, there was, but they -- theyfigured it was going to lose in the long run, butnevertheless, let's assume they wanted to delay things for, days, whatever it might be, because they wanted todelay it on -- on, you know, this -- this project. MR. SALMONS: Yes, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: If it -- if it were clear becausethis case is on summary judgment, so really don't knowwhat the facts are --MR. SALMONS: Well, but --QUESTION: -- but if there were clear evidencethat the mayor and everybody else act up in a raciallymotivated reason, would there be liability in thatsituation?MR. SALMONS: I -- I think you'd need to examineboth the motives in -- in your hypothetical not only ofthe city officials, but also of -- of the petitionsigners.QUESTION: Everybody. Everybody.QUESTION: Are you talking about personalliability or official liability?QUESTION: Liability --MR. SALMONS: I'm talking about the liability ofthe city, Your Honor. QUESTION: Okay. So you're talking aboutliability --QUESTION: I'm assuming everybody who opposedthe project was racially motivated and that could bedemonstrated with tape recorder.MR. SALMONS: I guess the short answer, YourHonor, is that even people with racial motives have the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC right to petition their government to change the law. And -- but if they -- what no one has the right to do isabuse the process in order to interfere with someone'sfair housing and equal protection rights.QUESTION: So -- so your answer would be noliability in that case.MR. SALMONS: If it was genuine petitioning,that is correct. Thank you, Your Honor. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Salmons.Mr. Kramer, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWARD G. KRAMERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSQUESTION: Mr. Kramer, opposing counsel saysthat you have, in effect, abandoned the second question presented, the disparate impact question. Is that corrector is it not correct?MR. KRAMER: It's correct, Mr. Chief Justice. We -- we have waived that claim that had been certifiedby -- by this Court.Mr. Chief Justice, may it please the Court:The city and the Solicitor General has tried tocomplicate what really is a very simple case. What is theinjury that the plaintiff is complaining about? Theplaintiffs have been denied unlawfully their site plan and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC its benefits, including a building permit. City conduct. Nothing to do with referendums. Nothing to do with FirstAmendment rights. The issues of liability in this case, which theSixth Circuit took up, was did the city and its officersact out of discriminatory motive by delaying this housingproject and refusing to give effect to the site planordinance to appease racial and anti-family prejudices inviolation of the Equal Protection Clause --QUESTION: How could they do that if they had nochoice? I mean, if the law told them you have to stop theproject once the referendum is filed, even if in -- intheir heart and -- heart of hearts they were delighted forracial reasons that this was the case, nonetheless theyhad no choice.MR. KRAMER: We believe that they did have achoice and we cite cases to the Court from the OhioSupreme Court on page of our brief that indicates thatthe petitions did not have to be certified by the -- thecourt -- by the city.QUESTION: But didn't the lower -- the lowercourts didn't adopt that proposition, did they?MR. KRAMER: The lower courts weren't asked thatquestion, Your Honor, because we're really talking aboutwhether or not the -- there was an official conduct by the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC city.QUESTION: So didn't they go on the basis thatthe -- that the city officials' action was mandatory? Thelower courts.MR. KRAMER: As I said, I don't really believethe Sixth Circuit approached the -- the case from -- fromthat particular issue.QUESTION: So it didn't --MR. KRAMER: There was discretion, we believe,and we certainly provided evidence. And again, as -- aswas indicated by the Court to the Solicitor General, thisis on summary judgment. For example, in the record, thereis an affidavit from the law director for the Village ofOrange that we filed with our brief in opposing summaryjudgment that indicated that there was discretion not to certify the referendum.QUESTION: Well, but that -- that's a questionof Ohio law, I take it? MR. KRAMER: That's correct. QUESTION: And the way you sought to prove itwas to get an affidavit from the law director of somesuburb of Cleveland? MR. KRAMER: As one element of proof, weindicated that that showed that there was discretion. Butthe Ohio case law indicates there are instances where, if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the subject was inappropriate -- and let's remember theOhio Supreme Court ruled that this was not an appropriatesubject for a referendum.QUESTION: Would it be --QUESTION: But it rules that way many years --many years after this case was -- went to litigation, didit not?MR. KRAMER: Yes, Your Honor. QUESTION: And it had nothing to do with whetherit was racist, sexist. It -- it had to do with was itadministrative or legislative. MR. KRAMER: That's correct, and it also onlyhad --QUESTION: Do you have -- do you have any -- doyou have any authority to say that there is discretion to reject a petition that is properly legislative? MR. KRAMER: Well, the -- yes, Justice Ginsburg.QUESTION: Suppose -- suppose you had alegislative proposal that members of a certain race willnever be included in any kind of an equal opportunity law. Suppose you had -- that was the referendum. Is there anyauthority that says that under Ohio law, that couldn't beput on the ballot?MR. KRAMER: I don't know of Ohio law, butcertainly this Court's decision in Hunter versus Erickson th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC dealing with an Ohio referendum indicates that that typeof referendum is unconstitutional. QUESTION: Well now, I don't believe that's acorrect statement of the holding in Hunter. I thought inHunter, this Court said that a municipality cannot makeracial laws subject to referendum and no other laws, whichis quite a different proposition from what you suggest.MR. KRAMER: Well, with -- Mr. Chief Justice, weare talking about the -- this Court's jurisprudence thatdeals with the -- simply because it's a referendum, ifthe legislature could not do this, pass a law that says,for example, that African-Americans cannot own property,like in Buchanan versus Warley --QUESTION: If a legislature could do that,would -- would we enjoin a legislature from passing an unconstitutional law?MR. KRAMER: And -- no.QUESTION: The Federal -- the Federal Congresspasses unconstitutional laws all the time. (Laughter.) QUESTION: We've -- we've never been asked toenjoin them. (Laughter.) MR. KRAMER: And -- you're correct, JusticeScalia. And we have not asked for that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: So there's a difference betweenwhether the product is unconstitutional and whether thedoing of it is unconstitutional. And the doing of anunconstitutional referendum, as far as I know, is notunconstitutional. You are entitled to pass anunconstitutional referendum. We will ignore it, however.MR. KRAMER: And it may subject, if there isdirect injury, damages to my client, and that is all wehave before this case.QUESTION: What -- but wait. The -- the projectis built. Right? MR. KRAMER: That's correct. QUESTION: So -- so you've got your project. And now what you're saying is that they violated theConstitution in not giving you the permit quicker. Andthey -- am I right?MR. KRAMER: That's correct. QUESTION: All right.And they come back and they say, how could wegive it to you quicker? There were petitioners whothey -- a petition and the law prevents us from giving itto you quicker because once a petition's on the ballot,the law says we can't give it to you. Now, what's yourresponse to that? MR. KRAMER: The response is that it was the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC city's actions -- we believe the evidence that we'veproffered to -- in the summary judgment shows that theytook this action as a public-private partnership. Themayor, city councilpeople looked for -- as they -- onecity councilman said, any legal shred to be able to rejectthis development. QUESTION: No. But explain to me a little bitbetter what -- their response is the reason we didn't giveyou the permit faster is because here's the provision ofthe law. It says once a petition for referendum is filed,and it says whether it's legal or illegal, we have todelay this. Now, your response to that is -- they say,what should we have done that we didn't do once thatpetition was filed. And your response is?MR. KRAMER: What should be done in a case like this is that there is an injury to my client. The injury,whether it was discretionary or non-discretionary, is --is not the -- the question. What was the purpose behinddenying the building permit? And under Arlington Heights,this Court has indicated one of the things that a courtcan look at as competent evidence is did the cityofficials take action to appease racial bias. Even if itwas a nondiscretionary act, if the effect of that was topermit private bias, they've committed a violation.QUESTION: That's quite a proposition. If -- if th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I have a -- you know, I'm -- I'm a racist and it reallymakes me happy that this act, which I'm compelled to do bylaw, hurts someone of a certain race, that renders thatact invalid even though I'm compelled to do it by law? I don't think so.MR. KRAMER: What we're saying is that it maynot be invalid, but it may cause liability. It can be alegal act --QUESTION: All right. So what I'm hearing yousaying -- what I'm hearing you saying in response to myquestion is, I'm the mayor and the other, and I say, whatdo you want me to do? The statute said, don't give youthe permit because the petition has been filed. Whatcould I have done? And your answer to that basicallyseems to be, nothing. You couldn't have done anything. We agree. But the petition itself was an evil petition.QUESTION: Right.QUESTION: I mean evil being quotes for what weall know is going on. All right? So it's an evil petition. And therefore, whenyou face this evil petition, even though you couldn't doanything about it, you have to pay damages because thereason we were delayed was because of that process. Now,is that basically your argument? MR. KRAMER: Yes, Justice Breyer. We're -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC we're saying that even if it was a legal thing to do, ifthe act of it was because of racial or anti-family bias,that would be a violation of the --QUESTION: And now, the reason that that bothersme, of course, is because I can think of a whole range ofevil legislative acts, and I can think of quasi-acts thatI'm not sure about, and then I can think of a lot of onesI like. All right. So -- so -- but I'm worried. In thefirst category and the second category, once we got intothe business of paying damages, because it turns out thatthey are evil, that would, in fact, chill the legislativeprocess, which is a democratic process. And I thinkthat's the argument they're trying to make. So I'd liketo get your response to that.MR. KRAMER: What I would say, Justice Breyer, is that the fact that there was an evil motive behind anyof these acts -- and by the way, the referendum is onlythe culmination of the acts. There was a series ofdiscretionary acts. For example, the strategy of the citywas to do two things. One was to delay this projectbecause they knew that there was a -- a very finite periodof time for our little non-profit tax-exempt developer tobuild this project or lose their financing. So they knewthe longer they could delay, the more likely the projectwould die. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And second of all, they wanted to make theproject more costly. So, for example, they required,before we even talked about a referendum, a barrier wallto be built before even a building permit that could beissued, a -foot earthen wall with a -foot fence betweentwo conforming multi-family projects. QUESTION: Your client agreed to that. Yourclient didn't make any objection to that.MR. KRAMER: My client was willing to do thatbecause he was told by the city it would smooth theprocess over. He certainly did not waive his rights.And in the depositions, the planningcommissioner, Louis Sharpe, specifically testified thereason he was demanding that was because our project wasgoing to have a large number of children. Now, under theFederal Fair Housing Act, as amended in , such an actmay well violate the protection against -- againstchildren. QUESTION: You said -- but -- but, nonetheless,he didn't contest it.Then you say the whole object was delay. And asI see this thing unfold, the big delay is during thependency of the referendum because it was at the end ofFebruary when the planning commission got this. They hadconditions on it, but it acted on the very same day. The th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC ordinance was approved on April st. As things go in thezoning area, from February st until April st is not avery long time, is it?MR. KRAMER: No, but there was three hearingsand there was a great deal of public opposition. And oneof the reasons for the --QUESTION: But the delay -- as far as -- that --that's not -- the delay that you're complaining about isfrom the moment the petition was filed for the referendumuntil when he finally got the building permits.MR. KRAMER: The actual complaint that we are --where we think we were injured was the building permitsnot being provided to us. The delay goes to the amount ofdamages we think our client has suffered. The officialact that we're talking about is the building permits being -- not being issued. And --QUESTION: But you couldn't have expected themto be issued the -- the day you filed the site plan. I mean, there has to be a meeting of the planningcommission. There has to be a meeting of the citycouncil.MR. KRAMER: That's correct, and we submittedour building permits after the -- the approval by the --the city council.What we're talking about, Your Honor, is that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the city's actions in denying that building permit --we're -- at this stage of the proceeding, all we'retalking about is summary judgment. Is there sufficientevidence that a trier of fact would find that the -- theactual denial was racial prejudice of city officials orappeasement by city officials --QUESTION: Mr. Kramer, I asked your opponent,but is the -- is the complaint in the papers before us,do -- do you know? MR. KRAMER: Your Honor, the complaint is not inthe appendix, but it is in the joint appendix that wasfiled with the Sixth Circuit. You'll find that involume I on page of the record. But it's -- it's theSixth Circuit joint appendix --QUESTION: I see. MR. KRAMER: -- which I believe this Court doeshave.QUESTION: The thing I was curious about, totell you the truth, did you include a regulatory takingsclaim in your complaint?MR. KRAMER: No, we did not.QUESTION: You did not.QUESTION: Mr. Kramer, would you explain to mewhat exactly you think the relevance of the subsequentreferendum was? For example, do you say the relevance of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the subsequent referendum to your claim for delay inissuing the permit simply is the evidence that itfurnishes of -- of racial bias ultimately on the part ofcity officials? Or is -- is its relevance that itincreased the damages otherwise attributable to the day --delay in the permit? How exactly should we regard the referendum? You -- you understand the problem that we're all havingwith -- with it. Precisely how does it figure in yourclaim? MR. KRAMER: It's the latter, Justice Souter. We're saying that the referendum, which was part of anoverall scheme by city officials to delay this project sothat it would kill it. And so the injury that we'retalking about from -- from the referendum deals with the city officials using that as the legal shred to be able todeny the building permits. And the evidence we believethat we have proffered to the Court through the summaryjudgment motion is that there was not only citizen bias,which under Arlington Heights, this Court has indicated wecertainly can allow -- it's competent evidence that can belooked at of whether or not legislators used that bias tobe able to take that action. QUESTION: No. I -- I understand that.If -- if there had been no referendum, no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC petition had ever been filed for the referendum and nonehad ever been held, would you still have essentially thesame claim, though with a different evidentiary basis?MR. KRAMER: Absolutely, Justice Souter, becausethe -- what we are complaining about is the denial of thebuilding permit. That's the injury that --QUESTION: But there would have been no denialof the building permit absent the referendum, there --QUESTION: You could win without the referendum.MR. KRAMER: That's correct. QUESTION: The referendum's the worst part ofyour case. You -- you wish there weren't a referendum. Then they would have had no basis to deny.MR. KRAMER: To deny in -- in this case.QUESTION: No, but you -- I -- I thought your claim was that -- that you would still have been delayedin being issued the permits and that you would still havehad a claim for that. Am I -- am I wrong on that?MR. KRAMER: I would say that we had some claimfor the time between when we submitted the request for thebuilding permits and how long it took them to be ableto --QUESTION: And in -- in the absence of thereferendum, how long would that have been? MR. KRAMER: That would have been a matter -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC well, we don't know. Let me say --QUESTION: Why don't you know? Because you --there's a -day period. There's a -- the city councilacts on April st. That goes into effect in daysunless there's an intervening referendum. So that youwould have had by May st the building permits.MR. KRAMER: We don't know because in the recordMayor Robart sent a letter ordering his buildingcommissioner not to issue a building permits, and thatwas --QUESTION: That was --MR. KRAMER: -- even prior to the referendum --QUESTION: But that was in the -day periodwhen they couldn't be issued because it hadn't becomeeffective yet. The -- the instruction was simply what the law was, that the ordinance approved by the city councildoesn't become law until days after that approval. Sothat the -- the mayor, to that extent, was just tellingthem to do what the law would require.But in understanding your complaint and how youare tying in the officials to the referendum, are yousaying that absent the official prompting, instigation, orwhatever you call it, that there would never have been areferendum, that in -- in fact that the mayor whipped upthe referendum? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. KRAMER: Yes, Justice Ginsburg. We -- webelieve we indicated that this was not something that thecity responded from -- responded to from their citizens,but this was a scheme where city officials, includingMayor Robart with other private citizens, got together andsaid, how can we deny this project. QUESTION: But you've lost on that and didn'tappeal it. I mean, he'd be a very bad man for doing that,and you might have a cause of action against him. But Idon't see any official city action involved in that. Is it official city action for the -- for the mayor tostimulate a referendum? How is that official city action?MR. KRAMER: And we're not talking about thatthat's something that caused a damage. What we're talkingabout is, is there evidence that we can use to show that the ultimate decision, which was to deny the buildingpermit that caused the injury -- is there evidence thatthe mayor participated in -- to appease racial and anti-family bias. This is really a simple Arlington Heights case. The --QUESTION: If it --MR. KRAMER: -- the problem --QUESTION: I just want to finish -- But I justwanted, before you finish, if you'd respond to something th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Justice Stevens said, which is about regulatory takings. I mean, what is in the back of my mind here, to stimulatean answer, is suppose you weren't Section housing. Suppose you were building a hotel. And suppose thereferendum wasn't people who might be bigoted -- may,perhaps -- I don't -- but suppose they wereenvironmentalists, and -- and suppose the constitutionalclaim was not --QUESTION: People that didn't want rich peopleto move in the neighborhood.QUESTION: What? QUESTION: People that didn't want rich peopleto move into the neighborhood. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Okay, good. The -- the -- you see. And suppose theconstitutional claim were a takings claim. Now, if Iuphold for you here, if the Court votes for you here,wouldn't it then have to say that all these environmentalcases and so forth -- I -- I don't want to win your casefor you, but I might be in my question. (Laughter.) QUESTION: The -- the -- you see -- see there'dbe quite a problem about whether a city wouldn't have topay damages every time that they make a mistake in their th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC environmental regulation and perhaps try to stop a hoteland they thought they could stop it, but it turns outlater they couldn't. You see -- do you see the analogythat's worrying me? MR. KRAMER: I understand the analogy.QUESTION: So what do you -- what do you -- whatdo you say about that?MR. KRAMER: The difference, Justice Breyer, isthat the -- we are asking only for the Court to look atthe issue of has the plaintiffs proffered sufficientevidence that racial bias and anti-family bias wasinvolved in the decision to deny the building permit. The referendum was part of the -- an overall scheme bycity officials to delay and ultimately kill this project. If that is the case, then the referendum, which Ohio Supreme Court has ruled was illegal to begin with -- evenif it was legal, we believe under your jurisprudence ifthe motivation of the city to use the referendum wasunlawful, the violation occurs under the FourteenthAmendment and the Equal Protection Clause. With regards to your question about theregulatory taking, we saw this -- this case under a dueprocess -- substantive due process, procedural dueprocess -- examination very similar, I think, to thesituation that's actually the exact opposite to the City th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of Eastlake versus Forest City case, which Justice Stevensis the only participating member that was on thatparticular case.QUESTION: Also there were eight other membersof the Court that disagreed with me if I remembercorrectly --(Laughter.) MR. KRAMER: But we have a new Court, YourHonor. (Laughter.) MR. KRAMER: And -- and we believe --QUESTION: Now, you're -- you're now addressingthe third of the questions presented. It's the firstwe've heard about the due process claim. MR. KRAMER: That's correct. QUESTION: You haven't abandoned that and --MR. KRAMER: Absolutely not.QUESTION: -- you're still making the dueprocess claim. Now, you know, this is substantive dueprocess we're talking here. Right? MR. KRAMER: Well, substantive, or --QUESTION: You think it's a fundamental right tohave a building permit granted within a -- within areasonable period?MR. KRAMER: We're not talking -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: It's fundamental --MR. KRAMER: -- about a reasonable period. We're talking about both -- we had raised both proceduraland substantive due process claims in the lower courts. What we're saying is the process was so fundamentallyflawed that it rises to a -- a due process violation. Whether it's substantive or procedural, we don't believeis -- is really the issue here. We're talking about a process where there was awhole set of procedures set up by the City of CuyahogaFalls of how to approve this site plan ordinance. The --the site plan procedures were set forth, permitted for arecord to be developed, and there was a -- planningcommission meetings. There was the city council meetings.And if the city council or the planning commission had denied our right to the site plan ordinance and itsbenefits, we would have had a right under Ohio law to gounder the Ohio Administrative Procedure Act and get acourt to review that issue.QUESTION: Because there would have beenofficial action. And that's the problem here, thatthere -- do you -- do you call a referendum that's put onthe ballot because percent of the electorate had signedpetitions -- do you call that State action, which issubject to the equal protection surveillance? I had th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC thought that that's a -- that's an initiative of thepeople and it's not action of the city. MR. KRAMER: Well, the only reason why thepeople are able to get a referendum is because the citycharter, which is their constitution, permitted that.QUESTION: But that permitted it years ago,did it not?MR. KRAMER: That's right, but in the -- the dueprocess area, Your Honor, we're not talking aboutdiscriminatory intent. All we're talking about is lookingat whether the procedure set forth is fundamentally flawedand does it -- is it arbitrary and capricious and notsubstantially related to the general welfare as -- as thisCourt has talked about ever since --QUESTION: But there are all kinds of nutty referendum measures that voters put forward. I -- yourtheory would seem to subject a State or a city or whateverit is to a lawsuit every time there's one of these nuttyproposals put forward. MR. KRAMER: No. We're talking about whetheryou have to have a -- a protected property interest andyou also have to have a situation where there is aarbitrary and capricious action.In this case, we have ownership of property,which under the original intention of -- of the Framers of th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Constitution, ownership of private property and theability to develop using this property for a lawfulpurpose is protected by the Due Process Clause. And whenyou look at the issue --QUESTION: But your theory, as I understand it,is that there was -- if it was racially motivated, therewas just sort of an arbitrary. There was an absence of alegitimate reason for the delays and the shenanigans andso forth. But it seemed to me the same argument could --could be made if they were trying to protect the wetlands,and they used the same kind of shenanigans.MR. KRAMER: Well, Your Honor, we certainlyraised the question about if this was a discriminatorymotive, that would mean that there would not be -- undergeneral welfare. QUESTION: There would be no racial basis.MR. KRAMER: But more importantly, our argumentis that there is a per se violation whenever you have anadministrative matter which should be taken up through thecity council or through the courts or through a -- from --from an administrative agency like the planningcommission.And the evidence in the record, as the lowercourts point out, is that we met all the requirements forthe city to -- to get our site plan. And then, when the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC city council approved it, when the planning director saidwe met or exceeded the site plan ordinance, they put it toa referendum and they asked , voters to approve ordisapprove a site plan ordinance, they never saw andthe -- and whether or not that site plan ordinanceconformed to the building and zoning code that they neverread. If that is not --QUESTION: No. But what your -- what yourargument boils down to is to say that there is arecoverable substantive due process violation whenever aproperty right of yours is interfered with by a misuse ofthe legislative process, even a temporary one. Isn't thatthe -- the nub of your claim?MR. KRAMER: I would say we -- we are asking fora fairly narrow interpretation. We're saying if it's an administrative matter which should not be subject to thedecision of voters because this is not legislative --QUESTION: But what -- from the standpoint ofyour claim, why does it matter whether it -- it was alegislative use countering an administrative action, orwhether it was a legislative use with a racial motive? Itis an improper use of a legislative procedure. And you'resaying, as I understand it, whenever that, in fact, iseffected, there -- and -- and you can -- you can make a --a colorable claim of -- of some economic damage, that you th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC have a substantive due process right to recover. Isn'tthat correct?MR. KRAMER: Justice Souter, we -- that issomething that we have raised in our brief, but we have --also have raised a much narrower issue which would besimply looking at a site plan ordinance, should it besubjected to a popularity contest? There -- it'sstandard-less. This Court has ruled in --QUESTION: You never mentioned procedural dueprocess in your brief. The first mention I heard of it isin your argument here, where you say it doesn't matterwhether it's substantive or procedural. Your brief wententirely to substantive due process.MR. KRAMER: Well, the reason that we didn'traise that is the Court didn't certify a question other than to substantive due process. We believe that itreally subsumes that issue when you look at -- theprocedure itself is so fundamentally flawed. It is verysimilar to the -- the situation in the City of Eastlakethat this Court looked at. QUESTION: Would you say -- be saying that ifthe Ohio court had stuck to its original position? I mean, it was four/three both times.MR. KRAMER: Well, the Ohio court in both cases,Justice Ginsburg, first ruled that it was an th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC administrative matter. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Kramer.MR. KRAMER: Thank you, Chief Justice.QUESTION: Mr. Nager, you have minutesremaining. REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF GLEN D. NAGERON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. NAGER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.With respect to the disparate impact claim, Iwould just like to clarify that we were the petitioners,and the Court did grant certiorari on the issue and thereis a judgment of the Sixth Circuit against my clients onthat issue. And while they've abandoned the claim anddeclined to defend the Sixth Circuit's judgment, we wouldrequest the Court vacate that judgment and instruct that the disparate impact claim be dismissed with prejudice.With -- Justice Breyer, with respect to yourquestions to my opposing counsel, a point we'd like to addto what you had to say is simply that if we had done whatthey wanted, we would have been subjected to a damagesclaim. It would have been a First Amendment claim by thecitizens seeking to put something on the ballot byinitiating a petition, and it -- it can't be that in orderto avoid a Fourteenth Amendment damages claim, we have toviolate other people's First Amendment rights. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC If the Court doesn't have any further questions,we have nothing further.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Nager.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 