 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDELBERT W. SMITH AND BRUCE M. :BOTELHO, Petitioners ::v. : No. -JOHN DOE I, ET AL. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Wednesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the Petitioners.THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Solicitor General, Department ofJustice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of the UnitedStates, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners.DARRYL L. THOMPSON, ESQ., Anchorage, Alaska; on behalf ofthe Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the Petitioners DARRYL L. THOMPSON, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJOHN G. ROBERTS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Delbert Smith and Bruce Botelhoversus John Doe.Mr. Roberts. ORAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Alaska's Megan's Law makes available to membersof the public who seek it certain truthful informationabout convicted sex offenders. The State makes thisinformation available to help protect against the riskthat the convicted sex offender will offend again. Itsays that in the law. Sex offenses are crimes ofopportunity, and the purpose of making the informationavailable is to allow the members of the public to takesteps to reduce those opportunities. QUESTION: One -- one line that I -- I thinkthere is respondents seek to establish in this case isthat this information has to be generated by acts thatoccur after the conviction. You have to fill out the formsome -- four times a year, et cetera. I -- I've read in the brief -- I'm sure my colleagues have too the -- the problem about going to thepolice station. Just assume hypothetically that you hadto go to the police station four times a year. Would thatchange the case? MR. ROBERTS: No, it wouldn't, Your Honor. That's the case in -- in about States that -- that aquarterly verification has to be in person. It is not thecase in Alaska. And simply going to the police stationfour times a year, which is reserved only for the mostserious sex offenses, the aggravated offenses -- in allother cases it's just annually -- doesn't rise to thelevel of a burden that is at all tantamount to what wethink of as punishment under the Ex Post Facto Clause.QUESTION: I have forms I have to fill out fourtimes a year for the Government. I'm always afraid I'm going to miss the deadline. If I had to present myself toa -- a policeman, which is itself I think demeaning, I --I just don't know any analogue for -- is there anyanalogue for that in -- in regulation of --MR. ROBERTS: In-person registration?QUESTION: -- the regulation of regulatedindustries or things like that? MR. ROBERTS: I'm not sure of one where youactually have to show up in person, but the question iswhether that in-person requirement is rationally related to a legitimate regulatory purpose. That's the standardunder cases like Flemming. QUESTION: Well, Mr. Roberts, do they in Alaskahave to go personally or not? MR. ROBERTS: They do not. It clearly --QUESTION: Even for aggravated offenses? MR. ROBERTS: Even for aggravated offenses.QUESTION: And it can be filed by mail or how?MR. ROBERTS: Expressly can be filed by mail. The instructions make that clear.QUESTION: Could -- could the administrativeauthorities interpret the statute so that you would haveto go to the station without amending the statute?MR. ROBERTS: I don't think so, because thestatute says the initial registration has to be in person. Typically it's in -- in prison. And then it says thelater verification has to be in writing. So I think itwould be an unreasonable reading of the statute to saythat the later verification had to be in writing.QUESTION: Do we have an issue here because thislaw was passed after a number of the people affected by ithad already been convicted, and so there are allegationsof retroactivity concerns? MR. ROBERTS: The question is whether theburdens that the law imposes constitute punishment. If it's not punishment, then it's perfectly valid to apply itto people who were convicted prior to the effective date.And this is not --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, the only challenge inthis case is to the retroactivity. Is that correct? MR. ROBERTS: Only the ex post facto challengeis before the Court in this case. QUESTION: And that's because these people weretried, convicted, served their time before the passage ofthe act.MR. ROBERTS: That's correct, and --QUESTION: And their principal complaint, as Iunderstand it, is that this is punishment because we can'tget out. There's no escape from it. We can prove withexpert testimony that we are cured. Nothing will get us out from under this demeaning regime, that much more thanthe burden of going to a police station, that that's whatit's about, that we're locked into this for life and ithas a devastating effect on our lives. MR. ROBERTS: Well, for life, again only foraggravated; for years for other sex offenses. And yes,that is one of their arguments, that they can't get out ofit. But this Court's cases haven't drawn that line. The question is whether the burdens are pursuant to a legitimate regulatory objective, or whether they'repunitive. For example, in cases like Kansas againstHendricks, couldn't get out of that, and yet that didn'tmake it a violation of the Ex Post Facto Clause. Flemmingagainst Nestor. You couldn't avoid the sanction there,and yet it did not rise to the level of punishment.QUESTION: But there was a -- there was adetermination, at least in Hendricks, that you fit --currently fit into a certain category.MR. ROBERTS: A -- a particular subclass, yes. It was an individualized determination required becausethe depravation there, actual confinement, was far moresevere than the depravation at issue here. But neither anindividual determination, nor a chance to get out of it isrequired to avoid the categorization as punishment. Caseslike Hawker and De Veau make clear that a -- a reasonablelegislature can treat a category -- a category of sexoffenders. They don't --QUESTION: But in Hawker, you didn't have to doanything. Here --MR. ROBERTS: Hawker was --QUESTION: -- I don't like to use the word"affirmative action," because that has a connotation insome other -- but you have to take an -- affirmative stepsfor the rest of your life in -- in some cases. And this -- and this seems to me very, very burdensome and todifferentiate this class. MR. ROBERTS: Not true, of course, in Hendricksor Flemming or Salerno, no opportunity to avoid it there. You didn't have to do anything to get the sanction appliedto you. Now --QUESTION: No, no, no. I was -- I was sayingbut the requirement of the statute is that for the rest ofyour life you have to take affirmative steps to -- tore-register --MR. ROBERTS: You have to register.QUESTION: -- and to list all your automobilesand -- and to show that you've --MR. ROBERTS: You -- you have to fill out --QUESTION: -- shaved your beard or something. MR. ROBERTS: -- one -- one side of one page.That's the form that's involved here. That in itselfcannot be punishment. We -- as Your Honor mentioned -- wedo that all the time in -- in today's society. So it mustbe something else that makes this punishment. Now, what the Ninth Circuit's -- Ninth Circuitthought was that it was publishing it on the Internet,that that made it punishment. But that's simply themost -- most efficient and most economical way of makinginformation available. It also is passive. It's not displayed topeople who have no interest in the information, and inthat sense is far less invasive.The publication on the Internet will -- yes, itmay cause adverse consequences when members of thecommunity learn this public fact about someone's past. But the State is certainly free to weigh the convicted sexoffender's interest in keeping that public fact from beingwidely known against the interest of those in the positionof, say, Megan Kanka's parents. QUESTION: Well, "waive" -- "waive" isn't quitethe word, Mr. Roberts. I mean, "waive" is something aperson does --MR. ROBERTS: "Weigh." I'm sorry. "Weigh."QUESTION: Oh, I thought you said "waive." MR. ROBERTS: I'm sorry. Weigh the convictedsex offender's interest in keeping a public fact about hispast secret against Megan Kanka's parents' interest inknowing that their new neighbor across the street hadtwice been convicted of sexually abusing young girls. That's a determination for the legislature to make.There are costs --QUESTION: But you could get that from therecord of conviction. MR. ROBERTS: Yes, and all the State is doing -- QUESTION: But under the statute we have here,you have affirmative steps that have to be taken for therest of the person's life if he's a violent offender, toreport four times a year. I just don't know any analoguefor that. MR. ROBERTS: Well, there are countlessanalogues in the regulatory regime where people have tofile quarterly reports. If -- and -- and the question iswhether that requirement serves a valid regulatorypurpose. It can't rise to the level of punishment justbecause the legislature has determined that the triggeringevent --QUESTION: Well, but I suppose that's becauseyou choose to be in a regulated industry, or you choose tohave this withholding regime. And it's -- it's not imposed on a class of citizens by reason of their criminalpast. MR. ROBERTS: There are -- there are manydisabilities that are imposed as a result of a priorconviction that the Court has found don't constitutepunishment. QUESTION: None which require affirmative steps.MR. ROBERTS: Well, the affirmative steps --it -- that has never been the test. The test has beenwhether it rises to the level of punishment. Yes, the affirmative step of filling out one side of one page withthe sort of information that you'd -- would put on yourapplication to join the Price Club requires. There'snothing burdensome about that. It must be in theirargument the use that that information is put to.QUESTION: What is our test for whether it risesto the level of punishment? MR. ROBERTS: Well, when the --QUESTION: Didn't the Ninth Circuit found --find there was no intent to make it punitive, but lookedto the effects? MR. ROBERTS: That's right. QUESTION: Is it an effects test and how do weapply it --MR. ROBERTS: Well, it's called the intent effects test. You'd first see what the intent is, andthat is so critical, and nearly controlling because thesame sanction can be punitive or civil depending on thepurpose. Even confinement can be civil if the purpose isprotective. So that's why purpose is so controlling.Now, once you determined that there's aregulatory purpose, as every court has -- not just everyFederal court -- every court to look at these laws hasdetermined they have a valid civil regulatory purpose --then the one challenging that determination carries the heavy burden of establishing, by the clearest proof, withunmistakable evidence, that the effect is so punitive thatthe purported purpose must, in fact, be a charade. And --QUESTION: But why isn't the evidence that thisis -- is a face plastered on the Internet, that in moderntimes that is the equivalent of the town square whereyou're shaming the bad actor? And here, you have aperson's face, and you have only the bad information. Youdon't get the information that this person hassuccessfully completed a rehabilitation course. You don'tget the information that this was on the scale of sexualoffenses on the lighter side. The -- am I wrong aboutthat? MR. ROBERTS: Yes. That information isavailable. The circumstances, the crime for which the person is convicted, is available. So --QUESTION: Is it -- that's on the page -- thepage with the photograph says what the crime was? MR. ROBERTS: That's my understanding, YourHonor, yes, that -- that -- I'm not sure what it is inevery State, but the -- the circumstances of convictionis -- it's one of the things that has to be registered,and is available to the public. So if it -- you can findout what the conviction was for. Now, I don't -- I'm sorry. QUESTION: In addition, on that page, what theviewer will see -- you don't see on the page with the faceany disclaimer, any statement that the State is notbranding this person as dangerous. The State is simplymaking a statement that there was a conviction in thepast.MR. ROBERTS: It conveys simply the truthful,objective information that this individual was convictedof this crime, and the public is free to take appropriateaction if they think that's -- that's appropriate underthe circumstances. It is different from the historicshaming penalties because of the purpose. And again,purpose is the nearly controlling factor. The purpose ofthe shaming penalties was not to inform. Everybody in thecolonial village knew the circumstances of the offense. The purpose was to shame. Here, the purpose is to inform.QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, on that point you saidthis is truthful information, and it is. My question is,isn't -- it's not the whole truth because the successfulrehabilitation in one case is not known. It's not knownin the other case that a judge determined this -- thisperson had been cured to the extent that he could have thecustody of a -- a minor child. That information is notknown. So the -- the public is getting only the bad, andnot the good. Its judgment is being skewed. And that's why it has a punitive flavor. MR. ROBERTS: Well, it conveys the informationthat the legislature thought was pertinent for people totake action to protect themselves if they think it'swarranted. Nothing prevents them from finding out more ifthey want to -- if they think that's pertinent --QUESTION: But nothing would prevent anybodyfrom going to the court, or the police station and gettinga record of a particular person. It's made easy for themby the State -- access is made easy -- but only access tothe bad information. MR. ROBERTS: Well, access to the informationthat the legislature thought was pertinent and that peoplewanted to learn. There is no requirement --QUESTION: Mr. Roberts, would it be possible for a defendant to include additional information on the form,and if so, would it appear on the Internet? MR. ROBERTS: There's no provision for thatunder Alaska's laws. I am aware of situations where --where they have a more active notification, where theoffenders have taken steps to say, well, here's my side ofthe story, but there's no provision for that on theInternet.QUESTION: Suppose they had the same statute,but instead of it -- applying it to people who were convicted, they applied it to people who had beenarrested, or alternatively, they applied it to people whoma policeman said he had gotten suspicious informationabout that he believed was accurate, no arrest -- now,suppose it's exactly the same, but they just do -- theyapply it not in that way. What part of the Constitution,if any, would that violate? MR. ROBERTS: Well, it might violate the DueProcess Clause if there's not a rational connectionbetween --QUESTION: Well, it's rational in the sense thata -- a reasonable person would think that these -- it's away of stopping these, you know, criminals. They'resuspicious. They're -- they're -- suspicious peopleagainst whom there are suspicions are more likely to commit crimes than people who are not suspected.MR. ROBERTS: The legislature would have to showa rational basis for its categorization. That's thestandard --QUESTION: All right. Your answer is itviolates substantive due process or nothing.MR. ROBERTS: Or -- it may or may not, dependingon what it shows. QUESTION: All right. I've got that. I --MR. ROBERTS: Here the legislature had a solid basis, a basis that this --QUESTION: Yes.MR. ROBERTS: -- Court has recognized, asrecently as last June in the McKune case, for theconclusion that those convicted have a high rate ofrecidivism.QUESTION: Well, are you assuming from JusticeBreyer's hypothesis, Mr. Roberts, that the policeman whohas spotted some suspicious -- that these people havepreviously been convicted, or that this is just the -- thebeginning of the whole story is that a policeman spotssomeone? MR. ROBERTS: Well, I understood the question tobe it's just the beginning of the whole story, and in thatcase, I'd question whether --QUESTION: Well, there's certainly no ex postfacto problem there, is there? MR. ROBERTS: No, there wouldn't be --QUESTION: No, what I was driving at is supposethat this statute too is -- I -- suppose I were to believeit was excessive in light of its purpose in respect tosome -- some people, but not to others. What part of theConstitution would it violate, if any? MR. ROBERTS: Certainly not the Ex Post FactoClause because in Seling against Young, the Court said you look at the law on its face, not as applied. Halper hadstarted looking at laws as applied to determine whetherthey're punishment, and in Hudson and in Seling, the Courtsaid we're not going to do that. I'd like to reserve the remainder of my time,Your Honor. QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Roberts. General Olson, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSONON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERSMR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Congress and the legislatures of States haveagreed that citizens should have access to truthful information concerning the identity and location ofconvicted sex offenders.QUESTION: Well, I suppose that the public intheory has access to it anyway because convictions are amatter of public record, and presumably any citizen whowanted to dig deep enough could find out who had beenconvicted of what. What this scheme involves is getting a bigmegaphone, in effect, making it more readily available. Is that what we're talking about here? MR. OLSON: I don't agree with thecharacterization of this as a megaphone. What I -- what Iwould characterize it instead of saying it is the leastintrusive, most passive way to provide information that isalready available to citizens, and can be obtained bycitizens, but to make it more accessible to them becausethe people have decided that they want this information. QUESTION: But it isn't passive because you havea lifetime obligation to update it. MR. OLSON: Yes, but it's --QUESTION: It is not passive.MR. OLSON: But it's -- but it's minimallypassive and -- and minimally --QUESTION: Now we're up to minimally passive.MR. OLSON: Well, Justice Kennedy, we have to register to vote. We have to register to marry. We haveto register to get a driver's license. We have todisclose our homes when we buy a car, when we get adivorce, when we fill out a census form.QUESTION: And most -- most of those do notinvolve -- involve shame or ridicule. This does.MR. OLSON: Well, the -- that is a separatequestion. I'm -- what I'm saying is that the burden ofregistration or of keeping information current is aminimally intrusive burden. Now with respect to the question of shame, thatarises, to the extent that it exists at all, from theconviction of violating a sex offense. There is dueprocess in connection with that -- that -- to the extentthat process is due -- and we'll get to that I know in thesubsequent case, but --QUESTION: Well, but precisely, but that -- thatshows that there's an added burden here that was added bythe State after the conviction. MR. OLSON: Yes, but that -- that is true ofmany regulatory measures. You can lose your right topractice in the securities field -- and that's beenheld -- because of a conviction or to practice banking orthe right to vote. There are other consequences. ThisCourt has repeatedly said --QUESTION: If a banker or securities dealer wereconvicted of -- of -- of a crime, could the Governmentafter the fact -- prospective -- pardon me --retroactively -- retroactively require that he or she filetheir -- their earnings statements for the rest of theirlife with some regulatory agency? MR. OLSON: Well, I don't -- I -- I don't -- theCourt has never addressed that question, but the Court hasheld that after the fact, it can -- the -- the legislaturecan prevent those persons from practicing that profession, including the practice of medicine, being a fund raiserfor a union, losing the right to vote. The fact thatthis -- what the -- this --QUESTION: But, General Olson, there's a -- adifference in those -- those restrictions that affect onepart of one's life. I can't practice a particularprofession, but I can go out and get a job. I -- I'm notaffected in where I live. My neighbors know that I'vecommitted a crime, but they don't -- the same reaction --the notion that I am being labeled not a convictedoffender -- which I am -- but a sex offender, a currentstatus -- a current status with no opportunity to get out.MR. OLSON: Well, the -- well, the fact ofregistration and disclosure relates to the conviction of asex offense. The public in States and the legislature and Congress have determined in response to the requestsof the people -- as Mr. Roberts said, the test, accordingto this Court's jurisprudence, is the intent. The intenthere is not to punish. The intent is to respond tocitizens who have --QUESTION: Well, I think it's -- it's easy for alegislature to say that, and in part, it's right. But inpart, it seems to me that there are many indicia ofpunishment here as well. That's why you just don't restwhen the legislature says it's regulatory. You must go beyond that. MR. OLSON: Yes. This Court has said thatonly -- you would go beyond that only if the evidence wasthe clearest proof, unmistakable evidence that the intentor effect was punitive as opposed to regulatory. In thiscase, there is no affirmative restraint on motion. Thereis no confinement. There is no restriction on travel oremployment or recreation, no obligation to submit tosearches, intrusive supervision or questioning. QUESTION: Well, there's no formal restrictionon employment, but it -- in many of these cases, thesepeople have terrible times renting a place to live,getting a job. MR. OLSON: Well, the empirical evidence is notgreat that that is indeed a significant statistical problem, but the problem, to the extent that it may exist,results from the conviction of a -- of an -- of anoffense --QUESTION: No. With -- with --MR. OLSON: -- about which an employer may wantto know. QUESTION: With respect, Mr. Olson, I mean, Ithink that's what's bothering us. The -- the offense hasresulted in a conviction and a penalty. Each is aone-time event, as it were, or a one-time status and each is over. What this is doing is, in effect, imposing astatus of public shame for a period of years, orwhatever it is, or a period of life in -- in the case ofcertain offenses. And that is not merely the consequenceof the conviction for the crime which was defined, isover, and done with. This is something new. MR. OLSON: Well, to apply the seven -- to theextent that the Court would apply the Kennedy Mendoza-Martinez factors, there is no affirmative disability orrestraint. Registration or publication has never beenconsidered historically as punishment. The -- the --there is a regulatory purpose. The -- even the NinthCircuit --QUESTION: May I ask you a question about that?I -- I understand that the -- the percentage of sex offenses in Alaska with children is extremely high, andwhat is -- has been the effect of this scheme if it's beenemployed? Has it had some effect there --MR. OLSON: I --QUESTION: -- in reducing the number of sexoffenses? MR. OLSON: I do not know the answer to that,and perhaps Mr. Roberts does. But what this is -- and I think this is a properway to think of this statute -- in connection with a class of offenses, where the -- where the rate of recidivism issignificantly higher -- as this Court has held veryrecently -- than any other crime, people are asking theirgovernment please allow us to know when we have someone inour neighborhood. When we -- when we're hiring a new --QUESTION: Could -- could the State require aspecial mark on your license plate? MR. OLSON: No, I -- well, I don't know, JusticeKennedy, but I would say that would be considerablydifferent than what's here because that would --QUESTION: I don't think it's very different. MR. OLSON: Pardon me? QUESTION: I don't think it's very different. MR. OLSON: I -- I respectfully submit that it'sa great deal different. That mark on your license plate, or mark on your forehead would go wherever you would go. It would require you to carry the government's messagerather than the government supplying the message.QUESTION: Well, this statute requires you tomake the government's message four times a year. MR. OLSON: It only -- it doesn't require you tomake the government's message four times a year. Thegovernment's message, I respectfully submit, is made whena citizen submits an inquiry to the State through theInternet listing. All -- it is required four times a year is to advise the government of a current location orcurrent information so that the information on theregistry is accurate and -- and up-to-date. This is information that citizens have requestedfrom their government. Their government has theinformation of people who have committed certain types ofcrimes, who society has perceived as particularlydangerous. It's a self-protective mechanism. The -- notonly the --QUESTION: But they -- the Megan's Laws are notall one size and shape. I mean, some of them have thedisclaimer right on the page saying we're not labelingthis person dangerous and -- and have a chance for aperson to get off it. Here, because there's no give, itdoes have a punitive feel.I mean, as far as the Federal legislation isconcerned, a State that tells the whole truth -- isthat -- that kind of law is totally acceptable within theFederal requirement, isn't it?MR. OLSON: It -- it would seem to -- well, Ithink the answer is that yes, it would because the Federalstatute simply prescribes a floor. It's going to be virtually impossible and quiteburdensome for the State to supply what you suggest wouldbe complete information about any individual. What the parents and the --QUESTION: It doesn't -- at least to say what --whether the crime was a misdemeanor or a felony, thedisclaimer certainly to -- to say, now we are not labelingthis person a forever sex offender. We are labeling thisperson a convicted --MR. OLSON: Well, and that is all that theregistry does, and I submit that to the extent that yourquestion goes to any of the seven Kennedy Mendoza-Martinezfactors, it's excessiveness is -- on -- on the scale.QUESTION: Yes. MR. OLSON: And I would submit that thisregistry and this information, providing truthful, publicrecord, readily accessible information is -- is minimal.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Olson. Mr. Thompson, we'll hear from you. ORAL ARGUMENT OF DARRYL L. THOMPSONON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. THOMPSON: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:We believe that the Alaska Sex OffenderRegistration Act imposes punishment because it possessesthree features which are classically considered to bepunishment, and not like any other civil or regulatorymeasure this Court has seen before. First of all, the sanction attachesautomatically and inescapably solely on a basis of a priorconviction, without any determination of presentdangerousness at all.Secondly, the sanction is a pervasive regulationof the person themselves. There is no attempt to try toregulate an activity or a profession here. It's aregulation of the person himself. QUESTION: Well, to what extent do you -- do youmean, Mr. Thompson? You said to regulate the personhimself. I mean, he is not circumscribed in hisactivities, is he? MR. THOMPSON: He has to report four times ayear.QUESTION: But not in Alaska --MR. THOMPSON: Just like they do on probation.QUESTION: In Alaska, not in person, I take it.MR. THOMPSON: Well, we respectfully disagreewith Mr. Roberts' characterization of the statute. Thestatute gives unfettered discretion to the Department ofPublic Safety -- the police -- to administer it in a waythat it deems appropriate. QUESTION: How -- how has it been administered? MR. THOMPSON: Regulatorily they have done it bymail. But I can cite you instances, with affidavits in a parallel case, of people that were mandated to report tothe police. They can do it and --QUESTION: Well, but that's not part of -MR. THOMPSON: -- have the discretion to do it.QUESTION: That's not -- that's not part of therecord here, is it? MR. THOMPSON: That is not part of the recordhere. But they have --QUESTION: At least -- at least --MR. THOMPSON: -- the unfettered discretion bythe pure statutory language. QUESTION: When the -- they have to replace thephotographs periodically. MR. THOMPSON: They do, and -- and they'rerequired to -- on their quarterly report to report any changes in their physical characteristics, they gainweight, they grow gray hair, they get lasik surgery, don'thave glasses, grow a beard, get fat. Whatever it is,they've got to report that information. And you knowthat's going to be a triggering event. I mean, if theylook different, the police are going to have them comeback in and get a new photograph --QUESTION: Well, but I mean, how is thatdifferent? Everybody -- you're sort of turning this onwhether you have to walk to the police station or not. I mean, a lot of people have to go in and report differentthings, send in forms, give their pictures, even givetheir fingerprints. I would think that the problem is what happensto that information later, that everybody in theneighborhood knows it, that they're likely to shun thepeople, that -- that it may be too broad. I mean, isthat -- is it really the police -- having to walksomewhere and write something as opposed to sending in areport that makes all the difference? MR. THOMPSON: No. I mean, what I -- what I --the third characteristic is -- is the stigmatizingcharacteristic, which I want to -- want to talk abouthere. But it's not just --QUESTION: Well, what about someone who is truly a dangerous sex offender, who poses a real risk tochildren in that area? Now, what about that? Are -- isthis a -- a scheme that is applied to such a person thatposes constitutional problems, do you think, or doespublic safety rise to the level where it can be respondedto in this fashion?MR. THOMPSON: Well, unlike the -- the Kansassituation, Kansas v. Hendricks, there's no effort to weedout those who are dangerous from those who are not.QUESTION: Yes. That's not the question I asked you.MR. THOMPSON: I apologize.QUESTION: I asked you whether, as applied tosomeone who is exceedingly dangerous, in your view doesthe scheme survive? MR. THOMPSON: Well, no. It's still an evasiveregulation of the individual just like probation and it'sstill a stigmatizing system that labels them as dangerous.QUESTION: Maybe he deserves stigmatizationif -- with the high recidivist rate under the facts thatJustice O'Connor gave you. The person is still dangerous.MR. THOMPSON: But not all of them are. Andthat's the problem with this statute. It applies to thosepeople that are demonstrably not dangerous. QUESTION: If that's the problem --QUESTION: But your --QUESTION: -- how -- how -- this is -- what isyour response to Justice -- to the argument that was madeon the other side? It said simply this, that you're --you're raising an ex post facto claim. Now, we don't wantto be nitpicking about this, but an ex post facto claim isa question of whether this is punishment, and they'resaying it's not seen as punishment. It wasn't theirintent to punish. It was their intent to inform so thatthe thing won't happen again. That's not a punitive intent. And therefore, your claims about how bad this ismay be right. And suppose I accept them. Suppose I thinkthey're right. Should I not, nonetheless, wait untilsomebody raises a substantive due process claim? That wayyou can decide if the problem with the statute is overlybroad, if the problem is that some people should have itapplied to them and others shouldn't. All the things thatyou mentioned would come into play. But as far aspunitive intent is concerned, that's not thelegislature's --MR. THOMPSON: Well, we -- I'm sorry. Wedisagree --QUESTION: I mean, that's the argument.MR. THOMPSON: Yes. QUESTION: And I'd like to -- but tell me whatabout the relation of the substantive Due ProcessClause -- about why isn't that the better vehicle to makeyour argument? Now, that's what I'd just like to hear youdiscuss. MR. THOMPSON: I mean, it certainly is avehicle, you know, to talk about whether or not it'snarrowly tailored to -- to a specific regulatory goal. I think that is a proper challenge, and it was challengedat the lower court level. But we're here today on an ex post factoquestion before the Court, and the question is, is itpunishment, or is it not? And we -- we respectfullydisagree that this is intended to be purely a regulatorymeasure. And we disagree because the State's solereliance is on the language found in the preamble of thestatute, that it's designed to protect the public. That'sone of the penal goals under the constitution in the Stateof Alaska for criminal justice system. QUESTION: Of course, that's true, but in mymind rings a case, in which I was in dissent, but themajority has the law, and that's Hendricks. If, afterall, it's not punishment to put a person in a cell -- andI thought it was, but the majority thought it wasn't --why is it punishment, following the law, to simply require the person to make reports four times a year? MR. THOMPSON: Well, it is -- it is -- probationrequires the exact same thing, and that's our point. QUESTION: And it -- it required less thanputting the person in what was, in effect, a jail cell. I'm -- I'm looking at the precedent on ex post facto.MR. THOMPSON: Certainly. And -- and -- and youknow, Hendricks and Salerno present the types of casesthat are steeped in the pedigree of this Court looking tothe need to protect the public from those people that are actively dangerous now, and that's why it was important inHendricks that there was, in fact, those protectionsafforded to the individual. I mean, it doesn't happenautomatically that Hendricks was going to be put in jail.There had to have been a jury trial, or trial by a judgewith a preponderance beyond a reasonable doubt, and he'sallowed an annual review. He can petition at any time. The secretary, at his own discretion, can remove thatrestriction. So the duration of that is solely limitedand -- and looks to the purpose to protect the people fromthose -- the public from those people that are dangerous.None of those protections are here. In fact,this is a wide-sweeping statute that takes everybody in.And -- and we have to look --QUESTION: I -- I guess that one of the problems I have with -- with your side of the case is that this ispublic information insofar as a conviction is concerned. Insofar as addresses, credit card companies, and driver'slicense bureaus have this stuff all the time. It wouldseem to me that if the Court were to strike down theselaws, some private business could have a web -- a webpage, just like credit card companies do. There may besome Privacy Act concerns, but still, this is truthfulinformation. MR. THOMPSON: It's not truthful information, and respectfully, I -- I agree with what Justice Ginsburgwas saying earlier. I mean, it's -- it's false --QUESTION: It's -- it's truth as far as it goes. There's nothing false in the information reported. I questioned whether it was the whole truth because it hasthe bad side, but none of the good. MR. THOMPSON: It's sort of the sin of omission,particularly when we look -- we look to --QUESTION: Well, I -- I suppose a lot ofcredit --MR. THOMPSON: Well, and -- and it goes furtherthan that.QUESTION: -- the credit reports are misleadingtoo. Maybe the person is now very successful, and ispaying all their bills. You don't know. MR. THOMPSON: But the legislatures made itclear that they are telling the public that these peopleweren't just someone who once had a conviction. They'retelling the public that these people are activelydangerous now, presently dangerous to be actively avoided.And how do they do that? If you know someone ison the registry -- and the idea being make my own informedchoice. Now that I know this information, get some moreinformation. And if you know they're on the registry andyou get the rest of that information, you know they're cured, you know they've been great --QUESTION: Well, does -- does any entity in asociety, a -- a nursery school have an interest in -- inknowing the background of their employees? MR. THOMPSON: Readily available, and it hasalways been available and it was available before thestatute.QUESTION: Well, they have an -- they have aninterest in knowing that. That isn't -- that isn'tsomehow punitive or -- or half the truth. They makethe -- they make the inference that there's -- thatthere's a hazard here, a risk they don't want to take.MR. THOMPSON: What I was getting at earlierwas -- is that the State of Alaska makes it a crime,felony child endangerment, if you leave your kid alone with someone who's on the registry. And it doesn't matterthat that person is safe. It doesn't matter that thatperson is not dangerous. So the State is telling you thatthey are to be avoided. QUESTION: Well, but that -- that issue isnot -- not before the Court, and if that's so, this --this just shows that it's a regulatory scheme which hasanother valid purpose. MR. THOMPSON: We disagree. What we think thatdemonstrates is that it's a clear proclamation because it came at the same time as the amendments in ', a clearproclamation of a legislative intent to tell the publicthat everyone on that registry is currently, presentlydangerous. QUESTION: Well, you disagree with -- youdisagree with the court of appeals then when they said itwas not a punitive intent on the part of --MR. THOMPSON: Yes, we do disagree with that andwe -- we briefed that in our brief. QUESTION: Well, you would -- you would concedethat it is least ambiguous because the legislature saidour purpose is regulatory. So you're not going to saythat's -- that's incredible.MR. THOMPSON: Well, the legislature never saidit was a civil regulatory measure. What the legislators said and what their sole reliance on intent is, is in thepreamble where it says it serves to protect the public.And -- and it's clear that protection of the public in --in Salerno was -- was viewed as a proper regulatory goal,but in -- in Brown it's also viewed as a proper criminalgoal. And in Alaska, it's the goal -- one of the statedgoals under article I, section of the penaladministration -- it is a criminal goal to protect thepublic. So I don't think that -- that's -- that's --QUESTION: But it's a civil goal too, I -- MR. THOMPSON: It is a civil goal too.QUESTION: You rely to some extent on theplacement in the criminal code both that the informationabout this registry system has to be part of everycriminal judgment and part of every rule colloquy.MR. THOMPSON: That's -- that's true. Thelegislature, you know, in our view considered it such animportant component and consequence of any criminalconviction, that in fact, that's the only information thata judge has to give to someone convicted of a sex offensein writing.QUESTION: So I thought it might be fair for youto say, well, it's -- it's mixed. It's ambiguous. Insome respects, it's -- looks regulatory. In otherrespects it looks punitive. I thought that's what would you say instead of -- so we have to look further. But areyou saying right from the very reading of this law, it isnecessarily punitive? MR. THOMPSON: We do believe that. I mean, itwas intended, again, to protect the public, but when youlook to a law that's -- that's geared directly atindividuals or groups of individuals and not set out toregulate any kind of activities, you know, that is anintent in our view to -- to punish --QUESTION: Would it affect -- MR. THOMPSON: -- solely based upon a priorconviction. QUESTION: Your claim is an ex post facto claim,a retroactivity claim. Suppose this scheme, the Alaskascheme, did allow people -- like the parties here -- tosay, I'm no longer dangerous. Here's the documentation ofthat. Take me off the list. Would you say, nonetheless,it's still punitive? Are you saying that even if someonemade no showing at all of lack of dangerousness,this is -- it would be ex post facto and therefore mustfall? MR. THOMPSON: If I -- Justice Ginsburg --QUESTION: You -- you are asserting that Doe Iand II are people who are no longer dangerous.MR. THOMPSON: Yes.QUESTION: But I'm asking you about the peoplein this large category who are still dangerous, or atleast have made no showing that they're not dangerous. You would have the same ex post facto argument withrespect to those people? Or does it depend, to someextent, on the ability to show that you're not dangerous?MR. THOMPSON: First of all, I think we would --we would take the position that in the absence of anycriteria of actual present dangerousness demonstratesthat -- that the legislature is aimed at the prior conviction and tacking on certain responsibilities to theprior conviction as opposed to really trying to fit thegoal here of protecting the public from dangerous people. QUESTION: But if the legislature says we don'twant this to be punitive, therefore we will give everyonewho was a convicted sex offender an opportunity to showthat they're no longer dangerous, and then there will be adetermination made, yes, you are, no, you're not, wouldyou still be making the ex post facto argument for thepeople who have not shown they're no longer dangerous?MR. THOMPSON: I think it would certainly be acloser call, and --QUESTION: Why would it be a --MR. THOMPSON: -- and my clients would certainlyinvite that hearing. QUESTION: Why would it be a closer call? Whywould it be a closer call? Is everything that is badregulation punishment? I mean, all that would show -- allyou're claiming is that some people who are not dangerousare -- are wrongly covered by this regulatory measure. That still doesn't prove that the regulatory measure ispunitive. It just shows that it's stupid. (Laughter.) QUESTION: That doesn't make it violate the ExPost Facto Clause. Every regulatory measure that goes too far is -- is not criminal punishment. MR. THOMPSON: It is if it looks just likeprobation and has the same consequences as probationbecause probation is historically --QUESTION: That's -- that's -- the questionJustice Ginsburg started with is every time -- you justreplied to Justice Scalia -- and what I hear are wordsthat seem to apply with equal force to a perfectly-tailored statute that would catch only the most dangeroussex offenders who everyone agrees are virtuallyuncontrollable and might repeat their offense many, manytimes. See, if it applies -- if the argument -- thequestion people are asking you -- I'm simply repeatingit -- is, on your argument why isn't that just as much an ex post facto law? What has it got to do with the matterthat it's overly broad, et cetera, which sounds to me likea substantive due process argument, not an ex post factoargument? That's the same question. But I would like youto focus right on it. MR. THOMPSON: Well, I apparently have not beendoing a very good job of it, but I'll try. When we look to whether or not the statuteimposes a punishment, I think it's important that we lookto whether or not it -- it's -- fits with the umbrella of things which have historically considered to bepunishment. And that's one of our starting points, andthat's why I keep going back to the concept of probationand parole because historically there's no dispute thatprobation is a depravation of liberty. Not -- it's notlike going to jail, but it's a depravation of liberty. And -- and it's been considered as punishment, and that'swhat this thing does to people. Now, if it was a perfectly-tailored -- such thatit could weed out the dangerous from the non-dangerous --well, we would invite that because my clients wouldn't behere today. My client has been determined, you know, tobe not dangerous by a superior court family judge.But would it still be punishment? I think we'dhave to look at the -- a little bit closer at it. But,you know, if there's a closer nexus between the publicpurpose and there -- there is a weeding out, maybe itwouldn't be punishment because maybe it's -- it'sescapable, it -- it's --QUESTION: But then -- then you might --MR. THOMPSON: -- at that point, it's notregulating him for life. QUESTION: Well, at that point at least therewould be -- I -- I assume your -- your point would be thatthere -- there is at least a -- a credible basis to say that if it covers only those who are affirmatively shownto be dangerous, the object is simply to apprise thepublic to who is dangerous, and that doesn't sound verypunitive. But if there is no attempt to weed out thedangerous from the non-dangerous, then the claim that theobject is simply to apprise the public of who is dangerousis not so credible. I mean, isn't -- isn't --MR. THOMPSON: That is my point. QUESTION: -- that one of your points?QUESTION: If that's your point, then how do yourespond to their argument which is that that's just tootough to do? We don't know enough about it. It -- itwould invite endless hearings. It would be impossible toadminister this statute. I'm not making the argument. I'm repeating it --MR. THOMPSON: Right. QUESTION: -- for you to respond to.MR. THOMPSON: I guess that would make the --the due process hearing or the -- the hearing that isestablished in -- in Hendricks, and the hearing that'sestablished in Salerno futile as well. I mean, judges arecalled upon every day to make determinations as to whetheror not people are presently dangerous. They do it everyday in the context of evaluating the sentencing criteriain the State of Alaska. It's called the Chaney Criteria. They have to look to whether or not someone poses a riskto the community. That's what they have to do in --QUESTION: How many Megan's Laws have thatregime? I -- I understand that some of them do. Some ofthem are like Alaska. They say this is based solely onyour past conviction. Others say you have an opportunityto show that you're no longer dangerous. What -- in -- inthe range of Megan's Laws that all the States have, howmany treat this as something you can get out of by showingyou're not dangerous?MR. THOMPSON: You know, I don't have a -- anumber for you. I can't tell you if it's States ornot. I don't -- I'm sorry. I don't --QUESTION: What's wrong about --MR. THOMPSON: I don't know that. QUESTION: What's wrong about warning the publicabout who may be dangerous? You -- you seem to say thatit's only -- it's only okay if the State warns the publicabout who is dangerous. What's wrong about warning thepublic about who may be dangerous? Let the public make --you know, the later -- later determination. MR. THOMPSON: I guess we get down to this whodetermines who they're -- who may be dangerous or not. I mean, what -- what's the criteria for that?QUESTION: What is irrational or unconstitutional about warning the public about a categoryof people who may be dangerous as to whom -- as the entirecategory of whom, there's more likely to be danger than --than with respect to other people? Where is it writtenthat you can only warn the public about those whom youhave -- are sure are dangerous? MR. THOMPSON: Part of the problem with thestatute, it's not just a warning of the public. I mean,it -- it's -- there are really various components. It'snot just a notification statute. I mean, you know, thepublic right now has access to -- through another statutethat we have -- to offender information. All they've gotto do is request. And this is an unnecessary statutein -- in one sense. Does it broadcast it on the Internet? No. But the same information is available, and it's information that's available not just going to acourthouse, but you can actually request the State forthat information. And -- and for some people, theinformation may be limited. There are some restrictions. QUESTION: I'm -- I'm not sure if it helps youor hurts you. It -- it indicates that -- that the mostdistressing and damaging fact that you have -- that youhave the conviction is available to the public anyway. And this is just a regulatory scheme to -- to make thatinformation more clear as to how many people are in the community have suffered that conviction.MR. THOMPSON: What I was going to say is thatthe information as to serious offenses that are beyond years is limited. There's some sense of limitation,some sense of it's been a long time. So that informationis limited to those people that have a need to know, likefor example, the day care providers and the teachersand -- and schools who want to know --QUESTION: Well, but I take it under theregistration form we're talking about, that the date ofthe conviction is there, and the -- the citizen can makeup his or her own mind as to whether the conviction was solong ago that they're no longer worried about it.MR. THOMPSON: They really don't have the rightkind of information to make that decision. I mean, what they have is only the conviction --QUESTION: You want -- you want more informationon this form? MR. THOMPSON: Absolutely not. (Laughter.) MR. THOMPSON: The -- you know, I don't. Idon't want more information. And the -- the tribunal that should be makingthe determination of dangerousness really ought to be in athoughtful, rational process in front of a -- of a judge. QUESTION: What -- what if the State simplydecided we're going to put on the Internet, the same waythat Alaska does here, the names of all the people who hadcriminal convictions of any sort without any moreinformation in -- in the last years? Now, if theyapplied that to people who were convicted after theypassed it, would that be ex post facto?MR. THOMPSON: I don't know that it would. Itwould probably have the same stigmatizing effect. I mean,I just -- I want to share with you the State has alreadydone that in the State of Alaska. You can get informationas to anyone in the State of Alaska by a click of a mouseby going on the Internet, if their convictions were in theState of Alaska. That information is already available. QUESTION: If it had the same stigmatizing effect, why would your answer be different? Why -- whywould it not be ex post facto in that case, whereas it isin this? I'm not sure what line you're drawing. MR. THOMPSON: Well, the stigmatizing effecthere is that these people are being currently labeledas -- as sex offenders.QUESTION: No. I -- I realize that, but yousaid in answer to the Chief Justice's question that therewould be the same -- in your judgment, there would be thesame stigmatizing effect if they put every criminal conviction on -- on the Internet. And if -- if thestigmatizing effect would be the same and the informationwould be just as readily available, why would your answerbe different, that that would not be ex post facto whereasthis is? That would not be punitive. This is punitive.MR. THOMPSON: Well, perhaps it would, but youknow, our analysis of this ex post facto argument isreally a composite of a variety of components of thestatute and not simply the public notification provision. QUESTION: Well, what --MR. THOMPSON: It's certainly an important part.QUESTION: You're tapping everything, theregister and --MR. THOMPSON: Yes.QUESTION: So you would say even just the requirement that they register, even if it's justcirculated to law enforcement people, that's impermissiblyretroactive as well. So there can be -- is there any scheme forkeeping track of ex-offenders that would pass the ex postfacto test in your judgment, or is it just they've servedtheir time, they've done whatever, parole is given tothem, and that's it? MR. THOMPSON: You know, if -- if therequirements of the individual subject to the registration requirements alone were not as onerous as here where theyhave to report on every days all kinds of personalinformation, and if they don't, then they're going tobe -- go -- go to jail, it may be a closer call. I mean,there was the -- the history of the felony registrations,but they've never really been approved by this Court assomehow being a proper regulatory measure.QUESTION: On the other hand, I don't know ofany precedent -- perhaps you can tell us if there is --from this Court saying that a measure with a declaredregulatory purpose is, nonetheless, impermissiblyretroactive. I don't know of any case that so holds.MR. THOMPSON: Nothing is jumping out at meeither. (Laughter.) QUESTION: Let me ask you to comment on -- onone thing --MR. THOMPSON: But these are unique statutes. QUESTION: I'm sorry. One -- one thing thatmakes it more difficult perhaps than it might be to seeyour side of the argument -- go back to the ChiefJustice's question. What if they put every criminalconviction on the Internet? Well, there's one difference between thesituation that would obtain then and the situation that -- that you're objecting to here. That is, that there is notthe same high recidivism rate for crimes generally thatthere is, apparently undisputedly, for sex crimes in theState of Alaska. And therefore, when you earlier made theargument that there is something very -- something lessthan credible in the State's claim that it's merely tryingto inform the public when, in fact, it makes nodifferentiation between current dangerousness and uncurrent dangerousness, the answer is there is -- or ananswer is -- there is a very high recidivism rate, andthat high recidivism rate does support the claim thatthere is something that -- that it is credible to say thatby publishing this information, we are simply trying toinform people of a probability of dangerousness, leavingthem to do what they want. What is -- is there any -- do you have anyresponse to this claim that the high recidivism rateitself supports the argument that, in fact, this isnothing but a safety information kind of measure, whereasbroadcasting all criminal convictions would not bejustified as having a good fit between the object and whatthe State was doing? Do you have any response to that?MR. THOMPSON: I certainly don't profess to bean expert on the statistical recidivist rates. I thinkthat is -- QUESTION: You don't dispute the State'srecidivism figure, do you? MR. THOMPSON: Well, actually vis-a-vis thebrief that was submitted by Massachusetts as an amici inthis, sets forth a very different pattern of recidivistrates. I mean, when we say recidivist rates, are wetalking about repeat sex offenses? Are we talking aboutrepeated crimes? I mean, there are all different ways inwhich --QUESTION: They're making specific -- they'remaking specific claims. They -- they set out specificpercentages with respect to Alaska. Are you disputingthose figures or not?MR. THOMPSON: We do. QUESTION: You do. All right.MR. THOMPSON: We do, but I don't think we didit directly in our brief, but I think other -- otherbriefs --QUESTION: That's -- that's the trouble. Yes.MR. THOMPSON: -- do. You know, even if we accept --QUESTION: Do you take into account that thedegree of harm, if you make a mistake? That is, supposesomebody is a pickpocket and you have a list and say,pickpockets have to register, the same thing as here. So if you make a mistake about a pickpocket, somebody is outof some change. If you make a mistake here about aperson's dangerousness, the consequences could be verygrave.MR. THOMPSON: And there's a solution to that,and the solution is have -- is to look to theindividualized determination of the person's presentdangerousness. And, you know, in the McKune case, the --QUESTION: Would it be all right to have theperson report every days to have a determination ofpresent dangerousness? MR. THOMPSON: It certainly wouldn't benecessary for John Doe I. He's already had adetermination that he's not dangerous by a court. I don'tknow why you'd have to continue to redo that. I mean, theidea is you get progressively --QUESTION: I'm interested in the Chief Justice'shypothetical. MR. THOMPSON: No, it wouldn't be all right.QUESTION: It wouldn't be all right?MR. THOMPSON: No, not every days. That's --that's awfully burdensome to require someone not just tocome into the police station or fill out a written form,but to require someone -- as a direct consequence of aprior conviction, to require someone to come and -- and be subject every days to a judicial scrutiny as to whetheror not you're still dangerous, that seems to be a prettybig disability. QUESTION: It is a way out.MR. THOMPSON: It is a way out.QUESTION: And one of your complaints is thissystem provides no way out. MR. THOMPSON: That's absolutely correct. It isa way out.The Alaska Sex Offender Registration Act reallyis nothing other than tacking on -- for my clients -- alifetime of probation, a lifetime of communitysupervision, having to report to the police -- my time isup. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Thompson. Mr. Roberts, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JOHN G. ROBERTS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.I think it is very important to place thevarious points that have been touched on this morning inthe proper legal framework. The question, Justice Kennedy, is not whetherit's burdensome to require someone to fill out a form andverify it. The question is, is that so punitive that you don't believe the legislature when it says that we'redoing this to prevent future harm? The question, Justice Ginsburg, is not whetherit might be a better system if it included otherinformation, or whether that would be too burdensome forthe State. The question is, does the failure to put onameliorative information convince you that the legislaturewas simply not telling the truth when it said we're doingthis to prevent future harm? And the question is not whether you should havean individualized determination or a group determination. It is, is the group determination so irrational that youthink the legislature was not really interested inpreventing future harm, it was just doing this to punish? In fact, as Justice Ginsburg pointed out, this Court has never found a law with a civil regulatory purpose toviolate the Ex Post Facto Clause. QUESTION: Is the effects test used to impeachthe finding that the legislature had a regulatory intent? MR. ROBERTS: I think that is --QUESTION: I -- I thought that it was anadditional step that you had to take if you -- even if youfind the legislature had the -- the permitted intent.MR. ROBERTS: I think it only makes sense if youview it as impeaching the intent because, as Chief Justice Warren pointed out in Trop v. Dulles, the evident purposeis controlling because the same sanction can be civil orcriminal. $, civil penalty is not criminal. A $, fine is. You don't look at the perspective ofthe individual because --QUESTION: So long as the legislature has a pureintent, it can have as burdensome a regulation as it wantsbased on previous criminal convictions?MR. ROBERTS: I think if the regulation is soburdensome that it causes you to doubt the intent, thenyou do have a problem, but that is the purpose. QUESTION: You're not saying -- you're saying ifit's -- it wouldn't violate the Ex Post Facto Clause inyour view. It might violate some other clause like thesubstantive due process. MR. ROBERTS: But again, with respect to boththe Ex Post Facto Clause and the Due Process Clause, thequestion is whether there's a rational connection betweenthe sanction and the legislative purpose. Now, if it is too extreme, it may cause you todoubt that connection. For example, it may be -- thelegislature may say we think safe crackers present a riskof recidivism, so we're going to cut off their hands. There may be a rational connection there, but it's tooexcessive given the purpose. There's no way in which this law can be regardedas too excessive. It simply makes available informationthat is already a matter of public record, and publiclyavailable because criminal trials under our system have tobe public.Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Roberts. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 