 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XMARION REYNOLDS STOGNER, :Petitioner :v. : No. -CALIFORNIA :- - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, March , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERTO NAJERA, ESQ., Alternate Deputy Defender, Martinez,California; on behalf of the Petitioner. JANET GAARD, ESQ., Special Assistant Attorney General,Sacramento, California; on behalf of the Respondent.IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiaesupporting the Respondent. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERTO NAJERA, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner JANET GAARD, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent IRVING L. GORNSTEIN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States,as amicus curiae, supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROBERTO NAJERA, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in No. -, Marion Reynolds Stogner v.California.Mr. Najera.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERTO NAJERAON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. NAJERA: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:Petitioner comes before the Court asking onething and one thing only, that the State of California bebound by its decrees and its laws that have guided itthroughout the history of California, that the State andthe Federal Government be bound by the laws of the land that have been in place essentially since the State'sfoundation.Since early on in this country's history, ChiefJustice Marshall looked at a matter similar and said itwould be repugnant to the genius of our laws to allow theprosecution to continue after the statute of limitationshad expired.Such has been the law that only a few times inthe history of this Nation has any State had thetrepidation to attempt to revive an expired cause of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC action in a criminal matter. In each such instance, theStates have been -- the State has not been permitted to doso. In each such instance, such as in State v. Sneed,Moore v. State, and other such cases --QUESTION: Were those State law cases and Stateconstitutional cases?MR. NAJERA: They were, Your Honor. And --however, as I said, in Adams v. Wood, it involved aFederal matter and it involved a matter that we mightconsider equally repugnant. It had to do with theprosecution of an individual who was involved in the slavetrade and laws that prohibited that. However, the attemptto punish that occurred after the statute had run, and Mr.Chief Justice Marshall indicated in that particular casethat even if the case had been treason, it could not be prosecuted, for under the Federal law, treason was onlyprosecutable for a -year period.QUESTION: Did he base his decision, the onethat you're referring to, on the Ex Post Facto Clause?MR. NAJERA: No, Your Honor. He based it on thelaw that the statute of limitations in that case, theFederal law had in fact called for an expiration of thecause of action, and the Court there decided that, no, itcould not be prosecuted. But no, he did not decide it onthe ex post facto basis, Your Honor. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC As the Court knows, we raise two issues here,the Ex Post Facto Clause and the Due Process Clause, and Iwould like to point out that the two clauses, while theyboth deal with arbitrariness and unfairness, are notcoextensive and that similarly, in addressing the matter,neither is petitioner's claim as to each, for under the ExPost Facto Clause, we are not looking at to whether or notrights have vested. Such is not a concern of the Courtfor ex post facto concerns.However, in this particular case, Mr. Stognerhas been vested with a right. The State of California hasgiven him a substantive right, a defense that is neitherwaivable nor forfeitable.QUESTION: We've said in Graham against Connorthat if a provision of the Constitution speaks directly to a subject matter, such as I think the Ex Post Facto Clausedoes to your case here, then we don't go to substantivedue process. We analyze it just under that provision.MR. NAJERA: That is correct, Your Honor. However, as I indicated, the two claims are -- are notnecessarily coextensive, and I would like to point theCourt out to the case of Sacramento v. Lewis. There, theCourt may recall, involved a high-speed chase. The policewere after individuals on a motorcycle. The motorcyclecrashed. There was in that case no Fourth Amendment claim th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC because no seizure had occurred of the person prior to thecrash taking place. The Court, nevertheless, was able toanalyze that case under the substantive due processprinciples because it fell outside of the FourthAmendment.Here we clearly believe that the case falls wellwithin the -- the Ex Post Facto Clause. However, shouldthe Court decide otherwise, it strikes me that it shouldnot render this Court impotent to examine the matter as asubstantive due process. It seems --QUESTION: That -- that would render the rulequite pointless. I mean, the rule is if it is analyzableunder -- under a very specific provision of theConstitution and is not valid under that one, you thendon't move on to analyze it under another one. And -- butyou're saying unless you win under the narrow one, it'snot over. If you lose under the narrow one, you then cango on to the Due Process Clause.MR. NAJERA: Well --QUESTION: That doesn't make it much of a --much of a safeguard, it seems to me.MR. NAJERA: Well, Justice Scalia, as I'veindicated, the causes are not -- are not absolutelycoextensive. We have in this case a vested right. TheState of California has guaranteed to the petitioner the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC right that he be free from prosecution, the right that hebe free from conviction, and the right that he be freefrom punishment. This is vested to him under State law. As such, that can be analyzed, whether or not the Courtdeems it sufficient, under the Ex Post Facto Clause. Asthe Court said in Weaver, we are not concerned under theEx Post Facto Clause with vested rights. That's notnecessary for analysis under the Ex Post Facto Clause. Itis an additional factor that the Court certainly shouldand, we urge, must consider under the Due Process Clause.If I may continue, analyzing the matter firstunder the Ex Post Facto Clause, I think the first questionperhaps that should be addressed is whether or not this isa rule of evidence and whether or not it falls withinCalder four. Clearly this is a rule of evidence as the State of California has defined it. It is a rule ofevidence because it is required of any finder of fact,whether it be a judge sitting pretrial examining thematter as a demurrer or in analyzing the matter assufficiency of evidence under Penal Code .QUESTION: But it doesn't -- it doesn't go tothe kind of evidence necessary to prove the substantiveoffense certainly.MR. NAJERA: Yes. I -- I would beg to differ,Your Honor. And the reason is, is California has injected th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the statute of limitations into every offense in which itapplies. In such cases it becomes a material ingredientof the offense, and in such cases the prosecution isbarred if that material ingredient is not proven by theprosecution. And if the matter should proceed to trial, ajury must acquit if the prosecution is not able toovercome its burden in that particular case.QUESTION: But that -- that simply says there isanother substantive element there. It doesn't say whatrule of evidence you follow to decide how that was madeout.MR. NAJERA: It does, Your Honor, in thisrespect. If the evidence comes before a jury, forexample, and the evidence shows that the prosecution isbarred, that no public offense is stated, the jury must acquit. It is a rule that guides the jurors, as much asit would guide a court, in deciding what must be done withthe particular facts. If the facts before the court showthat the case is barred, then the prosecution cannotcontinue. The jurors must acquit. It -- it would seem tome to be one of the most clear rules of evidence andapplicable throughout, not just to California and not justto the Federal Government --QUESTION: Suppose you have a -- a case in whichthe statute of limitations has not yet expired, and the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC legislature then extends it. And it's during the extendedperiod that the prosecution has brought it. Is there anex post facto violation there?MR. NAJERA: I believe not, Your Honor, and thereason I believe not is that what is promised by thestatute of limitations is not any particular number ofyears. Rather, what is promised --QUESTION: And how does that fit in with thedescription you just gave of -- about the evidence?MR. NAJERA: Because the evidence that must beshown by the prosecution is that the case has not beenbarred. That does not depend on any particular number ofyears. It depends --QUESTION: Well, but that's the ultimateconclusion they gave. The case I put to you is either barred or it isn't. We have to find the answer to thatbefore we know whether there's evidence. I -- I just -- Ijust don't understand your theory.MR. NAJERA: The case is barred only when thestatute has run. One can liken it to a conditionalpromise.QUESTION: But why isn't any evidence in -- inone case or the other in the hypothetical I put?MR. NAJERA: Because the evidence of -- of anextended statute of limitations doesn't go to whether or th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not the case is barred. The evidence is still the same. The case has not yet run.QUESTION: Except it does if you're -- if you'reright on your theory.MR. NAJERA: I am right on my theory because the-- the State is in fact barred from proceeding, and theevidence that would come before the --QUESTION: Let me ask you another question onthe ex post facto lawsuit. Suppose the State has asavings clause and it reserves to itself the right toextend any statute of limitations. What result there ifthe State then extends the statute?MR. NAJERA: I believe if there is --QUESTION: And this was -- and then this ineffect at the time the crime was committed, this general power in the State to extend.MR. NAJERA: I believe if the State has reservedthe right to extend a statute of limitations before thestatute has expired, then there is no ex post factoproblem. I believe that the problem occurs --QUESTION: Well, then you're not arguing forvery much here. The -- the States -- all the States canjust pass this statute and -- and that's the end of thiscase.MR. NAJERA: Well, it's not the end of this th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC particular case because the statute has, in fact, run.Certainly a State is permitted to set statute oflimitations, decide the terms and conditions thereof, andgo forward in the future under such a premise. In this --QUESTION: What -- what if a State says wereserve the right to dispense with any of the elements of-- of crime that are on our books? I mean, it announcesthat. We reserve the right in the future to dispense with-- retroactively with any of the elements of the crimesthat we have defined in our -- in our code. You wouldn'tsay that's okay, would you?MR. NAJERA: No, I would not, Your Honor.QUESTION: Why is this any different? I -- Idon't know. If it violates the Ex Post Facto Clause, Ican't see how the State can get around it by announcing in advance that it's going to -- to violate the Ex Post FactoClause. How does that make it okay?MR. NAJERA: Because the Ex Post Facto Clauseviolation only occurs when the offense is deemed no more,and that only occurs when it runs. So if the case hasn'trun yet -- or the statute has not run yet, we are in acompletely different posture. No -- in California --QUESTION: But it has run. The State announcesit in advance. Then the statute runs, and the State says,hey, we told you. We told you beforehand that even after th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC the statutes run, we're going to be able to get you. AndI thought you said that's okay.MR. NAJERA: It's okay in the statute oflimitations context because there they have reserved thatsituation that allows them to say the public offense stillcontinues in this particular situation. What we have hereis an absolute rule that says once run, not only can nopunishment be had, not only can no conviction be had, butnot even a prosecution can be maintained. There is nooffense once the statute has run.QUESTION: But you're saying a State could haveno statutes of limitations.MR. NAJERA: Yes, and -- and the States haveclearly done that in certain instances such as in the caseof murder. There is no statute of limitations in -- in such a particular case.QUESTION: And you have no trouble withprospective application of either saying we're not goingto have any statute of limitations for this crime orprospectively the time is going to be longer. You're onlytalking about the retrospective.MR. NAJERA: That is correct, Your Honor. It isin its retrospective aspect that we run into problemsbecause the State has clearly said there is no offenseanymore. It is gone. It is dead. It has been th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC terminated.QUESTION: And for the -- the -- you were beingasked before about the difference between extending alimitation that has not yet expired and reviving a deadcase, and for that there's -- there was a very nicestatement of the difference between the two by JudgeLearned Hand. I thought in response to Justice Kennedy'squestion, you would come back with that.MR. NAJERA: That is correct, Your Honor. It isclear as -- as His Honor Judge Learned Hand, that we'renot offended in the same manner before the crime hasexpired when we extend the matter --QUESTION: That -- that was the footnote in theFalter case?MR. NAJERA: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Footnote or something?Now, that has never been approved by this Court. Have -- have various circuit courts approved of that?MR. NAJERA: Various circuit courts have -- as Irecall, have spoken of it. Some have objected to suchlanguage recently such as the -- the Brechtel case. Butevery State court that has looked at the matter, not justin California, has said you cannot maintain such an actiononce it has expired. That's clearly been the lawthroughout. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And it -- it is important to note that this typeof precedent, this history has been throughout the -- thehistory of the United States. We have cases extendingearly on, State v. Sneed, a case that was cited, I mightnote, in the Kring opinion that was overruled by thisCourt. But nevertheless, it was cited there for theproposition that -- that a statute of limitations, oncerun, did in fact cause ex post facto violations.QUESTION: Well, whatever the Federal stopper, I-- I gather that this Court must have assumed there's sucha distinction when it was dealing with Fifth Amendmentclaims and it said, once the statute of limitations hasexpired, you can't plead the Fifth.MR. NAJERA: That's absolutely correct, YourHonor. And State opinions are, of course, in accord. Andit is striking to note that as late as in a case inCalifornia called Blackburn, an accused in a civil matterattempted to rely on the Fifth Amendment in order to avoidquestions concerning child molestation. And the courtthere said, well, you haven't made a sufficient showing,and the reason being? Because the statute of limitationsessentially replaces the Fifth Amendment.And I would note in that regard, in Californiain particular, that the statute of limitations has beenviewed as such a powerful matter that it's been likened th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC not only to the Fifth Amendment, but it has been likenedto the Fourth Amendment in that it prevents unlawfulseizures of a person. It has been likened to the DoubleJeopardy Clause in that one cannot prosecute a personagain once the statute of limitations has run.And so this statute of limitations is not amatter of minimal import.QUESTION: Well, the California Supreme Court,in announcing under State law, didn't give it thatfundamental sweep at all.MR. NAJERA: It -- it had --QUESTION: We're bound by what -- how Californiacharacterizes its own statute I assume.MR. NAJERA: To some extent, yes, and to someextent, no, because in ex post facto analysis, it is this Court that looks at State law and it's this Court thatmakes a determination whether or not it violates ex postfacto regardless of what label a State may give it inparticular. That principle was announced in -- inLindsey, and it certainly was reaffirmed in -- in Carmell.QUESTION: But we -- we have to -- we have totake the State law as we -- as we find it. I mean, if theSupreme Court of California says a law meant one thing, wedon't come in and say it meant another. We can say you'vechanged the law and therefore it's ex post facto, but we th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC don't decide for ourselves over the -- overruling a Statecourt what that particular law said at a particular time.MR. NAJERA: Well, the Court looks at -- at thesubstance of the matter I believe. The Court looks atwhether or not the law violates the Ex Post Facto Clause,and it would seem to me that simply changing labels wouldbe an easy way for a State to get around the Ex Post FactoClause. As the Court said, as early as Cummings, it's amatter of substance, not a matter of form.And California, throughout its history, up untilFrazer granted, had always considered statute oflimitations to be matters of substance. They were notsimply remedial matters or not simply procedural matters. They were matters of substance and they were matters ofrights for the defendant or the person accused. QUESTION: Your -- your claim doesn't fit verycomfortably under any of the four Calder v. Bull factors,or categories I should say, of ex post facto violations. You're trying to shoehorn it under the rule of evidencecategory, number four?MR. NAJERA: Whether -- Your Honor, whethercomfortable or not, I believe it fits, and I believe thatit fits within each of the four categories, not onlybecause of the nature of the Ex Post Facto Clause, butbecause of the multifaceted nature of the statute of th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC limitations at issue here.For example, if we look at Calder categorythree, which deals with punishments and the laws that areannexed to the punishment, in the case of Lynce, which Ibelieve was authored by Your Honor, in that case what wasat stake was not what the State had defined as thepunishment per se, the number of years. What was at stakethere was that the State itself had granted credits,overcrowding credits. They did not even intend to -- togive a benefit to the defendant there. And yet it fellwithin Calder three because the punishment had beenreduced by laws that were annexed to the crime, the lawsdealing with the overcrowding.And in that way, one can say if the Courtrejects the principle that this is a material ingredient of the offense itself, as California has defined it,certainly as a matter of punishment, it is a law that'sannexed to that punishment and says, after a certainperiod of time, no punishment shall be had.And that's quite clear under California lawbecause it is not a waivable right. In other words, aperson can go ahead and proceed to trial or go ahead andplead guilty and be languishing in prison and sufferingthe punishment and years later discover that he has astatute of limitation right and assert it then and th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC punishment shall be had no more. He must be released. And so in that way I do believe it fits within Caldercategory --QUESTION: That -- that's the law in California,what you just said, that even though you never raise it asa -- as an issue in your trial, and you're in -- you're inprison, many years later you could then come in and underCalifornia law if it -- if the statute had run, you wouldbe released?MR. NAJERA: That is correct, Your Honor. That-- that has been held over and over in California sinceits early days and reaffirmed in particular in the McGeecase which was seminal in California and which defined itnot just merely as a matter of defense, not just merely asa -- as a right of the defendant, but also as a matter of jurisdiction for the court. And in that case, they madeit very clear that since no offense could be stated, nojurisdiction could be had by the court.QUESTION: Then -- then what was the effect ofthe Frazer case?MR. NAJERA: Well, the Frazer case certainlytried to redefine the history, I believe, of -- of theCalifornia law. And I might note, of course, that itdealt with a subsequent statute of limitations enactedwell after the statute of limitations applicable to th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC petitioner in this case and reinforced by . in .QUESTION: So did the Frazer case overrule someof this California doctrine on statute of limitations thatyou've just told us about?MR. NAJERA: It certainly overruled cases suchas Sobiek which had held that, in fact, this was aviolation of the Ex Post Facto Clause. While calling it amatter of legislative grace, they did not touch cases suchas Zamora which occurred in , the same year that thestatute of limitations would have expired here, thatreaffirmed that this was in fact a substantive right.And I might note that even while using thelanguage legislative grace, this Court in Weaver said evenif good-time credits are given as a matter of legislativegrace, it does not bar application of ex post facto, and so such credits cannot be taken away, even though they hadnot, in that particular case, been earned.QUESTION: Mr. Najera, could -- could youexplain to me -- I -- I understand your argument that thisfalls within the fourth category of Calder because youhave to produce more evidence under the -- or I'm sorry --less evidence. It alters the amount of evidence necessaryfor conviction. Before the statute, you -- you had toshow that the crime was committed by an earlier date andafter this, you don't have to show it was committed by th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC that earlier date.But if that's the case, what I don't understandis why it makes any difference whether this increase -- ordecrease in the amount of evidence necessary to convictoccurs before or after the old statute of limitations hasrun. In either event, it -- it amounts to a decrease inthe amount of evidence necessary to convict.MR. NAJERA: Well, there's certainly an argumentthat can be made, and -- and I know that amicus has -- hasin a footnote addressed that.My -- my belief is that what must be shown isnot a particular number of years per se, because that canbe altered I believe. What must be shown by the evidencebefore the -- before a court is that because the number ofyears requisite of the statute of limitation has in fact passed, therefore the case is no more. So, yes, one doesconsider the number of years, but the number of years onlymatter as to whether or not the statute has, in fact, runin that particular case.QUESTION: Well, I hear you but I -- I don't --I don't really --QUESTION: I suppose you could also say thateven though literally it would apply to both situations,there's a longstanding tradition of not applying it in thecase where the statute has not run, and so you would th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC construe that exception rather narrowly.MR. NAJERA: That is correct. The State ofCalifornia throughout has told all of its citizens you nolonger need to keep your guard up because the statute hasrun. If you have evidence, you don't have to preserve it. If you have letters that might be of some support in yourcase, you don't have to maintain them. If you havewitnesses, you no longer need to know where they are or --or how to get a hold of them. And that only --QUESTION: Am I correct -- just so I get yourview on it -- am I correct that with respect to anunexpired statute of limitations where there's an attemptby the legislature to extend it, the law is really verywell settled that that's permissible?MR. NAJERA: Yes, and in particular in California because in the same year that the Sobiek casewas decided, in which the court said it is a violation ofex post facto to revive an expired cause of action, inthat same year they decided People v. Snipe, which was anextension case. The statute had not yet run, and thecourt there had no problem saying there is no ex postfacto problem there.If -- if I might continue, and I would like toattempt to address all -- all the relevant categories.Turning to category number two, for example, th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC there we deal with a situation in which a crime isaggravated or enlarged and the opposition says, well, thisonly deals with punishment. Well, in one respect allCalder categories deal with -- ultimately with punishment. Nevertheless, it is a situation that is simply notredundant to the other categories. It is a category untoitself. And -- and even though there does not appear tobe a great deal of case law on the point, one must stillask the question, when is a -- when is a case aggravatedin a fashion that doesn't merely mirror one of the otherCalder categories, and I believe it's when thejurisdiction is increased, when persons who fall outsideof the statute become ensnared in it.And if I might, unless there is an additionalquestion, at this point I would like to reserve the remaining time.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Najera.Ms. Gaard, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JANET GAARDON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. GAARD: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it pleasethe Court:Based on new evidence that children who havebeen sexually abused often delay reporting the crimes forsubstantial periods of time, the California legislature th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC extended the statute of limitations for the most seriousof these offenses and it expressly made the lawretroactive. This law does not violate the Ex Post FactoClause or the Due Process Clause.Turning first to ex post facto, this law doesnot criminalize conduct that was innocent when it wasdone.QUESTION: Before you go through the fourcategories, might I just ask this general question? Whatif the defendant had been pardoned, would it be an -- anex post facto violation to -- for the legislature to saywe're going to now make it subject to prosecution?MS. GAARD: No, Your Honor, it would not violatethe Ex Post Facto Clause.QUESTION: And why not?MS. GAARD: Because what we're looking at withthose four categories is what the law was in effect at thetime the crime was committed, whether or not it was aninnocent act that was later criminalized. A pardon has noeffect on the -- whether or not the act was innocent atthe time it was committed. So I would say that is like anex -- a statute of limitations, that there would not be achange in the ex post facto.QUESTION: I'm sorry. I really didn'tunderstand. You say that the pardon would be treated th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC differently than the statute of limitations.MS. GAARD: No. It would be treated the samefor ex post facto purposes.QUESTION: Oh, it would be treated the same.MS. GAARD: Yes.QUESTION: And what about a general amnesty for,say, illegal aliens coming into the country and thenCongress passes a statute saying we will forgive the crimeand you cannot be prosecuted? The same analysis theretoo?MS. GAARD: With an amnesty, I don't -- Ibelieve it would be the same with the ex post facto. There may be some separation of powers issues. There maybe double jeopardy issues, and there may be due processissues. I suppose it would depend on the circumstances. QUESTION: Well, why would those issues bedifferent in that situation than in this situation?MS. GAARD: I believe that they actually wouldbe very similar, but it would depend. I think sometimesamnesties are conditional or some --QUESTION: No. Unconditional in my hypothesis.MS. GAARD: An unconditional?QUESTION: Just like a pardon but a legislativedecision.MS. GAARD: Then what you would look to would be th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC due process there, which you also can look to with an expost facto change.QUESTION: Then why can't we look to due processin this case?MS. GAARD: I don't think that you look tosubstantive due process. I believe that what wasexpressed earlier is when we have an explicit textualsource of protection, which we have here, you don't lookto substantive due process. The protection comes by wayof procedural due process.QUESTION: But that would be the same for thepardon and the amnesty.MS. GAARD: Yes, I believe it would be, YourHonor.QUESTION: And another preliminary question. You started out by saying these are very troublesome kindsof cases. But the argument that you're making, I take it,is across the board.MS. GAARD: Yes.QUESTION: Doesn't -- it could be -- it could be pickpocketing and -- and the argument would be the same.MS. GAARD: Without violating the Ex Post FactoClause --QUESTION: Yes.MS. GAARD: -- yes. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And the Ex Post Facto Clause has beeninterpreted in terms of the four Calder categories. WhatI'd like to do is -- is focus primarily on categories oneand four which this Court has said are mirror images ofeach other.The first category prevents the State frommaking an act that was innocent when it was committedcriminal at a later time. It provides fair warning sothat citizens are able to assess whether or not to engagein certain conduct. And it's related to guilt orinnocence. The statute of limitations has no relation toguilt or innocence. It's a defense that's raised thatsays whether or not the defendant committed the crime, theState is not going to be able to prosecute.And when you look at whether or not the crime existed, what you look at is the definition of the crimeas set forth by the elements. And I would refer the Courtto the Frazer opinion, footnote , where the CaliforniaSupreme Court has said, whatever its nature for variousState law purposes, the statute of limitations is not anelement of the offense insofar as the definition ofcriminal conduct occur.The California Supreme Court has said that thecrime that's at issue in this case is set forth in PenalCode section , and the statute of limitations has no th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC relation to that.Interplaying with the category one is categoryfour.QUESTION: May I ask you before you get to four? May I ask you just to spend a -- a moment on somethingthat -- that hasn't been the focus of much? And that iscategory two that -- that refers to ex post facto assomething that makes greater or more serious a -- a crimethat was previously defined.It seems to me that there are two sort ofindexes of seriousness in a crime. One is the -- thepenalty in the strict sense that is -- is provided for it,but another index seems to me, the period of time afterits commission that a person who committed it is liable tobe prosecuted. That is a judgment about seriousness. Andthat judgment is being changed here. Why doesn't itoffend the second category?MS. GAARD: I believe when you're talking aboutincreasing the punishment, what -- what the -- the caseshave looked at is the punishment that exists at the timeof the crime. And it really is the actual punishmentwhether or not the term of a punishment is year or it's years, and I don't think that there's authority --QUESTION: But -- but that isn't exactly theterm that at least that -- that Calder used. I mean, it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC -- it -- Calder states -- I'm -- I'm looking at thequotation on page -- page of the -- , rather, of the --the Government's brief. It -- it refers to every law thataggravates a crime or makes it greater than it was whencommitted. And it seems to me that the -- that theaggravation greater concept isn't necessarily limited tothe index of punishment, and it -- it could refer to the-- to the index of seriousness that -- that exists in theperiod of liability to prosecution.MS. GAARD: The second Calder category, if welook back at the historical basis for that, comes from thecreation of a new punishment that wasn't in effect at thetime.QUESTION: Well, that just replicates the third.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: That makes it totally redundant.MS. GAARD: Well, I -- I don't think so becausethe second one was, for example, where the new punishmentthat was imposed was banishment which didn't exist at thetime as a penalty for the prescribed crime. The third oneis the increase in the punishment. But creating a newpunishment, I don't think that holding a defendant liablefor a longer period of time is the type of punishment thatthis Court has looked at when it has applied those cases.What we're looking at is the purposes of the Ex th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Post Facto Clause, which is to provide fair warning sothat he knows whether or not he should commit the crime.QUESTION: Well, the same -- that's here. Isn'tthat here?MS. GAARD: Excuse me?QUESTION: I mean, isn't that present here, atleast in respect to the evidence? I mean, a person as --as -- for example, this particular defendant you wouldlike to prosecute, among other things, for crimes thatwere committed in your view years before the present --before the time of indictment and years anyway sincethe statute of limitations expired. It's quite possiblethat during that time people would have thought that theydidn't have to keep records, that they didn't have to keepall the evidence, that they might not have to defend themselves. And of course, there's something to be saidon the other side, but also memories can be revivedthrough hypnosis. Is this such a case?MS. GAARD: This is not such a case, and infact, the California --QUESTION: Yes, all right. So -- so then I --but -- but there -- they could be, and sometimes those areinaccurate. So people feel that they are free not to keepthe evidence after years.Now -- th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC MS. GAARD: If you're --QUESTION: -- what I'm -- I'm trying to triggeryour reaction as to some of these fairly obvious points asto --MS. GAARD: I guess you have -- you have touchedon a couple of things. First is repose and second ispotential for prejudice. And the potential for prejudiceexists because of the passage of time, not necessarilybecause of the retroactive change. So the fact that theevidence may be somewhat stale is a function of the merepassage of time, and as the Court is aware, there -- theState could impose no statute of limitations so we couldhave a case that was years out and that would be thesame issue. But in terms of --QUESTION: But the point -- the point, of course, is that -- that in Calder v. Bull, the Justicesays, all these and similar laws are manifestly unjust andoppressive. And some of the purposes here, particularlythe ones on evidence and so forth, seem to be about thekinds of things you're talking about.MS. GAARD: The Court has said, and similar, butthis Court has repeatedly held, most recently in Carmellin , that the four Calder categories are the outsideparameters, and that a law, to be ex post facto, needs tofall within one-fourth of -- one of those four. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And in terms of the prejudice, there isprotection --QUESTION: But the Calder category in -- inCarmell, the opinion of the Court said that categorycovers instances where the Government refuses after thefact to play by its own rules, altering them in a way thatis advantageous only to the State to facilitate an easierconviction. If that was the Court's most recentdescription of the fourth category, this case would seemto fit in it.MS. GAARD: But I believe what the Court saidthere was that what was impermissible or unfair wasundermining a presumption of -- of innocence, and that'snot relative when you have a statute of limitations. Innocence is of no import.So what the Court said was in Calder categoryone, you cannot change the elements of the crimeretroactively, and in Calder category four, it said youcan't change what the prosecution has to prove withrespect to those four -- or those elements. So you can'tchange the presumption of innocence, which the Court spoketo in the Cummings case, and you can't lower thesufficiency of the evidence required to prove the elementsof the crime, which is what the Court was saying inCalder. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC And in fact, if you find that changing thiswould -- would implicate the fourth Calder category, thenyou may want to look at Gut v. Minnesota where the Courtheld that a change in a venue did not implicate any of thefour Calder categories. And if you were to change venue,that would also change the fourth Calder category whichthis would.And also --QUESTION: May -- may I ask you this -- thisquestion? Obviously, the -- you know, the -- we'reengaged in kind of a definition of what the categoriesmean, as well as an analysis of what you have. Would youagree that if we do not fit this case within one of theCalder categories, that -- and -- and we accept yourposition, that we will have to overrule Hale and -- and Henkel, the -- the case holding that -- that in fact, the-- the Fifth Amendment cannot be pleaded once the -- oncethe statute has expired?MS. GAARD: No. I think what that would be isso long as the statute of limitations has expired and notbeen revived, that there is no present threat ofprosecution --QUESTION: Oh, in other words, the -- one couldbe required to present evidence against himself and thenthe next morning the State could say, hey, we've had a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC great idea. We're going to extend the statute ofeliminations -- the statute of limitations and prosecuteyou for what you just admitted to under the authority ofHale and Henkel. Is -- is that your position?MS. GAARD: Yes, but I think that you would haveto suppress that statement because it would be unfair. That would be an act of misleading by the State to say youwould have to -- to testify and then we're going to use itagainst you. So as we said, we don't believe this fitswithin the -- one of the four Calder categories, but theprotections come by way of -- or the procedural componentof the Due Process Clause, that if in fact there has beenactual prejudice, the -- the defendant may raise that ashe may in any instance where there is a pretrial delay,and then the court will weigh that versus the reasons for the delay, which is the test that this Court --QUESTION: Would -- would that -- and I -- and Ithink this is your position. That would equally be trueif the statute is extended before it has expired.MS. GAARD: Yes, it would be. Whenever there'spretrial delay, you use the test that the Court enunciatedin Marion and reiterated in Lovasco, and that's where webelieve the protections come here. This case is beforethe Court on a demurrer. There has been no allegation bythe defendant that he's been prejudiced in any way in his th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC ability to present a defense.QUESTION: But your strongest argument againstJustice Souter's initial point, which I thought was --that the word aggravated -- every law that aggravates acrime, treating that as a kind of catchall where, in fact,it isn't literally within the other three, but from thepoint of view of purposes, it's the same. The argumentagainst treating that aggravating a crime as a kind ofcatchall is?MS. GAARD: I don't think that that was theintent at the time that this was --QUESTION: And the evidence that it wasn't theintent?MS. GAARD: If we look at the historical basisfor this, it was the creation of a --QUESTION: It -- it was the banishment matter.MS. GAARD: It was the creation --QUESTION: But you could treat the banishmentthat they were referring -- that one thing or that theywere treating it as a catchall.MS. GAARD: Yes. It was the creation of a newpunishment. I don't think they had -- that it was meantto be a catchall, and this Court has never interpreted itto be a catchall.QUESTION: One way or the other, or has it said th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC it isn't?MS. GAARD: It has not said it is not, as far asI'm aware.QUESTION: Thank you.MS. GAARD: And I think that Justice Kennedymentioned about the extensions, and one of the things thatyou need to look at is when you're -- you're decidingwhether or not an extension of the statute of limitationsthat isn't applied retroactively violates the Ex PostFacto Clause, we look to a defense that existed at thetime the act was committed. And if he had a -yearstatute of limitations at the time the act was committed,you would be changing the evidence, if you followed histheory, from years to an extended period, whether or notit was an extension or a revival.So we don't think that that would work, and thisCourt would actually have to overrule a long line of casessaying that extensions are also permissible. And the --the Federal district -- or courts of appeals, several ofthem have spoken about the fact that the statute oflimitations is not the type of element that we're lookingfor to determine whether or not there has been a change inthe --QUESTION: My other case -- I don't know --quite know how the statute of limitations works in the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC criminal area. In the civil area, you can very easilywaive the statute of limitations if you don't plead it atthe right time or if you make a counterclaim based on thesame facts, et cetera. In -- in the criminal system, arestatute of limitations routinely held waived?MS. GAARD: In this --QUESTION: Or -- or on the other hand, after thefact and a prisoner could say I forgot there's a statuteof limitations here and -- and bring collateral attack?MS. GAARD: May I answer?QUESTION: Yes, briefly.MS. GAARD: In California, the defendant has theright to a pretrial hearing on the statute of limitations,and if the court finds that the statute of limitations'exceptions have not been met, the defendant gets a dismissal. If it goes to trial, the court makes adetermination -- or the jury makes a determination. Theyfirst find guilt or not guilt, and then they make findingsby a preponderance of the evidence --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Gaard.We'll hear now from Mr. Gornstein.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IRVING L. GORNSTEINON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES AS AMICUS CURIAESUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. GORNSTEIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC please the Court:California's statute of limitations does notviolate the Ex Post Facto Clause because it does notviolate any of the four Calder categories.QUESTION: Mr. Gornstein, may I interrupt you toask the same question I did of your co-counsel? Do youagree that the rule in this case will apply to pardons andgeneral amnesties as well?MR. GORNSTEIN: Insofar as we're talking aboutthe Ex Post Facto Clause, correct, yes.QUESTION: What other clause might apply otherthan --MR. GORNSTEIN: Well, the -- the legislaturecould not undo a -- an executive pardon --QUESTION: Why not?MR. GORNSTEIN: -- under this Court's decisions. Under the Pardon Clause, it has finality that thelegislature can't undo it. I think the case is Ex parteGarland.QUESTION: What -- what provision of theConstitution prevents the legislature from authorizing the-- the prosecution of someone who has been pardoned?MR. GORNSTEIN: The provision of theConstitution that grants the President the power topardon. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC QUESTION: The legislative amnesty.QUESTION: And -- and what's the difference withan amnesty too? Legislative amnesty.MR. GORNSTEIN: Can I -- let me -- let me do thepardon first.QUESTION: Sure.MR. GORNSTEIN: And then I'll move to theamnesty.With respect to a presidential pardon, it isfinal with respect to the legislature by virtue of thePardon Clause. The Pardon Clause gives the President thepower to issue a final pardon that the -- the legislaturecan't undo.QUESTION: Does the word final appear in thePardon Clause? Does the word final --MR. GORNSTEIN: It is not, but that's how theCourt interpreted the Pardon Clause in, I think it's Exparte Garland, but I'm not sure of the decision.QUESTION: And what's the -- what's the answerwith respect to a State pardon?MR. GORNSTEIN: There would be a Stateconstitutional provision usually analogous to that.QUESTION: Well, but I mean, I --MR. GORNSTEIN: There would not be a Federal --QUESTION: Let's -- let's assume the State says th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC no. Then -- then there's no problem here.MR. GORNSTEIN: If the State -- if the Statesays no, then the only question that would arise in apardon is if you start to analogize it to a agreementsituation like Santobello because in some pardonsituations, it's like an offer and it has to be accepted. You can't just force a pardon on somebody. And if there'san offer and an acceptance, you could potentiallyanalogize it under the due process principle of Santobellowhere the government can't withdraw from an agreementwithout implicating the Due Process Clause.With respect to an amnesty, there would not be,again, an Ex Post Facto Clause violation, and there wouldnot be a -- any other sort of due process violation,again, once again, unless it fell into the Santobello kind of situation or the Raley kind of situation where theGovernment offers something, it's accepted, and then it --QUESTION: You -- you assert there would be noex post facto violation, but why is it different from the-- from a statute of limitations running?MR. GORNSTEIN: There's no -- there's no Ex PostFacto Clause violation with a statute of limitationsrunning either. That's our position because it does notviolate --QUESTION: You say you could -- you could indict th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC someone after granting them amnesty. I misunderstood you.MR. GORNSTEIN: Yes, yes.Now, with --QUESTION: What is your position on -- on Haleagainst Henkel and Brown against Walker? The FifthAmendment. Can -- can the State say the statute oflimitations has expired, therefore you have to speak, andthen revive the time in which the prosecution can bebrought?MR. GORNSTEIN: The premise of that decision isthat you cannot assert the Fifth Amendment when there's nopresent threat of prosecution, and there is no presentthreat of prosecution when there's an expired limitationsperiod. But if the person speaks under compulsion in thatsituation, and a statute of limitations is subsequently retroactively amended, the Government could not use thetestimony that was secured through compulsion.QUESTION: So what is your -- I mean, startingyour basic argument -- I look back. I see Learned Handsays that after the period is run, it is unfair anddishonest to prosecute a person. It violates the Ex PostFacto Clause. After the Civil War, Roscoe Conkling, aHawk I think, said when they wanted to revive treasonagainst Jefferson Davis, he said that the offense is deadif the statute has run. It would be ex post facto. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Hornbook law like American Jurisprudence until recentlysaid absolutely contrary to the Constitution.So what's changed? Or are -- in -- in theGovernment's view, were all those people -- they weren'tsupreme courts, I agree. But it seemed to be accepted. So has something changed or were they all wrong or what'sthe view?MR. GORNSTEIN: The -- in this Court's decisionin Collins, it recognized there had been some disagreementabout the scope of the Ex Post Facto Clause in priorcases, and with some courts saying that it goes beyond thefour categories to capture laws that operate to thedisadvantage of the defendant in some important way andwith other courts saying it's limited to the Caldercategories. In Collins, the Court resolved that debate and said that the Ex Post Facto Clause is limited to thefour Calder categories. There is not a fifth category ofthings that operate unfairly to the disadvantage of thedefendant.Now, that was the analysis that Judge Hand usedin the opinion that you refer to. He did not say thatthis violates any of the four categories. He essentiallysaid this operates to the disadvantage of the defendant inan unfair way, a line of analysis that this Court ruledout in Collins and reaffirmed ruling it out in Carmell. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC The same thing is true of the State courtdecision that Judge Hand referred to in the first in theline of those decisions, Hart v. Moore. It franklyacknowledged that this law, changing an expiredlimitations period, does not violate any of the fourCalder categories. It said, though, we are going to gowith the spirit that underlies the Ex Post Facto Clause. Well, again, this Court's decision in Collins absolutelyrules out that line of analysis. In order to find an ExPost Facto Clause violation, you must find that itviolates one of the specific Calder categories.QUESTION: I didn't think that Hand or AmericanJurisprudence or the cases or Roscoe Conkling or the civilor any of these things said one thing one way or the otherabout whether it fell within the categories. I'm not sureI'm right on that, which is why I'm raising it. And --and if I -- if I -- but if I am right, can you use thesecond category, anything that aggravates a crime? Itseems to aggravate a crime to say that this crime wouldhave been prosecuted for years and then we change itretroactively and say it could be prosecuted for years. I mean, that seems to aggravate the -- so what is yourresponse to those --MR. GORNSTEIN: On the --QUESTION: Am I right in thinking they were th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC silent?MR. GORNSTEIN: No.QUESTION: And two -- no.MR. GORNSTEIN: In Hart v. Moore, which is thekey precedent that Judge Hand referred to, it's just an case, the -- the Court said that it doesn't violatethe four Calder categories. And so it -- it relied on thespirit underlying the clause.In the case of Judge Hand, he didn't undertakean analysis under the four categories, but he undertookthe kind of a catchall fifth category analysis that someof this Court's cases suggested was possible at the time,but that the Collins case said is not.Now, with respect to the question of categorytwo, category two, this Court explained in the Carmell decision, is traced to Wooddeson's discussion. Wooddesonsaid that there are two kinds of laws that affectpunishment. One of them creates new punishments, anotherone increases the severity of the punishment. And whatthe Court said in Carmell is that Justice Chase preciselyadapted those concepts into his category. Category two ischanging -- creating a punishment. Category three isincreasing the severity of the punishment. And that isthe limit of what those two categories involve, andneither of those are implicated in this case because the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC punishment is exactly the same in form and amount as thatwhich was prescribed at the time of the offense.QUESTION: It is odd, Mr. Gornstein, isn't it,that we take as gospel something that was said en passantin -- what year was Calder against Bull? Very early on. And the case in fact decided it wasn't an ex post factolaw. So this was dictum en passant, and it didn't disposeof the case one way or another.MR. GORNSTEIN: But -- but the situation is notthat the -- it is stare decisis from that case. It isstare decisis from subsequent cases like Collins andothers which have concluded that Justice Chase accuratelydetermined the limits of the Ex Post Facto Clause based onthe historical evidence of what the Framers thought,including Wooddeson and Blackstone and -- and State constitutions, and the Framers and other sources that herelied on. He was right. He got it right, and subsequentdecisions of the Court have held that, including Collins.QUESTION: What --QUESTION: Which Collins also said something --the recitation in Collins included, nor deprive onecharged of -- with crime of any defense. It used the wordany defense available according to the law at the time theact was committed.MR. GORNSTEIN: No. In -- in Collins, what the th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Court said is that -- that prior cases had used thatformulation of any defense and in particular Beazell. Andwhat Collins did was to clarify that the only defensesthat are available are those that go to excuse orjustification at the time the offense is committed. Andit merges it then with the first category which deals withchanging laws and criminalizing conduct that was innocentwhen done. The defenses that -- that are prohibited thatyou can't change under the Ex Post Facto Clause are thosethat have the effect of criminalizing conduct that wouldhave been innocent when it was done.I want to move to the fourth category where someof the questions have been, and it's critical tounderstand the fourth category is closely connected to thefirst category. It -- it changes what evidence is sufficient to show that the defendant's conduct was acrime at the time he acted, and a statute of limitationsdoes not operate in that way. It changes what evidence issufficient to show that there has been a timelyprosecution, but it has no effect whatsoever on whatevidence is sufficient to show that the defendant'sconduct was a crime at the time he acted.QUESTION: So suppose on that particular point,the State had a law that said that oral evidence can nolonger be used for conviction after years passes. And th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC then it later changed the law to say it can be. Wouldthat fall under the fourth category?MR. GORNSTEIN: It -- it would, Justice Breyer,if you said no evidence is sufficient to sustain aconviction unless it meets certain specifications becausethat's going to the crime. You can't prove up the crimethat way.QUESTION: So you just -- what you'd say isyou'd say no oral evidence of child abuse can be admittedafter years, though you can use other forms ofevidence.MR. GORNSTEIN: No. Admissibility is adifferent question, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: So -- so it wouldn't apply at allhere.MR. GORNSTEIN: It wouldn't apply toadmissibility. Under -- Carmell draw -- drew adistinction between admissibility and sufficiency of theevidence rules. Changes in admissibility rules arepermissible. Changes in sufficiency of the evidence rulesare not.Now, explaining further why the fourth categoryneeds to be read in this way, there are several reasons. The first is that's the way the Court has applied thefourth category. In situations where there's been a th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC change in what evidence is sufficient to prove the first-- to prove the defendant committed a crime, it found aviolation, as in Carmell and as in Cummings. But wherethe change was -- there was a change in what wassufficient to establish some other precondition thatdoesn't go back to whether the defendant acted criminallyat the beginning, the Court hasn't found a violation.And -- and the example is Gut v. Minnesota wherethere was a change in the venue rule. What was changedthere -- change was -- was sufficient to prove venue,which was a precondition to guilt, but it didn't changewhat was sufficient to prove that the defendant acted in acriminal manner when he acted. And the Court said thatthere was no fourth category violation.Also, the statutes of limitations for over years -- all the courts have concluded that if youretroactively amend an expired limit -- I'm sorry -- anunexpired limitations period, there's no Ex Post FactoClause violation, and in terms of the Calder categoryfour, there's absolutely no difference between thosestatutes and this one. In both cases, it changes what'ssufficient to show that there is a timely prosecution. Inneither case does it change what's sufficient to show thatthe defendant committed -- when he acted, he committed acrime. And that is what category four is about. th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC Finally, in Carmell, this Court noted thatcategory four is a mirror image of category one, and itsaid they both work together to prevent subversions of thepresumption of innocence. And that description ofcategory four supports the conclusion of the linkagebetween four and one that the -- what you're talking aboutare rules that change what evidence is sufficient to showthat the defendant's conduct was a crime when he acted.And that's not -- and the statute of limitationshere doesn't do that. It changes what's sufficient toshow that there's been a timely prosecution. It doesn'tchange in any way what's sufficient to show that thedefendant committed a crime when he acted.If the Court has no further questions --QUESTION: I have one question. Other than the reference to the language in the four categories, is thereany precedent of this Court supporting the Government'sposition?MR. GORNSTEIN: The -- the only precedent -- andit's mild precedent -- is the Stewart v. Kahn decisionwhere the Court was examining a retroactive tolling periodduring the Civil War, and the Court -- the issue actuallybefore the Court was the civil component of that. But inthe course of discussing that, Justice Stevens, the Courtmentioned that the criminal component of it was also th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC retroactive and -- and it applied to expired limitationsperiod. And in a paragraph that applied to both civil andcriminal, the Court said there's no constitutional problemwith that.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Gornstein.Mr. Najera, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERTO NAJERAON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. NAJERA: Thank you, Your Honor.I'd like to, first of all, answer one question. It's clear by California law that post-conviction, aperson can raise, either by habeas or other appellaterelief, the statute of limitations claim. That's beenclear since Ex parte Vice and was reaffirmed in the McGeecase.Turning to the Collins question, the real importin Collins was not to get caught up in distinctions orlabels such as substantive versus procedure, and it wouldseem that if we began to draw such distinctions here, werun ultimately into the same problems. And it would seemto me that if Collins stands for the proposition thataffirmative defenses, defenses which the defendant has theburden of establishing, are protected, why are notdefenses that the district attorney must disprove such asthe statute of limitations? For this has always been, in th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC California, the burden upon the prosecution to show thatthe statute has in fact not run.Also, it seems that the State wishes to shiftthe burden and foist it upon the petitioner and says,well, we can address this in procedural due process, whilein fact that, as I said, foists the burden onto thepetitioner when the burden in fact lies with theprosecution.And in the Marion case, Supreme Court case, theCourt reaffirmed that an irrebuttable presumption of harmoccurs by such delay, and that's by way of the legislativeact.Finally, I'd like to note that not only wouldfinality be upset in these particular cases, but reallywhat we're talking about is respect for the laws. Everyday in this country citizens make bargains with -- withthe State, and the State makes bargains with its citizens. It did so by creating a statute of limitations. And everyday, particularly in the criminal field, most, the vastmajority of the accused enter into bargains. They pleabargain. They give away their rights and accept abargain. And we hold them to that. We hold themaccountable for what they bargain.Are we here -- if we accept the State'sposition, are we here to hold the State to a lesser th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC standard than we hold to what many consider the meanestand lowest amongst us? I would think not. I think wewould expect the State and the Federal Government to standfor something more, to be the leader and not the follower,to have a standard higher or at least equal to that ofwhich we expect of each of our accused, each person whopleads in this particular case.I would ask, as I said in the beginning, thatthis Court hold the State to the bargain that it chose tomake, to the terms that it chose to define by creating thestatute of limitations.And if there are no further questions, I willsubmit the matter.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Mr. Najera.The case is submitted. (Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th St., NW th Floor Washington, DC 