 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XSYNGENTA CROP PROTECTION, INC., ROBERT BABB, EDEE TEMPLET, AND KENNETH A. DEVUN, Petitioners :::::v. : No. -HURLEY HENSON. :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, October , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:HENRY B. ALSOBROOK, JR., ESQ., New Orleans, Louisiana; onbehalf of the Petitioners.DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ., Atlanta, Georgia; on behalf ofthe Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF HENRY B. ALSOBROOK, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners DAVID J. BEDERMAN, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFHENRY B. ALSOBROOK, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioners PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in No. -, Syngenta Crop Protection, Inc. v.Hurley Henson.Mr. Alsobrook.ORAL ARGUMENT OF HENRY B. ALSOBROOK, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ALSOBROOK: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In Kikkonen v. Guardian Life, this Courthypothesized the very situation that we have before youthis morning because here we have a nationwide classaction settlement where the court specifically by judgmentretained jurisdiction to manage the settlement as well asenforce it. A critical part of that settlement was thedismissal of this case. However, when class counsel wentto dismiss the case, as the Eleventh Circuit pointed outand as the district court pointed out, his efforts werethwarted and the case was not dismissed.QUESTION: Mr. Alsobrook, I see you've changedthe question presented from the time in your certioraripetition to your opening brief. And the questionpresented, when we granted, referred to U.S.C., section, and now you have dropped your reference to that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Does that mean you're abandoning reliance on orsimply broadening the question? MR. ALSOBROOK: No, sir. We -- we're sayingthat under that because the district court retainedjurisdiction, that that was original jurisdiction toremove the matter, and that actually, Your Honor, when weremoved this, they -- the majority of circuit courts ofappeals, namely the second, sixth, seventh, and eighth,had said that the proper vehicle to remove this was theAll Writs Act. And that is what we are claiming today, aswell as U.S.C. ancillary jurisdiction, and we haveset that out in our brief. QUESTION: But you have no right to remove under because there wasn't complete diversity in theLouisiana suit. Isn't that right? MR. ALSOBROOK: That is correct. QUESTION: So you can't rely on and that'sconceded.MR. ALSOBROOK: We -- we can -- our reliance on was based on the fact that the Alabama court retainedoriginal jurisdiction and --QUESTION: But that's not -- nothing in restson that. It has to be a case that would qualify fororiginal jurisdiction, and you don't have that.MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, Your Honor, but we -- we th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC construed that as being a venue rather than a -- a --because the Alabama court had original jurisdiction.And certainly under --QUESTION: What did you construe as being venue?MR. ALSOBROOK: The -- the fact that we had totake it to a Federal court in the district where the Statecourt suit lay, and then it was immediately transferred tothe -- to the Alabama court. QUESTION: Yes, you -- you can't remove a caseto a Federal court outside of the district in which theState court sat, is my understanding. MR. ALSOBROOK: That's right, Your Honor.We took -- we took our road map from AgentOrange Product Liability. There they had a Texas --QUESTION: Who is they? MR. ALSOBROOK: There, there was a --QUESTION: What court are you talking about?MR. ALSOBROOK: We're talking about the SecondCircuit. And --QUESTION: Initially the Eastern District of NewYork, Judge Weinstein's --MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes. QUESTION: -- order, which was in no way basedon . It was based on .MR. ALSOBROOK: But, Your Honor, also in that th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case was the case of Ryan, and in Ryan, it was brought byto class members in the State court in Texas. And it wasremoved to the Federal court in Texas and then transferredto the Eastern District of New York. And that was ourroad map for getting this case to -- back to Alabama.QUESTION: But that was all done under the AllWrits Act or what they thought was the authority grantedby .MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, and we also, Your Honor --in our removal petition, we pled the All Writs Act, aswell as ancillary jurisdiction under .QUESTION: Well, what is your theory under theAll Writs Act? Is your theory that removal is itself --comes under the All Writs Act? MR. ALSOBROOK: We contend that -- that in orderfor the Court --QUESTION: Can't you answer the question yes orno?MR. ALSOBROOK: Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes.QUESTION: I thought the All Writs Act requiredthe existence of some sort of a common law writ likecertiorari or prohibition or injunction or something likethat. There -- there never was a common law writ ofremoval. MR. ALSOBROOK: That is correct, Your Honor. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC But the jurisprudence, particularly the AgentOrange case --QUESTION: Well, but can you cite any of ourcases that support you in this respect? MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, I can cite the New YorkTelephone case where the Court said that -- that removalwas -- not removal, but a writ under the All Writs Act was-- was proper to avoid the frustration of judgment, andthat was -- that was certainly the situation here.QUESTION: But -- but that was a different --that was an existing writ. Here -- here you're saying, ineffect, that removal is -- is itself a writ. And I simplydon't see how the cases support you there.MR. ALSOBROOK: I agree with that, Your Honor. QUESTION: Do you agree that the All Writs Actis not a source of original jurisdiction? MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, ma'am. Yes, Your Honor, bythe --QUESTION: Why -- why then didn't you try to getan injunction in the district court in Alabama?MR. ALSOBROOK: There were two reasons, JusticeO'Connor. First is that an injunction would not dismissthe case. An injunction would enjoin the -- the Statecourt suit from going forward. QUESTION: Yes. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALSOBROOK: And we would have had -- ourclient would have had to carry this as a liability ontheir books ad infinitum. QUESTION: Well, couldn't the injunction haveordered the party to dismiss the case?MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, they did -- they could,Your Honor, and --QUESTION: But then why -- why wouldn't that besufficient? MR. ALSOBROOK: I suppose it would have been.QUESTION: But if that's so, then why don't --why are we trying to read into language that isn'tthere and read requirements out of , requirements thatare there, when there was another way, totally consistentwith the words, the statute, everything else, that youcould have achieved any legitimate objective that you had?MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, Justice Breyer, at thetime that we did this, as I said earlier, there was -- themajority of Federal circuit courts said that the propervehicle was to remove the case and get it before the courtwhere -- that had issued the judgment. Today with thenumber of class action settlements that are going on,there must be some kind of way by which a Federal courtwho issues a judgment can enforce that judgment acrossState lines. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: There is. Isn't that just in youranswer to Justice O'Connor and Justice Kennedy? Youprovided the way. MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes. QUESTION: The -- the only loose end, it seemsto me, that -- that you have left, after your answers toJustices O'Connor and Kennedy, is the problem you say yourclient would have in carrying liability on the books untilthe second action was somehow finally terminated. Butisn't the answer to that that once you had gotten eitherthe injunction or simply the -- the order to the partiesunder the retained jurisdiction, you then could have goneinto court in the second suit and said, they cannotprosecute the suit? It has been enjoined. Therefore,please dismiss it. Wouldn't you have gotten yourdismissal and wouldn't that have taken the -- theliability off the book? MR. ALSOBROOK: I don't know, Your Honor. QUESTION: Well, I -- I guess why wouldn't thathave been the appropriate course? MR. ALSOBROOK: I -- I presume that the Statecourt under those circumstances would dismiss it, but wedon't know that as a matter of fact.QUESTION: I -- I was thinking about differentwrits, and you've researched this more thoroughly than I, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC I suspect. I thought the closest thing here was a writ ofcertiorari. This is like a writ of certiorari, but a writof certiorari is from a superior court to an inferiorcourt. And I -- I don't think that's the way we treatState courts and Federal courts. MR. ALSOBROOK: That is correct, Your Honor. And another reason --QUESTION: And -- and -- which -- and so thatthe absence of that kind of -- of writ indicates to methat the safer course, the more prudent course is to relyon the standard equitable remedies such as injunction thatwe've been discussing. MR. ALSOBROOK: That is correct, Your Honor. QUESTION: Except that a lot of other lawyershad -- had relied on the course that you relied on.MR. ALSOBROOK: That's correct, and a lot of --QUESTION: You were following what had been asuccessful course in the past. MR. ALSOBROOK: And not only that, a lot ofjudges. QUESTION: Well, to be sure. MR. ALSOBROOK: And so there were a plethora ofdistrict court cases that allowed the removal under theAll Writs Act and took jurisdiction where they hadjurisdiction originally under the cases of NAACP, under th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Agent Orange case, and the Sixth and Seventh Circuitcases. QUESTION: Were there any cases under therelitigation exception to the Anti-Injunction Act thatused that device, the antisuit injunction, to accomplishthe same thing? MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, Your Honor, no. The TenthCircuit had ruled that the -- that the All Writs Act couldnot be used in this -- in the method that we used it. Weare not unmindful of Rivet v. Regions, but we -- oursituation there -- our situation in this case is muchdifferent --QUESTION: But that was -- that was a questionof fighting it out in the State court, and it's not theantisuit injunction that we're discussing now. Rivet saidit's an -- preclusion is an affirmative defense. You canraise it in the State court that prior Federal litigationprecludes this case. The other way to go is to ask the court thatentered the judgment, the class action judgment, thenationwide class action, to enjoin the party who wassupposed to have settled the claim from proceeding in the-- in the original case when part of the bargain was todismiss it. So I -- I'm just curious why you didn'tattempt that route. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALSOBROOK: We didn't attempt that, YourHonor, because the majority of the circuits at the timeapproved the All Writs Act as the vehicle with which toremove the case and to get it back before the districtcourt. Additionally, we felt that it -- State courtshave cases removed all the time to Federal court. And wethought it would be less onerous to the State court judgeto have it removed rather than being enjoined by a Federalcourt.QUESTION: I don't understand that because right-- built right into the removal provision is a commandthat the State court shall proceed no further. So theremoval petition acts as -- as a -- an injunction againstthe State court proceeding further. MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, the removal petition --actually the court loses jurisdiction of it at that timebecause they -- it -- it is removed to -- to the Federalcourt. And there again, Justice Ginsburg, the -- we feltthat it was less onerous and there was some jurisprudenceor some dicta and some legal writing that indicated thatit would be less onerous to the State court judge to haveit removed rather than have it enjoined.QUESTION: May I ask this question? Looking atthe language of the All Writs Act, which authorizes all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC courts established by act of Congress to issue writsnecessary or appropriate in aid of their respectivejurisdictions and so forth. Now, in this case, you removed from the Federal-- to the Federal court in Louisiana in order to protectthe jurisdiction of the Federal court in Alabama.MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. QUESTION: How do you square that with thelanguage, respective jurisdictions? MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, Your Honor, there again wehad to rely on Agent Orange.QUESTION: You don't rely on the statute,though.MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, we relied on the statutebecause it says in the aid of their respectivejurisdiction, and --QUESTION: Don't you think that refers to thecourt to which removal would take -- would occur? Andhere it's the Louisiana Federal court, not the AlabamaFederal court.MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir, and we -- it was ourposition that there -- there respective jurisdictionrelated to the Alabama court. That is our position. QUESTION: Even though you removed to theLouisiana court. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALSOBROOK: We had to, Your Honor. That --under , we had no alternative but to remove it. Wecouldn't have removed it from the Louisiana court to theAlabama court because by venue says that it has to goto the Federal district court in the -- of the districtwhere the case lies. QUESTION: But wasn't available to you. Soas long as something new is being created in -- under, why not say that -- that the court that hasjurisdiction over the class action can issue orders tostop inconsistent litigation? MR. ALSOBROOK: That could be done under theAnti-Injunction Act, Your Honor. There's no doubt aboutthat. And as -- as --QUESTION: But do -- as far as -- you'recreating a removal that doesn't exist by statute. So not-- why not go all the way and say, under the All WritsAct, we can remove to the -- from the Louisiana Statecourt to the Alabama court? Why touch base with when is inapplicable? MR. ALSOBROOK: Because -- we didn't know ofany other vehicle that would allow us to remove it fromLouisiana to Alabama. Even the All Writs Act would notallow us to remove it across State lines or even out ofthe district. Certainly if this case had been brought in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Mobile, then we wouldn't be here today because the -- thecourt in Mobile would have authority to -- to remove it tothat district. But it was brought -- brought across Statelines. And again, we followed the road map that had beenset out for us in Agent Orange.QUESTION: But you still have problems even ifit were to the Middle District of Alabama, because youdon't have complete diversity in the Louisiana action. Therefore, doesn't apply. You would still have touse your All Writs Act theory even if the case werepending -- if the Federal and State court were in the sameState.MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, Your Honor, we feel that-- that under -- under the hypothet set out in Kikkonenthat the Alabama court would have had jurisdiction to takethat case.QUESTION: Mr. Alsobrook, what is -- what isthis writ called? I mean, Lyndon Johnson is -- is oncesupposed to have asked somebody in the Justice Departmentto get him a writ of fixitatis. (Laughter.) QUESTION: What -- what is this writ called? Awrit of removal? MR. ALSOBROOK: This could be a -- well, thereis no writ for this, Judge -- Justice. There isn't any th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC writ for this. QUESTION: Well -- well, then how can you do itunder the All Writs Act? MR. ALSOBROOK: Because in other cases, the AllWrits Act has been used to -- to remove cases to avoid aState court case from thwarting a Federal judgment.QUESTION: Certiorari I guess is the closest. Historically you could have sent certiorari -- a court toany other court and to any administrative agency. I guessthat would be the closest historically. Would it?MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, I think Justice Kennedybrought that up and --QUESTION: Yes. As we've come to limit it, it's-- it's higher to lower, but if you go back into history,it wasn't, I don't think. I mean, has it come down tosaying, look, you were in a situation where you thoughtthat the signer of the stipulation was flat out violatingit, and you didn't know what to do, so you read theprecedent, and there was precedent that suggested, underthe lower court precedent, that this was the right thingto do. So you did it. MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. QUESTION: Okay. Now, if you turn out to bewrong, what should we do next, assuming you're right aboutthe stipulation? They just flat-out wouldn't follow it. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And -- and suppose you were wrong about the route. Haveyou any suggestion for us as to what to do? Do we -- Iguess we'd have to dismiss -- order this case dismissedwithout prejudice to your going to the Alabama court and-- and asking them to enjoin? Or what is your suggestionabout what we should do --MR. ALSOBROOK: Well --QUESTION: -- if you're right on the merits ofthis thing? MR. ALSOBROOK: If we're right on the merits,Your Honor, what I suggest you should do is reverse theEleventh Circuit. QUESTION: I don't mean the merits of theprocedural issue. Suppose that you're wrong about that,hypothetically, but you're right about your basicinstinct, that they signed a piece of paper saying, wepromise to dismiss this case in the State court and thenthey didn't. They just didn't do it. That was your viewof this. Right? MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. QUESTION: All right. So have you anysuggestion for us about how we might help you achieve thatultimate objective, and by us, I don't mean this Courtparticularly. I mean the law. The law should provide away that you get that objective if you're right. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. ALSOBROOK: I would -- the alternative Iwould suggest is to remand the matter to the Federaldistrict court in Mobile with instructions for them tofile an injunction or a contempt proceeding against theparty --QUESTION: But that would be up to you to -- Imean, the court doesn't initiate an injunction. You'dhave to ask for it. And I assume you would be free to doit. If all this Court would decide, if it decided againstyou, was that the All Writs Act is not available for thispurpose, that would leave you as though you had neverpursued that route and you could pursue another. There's something curious about this case, andmaybe you can -- you can help me understand it. When theplaintiff's class counsel in Price went into the Louisianacourt and said, Louisiana court, drop that case, dismissthat case, the defense counsel wasn't there. MR. ALSOBROOK: No. QUESTION: Why not? MR. ALSOBROOK: Your Honor, this is not in therecord but I was that counsel, and I had talked with theclass counsel days before, and he assured me that he wouldtake care of it and there would be no problem. We didn'tanticipate this happening because the language of thestipulation of settlement, which the respondent signed, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was so specific that we couldn't imagine that the Statecourt judge would not dismiss it on the motion of classcounsel.QUESTION: So you were relying on plaintiff'scounsel --MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, ma'am. QUESTION: -- to do -- to do that job for youand felt you didn't need to appear in the State court. MR. ALSOBROOK: He actually told us we didn'thave to appear, that he would take care of it.QUESTION: Mr. Alsobrook, if we disagree withyou and reverse the -- and affirm the Eleventh Circuit, wewould be affirming a decision that says in its conclusion,we accordingly vacate the district court's orderdismissing Henson and remand with instructions for thecourt to remand Henson to Louisiana State court.We do not, however -- this is part of what itsaid -- we do not, however, imply that the district courtmay not by injunction force Henson's dismissal. So, youknow, we wouldn't have to say that -- that our decisionhere was without prejudice. The decision of the EleventhCircuit was said to be without prejudice. So you -- you'dbe able to, as far as the Eleventh Circuit opinion isconcerned, get -- get the injunction. MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir, but the -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: I wonder why it wasn't -- wasn't moreefficient for you to seek the injunction instead of comingup here.MR. ALSOBROOK: Well --QUESTION: I guess -- I guess --MR. ALSOBROOK: -- Justice Scalia --QUESTION: -- your answer is better to have twobites at the apple than one. Right? MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. And --QUESTION: Even if you lose here, you can thenseek the injunction. MR. ALSOBROOK: And also because the majority ofthe circuits have approved the procedures that we followedin this case. You have the Second Circuit; you have theSixth, Seventh, and Eighth. And --QUESTION: Well, what was the reasoning of thosecircuits? MR. ALSOBROOK: The reasoning of those circuitswere that they had retained jurisdiction to enforce theirjudgments. For example, if you take NAACP II -- rather,NAACP I, the court remanded the case to the circuit court. NAACP II, the court said that because they had retainedjurisdiction in an order, that they could go forward underthe All Writs Act. QUESTION: And what -- did they specify what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC kind of a writ it was they were talking about? MR. ALSOBROOK: No, sir. QUESTION: I should think that might have madeyou a little hesitant to rely.MR. ALSOBROOK: Well --QUESTION: It's a good defense to a malpracticeaction. MR. ALSOBROOK: Well, we had to rely on what thecourts were telling us, Your Honor -- I mean, Mr. ChiefJustice. QUESTION: Were those cases in which there weretwo -- two different districts involved? MR. ALSOBROOK: The Agent Orange case, therewere two different districts, yes. QUESTION: But all of them were not, were they?MR. ALSOBROOK: No. QUESTION: Weren't some of them -- yes.It seems to me it's quite different if you'reremanding to the court where the problem arose thanremanding to a different court.MR. ALSOBROOK: That's right. QUESTION: Yes. Or removing, rather.MR. ALSOBROOK: That's right. QUESTION: Do you wish to save the --MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: -- remainder of your time forrebuttal? MR. ALSOBROOK: Thank you. QUESTION: Very well. Mr. Bederman.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID J. BEDERMANON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. BEDERMAN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The All Writs Act may not be relied upon toremove an otherwise unremovable case. It is Congress'sprovince to define the limits of removal, and chief ofthese is the requirement of original jurisdiction inFederal court. QUESTION: Mr. Bederman, I just asked your --your friend to -- to explain why he was up here. Why areyou up here? Because even if you win, the case will --you know, don't you think that an injunction will issue?MR. BEDERMAN: Very likely Mr. Alsobrook willapply, as the Eleventh Circuit invited them to, for aninjunction. Such an injunction could proceed becauseunder this Court's decision in Parsons Steel, the Statecourt has yet to issue a conclusive ruling aboutpreclusive effect. And therefore, they're at liberty to. We are, by no means, conceding the -- the substantive th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC merits of the injunction motion whether they would have asubstantial likelihood of success on the merits, but wewould certainly agree that they have the ability to filean injunction immediately. QUESTION: Why -- why -- okay. What -- what isat issue on the merits? MR. BEDERMAN: The issue on the merits would bepresumably the proper construction of the settlementagreement --QUESTION: Of the settlement agreement? MR. BEDERMAN: That's right. And, of course,whether an injunction, narrowly tailored to the parties,would, as -- as the Justices have already indicated, beproperly addressed to the parties to order dismissal ofthe case. QUESTION: Okay. So you -- you would -- youwould contest the injunction just as you're --MR. BEDERMAN: We would contest the merits ofthe injunction. We would not context the ability of themto file for the --QUESTION: You can say in a sentence -- as Iread this, it says, class counsel hereby stipulates thatthe related case, including any and all claims, will bedismissed. And then it defines related case to refer toHurley Henson by number in the State of Louisiana. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BEDERMAN: That's right, Justice Breyer.QUESTION: So I'm just curious what the defensewould be. MR. BEDERMAN: The only defense that -- that Icould imagine is the ambiguity in that provision, as youwere reading, at a of the joint appendix, that theconcern about whether including any and all claims,including without any limitation any claims definedherein. And what has not been made clear is that therewere subsequent amendments to the stipulation, which madeclear that certain classes of claims were excluded.QUESTION: Well, I guess that isn't before ushere --QUESTION: It's not before us. QUESTION: -- is it? MR. BEDERMAN: Certainly not, Justice O'Connor. What's before this Court is what is the proper proceduralmechanism to be used here. QUESTION: And several circuits have allowed theAll Writs Act to be used in this fashion, do you think? MR. BEDERMAN: In this fashion? Yes, JusticeO'Connor. That clearly this is what I would characterizeas a newfangled procedural device that was launched by theSecond Circuit after the Yonkers and Agent Orange cases;that it has developed, as I think Mr. Alsobrook fairly th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC characterizes, a momentum of its own in the court ofappeals.QUESTION: In the Yonkers case, the UnitedStates Government urged the court to take that position,didn't it? So it wasn't something newfangled that thecourt dreamed up on its own when it was the Department ofJustice urging it. MR. BEDERMAN: That is true, but my recollectionof -- of the procedural background with the Yonkers casewas that there was some concern about how Judge Sanddrafted the consent decree in that case. He -- as waslater acknowledged, Judge Sand had been perhaps misled bycertain representations made by the Archdiocese of NewYork and therefore he did not include a provision thatwould allow for a subsequent injunction or -- or aretention of jurisdiction. That may have led the court inthat circumstance to invoke All Writs Act. But there, again, the complete alternative wasan injunction that could have issued in these New Yorkland use proceedings that were pending in State court. Soeven in Yonkers, which presents, I think, analytically avery different context here, not a preclusion case, not acase that turns on the construction of an earlier Federalcourt judgment or settlement, there was the availabilityof injunctive relief. In that case, the Second Circuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC bypassed that -- that reasoning and went straight towardsan All Writs Act basis --QUESTION: But you said you would defend againstinjunctive relief on the ground that the settlement wasnarrower than --MR. BEDERMAN: We would defend essentially onthe merits, is that an injunction should not issue becauseour construction of -- of the settlement is --QUESTION: Well, why didn't you seek thatconstruction from the court that issued -- that -- thatentered the settlement? Why go to another Federal court?Louisiana doesn't know anything about this case -- insteadof saying, Alabama Federal District Judge, please clarifythe scope of the settlement so that we can either go onwith our case or know that we can't? MR. BEDERMAN: We believe that the proper courseis -- in view of the precise enumeration of the -- of thecase in State court, that the proper course was to amendthe petition and seek a resolution.Mr. Henson and his counsel could have very wellinitiated an entirely new case and evaded the terms of --of the settlement in that fashion. They agreed anddecided that the proper course, the more forthright coursewas to seek leave to amend the petition to make clear thatcertain claims were dropped by virtue of the earlier th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC settlement, but there were remaining claims in play. Andit was believed that this was the most forthright approachto -- to use here. I would credit, Justice Ginsburg, that it mayhave been equally appropriate to go back to the Federalcourt, seek a declaratory judgment or some kind ofdecision in that fashion. But I believe that this coursewas certainly honest and forthright on the part of counselbelow. I -- I hardly think it may be necessary toindicate that the All Writs Act does not conferjurisdiction under , as was already made clear incertainly the questioning and certainly in view ofpetitioners' discussion. Original jurisdiction has alwaysbeen required and has been upheld in countless cases. Andmoreover, the All Writs Act textually demands that Federalcourts issue writs, quote, "in aid of their respectivejurisdiction." Petitioners' argument essentially would read out"respective" from that provision in the All Writs Act insection . Clearly the All Writs Act does notindependently grant original jurisdiction, and this hasbeen consistently upheld by this Court for nearly years from the McIntire decision in to as recently asClinton v. Goldsmith in . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Moreover, issuance of writs under the All WritsAct is certainly conditioned by the statutory requirementthat such be necessary or appropriate. And as this Courtindicated in Pennsylvania Bureau of Corrections, this isessentially a threshold requirement for invocation of theAll Writs Act. And in the Goldsmith case, as recently as or years ago, this Court made clear that the All WritsAct can't be used as a form of cure-all to -- to fix whatwould otherwise be the availability of other statutorymechanisms which are not otherwise complied with.QUESTION: What would be wrong with the EleventhCircuit saying in substance it's the same thing? Whatwe're trying to do is to stop this litigation from goingforward in Louisiana. So even though the defendants usedthe wrong device, we'll treat it as though it had been inapplication for an antisuit injunction?. MR. BEDERMAN: Well, if -- if, of course, theEleventh Circuit had construed petitioners' filings inthat way and -- and had indicated that injunction was theproper mode and essentially substituted, as they -- asthey seem to invite in their closing lines of theirdecision, I think that would be appropriate. But there iscertainly a difference in form and in content between aremoval and a narrowly tailored injunction, and I thinkthe Eleventh Circuit was correct. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC And other courts of appeals that have so heldhave indicated that there are profound federalism concernsthat are implicated in allowing essentially a common lawwrit of removal to be used to evade what is Congress'srole in dictating the mechanism for removal and -- andpatrolling the boundary and the balance of authoritybetween State courts and Federal courts in this country.There is, as -- as the Court indicated, no suchthing as a -- as a common law writ of removal. There wasno analogy in English common law at the time of thefounding. The -- a writ of certiorari, as Justice Breyerindicated, would have been -- could have been potentiallydirected, I would agree, to -- to courts. But in nocircumstance was there analogy in English common law forthe court of one sovereign to remove cases from -- fromanother sovereign. And unless we delve into a kind ofobscurantist legal history, I think that would be clear. But there was, in fact, no analogy for that. And intruth, there's no such thing as a writ of removal --QUESTION: Administrative agencies.MR. BEDERMAN: I presume that in English commonlaw, to the extent that administrative agencies existed,the ones I'm aware of, of course, were quite inchoate. It's potential that you --QUESTION: Sewer commissioners, I think is -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. BEDERMAN: That's right. Or -- or sanitarycommissions in London. One might imagine that. But again, at issue here is -- is removal, whichthis Court has always indicated is a creature of statutebecause of the profound federalism concerns. And essentially what -- what petitioners wouldhave this Court do is allow, by use of the All Writs Actor analogous theories of ancillary enforcementjurisdiction, to achieve what is otherwise unavailable bystatute. And as this Court clearly said in thePennsylvania Bureau of Corrections case, although the AllWrits Act empowers Federal courts to fashion extraordinaryremedies when the need arises, it does not authorize themto issue ad hoc writs whenever compliance with statutoryprocedures appears inconvenient or less appropriate. If I can say just a word or two about ancillaryenforcement jurisdiction, to the extent to whichpetitioners appear to be relying on it. This Court hassaid very clearly in both Kikkonen, where the Courtindicated that ancillary enforcement jurisdiction may beused in view of what courts require to perform theirfunctions, and in Peacock, where the Court made very clearthat ancillary enforcement jurisdiction is a creature ofnecessity, there can be no showing of necessity here byvirtue of the availability of alternate mechanisms, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC whether in the form of an injunction properly issuedagainst the parties and consistent with the relitigationexception under the Anti-Injunction Act, or even,preferably, recourse to State courts to properly rule onthe preclusive effect of earlier Federal court judgmentsand settlements, as this Court made clear.QUESTION: What about contempt? I suppose youcould have been -- your client could have been held incontempt in that court, couldn't it? I mean, assumingyou're wrong -- that he's right --MR. BEDERMAN: In the -- in the Federal court. And of course, obviously sanctions were imposed below bythe Federal district court, and that's, of course, not --no longer at issue before this Court, but that court hasthat power.So certainly there are a variety of mechanismsto ensure compliance with -- with court orders. It is notrespondent's submission to suggest that we take animportant tool out of the toolbox of Federal courts inorder to maintain the dignity and the enforcement of theirjudgments. But --QUESTION: A number of courts that have allowedthe All Writs removal have said that they thoughtthat that was less offensive. That was more faithful tothe federalism concern, that -- that issuing an antisuit th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC injunction was more offensive to the State than thisremoval device. MR. BEDERMAN: I would respectfully disagreewith that characterization. The assumption seems to bethat the injunction would somehow issue to the Statecourt, and as of course we all know, that would never bethe case. That truly would be offensive. The -- theinjunction would issue to the parties, however, withinstructions to -- to dismiss or an even maybe even morenarrowly tailored instrument.QUESTION: Well, it may be that a particularremedy in a particular situation might be less offensiveto federalism, but that's a concern that should beaddressed by Congress, isn't it --MR. BEDERMAN: Absolutely. QUESTION: -- in view of this statute?MR. BEDERMAN: Absolutely. It is -- if Congresswishes to address the availability of removal in thisclass action context -- and there is pending legislationtoday to that effect -- Congress is free to do so. QUESTION: And -- and if Congress wants to bemore offensive, it presumably can. (Laughter.) MR. BEDERMAN: I wouldn't speak to thepropensity of Congress in those circumstances, but they th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC could also amend the Anti-Injunction Act to also changethe balance of power between State courts and Federalcourts. We take no issue with that.Your Honors, unless there are any furtherquestions. QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Bederman. Mr. Alsobrook, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF HENRY B. ALSOBROOK, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERSMR. ALSOBROOK: Excuse me. Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:I think Justice Breyer was correct when hepointed out that the stipulation that was entered into isreally not ambiguous. The Eleventh --QUESTION: That's not -- I don't think that'sbefore us, Mr. Alsobrook. MR. ALSOBROOK: All right. QUESTION: I mean, I don't think whether or notyou might be entitled to an injunction, should you seekone, is -- is presented by the -- your question. MR. ALSOBROOK: Yes, sir. Well, Your Honor, I would say that at the timethat we removed this also we relied on NAACP II, and therethe Court said that if there are two alternatives that --and they also pointed out a footnote in the Kikkonen th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC case which said that an injunction could be issued wherethere are two alternatives that -- that you can choosebetween one or the other, and that the -- the Anti-Injunction Act does not preclude the remedy under theAll Writs Act.So we realize that the Court is not alegislative body and that it has been brought out herethat Congress is the one that can -- can dictate thejurisdictional bounds of Federal courts. But by the sametoken, Your Honor, we have a great number of class actionsettlements that are pending in this country that havebeen already consummated in this country, and we face asituation where the settling party who has settled anational class action must have some kind of remedy tostop suits in State courts that attempt to thwart thatclass action settlement. And so we would ask the Court toconsider that in its -- in its deliberations. If there any further questions? QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Alsobrook. MR. ALSOBROOK: Thank you, Your Honor. CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 