 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XCOOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS, Petitioner ::v. : No. -UNITED STATES, EX REL. JANET :CHANDLER :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, January , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:DONNAL M. LACH, ESQ., Assistant State's Attorney, Chicago,Illinois; on behalf of the Petitioner.JUDSON H. MINER, ESQ., Chicago, Illinois; on behalf of theRespondent.MALCOLM S. STEWART, ESQ., Assistant to the SolicitorGeneral, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; onbehalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF DONNAL M. LACH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFJUDSON H. MINER, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFMALCOLM S. STEWART, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFDONNAL M. LACH, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner PAGE th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnow in Number -, Cook County, Illinois versus UnitedStates, Ex Rel. Janet Chandler.Ms. Lach.ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONNAL M. LACHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. LACH: Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The question today -- presented today turns onwhether Congress intended to include local governmentswithin the meaning of the False Claims Act's undefinedterm, person, which this Court determined in Stevens hasremained unchanged since the original enactment in . The indications are that Congress did not subject localgovernments to liability under the act,As this Court observed in Stevens and in Hubbardversus United States, the act was enacted as acriminal statute. It imposed criminal fines orimprisonment in addition to civil damages and forfeitures. As this Court noted in Marcus v. Hess, any language thatthe civil portion shares in common with the criminalportion must be given careful scrutiny lest those notintended are brought within the act's reach. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The word, persons, subject to liability, isshared by both the civil and the criminal provisions ofthe act, thus, a person that could be held liablecivilly must, under the act, necessarily be capableof being subject to the criminal provision as well. ThisCourt, in City of Newport, noted that municipalcorporations were not considered capable of doing acriminal act or a malicious or willful wrong -- excuse me.The -- the criminal nature of the statute initself is a strong indication that Congress did notinclude local governments within the purview of thestatute.QUESTION: Ms. Lach, on that point, am I correctin thinking that the Sherman Act does apply tomunicipalities?MS. LACH: This Court determined that the -- theantitrust statutes, under the antitrust statutes the term,person, does include municipalities, local governments.QUESTION: And isn't it true that in theoriginal Sherman Act, imprisonment was authorized forevery person who violates the act?MS. LACH: That is true, but we are unaware ofany case in which a local government has been prosecutedas a criminal.QUESTION: But the interpretation of the law on th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the civil side --MS. LACH: Yes.QUESTION: -- was not nullified because therewas a provision that said, every person is subject toimprisonment.MS. LACH: That is correct, Your Honor, and thisCourt in the City of Lafayette and City of Boulder, inanalyzing the term, person, and determining thatmunicipalities were included within that term, were alsofaced with the treble damages of the -- of the ClaytonAct, and subsequent to those two decisions, Congressenacted the Local Government Antitrust Act of , inwhich Congress specifically took local governments out ofthe range of the treble damages, and now local governmentsare subject to injunctive or declaratory relief.QUESTION: My -- my simple point is that byputting a clearly penal provision in the statute, that didnot make municipalities out of the act, and I thoughtthat's what you were arguing, that the act is penalin part --MS. LACH: Yes.QUESTION: -- and therefore, it could not havein -- covered municipalities.MS. LACH: Yes, that is -- that is what we'rearguing. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: But that's not true of the ShermanAct.MS. LACH: It does not appear to be true of theSherman Act, but again, we are not aware of any case inwhich a local government was prosecuted under that act.QUESTION: Any more than this is a case ofprosecution.MS. LACH: Any more -- that's true, but now,ever since , the False Claims Act has been bifurcated. The criminal provisions are separately codified from thecivil provisions.Also, as this Court noted in Stevens in ,the False Claims Act was enacted to combat fraud duringthe Civil War by private contractors, and there is noindication that in the Federal Government was buyinganything from local governments, or that there were anyFederal contracts with local governments, and without apractice of Federal funding to local governments, Congresswould have no reason to envision a local governmentsubmitting a false claim for payment, nor were localgovernments firmly established as persons in -- excuseme, in .QUESTION: Well, Ms. Lach, you don't disputethat the word persons extends to some corporations underthe act, do you? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MS. LACH: Not at all. Not at all, and in fact,in -- in , the term, person, presumptively includedprivate corporations, and there is language in the act, and given the context of the act, it is reasonable toassume that private corporations were included in theprovisions.QUESTION: Well, but there -- there are alsocases from about that time that say that a -- amunicipality is included in the -- in the term,corporation, at any rate.MS. LACH: The -- the cases at that time were --came from State courts, and the State courts were notconsistent throughout -- throughout the Nation as to whenlocal governments could be held liable. Some State courtsheld they could be held liable in contract, others intort, and even when held liable in tort, there wassometimes the distinction between proprietary andgovernmental function.QUESTION: Well, what about Louisville andLetson?MS. LACH: Louisville and Letson, though, onlyapplied to private corporations, and private corporationswere established by that case, but in -- this Courtdid not extend that principle until the decision inCowles, and that was the first time -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Didn't -- didn't we recognize it inthe Amity case in ? We -- we quoted Sir Edward Cookin including municipal corporations as -- as persons.MS. LACH: Yes, but still, in terms -- thisCourt, in the Cowles decision in , believed that itstill was not a settled issue and -- and settled the issueonce and for all. In the Amity case, it was not -- it wasnot -- the issue that was before the Court that needed tobe decided, whether local governments were persons unlikein the Cowles case --QUESTION: Oh, we -- we thought otherwise in --in Monell, certainly. We said in Monell, and I'm quotingit, the Letson principle in was automatically andwithout discussion extended to municipal corporations.MS. LACH: Yes, but by saying that, this Courtin Monell dated the presumption as firmly established asof the Cowles decision, rather --QUESTION: So you think there was a -- a majorchange between, when, and ?MS. LACH: I think that --QUESTION: In that -year period, there wassuddenly, whap, it applied to municipal corporations,before that it didn't? It seems to me most implausible.MS. LACH: Well, it doesn't -- it wasn't anautomatic or a dramatic change, but nonetheless, there was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC a progression. There was -- there was a transition in lawwithin the States.QUESTION: In years?MS. LACH: Those years, of all years in thiscountry's history, of course, were the most significant,but -- but in terms of dating a presumption that one canfirmly rely on, there is no firm date, other than , inwhich acts of Congress were determined to include personas a -- include municipality within the word, person.QUESTION: Ms. Lach, the decision, the opinionin Cowles was very brief, right?MS. LACH: Yes, it was.QUESTION: And it was sort of like, well, ofcourse. If this was establishing something that hadn'tbeen just taken for granted, don't you suppose the Courtwould have engaged in a little more reasoning?MS. LACH: Perhaps, but nonetheless the Courtdid decide the issue, and made -- made it clear that foronce -- once and for all, this issue was being decided,and it was at that point that no ambiguity was left.The first case that ever -- that -- in which alocal government was ever brought before this Court was in, in the Aspinwall case, and there the issue did notarise, and subsequent to the act, yes, there wereother cases in which local governments were brought before th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court, but the issue never arose. It wasn't until that we can firmly date when, in -- in Federal --in -- in congressional enactments, we can presume that theword person included local governments.And this Court in Monell observed that it tookyears of judicial conflict before corporations of allsorts, including municipal corporations, were establishedas persons that could sue and be sued in Federal court.QUESTION: Ms. Lach --QUESTION: Well, if we think that it -- that theword, person, includes municipal corporations, as, indeed,I think I do, based on Cowles and Monell, then whatchanged it in your view? Why would we now have adifferent view? Just because of the change in thepunitive damages, the treble damages provision?MS. LACH: If this Court determines that theword, person, in did, in fact --QUESTION: Yes.MS. LACH: -- include local government, that --QUESTION: Yes, on that assumption, then whatwould change that?MS. LACH: The -- the -- what would change it isCongress' imposition of treble damages, which thisCourt has noted --QUESTION: But without an accompanying change in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the definition of person, right?MS. LACH: Exactly. Exactly, and the amendments were just that. They were amendments. Whatwas not changed in remained the same. Nonetheless,when Congress provided for treble damages, which thisCourt has determined to be punitive, Congress knew whatthis Court said in City of Newport. This Court reiterateda presumption that local governments are immune from theimposition of punitive damages unless Congressspecifically indicates otherwise.QUESTION: Well, it seems to me you would have abetter argument if you simply said, the change doesnot impose punitive damages on local corporations, than tosay it suddenly proscribes an entire escape hatch from anysort of liability at all.MS. LACH: Well, under the act, there wereonly double damages, which this Court concluded wereremedial, and they were not punitive, but there was a bigstep made in -- , when Congress changed the remedyto mandatory treble damages and, in addition to that,increased the statutory fines.QUESTION: But it didn't make it clear at thattime that the change made them punitive. It was only inthe Stevens opinion that we decided they were punitive.MS. LACH: But there were indications prior to th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC that that -- that -- from which Congress understood thatthe damages were punitive. In , this Court, in TexasIndustries, a case that was cited in Stevens, stated thattreble damages are meant to punish, and also in , inCity of Newport, this Court cited an a Missourisupreme court case that held that a municipality was notsubject to treble damages under a trespass statute,notwithstanding that statute's general authorization forsuch damages against any person, and the reason was,treble damages were exemplary, and --QUESTION: Ms. Lach, didn't the Court also,I think in the context of the Clayton Act, characterizetreble damages as, quote, remedial?MS. LACH: The Court -- the Court noted both. The Court said in -- in aspect, they are remedial, butthen, also they did have an intent to punish as well, butas I stated, the -- the Clayton Act no longer applies tolocal governments because Congress took affirmativesteps --QUESTION: Nonetheless, it used the word,remedial to characterize treble damages, and one of thedifficulties that your -- your argument that you're nowmaking encounters is that this change in , wasn't it adramatic expansion of qui tam liability?MS. LACH: It was a dramatic expansion, but as th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC this Court --QUESTION: And then -- then you think that atthe same time that Congress expanded it, it also cut back,without any indication at all?MS. LACH: Well, we believe that Congress didnot cut back, that -- that local governments were neversubject to the act, but with this dramatic expansion,there was also the dramatic increase in damages, and thisCourt has made it clear that local governments have anaffirmative defense when punitive damages are at stake,and in order to abrogate that immunity from punitivedamages, Congress has got to really say that it intends toimpose those punitive damages, treble damages in thiscase, treble damages plus statutory fines in this case onlocal governments, and there's no indication anywhere onthe face of the amendments that Congress intended toimpose such damages on local governments.Local governments are mentioned twice in the amendments. In one provision, it's thejurisdictional provision, (b), which allows localgovernments and States to bring State court claims inFederal court when -- when the transaction arises from thesame transaction as a False Claims Act action. Thatindicates that Congress was interested in -- in preventingfrauds against local governments, not in -- in imposing th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC punitive damages on local governments, and the otherprovision is the CID provision which, as this Court notedin Stevens, has a -- has a definition. That definitionincludes States and political subdivisions of States, butthat is for the purpose of investigation --QUESTION: I'm -- I'm sorry, I didn't fullygrasp the point you were just making. Were you suggestingthat Congress was worried about fraud againstmunicipalities, but it didn't think that fraud would beengaged in by municipal units? I mean, I remember -- I'mfrom New York, and I remember Tammany Hall. I don't thinkit was altogether so different in Cook County, was it?(Laughter.)MS. LACH: But the -- but the point is thatwhere local governments are mentioned in the -- in theFalse Claims Act in the amendment, there is noindication that Congress was mentioning them becauseCongress was intending to abrogate the immunity frompunitive damages.QUESTION: May I ask whether you think that CookCounty could bring a qui tam action?MS. LACH: Well, that's less clear under theFalse Claims Act. This Court -- I -- I know that YourHonor, in the dissenting opinion, suggested that the term,person, is different in -- (b) from (a). It's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC less clear, I think, perhaps, but that was an issue thatthis Court expressly declined to address in Stevensbecause there was no need to discuss it or to decide it atthat point.QUESTION: And there's no -- there's no need todecide it here. I -- I was just curious if you did have aposition on it.MS. LACH: I think perhaps local governmentscould bring qui tam actions, but -- but it is not clear.There are also the -- the policy considerationswith respect to the imposition of punitive damages onlocal governments. Local governments apply for and useFederal funds for the benefit of their residents and, asthis Court noted in Stevens, in City of Newport, the Courtwas concerned with the imposition of punitive damages onlocal taxpayers under any circumstances, and here we havea statute that imposes three times the amount of damagesand imposes statutory fines, which get very hefty.Punitive damages against a local government havegot to come from someplace, and there are only two places,reduction in services, or an increase in taxes, and thevictims of punitive damages are not the wrongdoers. They're -- they're the innocent, and some of thoseinnocents are not even taxpayers or voters, such asschoolchildren or homeless medically indigent. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The United States significantly -- significantlyhas other means to stop fraud by local governments, and todeter local governments from committing fraud. The UnitedStates has common law causes of action to be made whole,and the most effective deterrent is the threat ofdebarment from participation in Federal funding.With no indication that Congress ever intendedto include local governments in the -- in the act,and with the Dictionary Act not being enacted until ,where Congress for the first time created a statutorypresumption that the word, person, includes bodies politicand corporate, this case is in a very different posturefrom the Monell case.In Monell, this Court did not just look at theword, person. This Court looked at the historicalenvironment in which section was enacted, it lookedat the legislative history, and it also looked at theDictionary Act, which was enacted just months prior withthe same -- by the same Congress that enacted section.A review of the circumstances around the enactment, together with the text and the historicalcontext, leads the other way. There was no concretepresumption. There were -- there were indications, yes,but does that lead -- does that add up to a presumption? th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC There's no concrete presumption until this Court said soin Cowles in , and then we have Congress in . There were changes. There were articulations at that --at that point in time.If there are no further questions, I'll reservethe remainder of my time.QUESTION: Very well, Ms. Lach.MS. LACH: Thank you.QUESTION: Mr. Miner, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JUDSON H. MINERON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMR. MINER: Mr. Chief Justice, may it please theCourt:I really can't contribute much more to thediscussion of what Congress meant by a person insection -- in , other than to point out, as we did inour brief, that in fact, the law in the States prior toLetson -- and -- and indeed, Letson is the origin ofthe -- of the doctrine, because in Letson, what the Courtactually said was, a corporation is a natural person forpurposes of the suit where it's incorporated or where itdoes business, and the Court then goes on and says, andthat doctrine also applies to all corporations and bodypolitic.QUESTION: Before that, they looked at the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC citizenship of the individual shareholders to decidewhether or not there was diversity jurisdiction?MR. MINER: The -- that's right. They -- theydefined corporations by the -- by the members, and -- andthey could have jurisdictions all over. That then getscleared up, and -- and the law was absolutely clear in allof the States as we -- that we could find. We found nodissenting opinions that -- that held, that didn't holdthat a local government, whether it was a corporation,whether it was a quasi corporation, a city, a county,wasn't held responsible for any obligations it had,whether by contract, whether by charter, whether --whether by statute, wherever they came from, and they werealso responsible for all their wrongful torts.So that then brings us to really what wasMs. Lach's starting point, this whole question of theimplications of the criminal provisions and, in fact, notonly the Sherman Act, but the Elkins Act also includescriminal provisions, and this Court has recognized thatperson, in that act, includes municipal corporations, butthe -- the question of what is the significance ofincluding criminal penalties in has to be answered inthe context of what was -- what was the -- the view in.Unfortunately, this argument really doesn't th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC surface until the reply, and so we haven't had a chancereally to brief it, but the simple reality is, in -- inthe period of -- in the era of , indeed in the thCentury, local governments were treated just like privatecorporations, and they were, indeed, subject toindictment, and they were subject to criminal punishmenton the same terms as local governments, and they wereoften found liable for acts that involved both fraud anddeceit.Since -- since this was -- now, I'd like to readto the Court from Dillon, who is cited repeatedly as -- asone of the -- the scholars of the era, although we -- wehave not cited this passage because the issue hadn't comeup before, but in his treatise on the law of municipalcorporations he states, English law, and in thiscountry -- in the English law and in this country, quote,all corporations, municipal as well as private, which oweduties to the public are liable to indictment formalfeasance as well as nonfeasance in respect to theirduties. And, in fact, he goes on to explain that they'reresponsible for palpable omissions, they're responsiblefor willful and corrupt acts, and in a -- a leading caseat the turn of the century called Ludlow versusCommonwealth, S.W. d , the State supreme court madeclear that the purpose of holding cities liable criminally th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC was, indeed, to punish them and to deter future acts.That really was the law and, in fact, in aleading case from our own State, the Illinois supremecourt, in upholding a criminal conviction against the Cityof Chicago for employing women for more than hours,states in the case of People versus City of Chicago, N.E. , the municipality is held to the same degreeof responsibility as an individual.In securing performance of specific dutiesimposed upon municipal corporations, the State has thesame power of coercion and the same method of redress inthe case of individuals or purely private corporations. That was the law in that era. That was the law when theFalse Claims Act was passed and, in a battery of caseswhich I can bring to this Court's attention, a case calledHoward versus Crawford County, F cases , Chaplainversus The Corporations of the City of New York, Paige,P-a-i-g-e, Chapter , or the Town of Plymouth versus theTown of Windsor, Vermont , all cases that predate the False Claims Act, local governments were sued inlawsuits for fraudulent and deceitful conduct usuallyinvolving bond issues, or trying to avoid bondobligations, often in terms of their responsibilities totake care of their indigent citizens, and they would thenengage in schemes to get their indigents into another th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC jurisdiction so the other jurisdiction would have to payfor the wrong, sometimes they in fact had paid, gottenpaid, but they --QUESTION: Well, the fact that local governmentswere sued in these cases under some sort of common lawtheory, I take it, does not necessarily answer thequestion of whether statutory language using the word,person includes them.MR. MINER: Oh, I'm simply using these asexamples. I understand it's part of the argument that wasmade in the reply briefs by my opponent that localgovernment simply cannot have the mental state of showingeither fraud or intent to deceive, and -- and my point issimply, it was not uncommon in those days for localgovernments to be perceived as doing fraudulent ordeceitful acts.QUESTION: Well, I'm sure that's true, butwhy -- why do you -- why is it that, in your opinion,nobody apparently with -- just, perhaps no exceptions, orone or two, has ever sued a local government before underthis act?MR. MINER: Oh, I think -- there were suits thatwere brought, and we brought --QUESTION: I mean, a handful, virtually no --none. It's -- th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC MR. MINER: I think the answer is two-fold. Number , as this Court recognized in Hess, it's reallynot until the s that money starts --QUESTION: Since , that's already years,and there are billions and billions of dollars worth ofFederal programs that go to cities, and --MR. MINER: Well --QUESTION: I imagine somewhere in those billionsthere are a few false statements being made by people.(Laughter.)MR. MINER: But I think the answer is that themoney doesn't start coming in until -- until the sand thereafter, and in -- in , after this Court'sdecision in Hess, the False Claims Act gets emasculated,in the sense that it becomes very difficult to bring falseclaims, particularly qui tam cases. The damages aresubstantially reduced, and there is dramatic fall-off infalse claims litigation, and that's the whole purpose ofthe amendments, to generate new life into it --QUESTION: Why since have we seen virtuallyno suits brought against municipalities?MR. MINER: Since ? Oh, there are --QUESTION: There are lots?MR. MINER: Oh, there are lots of suits since. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Against -- against municipalities?MR. MINER: Oh, sure.QUESTION: See, what I'm worried about in theback of my mind is, if the -- assuming that the history inthe s is fairly inconclusive, which is the impressionthe briefs have left me with, you can make a good argumentone way or the other, then I'd be worried about suddenlyunleashing potentially billions of dollars of liability aslawyers comb through the vast number of Federal programsthat give aid to cities, looking for someone, somewhere,who has made a false statement, and I'm sure there arequite a few, at -- at which point the cities wouldsuddenly discover vast liability for treble damages thattheir -- their citizens can't avoid. You can't sell ashare in a city, and -- and so that's the kind of thingthat worries me practically, and I wish you'd talk aboutit a little.MR. MINER: Well, I think there -- there are acouple of answers. Number , I think that's -- that wasCongress' decision that -- that it was important toprotect --QUESTION: I grant you, if the history of thisis clear, you win. Just in case, though, I'm leftabsolutely uncertain about what the right result is on thebasis of what happened in , I want to, just in case th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC it's relevant, to have in my mind what's likely to occurin the year .MR. MINER: Oh, I -- I think what is going to --first of all, let's understand that these cases are notnow brought on the basis of negligent statements, orslight misrepresentations, but these cases involve -- thisis a statute unlike section or the Sherman Act, thatreally does not involve itself in imposing any newobligations, any new or unanticipated responsibilities onlocal governments.It merely says, when you entered into a contractwith us, we're going to hold you to the deal that youmade, and if you breach that deal in material ways, we'regoing to try to get our money back, so there is -- thereare protections in the sense that it's not any statementthat gets litigated here. It's got to be a serious,essential misrepresentation about how that money was usedthat is at the core of these lawsuits, so that --QUESTION: All right. I mean, if that's theonly answer, though, I -- I begin to think -- I don't knowhow much money is involved, but I was trying to make aguess and say, leaving out social security, food stampsand that kind of thing, which are individuals, my guess isthere -- probably it's in the range of hundreds ofbillions of dollars that go to cities, leaving those th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC things out, and you have a few bad actors in every programthat maybe purposely make a lie in a statement --MR. MINER: Well, I think --QUESTION: -- to help preserve their job, Idon't know why they do it, and -- and there we havesuddenly a huge liability imposed on citizens.Now, I'm overstating this perhaps, but I wantyou to tell me what the true dimension of that problem is.MR. MINER: Well, I don't think that -- first,as part of that answer, Congress has made a decision bythe -- by increasing damages from double to treble, therewill be a deterrent effect, and that one response of thisis going to be, in fact, less fraud. There's going tobe -- the money will be used for the purposes for which itwas given to the states, and there will be a deterrenteffect in terms of government officials not actuallyengaging in fraud and -- and a related interest in the actis, in fact, promoting representative, responsivedemocracy, and by disclosing frauds to the public, you cancorrect them. But the reality still is the contract, thelawsuit is only brought if, in fact, there's been anessential misrepresentation, something really basic aboutwhat was done by a local government that has actuallymisused the money.Local government has gotten the money, and, in th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC fact, all the local government is giving back is, it'sgiving back the money it wrongfully got, if it's shownthat it got it by -- got it falsely or -- or fraudulently. It's giving back prejudgment interest and, within thestatute of limitations of years, that is alwaysvirtually going to exceed the basic laws, and it's goingto have to pay back the -- give a share to the relator,which is an important piece of this, because Congress hasalso recognized that, in this area, where you do havelarge amounts of fraud out there, there are no privatevictims.There is nobody who steps forward and says, Iwas hurt, and therefore I'm going to bring a lawsuit toprotect myself and the Government will benefit, and theGovernment, the Court -- the Congress recognized, doesn'thave the research -- the resources to deal with all this,so it desperately needs the -- the private InspectorGenerals who are willing to step forward oftentimes, notas bounty hunters, but as -- as really offended citizenswho, like Dr. Chandler, who brought it to the attention ofthe county and said, you're not doing what you're supposedto do, and they took responsibilities from him and he saidagain, and you're not supposed to -- you're supposed to beproviding these services, and suddenly she wasn'tresponsible for that. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC They need these people to come in and blow thewhistle, because otherwise, the Government's not going tofind it, and they -- they recognize that oftentimesthey're -- they're terminated, so we've got to pay themsomething for coming forward, so what the Government isreally paying in many of the claims is not much more thanwhat, in fact, the government -- what the -- the localgovernment is paying is not much more than what the -- theFederal Government paid in this case --QUESTION: Don't paint too rosy a picture. Imean, if qui tam actions were as desirable as you assert,they would not have been eliminated in England totally,and vastly reduced in the United States, because they arean invitation to shakedowns. That's -- that's why they'vebeen largely eliminated from our law.MR. MINER: That -- that's a --QUESTION: So you know, if -- if loving qui tamactions is -- is what you need to win your case, you're --you're --MR. MINER: No, I don't -- I don't want tosuggest that, and -- but I -- to be honest, I'm a littleoffended, but the treatment their -- plaintiffs in hereare no different than plaintiffs in antitrust cases, orsecurities cases. Many are truly wronged and areoutraged, and there are always some who will take th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC advantage of it, but the reality is that --QUESTION: Most cases don't have a treble damagesituation, and most -- most cases don't deal with -- well,as this one does, with municipalities, where it'sreally -- you know, it's play money, right? It's notreally money out of your pocket.MR. MINER: Oh, I don't --QUESTION: So better to pay this fellow off andget on with the business of the city, and -- I mean, thoseare problems with -- with a qui tam action. Let's not --let's not minimize --MR. MINER: We're here in the United StatesSupreme Court because Cook County wasn't about to simplysay this is play money, and we're going to pay you. Thatisn't really what happens very often. If they're wrong,they agree and they -- they pay, but they -- they alsofight you tooth and nail, and -- and you have to prove, infact, they didn't do what they said they were going to --what they committed themselves to do, but the -- thereality is that there are no -- in , I think personsclearly included municipal corporations, as it includedall corporations. There is nothing in -- in the actitself that in any way suggests that Congress did not wantto apply it to -- to municipal --QUESTION: Were there any grant in aid -- I th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC mean, it may be kind of an academic question if, in ,the Federal Government was not giving out money tomunicipalities.MR. MINER: It wasn't, but that doesn't meanthat, first of all, again going back to Lafayette, thisCourt recognized the fact that Congress in wasconcerned about private corporations didn't precludeincluding municipal corporations as persons under theSherman Act, and -- and the fact of the matter is, localgovernments in that day did commercial activities. Theybuilt bridges, they took care of the indigent at therequest of States, and they were held responsible fortheir actions and, in fact, when they didn't live up totheir responsibilities, they were routinely sued, and theycould well have been reached by Federal Government.I guess my time is up. Thank you.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Miner.Mr. Stewart, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF MALCOLM S. STEWARTON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. STEWART: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The False Claims Act is the primary mechanismfor addressing deliberate efforts to cheat the Federal th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government out of money and property. Petitioner hasidentified no legitimate ground for excluding localgovernments from the coverage of the act. Localgovernments receive very substantial amounts of Federalmoney, and fraud by local governments causes precisely thesame harms as comparable misconduct committed by a privateparty. Moreover, local governments are presumptivelyencompassed by the term, person, and qui tam suits againstlocal governments raise no constitutional concerns.Now, with respect to the act, to begin,it's true that as of , there was no square holding ofthis Court to the effect that a municipal corporationwould presumptively be treated as a person for purposes ofFederal statutes. However, given the materials availableat that time, Congress would certainly have reasonablyconcluded that municipalities were covered.As Justice Souter pointed out, as early as ,this Court quoted with approval Lord Cook's observation tothe effect that the term, person, presumptively includesboth municipal and private corporations and, again,because fraud by municipal corporations in the procurementof Federal --QUESTION: There -- that -- that case, though,was dealing with a private corporation, was it not?MR. STEWART: That -- that's correct. There was th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC no square holding to that effect, but certainly all the indications in the Court's opinions would have supportedCongress in its view that the term, person, would includelocal governments.The -- the Court in Monell held that as of a clear understanding to that effect had been established,and petitioner has identified no evidence that wouldsuggest that the prevailing consensus changed during theyears between and .It -- it may also be the case that, as JusticeGinsburg suggested, the question would have been a largelyacademic one in , because local governments wouldn'thave received a significant amount of Federal money. TheCongress deliberately drafted the act in a broad fashionso that it would encompass spending programs that wereadopted in the future, even if they were unknown in ,and -- and the Court --QUESTION: Now, aren't you gilding the lily alittle bit to say that Congress in contemplated thatthere would be massive Federal spending programs in thefuture?MR. STEWART: Oh, I'm not suggesting thatCongress contemplated that. I'm saying Congress wrote thestatute in a way that would cover whatever spendingprograms came to be adopted in ensuing years, and -- and th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the Court addressed essentially that situation in U.S.ex rel. Marcus versus Hess, in which it said the type offinancial assistance that we're dealing with here wouldnot have been undertaken in , yet Congress drafted theact broadly, and these funds are in -- as much in need ofprotection as other Federal money, and Congress did, insome significant, some relatively minor respects, continueto amend the False Claims Act at intervals during theperiod between and , and during that period, itbecame increasingly apparent that local governments werebeginning to receive enhanced shares of Federal money.It also became increasingly apparent that theterm, person would be construed generally to encompasslocal governments, yet Congress retained the word, person,even as it amended other features of the act, and I thinkpetitioner's primary argument is that even if the statuteincluded municipalities up to , the amendmentstook local governments out of the act's coverage by addinga punitive component to the damages available, and -- andthis seems implausible for, essentially for two reasons.First, the whole thrust of the amendmentsgenerally was to make the act more effective, to expandits coverage, to give the Government greater weapons infighting fraud, so it seems very unlikely that at the sametime Congress would have removed from the act's th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC coverage --QUESTION: Well, we do have the presumption inthe City of Newport situation of not treating punitives asapplicable to municipal corporations.MR. STEWART: That's correct. The City ofNewport involved a different sort of statute. That is,the statute at issue in City of Newport was U.S.C., and it provided an express cause of action, but itsaid nothing about the remedies that would be available,and essentially this Court's holding was, where thestatutory directive is for courts to use their own bestjudgment as to what remedies are appropriate, punitivedamages should generally not be imposed uponmunicipalities, but here, Congress has spoken precisely tothe remedies that will be applied at the end of asuccessful suit.QUESTION: Does it give the Government anyremedy that -- suppose that you think that the particularqui tam action is causing a lot of trouble in a Medicarearea, or Medicaid area, and there are hospital grants,or -- you know, there are vast numbers of grants. Can youdo anything about it?MR. STEWART: Yes.QUESTION: What?MR. STEWART: The statute does authorize the th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Government to intervene to take over the -- theprosecution of a case and to settle or dismiss it, and atleast on occasion, the Department of Justice hasintervened --QUESTION: Okay, so then, in other words thecity would have to come to you and say, this is a realmess here, there's nothing to it, and let's settle it, andthen you'd have to get involved and -- and deal with it.MR. STEWART: That --QUESTION: You could do it, though.MR. STEWART: That's correct. I -- I don't wantto represent that this is done often, but it is anavailable --QUESTION: Well, have there been a lot of casessince against municipalities?MR. STEWART: Yes. The figures I've been givenby the Civil Division are that qui tam suits have beenfiled against local governments since . In ofthose, the United States has intervened.QUESTION: And settled, or --MR. STEWART: I don't know what the dispositionof those -- sometimes we might intervene to settle,sometimes we might intervene because we believe the claimis meritorious and we want to -- to prosecute the suit toits conclusion. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC QUESTION: Do you have some dollar figures inthose?MR. STEWART: I don't have dollar figures withrespect to municipalities. I know overall since theTreasury has realized a little over $ billion inrecoveries from False Claims Act suits. That includesboth qui tam suits and suits that were initiated by theUnited States.QUESTION: You sort of federalized this action. I mean, you're going to let the private plaintiffs go out,sue all the cities, and if you think there's somethingwrong here, you will step in and deal with it?MR. STEWART: Well, I don't -- I don't want torepresent we will do this on a regular basis. I just wantto say, it is an available mechanism under the FalseClaims Act in extreme situations, where public policyconcerns cause the Department of Justice to conclude thatit's not in the public interest for the suit to goforward.The other point I would make with respect to theCity of Newport is, again, if -- the City of Newport dealtwith a statute that didn't specifically address thequestion of remedies at all. Now, if we're correct aboutthe law as it existed before , that local governmentswere covered, and that they were subject to the double th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC damages remedy that this Court had held to be essentiallyremedial, if Congress had wanted to exclude municipalitiesfrom the act's coverage, it -- it really seems outlandishto think that Congress would have attempted to achievethat objective by leaving the word, person, in the actunchanged, and by amending the act's liability provisions.If Congress had believed that it was appropriateeither to take the municipalities out of the scope of theact altogether, or at least to subject them to remediesless than those available against private corporations,the natural thing to do would have been to amend the actso to provide. It -- it seems unlikely that Congresswould have attempted to achieve that objective by soindirect a means.The other point we would make is that there maybe isolated situations in which an award of treble damagesunder the act will far exceed the harm that was done tothe United States, but the alternative that petitionercontends we believe is much worse, because it would leavethe act entirely unavailable for redressing all manner offraud committed by local governments against the UnitedStates.When we have a contract action, when we have anordinary suit of a dispute about money, and we regard itas a good faith controversy, even if we prevail at the end th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC of the day, it's often the case that the United Stateswon't be made completely whole, because we incur costs ofinvestigation, costs of prosecuting the suit, we may losethe time value of money. When we're dealing with goodfaith disputes, Congress and the executive branch havebeen content to treat that undercompensation simply as acost of doing business.QUESTION: Do any Government grants or contractshave attorney's fees provisions in them?MR. STEWART: I -- I don't know that any do. Itcertainly would not be the norm. I mean, the -- theAmerican rule is that each party bears its -- its ownattorney's fees, and so absent some express statutoryauthority, we would not be able to recover our fees, evenif we prevailed, and so again, Congress is willing --QUESTION: Well, if it's a problem, you can putit in your grant.MR. STEWART: I don't think with -- certainly asto municipalities I think we would have a hard time,without express statutory authority, arriving at acontractual agreement that municipalities would be subjectto such an unusual remedy and, as I say, Congress and theexecutive branch are willing to live with that form ofundercompensation when we're dealing with a good faithdispute. th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC The False Claims Act is reserved for that narrowcategory of cases that involve people who don't simply askfor money that, in fact, they're not entitled to, but whoask for it knowing they're not entitled to it, andCongress reasonably concluded that different remedies werenecessary to address efforts to defraud and cheat theFederal Government.QUESTION: Is a false statement a necessaryprerequisite to an action under these qui tam?MR. STEWART: There -- a false statement is onecategory. There -- there is a knowing requirement. Thatis, the individual entity has to knowingly submit a falseclaim. There -- there are instances in which the claimmay be false even if it doesn't contain an express falsestatement. For instance, if it's very clear that it'snecessary, for instance, that medical services bemedically necessary in order to be reimbursable, andthe --QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Stewart.Ms. Lach, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DONNAL M. LACHON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMS. LACH: Thank you.The first point I'd like to address isMr. Miner's point that local governments were sued in all th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC types of tort actions across the board. Congress'understanding of the suability of municipalities, andmunicipalities as persons in was really dependent onState law, because there had been no Federal expression upuntil that time, and across the board in the States, localgovernments were viewed differently.Some -- some local governments were viewed asquasi corporations and some as municipal corporations withdifferent levels of liability and, as I noted earlier,some States made a distinction between proprietary andGovernment functions, so Congress' understanding based onState law at that time was not consistent enough to beevidence that Congress understood person to include localgovernments.As for State criminal actions, in some Statesthere were misdemeanor actions against local governmentsfor nuisance actions such as failure to maintain a bridge,but there is no common law with respect to -- to Federalstatutes. When -- when Congress enacts a criminalstatute, the States' understanding of -- of who is aperson subject to State criminal statutes is notdispositive of what Congress had in mind, and if it isambiguous and it is inconclusive, as Justice Breyersuggested, it might be what -- what Congress was actuallythinking in . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Criminal statutes are interpreted narrowly,and --QUESTION: Ms. Lach, there's one point that youdidn't cover in your opening argument --MS. LACH: Yes.QUESTION: -- and I'm curious how you read thisstatute. With regard to Dr. Chandler, she claimed thatwhen she blew the whistle, there was retaliation againsther. There is a retaliation provision in the False ClaimsAct. On your reading of it, would she have recourse tothat provision against the county?MS. LACH: Well, under the facts of this case,the county was not her employer. The -- our codefendant,Hektoen Institute for Medical Research, was her employer. Cook County has been dismissed from that count, but --but --QUESTION: Well, whatever, the municipalemployer, would -- you say that there is no municipalliability for the allegedly ill-gotten gains, but whatabout retaliation against the whistleblower? Would theact apply against the municipal unit to that extent?MS. LACH: Well, the term employer is notdefined in the False Claims Act, but just very recently, weeks ago, on December , the Eighth Circuit reachedthis issue and, without reaching the question of what th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC person means under the False Claims Act, the EighthCircuit determined that employer has a broader meaning,and allowed an action to proceed against a localgovernment, in that case the St. Louis Housing Authorityunder, only under the whistleblower provision, and so thewhistleblower provision in itself does not indicate thatlocal governments, even if an employee can sue a municipalentity under the whistleblower provision, that does notautomatically mean that --QUESTION: If -- if the employer -- employeecould do that, the -- the retaliation provision refers toretaliation against an employee for conduct in furtheranceof a False Claims Act action, so if there is no viableFalse Claims Act claim against a municipality, then Idon't see how the retaliation provision could beavailable.MS. LACH: The False Claims Act actions may becaused by another party.QUESTION: But I'm talking about this very case.MS. LACH: Yes.QUESTION: I mean, if you're right that there'sno municipal liability --MS. LACH: But -- but in this case --QUESTION: -- especially by Dr. Chandler, do Iunderstand from your last answer that you are saying, no, th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC she's out of luck, the statute would not cover her?MS. LACH: Not against the county, but she stillhas a retaliation claim against her employer.QUESTION: Under what law?MS. LACH: Under the False Claims Act.There were two defendants in this case, CookCounty and the institution that administered the grant,and that institution employed Janet Chandler, and so --QUESTION: And was that a private corporation?MS. LACH: It's a not-for-profit. It's anot-for-profit corporation, and so that defendant is inthe case, and --QUESTION: But as far as a municipal employer isconcerned, a municipal employer, having retaliated, wouldbe, on your reading of the statute, just as free fromresponsibility as it would be for the underlying qui tamaction.MS. LACH: No, under the Eighth Circuit case amunicipality can be held liable under the whistleblowerprovision, even though -- I mean to sound very exact --QUESTION: That's what I was asking you about.MS. LACH: Yes.QUESTION: That's what one court has said. Howdoes that court say that the employee's action was infurtherance of a False Claims Act action if there is no th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC False Claims Act action?MS. LACH: The cases that have addressed thishave noted there -- a local government can be in cahootswith another -- another entity that submits false claims,the -- the local government is aware of it, and thewhistleblower is an employee of the local government.In that case, it is -- in that scenario, thewhistleblower is blowing the whistle on someone else andyet is employed by the local government and, under this --under the Court's reasoning in -- in the Eighth Circuitcase and in the two cases that we cited, Satalich and ErieCounty, an action can still proceed against a localgovernment under (h), even though a local governmentis not necessarily a person subject to suit.To get -- to get back to the points, a lawsuitunder the False Claims Act can be brought if a statementis made in reckless disregard. Mr. Miner suggested thatthe statement has to be clearly false, deliberately false,and under the amendments, the standard has beenreduced to reckless disregard.As for deterrent, by the time some of theseactions are filed, the wrongdoer is not even in office anymore. It is the local taxpayers, the local residents thatbear the brunt of -- of any False Claims Act action andpenalty, not -- not the person that actually perpetrated th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC the wrong.When -- when in Congress expanded thecoverage of the False Claims Act, it did not expand thefraudsters. As this Court noted in Stevens, the FalseClaims Act covers just all kinds of fraud, but it does notcover all kinds of fraudsters, and there's no indication,under our view, that local governments were amongfraudsters that are included under this act.In response to Mr. Stewart, we are not aware ofany dismissals of False Claims Act actions that arebrought against local governments. The -- the Governmenthas not intervened, obviously, in -- in a number of theseFalse Claims Act actions, but we're not aware of anysituation in which the Government has actually dismissed aclaim against a local government. These actions proceedand, even if -- even if the United States wanted todismiss an action, they would have to justify theirdismissal before the court, and the same with asettlement. It has to be approved by the court.In sum, I would like to say that Congress knowswhat language it needs to impose punitive damages. Ifthis Court finds that local governments are included inthe act, Congress did not use the requisite languageto indicate that it meant to impose punitive damages onlocal governments in . th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Ms. Lach. The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : a.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) th Street, N.W. Suite --FOR-DEPO Washington, DC 