 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XVICTOR MOSELEY AND CATHY :MOSELEY, DBA VICTOR'S LITTLE :SECRET, Petitioner ::v. : No. -V. SECRET CATALOGUE INC., ET AL. ::- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Tuesday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:JAMES R. HIGGINS, JR., ESQ., Louisville, Kentucky; onbehalf of the Petitioner.LAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe as United States, as amicus curiae, supportingthe Petitioner.WALTER E. DELLINGER, JR., Washington, D.C., on behalf ofthe Respondents. C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES R. HIGGINS, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFLAWRENCE G. WALLACE, ESQ.PAGEOn behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFWALTER E. DELLINGER, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Respondents REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFJAMES R. HIGGINS, JR., ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, Victor Moseley and Cathy Moseleydoing business as Victor's Little Secret versus V. SecretCatalogue, Inc.Mr. Higgins.ORAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES R. HIGGINS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HIGGINS: Mr. Chief Justice and may itplease the Court, counsel:We are here today to obtain a construction ofthe Federal Trademark Dilution Act, FTDA, that will keepFederal trademark law in its proper bounds. We submitthat can be accomplished by choosing objective proof over supposition and inference to guide future FTDA cases. This case from the Sixth Circuit involves a non-identical,non-confusing trademark operating in the remote reaches ofthe economy that was nevertheless enjoined under the FTDA,and demonstrates the dangers of an unchecked FTDA.QUESTION: You mean Tennessee is remote, or thisparticular business is?(Laughter.)QUESTION: Kentucky.MR. HIGGINS: Your Honor, this case actually came from Kentucky, and --QUESTION: Oh, well, Kentucky --MR. HIGGINS: -- I suppose that's even moreremote than Tennessee in some cases.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Was there a Victoria's Secret in thistown?MR. HIGGINS: There was not at the beginning ofthis case. The closest one was miles away.We say that the result --QUESTION: In Tennessee?(Laughter.)MR. HIGGINS: We say that the result below iscontrary to the actual words that Congress used in theFTDA, namely the plain words, causes dilution. If thisresult stands, the FTDA threatens to usher in ananti-competitive expansion of trademark law into patent-like realm.Perhaps the best example of that is the SecondCircuit's Nabisco decision, urged in part here byrespondents, which involved a goldfish-shaped cracker, andit -- the court there applied the FTDA to grantexclusionary rights in an unpatented, uncopyrighted designof a product to enjoin a product that they said diluted. That is contrary to this Court's two most recent decisions involving Federal trademark law, the Wal-Mart decision andthe TrafFix Devices decision.QUESTION: Before you -- just would you spendone minute -- it would help me a lot if you explained tome what dilution is, and I'll be specific. It seems to mewhat you have here is a case of what's called tarnishment,and what tarnishment -- what I think of is this, is itlike this, that -- that -- imagine some small shop wantsto start a bug spray business. It's a funny example, butit comes from an actual case, and they decide to callthemselves Bugwiser Bug Spray, and their slogan is, Wherethere's life, there's bugs, all right.(Laughter.)QUESTION: Now, Budweiser is not going to enterthe bug spray business. Nobody thinks Budweiser, in fact, is the source of the bug spray, but Budweiser has aninterest because the people who see this ad are going tothink Budweiser, yuck, and they don't want people to thinkthat. Now, is dilution encompassed? Does dilutionencompass that, and my reason for thinking maybe itdoesn't is, the words of the statute refer todistinctiveness of mark. They don't refer to tarnishment. But -- is it -- so I want some explanation of whatdilution here refers to.MR. HIGGINS: There's a lot of people who want explanation of what dilution is, and their tarnishmentaspect of dilution is part of the legislative history. Itis not expressed in the words that Congress used to definedilution. Congress defined dilution as the lessening ofthe capacity of a famous mark to identify and distinguishthe goods or services to which the famous mark --QUESTION: But you believe --QUESTION: Which wouldn't include tarnishment. Which wouldn't include tarnishment. I mean, it can stillidentify Budweiser beer very, very well.MR. HIGGINS: Well, it could identify Budweiserbeer, but the -- the -- our point about this case is thatthere needs to be objective evidence that consumers, infact, identify the accused mark with the famous mark. Inother words, we say that section (c)() of the FTDA in its words causes dilution, imposes a causal connectionbetween the accused mark and the beneficiary.QUESTION: All right, excuse me, before you goback to cause, which is your main point which I want tohear, I do -- I'm assuming now that for purposes of thiscase anyway, you concede that tarnishment is part. If youdon't concede that, or even if you do, will you pleaseexplain as well what this -- what it is, what the injuryis where you're talking about a lessening of capacity toidentify and distinguish, what injury is that, if it is not tarnishment?MR. HIGGINS: Okay. The injury in a dilutioncase is focused, the courts agree, on the selling power ofthe famous mark and the way that the cases go is thateveryone agrees that that selling power is the hook thatthe famous mark --QUESTION: Okay, then please explain, puttingtarnishment to the side -- there is no tarnishment,assume -- how does the fact that you have a tiny, totallyseparate product with the same name ever, ever hurt theselling power of the big famous name?MR. HIGGINS: The question becomes, again, oneof consumer perception. All of that is tied up into thegist of the FTDA. What is being protected is the sellingpower of the famous mark -- which the Fourth Circuit in Ringling Brothers referred to as the economic value of atrademark -- and I would agree with you, Justice Breyer,that if there is no injury there should be --QUESTION: No, I don't understand conceptuallyhow there ever could be an injury. I've got to understandthat first, and the reason is, I can imagine an injurythrough tarnishment. I can imagine an injury where thebig product, Kodak, intends to enter the small area, theKodak -- whatever, monkey wrench -- and it is intending toenter and draw on the selling power of, everyone thinks Kodak is good, so I can think of those two things, butwhere they don't intend to enter, where there's notarnishment, what, in principle, is the harm that you saywe have to show really exists? Unless I know what that isin principle, I can't tell if you're right.MR. HIGGINS: It -- it would show whether or notconsumers would now identify a single mark with twodifferent sources, and -- and that is the essence of whattrademark dilution by the circuit court --QUESTION: All right, and that is harmedbecause?MR. HIGGINS: The theory is -- with which wedon't totally agree -- the theory is that consumers areused to seeing only one Kodak, and now they see two, andthe theory is that that is the -- among a number of metaphors, that is the first of a thousand cuts that willlead to harm.Now, our difficulty with that is that not every,even identical use of the same trademark ultimately leadsto the dilution --QUESTION: Well, do you say that actualconfusion is relevant to the dilution analysis?MR. HIGGINS: Actual confusion is primarily a --a Lanham Act infringement concept.QUESTION: So it's not, in your view, relevant to the dilution?MR. HIGGINS: If there were actual confusion, itmight be relevant, but this case --QUESTION: In this case, the other -- the LanhamAct was thrown out, in effect.MR. HIGGINS: That's the main point of thiscase, is that the Court has ruled as a matter of law thatthese accused marks by our clients are not going to leadto confusion. It is --QUESTION: And you say that actual confusiondoesn't matter, then, for purposes of this statute, thedilution statute, or it could?MR. HIGGINS: I say that it could in somecircumstances. It's not involved in this case at all.QUESTION: All right, now --QUESTION: You -- you -- go ahead.QUESTION: Then what about actual economic harm? Is that a requirement, in your view, under this statute --MR. HIGGINS: We think that --QUESTION: -- for the plaintiff?MR. HIGGINS: We think that the plaintiff in a dilution case needs to show objective proof of dilution,and that necessarily has an economic component with it.QUESTION: Well, but the statute does not, indefining dilution, speak in terms of economic harm, does it?MR. HIGGINS: The statute does not mentioneconomic harm per se, but it does say, the lessening ofthe capacity of the famous mark to identify anddistinguish and, focusing on the selling power of themark, we say the best evidence that would be adduced in acase of dilution is surveys of consumer perceptions of theimpact of --QUESTION: That's the best evidence. That's thebest evidence, but let's go back to what is -- causesdilution? One can distinguish what the Patent andTrademark Office does. That is, it considers marks beforethey're in use, so one might say, oh, the distinctionbetween causes dilution and likely to cause is, likely,you're looking at the thing before it's ever used. Onceit's used, you're into the causes territory. That wouldbe a nice clean line to say that all that it means, allthat the difference in phraseology, causes dilution asopposed to likely to cause, is, did it have -- a causationcase, you have to have a junior mark that's in use, so whyisn't that a satisfactory line between what's -- whatcauses dilution as opposed to what is likely to causedilution?MR. HIGGINS: We think that is not a completelysatisfactory distinction because of the language of the statute that authorizes the Patent and Trademark Office tolook at a mark before it begins.QUESTION: Yes, well, that's likely to. Theycan't judge it, because it's not -- it's not in use.MR. HIGGINS: And the statute actually saysthat. Section --QUESTION: But I'm asking you, getting out ofthat territory, it can look at things before they're inuse, and now that -- now the junior mark is in use, whyisn't that enough to satisfy the dilution act?MR. HIGGINS: Well, we would agree that themark, the junior mark has to be in use, but we would notagree that just by merely using a mark that issemantically similar to the famous mark, that dilutionwill inevitably result, which is the position of the respondents here.QUESTION: But the one thing I think you'reasking for beyond Justice Ginsburg's example is, to takethe Kodak wrench and the Kodak camera, you're asking forsome proof that somebody heard the word Kodak and said,was it the camera or the wrench? -- and if that proofexists you've got your objective proof, and why do youhave to go to the point of saying that -- proving thatKodak lost a sale as a result?MR. HIGGINS: We don't suggest that we have to prove that Kodak lost sales.QUESTION: But you're -- you're asking for proofof some kind of --QUESTION: That's the point of this, forheaven's sake.QUESTION: -- of economic consequence, and --MR. HIGGINS: We think --QUESTION: -- I -- that's the point that I don'tsee. If I understand it, the dilution occurs when -- orthat dilution is the process of lessening the capacity ofKodak to identify the camera rather than to identify thewrench. If -- if it is shown that that process hasbegun -- that it is occurring -- why do you -- what is thepoint of your argument that it has got to be carriedforward to the point of an economic loss of some sort? MR. HIGGINS: Well, first of all we believe thatconsumer surveys do have evidence of economic impact, andwe don't say that economic damage is required. That takesour position too far. The actual question that iscertified is whether the plaintiff must show objectiveevidence of harm to the economic value of the famous mark,not that it must show economic harm per se.I realize that's subtle distinction --QUESTION: Well, isn't there -- under the termsof the statute, isn't that shown simply by the fact that the consumer stops for a second and says, is it thecamera, or is it the wrench when the consumer hears theword, Kodak?MR. HIGGINS: I don't --QUESTION: What further proof of loss of -- whatfurther economic proof is required to come within thestatute?MR. HIGGINS: That is not a complete economicproof. What we say is that not every, even identical useleads to dilution in the minds of consumers. Think of --as we put in our brief -- Delta Airlines, Delta Faucets. Think of Apple Records, Apple Computers.QUESTION: Maybe because those are names thatare generic, like apple.MR. HIGGINS: Well then, how about Ford Motor Company and Ford Modeling Agency? You know, that's thesame result.QUESTION: How about Kodak Pianos?MR. HIGGINS: Kodak Pianos is in the legislativehistory as --QUESTION: Or Dupont Shoes, or Buick Aspirin?MR. HIGGINS: All of those are identical marks,and we say that this case presents a non-identical mark. There are semantic differences and there are genderdifferences. QUESTION: Well, there is evidence -- or, atleast, how did this all get started? Someone seesVictor's Secret and writes to Victoria's Secret and says,you want to stop these people, so we know that oneconsumer, although he wasn't confused, said, they'rediluting your mark. Now, suppose you had of those whosaid, yeah, I passed this shop, Victor's Secret, and Ithought immediately of Victoria's Secret. Would thatproof be sufficient and if not, why not?MR. HIGGINS: We say it is not sufficient,because the -- but that is essentially the analysis thatthe Sixth Circuit put in there. The Sixth Circuit said atpage a of the petition, the appendix to the petition,that they are focusing on what a consumer is, quote,"likely automatically to think," unquote, and then link that to the famous mark.QUESTION: And what's your answer? What'syour --MR. HIGGINS: What our position is, that thatrequires a court to guess whether the association that theconsumer thinks of is -- QUESTION: What do you want? What do you wantin place of that?MR. HIGGINS: What we would like --QUESTION: What do you want the plaintiff to show?MR. HIGGINS: We want the plaintiff to show thatthere is objective proof of consumer perceptions that itcauses dilution, exactly what the statute says.QUESTION: I don't know -- what does that mean,of consumer perceptions that causes dilution? Objectiveproof that a particular consumer, when he saw Victoria'sLittle Secret -- or Victor's Little Secret -- had in mind,gee, you know, that's like Victoria's Secret. Is thatenough?MR. HIGGINS: No, that's not enough. That's --QUESTION: What is enough? What is enough? What does dilution consist of?MR. HIGGINS: Dilution consists of aconsumer's -- the -- general consumers, not a single consumer, but general consumer perception that there usedto be one Victoria's Secret and now, in their minds, thereare at least two.QUESTION: Well, how many consumers do you need? You say one isn't enough , and you say general consumerperception. I mean, if you had people would that beenough?MR. HIGGINS: Well, the -- the record and thebriefs reveal some articles by trademark scholars whodiscussed -- QUESTION: Yes, but I was asking you aparticular question. Would be enough?MR. HIGGINS: I don't think so, Your Honor. Youknow, this -- we live in an age when consumer surveys,voter surveys, public opinion surveys are done over aweekend, and in this situation that is the kind of surveythat we would suggest.QUESTION: And what do you ask these consumers? How many Kodaks are there? Is that what you want to askthem?MR. HIGGINS: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: What?MR. HIGGINS: You ask them the scientificallydesigned question.QUESTION: Which is?MR. HIGGINS: Which is, you know, do you thinkof another famous mark, and do you believe -- as the lawreview article suggests -- do you believe such things aswhether or not the new entrant had to get permission fromthe famous mark in order to market this product.QUESTION: Well, that -- most consumers wouldn'teven understand that question.(Laughter.)MR. HIGGINS: And that's -- that's part of ourpoint, Your Honor. If -- QUESTION: This sounds like a lawyer's dream.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But it seems to me that the owner ofthe senior mark is entitled to more protection than that. I -- I just want to make clear, you do not contest thattarnishment is a -- a basis for the respondent to prevailin this case?MR. HIGGINS: We do not.QUESTION: All right.MR. HIGGINS: As -- per se. What we say is thatthere is --QUESTION: I -- I don't know why you needsophisticated, so-called sophisticated polls to determinewhether there's tarnishment.MR. HIGGINS: Because, remember, this case is a statute that is wholly different than the common law. Ithas no common law antecedent. It is granting propertyrights through Congress' action under the alleged use ofthe Commerce Clause, and we say those property rights thatare being granted by this statute create rights that gowell beyond any trade area --QUESTION: It's not just beyond, I would havethought that -- you don't make a point of it, so I mightbe wrong -- there's a pretty significant speechinterest on -- on your side of the case. That is, if this statute gets out of hand, advertising is part of --whether we like it or not -- our children's, anyway, dailycommunications, and all of a sudden, if there's no realharm you're going to cut off what people can say incommercial contexts.Now, you don't make much a point of that, sodon't let me put words in your mouth. Explain it to me.(Laughter.)MR. HIGGINS: We did mention that in our briefs,but the primary people who are positing that position hereare the amici, who represent the public interest, and themain point about this FTDA is that, other than bumping upagainst the First Amendment, there really isn't a publicinterest that is being expressed or applied here.QUESTION: Well, why -- why isn't there a public interest in not having some organization like yours simplycopy another person's name?MR. HIGGINS: Well, we -- if there is thatsituation, then that would be a case of trademarkinfringement or copyright infringement. This case doesnot involve -- this case does not involve --QUESTION: No, Congress has gone further hereand said you can't simply copy someone else's name. Now,you say there's no -- maybe Congress shouldn't have doneit, maybe it hasn't done it, but to say there's no public interest at all on that side doesn't make much sense tome. I mean, you -- you don't come -- your client doesn'tcome off well in this case.MR. HIGGINS: Well, there is a public interest,but that is addressed primarily on the free speech aspectof things. We would agree with that. The problem withthis case is that it requires courts to speculate whetherthe beginning of a semantically similar mark is going toinevitably lead to dilution, and that's contrary to thewords that Congress used.QUESTION: You started off saying dilution,you -- to show dilution, you had to show economic harm. That I can understand. You produce evidence that -- ofsome economic harm. That is now not your position. Idon't understand what your position is. If it is not a showing of economic harm, you know, the -- the mark isworth so much less than it was, what precisely do you wantto show? I truly don't understand.MR. HIGGINS: We do say there is an economiccomponent, through the proof that we suggest be requiredunder the causal relationship that is necessary, andthe -- we don't abandon the economic --QUESTION: Okay, fine, what else do you demand? What is it that you do demand. This --MR. HIGGINS: We -- QUESTION: I don't understand what it is thatyou do demand. What?MR. HIGGINS: We do demand that the plaintiffsshow that our mark is harming theirs in a dilution way,that it does lessen the capacity of that mark to identifyand distinguish its goods or services, and that's bestdone by consumer surveys.Your Honor, if I may reserve the balance of mytime.QUESTION: Very well. Very well, Mr. Higgins.Mr. Wallace, we'll hear from you.Mr. Wallace, our records reflect that this isyour th argument before the Court in the years youhave been an attorney in the Office of the SolicitorGeneral. Some years ago, you eclipsed the th Century record of arguments. I understand that you will soonretire from Government service, so on behalf of the CourtI extend to you our appreciation for your many years ofquality advocacy and dedicated service in the Solicitor'sOffice -- Solicitor General's Office -- on behalf of theUnited States. That doesn't mean we're going to rule inyour favor.(Laughter.)ORAL ARGUMENT OF LAWRENCE G. WALLACEON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE, SUPPORTING THE PETITIONERMR. WALLACE: Thank you very much, Mr. ChiefJustice, and may it please the Court:What constitutes dilution, other than theabstraction of the statutory definition perhaps isreflected a bit in the examples we've given of consumersurveys that might be used to produce evidence in a caseof this nature. If consumers were asked what products doyou associate with the name Victoria's Secret, and thosewho were aware of Victor's Little Secret answered itsubstantially differently and included items found only inthat store and not in Victoria's Secret stores, or whatattributes do you associate with Victoria's Secret, andthose aware of Victor's Secret were more apt to saytasteless rather than tasteful, which would -- might be the response from those familiar with Victoria's Secret.QUESTION: What if the answer was simply, I'mnot sure any more? Would that show that dilution hadoccurred?MR. WALLACE: It -- it might. All of these -- Imean, we don't take the position that a consumer survey isnecessary in order to prove a case in the first place, butI think the way a survey would be designed and what theanswers would show is illustrative of what constitutesdilution. QUESTION: But you -- you would get that answerfrom a consumer if you asked them about the word, Delta,what products do you associate with the word, Delta, andthe consumer would say, airplanes, or air -- you know, airtravel and faucets, and there wouldn't be any dilutionthere, would there?MR. WALLACE: Not unless their -- a conclusioncould be drawn based on other factors that --QUESTION: Right.MR. WALLACE: -- a mark had established acertain distinctiveness that is associated only with theparticular mark, and now that is being blurred.QUESTION: Well, I believe -- are you sayingthat the Delta example is only good now, and that when theperson who made Delta Faucets first came out with a faucet that he called Delta, or Delta Airline -- I don't know whocame first -- the chicken or the egg, the airline or thefaucet. Whoever had the name first, are you saying thatwhen somebody used the name Delta that the senior user ofDelta could have excluded the faucet-maker from -- fromDelta?MR. WALLACE: Only under the Federal dilutionstatute of ' if the mark is a famous mark, and in theToro case that we cite, the --QUESTION: So I can't even have Delta Peanuts? Once Delta is famous, just for air travel, I can't useDelta for anything else? That would automatically violatethe Federal statute?MR. WALLACE: Well, not automatically, but if --QUESTION: All you have to do is find a consumerwho knows of Delta Peanuts and says, you know, what do youassociate the name Delta with, and he says, airlines andpeanuts?MR. WALLACE: Well, that would involve an exactreplication of the mark, which are the only examples givenin the House report or in the legislative history, such asKodak Pianos. Most of the cases, however, are aboutsimilar marks rather than exact replications, and thoseare much more problematical to ascertain whether there isthe kind of effect we're -- the act is concerned with. QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, at least in some of thecircuits, I'm not sure in the cases of this Court, correctme if I'm wrong, I thought that in trademark infringementcases, that the circuit court said that they have certainde novo authority. Historical facts are clearlyerroneous, but the conclusions that you draw from thehistorical facts give them certain powers of de novoreview. That's the prevailing rule in many of thecircuits, is it not --MR. WALLACE: Yes. QUESTION: -- in infringement cases, andshouldn't that same rule be applied here? I mean, judgeshave the capacity in the trademark area, I should think,to know what dilution is or is not if we have certainhistorical facts. I don't know why you need to survey. The Bugwiser-Budweiser example. I mean, you don't have tobe too tricky a judge to figure out that this is veryharmful.MR. WALLACE: It is very difficult. We don'tsay that a survey is needed. There are other factors thatare looked to, including --QUESTION: Mr. Wallace, may I ask you somethingto clarify the Government's position on this? As I'vebeen listening to the argument, Mr. Higgins says you lookto see, he said, if before you thought there was one Victoria's Secret, now you thought there were two. He'ssuggesting that the association -- it's not what you thinkof when you see Victor's Secret. When you see Victor'sSecret, of course you're going to think of Victoria's, butwhat counts is, when you think of Victoria's Secret, doyou think of Victor's. That's -- that's what dilution is,and if it's the latter, then it's -- those are two verydifferent things, aren't they?MR. WALLACE: Yes. Dilution is about dilutionof the famous mark and its capacity to distinguish the particular goods or services, but we think the court ofappeals was wrong in saying that mere mental associationof the two marks by consumers automatically results indilution.QUESTION: But the court of appeals was goingon, when you think of Victor's you think of Victoria's. I'm asking you, is the right question -- is the necessaryquestion of the customers -- when you think of Victoria's,do you think of Victor?MR. WALLACE: I think the -- the question is notdo you think of Victor's, but when you think ofVictoria's, do you think of more than what Victoria'sSecret --QUESTION: Right.MR. WALLACE: -- itself has as its merchandise and image. Is their name now associated with a differenttype of product that may change their renown or cachetwith customers.QUESTION: Is there -- what is the extra -- I'mnot -- if you're finished with that question, I'd liketo -- which I think there's a lot to. Is -- what isparticularly the harm? Is it just that the customerthinks -- either customer -- thinks of the other even ifthere's no specific tarnishment, and there's no generaltarnishment? That is, people associate Buick with a good car, and we can measure whether that's identical beforeand identical after, and it is, so there's no generaltarnishment, there's no bug example tarnishment, there'snothing but the fact that on Justice Ginsburg's question,both sides say yes.Now, is that harm under this statute? Is thatdilution, or isn't it?MR. WALLACE: We don't believe that in itselfconstitutes dilution if there is none of the damage to theability of the mark. The --QUESTION: All right, so -- so the ability ofthe mark consists either of my bug example, or somegeneral weakening of the goodness that inheres in thename. Anything else?MR. WALLACE: Well, yes -- no, I think --QUESTION: No, okay --MR. WALLACE: I think the Fourth --QUESTION: The answer's no.MR. WALLACE: The Fourth Circuit case ofRingling Brothers was very illustrative. People mightassociate Utah's use of Greatest Snow on Earth withRingling Brothers' use of Greatest Show on Earth, but ifthey keep the two distinct in their minds, even thoughthey recognize that it's a play on the same words, butthey think the two trademarks refer to different products and services, then there -- no harm is done to RinglingBrothers as the Fourth Circuit held, and the FourthCircuit even suggested that perhaps they even benefit fromhaving people think additionally of their mark. That's aquestion on which the Patent and Trademark Office has nottaken a view, but the harm has to be that consumers are --are diminished in their capacity to recognize the markthat is the famous mark that's being protected.QUESTION: That's -- but that's confusion. Imean, if -- if there's confusion, you don't need this newlaw. I thought that it was the case that if you come outwith a Kodak Piano, even if nobody in the world thinksthat Kodak, the photography company has anything to dowith Kodak Piano, the mark has nonetheless beendiminished. Isn't that right?MR. WALLACE: That's true, at least when it's anidentical mark, or one that's so confusingly similar --QUESTION: But that goes to the very pointyou've just been talking about, and contradicts whatyou've said. It doesn't matter whether there's anyconfusion or not, you can't use Kodak.MR. WALLACE: There -- there has to be confusionas to the mark, rather than as to the source of theproduct.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Wallace. We'll hear argument from you now, Mr. Dellinger.ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER E. DELLINGER, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTSMR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:The question on which the Court grantedcertiorari was whether the plaintiff must demonstrate thatit has already suffered economic injury as a preconditionto any and all relief under the act. The text of theact answers that question, and answers it no. There'ssimply no such requirement included in the statute.QUESTION: Well, it -- I mean, that's to someextent a play on words. It depends on what you mean, hasactually suffered economic injury. What your opposingcounsel says now is that all he means by, has actually suffered economic injury, is, has suffered dilution, hasactually suffered dilution of the mark, which, of course,entails economic injury. If the mark is diluted, the markwas worth a lot, and it's now diluted, there's economicinjury. Now --MR. DELLINGER: Justice Scalia, we agree thatthe act requires a showing of actual, present dilution,and that such a showing was, in fact, made below. What isdilution? A number of you have asked that question. It'sbest understood in light of the fact that this is a very narrow statute that only protects a few very famous marks. I do not think, for example, Justice Scalia, that Deltawould qualify as a famous mark because it has been used sooften in other third party uses. The --QUESTION: But what about the first time it wasused either for -- what is it, the airline, and what's --faucets? Whichever came first. What about the first timeit was used for the second product?MR. DELLINGER: Then it would not suffer thedisqualification that would come as to what is present --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DELLINGER: -- about proliferating uses. Whether it would otherwise satisfy that would remain to beseen. I think that the Court can, and the courts cannarrow the application of this statute by taking very seriously the requirement that it has to be a truly famousmark that has.Take the example that was given to the House --QUESTION: Well, let's -- and keep it so I canunderstand it. Let's assume the first use was DeltaAirlines. Everybody recognizes Delta Airlines. Somebodystarts advertising Delta Faucets. Was Delta Airlinesfamous enough --MR. DELLINGER: I don't know --QUESTION: -- on your criterion? MR. DELLINGER: -- on those facts. I'd have toknow whether, if -- as it is today, yes, I would think ifit --QUESTION: All right. Let's assume it's famousenough. The ads start going out in the magazines forDelta Faucets. There is no proof that Delta Airlines hassuffered any tangible damage at this point, but there isproof, let's assume from a survey of magazine readers,that when they see the word, Delta, standing by itself,they're not sure who the source of the product is. Isthat dilution?MR. DELLINGER: If they're not sure who's thesource of the product, it may be infringement, and thereason I resist the use of Delta is that a lot goes into adetermination of whether -- as it did in this case -- as to whether a mark has those special qualities that meanthat the second or junior user and the third, fourth, andfifth are lessening its capacity to communicate these verydistinctive ideas.The example used in the House report wasTiffany's, for example. We all know that if anotherjewelry store starts as Tiffany's you've got aninfringement claim, because consumers would be confused,but as the House was told, what about a Tiffany'sRestaurant, and that means that Tiffany's used to stand for one thing, it now stands for two, but here's theabsolute heart of the matter, where the FDA comes intoplay.QUESTION: That was bad? I mean, you see, I amso far behind understanding you that I don't know whetheryou have just asserted that that's obviously bad. I thinkyou have. Tiffany's Restaurant is bad.MR. DELLINGER: Yes.QUESTION: Okay.MR. DELLINGER: I have, and --(Laughter.)QUESTION: And the difference between Tiffany'sRestaurants and Delta Faucets is what?MR. DELLINGER: There may be no difference. I'massuming that both -- if you assume that both Delta and Tiffany's are famous marks.QUESTION: Okay.MR. DELLINGER: But here's why Delta Faucets andTiffany's -- if the original marks are famous -- bothconstitute the harm of dilution. Dilution --QUESTION: You mean, just using the name?MR. DELLINGER: Just using the name --QUESTION: Is likelihood of dilution enough?MR. DELLINGER: No, not under the act, and --and nor is just using the name enough, nor is just semantic similarity. You have to make out the statutoryproof that it actually --QUESTION: That it causes dilution foreverybody --MR. DELLINGER: It causes dilution, anddilution --QUESTION: Is expressed --MR. DELLINGER: It's creating a mentalassociation. Similarity is not enough. But take anexample that shows how critically important stopping thefirst use is. If you can have a Tiffany's Restaurant,then you can also have a Tiffany Shoe Store, a Tiffany PetStore. Very soon Tiffany's no longer --QUESTION: Where will it all end?MR. DELLINGER: Where will it all end? (Laughter.)MR. DELLINGER: That is exactly --QUESTION: Well, so what? So what? I mean, Idon't say so what facetiously. I say so what to get youto identify the harm specifically that that's likely tobring about to the first owner.MR. DELLINGER: Exactly. The -- what Congresssaw as the harm, Justice Breyer, for truly famous marks,to quote from the House report itself, is that dilutionapplies when the unauthorized use of the famous mark reduces the public's perception that the mark signifiessomething unique, singular, or particular, so thatRolls-Royce, which once stood for one thing, once it's on products or , products no longer identifies anddistinguishes --QUESTION: No longer identifies one thing. Itnow identifies a thousand things, and that, of course, istrue by definition, and what I'm trying to get at is, whyis that bad?MR. DELLINGER: Congress determined that thatwas bad because --QUESTION: Just automatically? Oh, no, goahead. Why?MR. DELLINGER: Congress determined that thatwas bad to the extent that the mark no longer stood for something singular or particular, no longer conveyed --QUESTION: Then again, that's just another wayof repeating the same thing, and the reason that I thinkit's important is, perhaps we can survive with only havingone Tiffany's, but let's think of some slogans out of myyouth, you know. It floats. and /th percentpure. The beforehand lotion, whatever that meant. I'mjust repeating slogans from old radio programs, and thereason that I'm doing it is because I want you to seeimmediately, as soon as you depart from a word like Tiffany's, which is totally arbitrary or fanciful, and youget into actual advertising slogans, you will tie up freespeech in lawsuits like mad, and that's what's worryingme.MR. DELLINGER: No, I do not -- it is not at allthe case. Congress made it clear that safe harbors wereto extend a wide --QUESTION: Yes, the safe harbor is fair use.MR. DELLINGER: And it --QUESTION: Fair use, and that's what's againworrying me, because those two words, fair use to me spelllawyers, lawsuits, uncertainty and confusion.MR. DELLINGER: If you lose distinctiveness,what you lose is the selling power of the mark. Rolls-Royce stands for something important. It conveyssomething that consumers -- it signals to consumers. Rolls-Royce is very careful about what products itallows to --QUESTION: Chevrolet doesn't matter. You canuse Chevrolet, because that's --(Laughter.)QUESTION: Is that right? Or Edsel, eveneasier -- yes.(Laughter.)MR. DELLINGER: Justice Scalia, it is -- when you look at whether a mark is famous -- and in this case,it's simply not contested. This is a mark that comes inbehind Levi's and ahead of Rolex on the -- on the list,but when you contest that, you do look at a number offactors, so you can't stand here and pick out any one, andthat's a -- that's an important gatekeeping function tonarrow this statute.Now --QUESTION: When you say it signifies somethingdistinctive, you don't mean that Buick signifies cars, youdon't mean that Tiffany's signifies jewelry, you don'tmean that Rolls-Royce signifies sedans, right?MR. DELLINGER: Not just that, but a certainmark and quality and kind of product is exemplified, andthat's what makes a mark famous. It gives it this. Now, if -- we know that these marks have value. When -- when companies are acquired, often as much asfour-fifths of the value may go to use that name. That issomething quite valuable, Justice Breyer, and its value isgoing to be lost --QUESTION: Fine. Why not --MR. DELLINGER: -- if there are a thousanddifferent ones.QUESTION: Why not require some proof of that? That is, some proof that this mark -- which not only identifies a wonderful car, but now has come to stand forwonderfulness in general -- some proof that becausesomebody's using it on a tricycle, that people think it'sa little less wonderful.Now, that's not -- that's hard to prove one wayor the other, but not -- I mean, requires some reason forthinking that.QUESTION: So Pepsodent would lose, or, youknow, just some -- some product --MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Yes.QUESTION: That's just a -- you know, it's anordinary product. How can you have an absolutelywonderful toothpaste?QUESTION: Oh, no, you can. You can.QUESTION: There's no Tiffany of toothpastes, right?(Laughter.)MR. DELLINGER: There is no --QUESTION: So we're only talking aboutTiffany's, Rolls-Royce, a couple of other really, reallyquality names. Is that what the statute was directed at?MR. DELLINGER: I believe that is the case,Justice Scalia, that --QUESTION: But you don't differentiate betweenCadillac and Chevrolet, do you? Chevrolet would have just much cachet --MR. DELLINGER: No, I think they would be onsimilar footing, and Chevrolet has its own kind of appeal. It appeals to -- for those of us who live in NASCARcountry, there is sometimes a more appealing image toChevrolet than to Cadillac. I don't mean to make valuejudgments.QUESTION: Well, Mr. Dellinger, why isn't ituseful to think in terms of whether there's proof of somediminution of value of the mark?MR. DELLINGER: That is a very good question,and that is Justice Breyer's question for --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DELLINGER: We believe that obviously themark does suffer in value if you make out the finding of dilution. The Fourth Circuit would require you showactual --QUESTION: Well, you -- you wouldn't think weshould just presume a diminution in value, would you,because the mark is similar?MR. DELLINGER: No, but what you -- what youpresume is that the economic injury that you're talking ofmay not be identifiable -- often would not beidentifiable -- until it's too late to rectify the harmthat has been done. If you think of -- we usually use as examples where there is one other competing user.What faces the sort of in-house intellectualproperty counsel for a company with a famous mark is thatthere are users popping up all over the country all of thetime, so that if the first user, say Victor's LittleSecret, exists in Elizabethtown, Kentucky, and if youcan't show that that alone produces the kind of harmyou're looking -- or that your question would imply onemight be looking for -- how can you stop the second, thethird, the th use?At what point -- there's no privilege for thefirst user, so that by the -- here's what would happen. By the time you could show economic damage to the harm,first of all as a matter of law you might have lost thestatus as a famous mark because there are all those users out there.Secondly, the -- it is not clear why you wouldprohibit the th user of the mark, the th differentkind of store when you allowed the first to go on, sothat -- you ask the question of whether, at present, thisuse lessens the capacity of that mark to identify anddistinguish.QUESTION: Focusing on the present, suppose I'ma trial judge, and this case comes to me in the pretrialconference stage, and I say, you know, it does seem to me that this second -- this junior user is going to tarnishthe image of -- of the senior user. Is that all I need tosay, and then I -- what do I put down when I write anopinion so that the circuit court can review my thinking? I mean, what -- what do I put down?MR. DELLINGER: Well, I think this case is avery good example, because you have a court which goesthrough a list of factors to reach a conclusion. Theopinion is rather short, but that's because the conclusionin this case is so close to being a core example of thestatute. They -- they mention the fact that it's a verydistinctive mark, the degree of similarity, the proximityof the product lines helping to create that association,the shared customers -- , catalogues distributed inElizabethtown. The suggestion is there are some --QUESTION: , in Elizabethtown?MR. DELLINGER: Yes. There are ,Victoria's Secret catalogues distributed in Elizabethtown,Kentucky in .QUESTION: What's the population ofElizabethtown?(Laughter.)MR. DELLINGER: That is a good question, butI -- four, he says, but I think that's his guess. Wedon't know. I -- (Laughter.)MR. DELLINGER: I -- I -- think it issubstantial. Now, once you have these other uses outthere, particularly if it's a --QUESTION: So what do I -- would this beappropriate for a summary -- would you urge me to takethis on summary judgment? I --MR. DELLINGER: Absolutely, just as I think youcould, Justice Kennedy --QUESTION: All I need to know is the number ofcatalogues, how well-known the mark is, and that's it?MR. DELLINGER: What you have to --QUESTION: And then my own judgment as to whattarnishment is?MR. DELLINGER: No, because here you have --here you have an actual association. What you have inthis case, for example, that the judge relies upon, is nota survey. It's proved by actual consumers.QUESTION: Well, but suppose right here, to takethis case, that the people who go to Victor's who haveever heard of it honestly do not believe the less in anyrespect whatsoever of Victoria's Little Secret, and thepeople who use Victoria's Little -- I mean, why shouldthey? -- and the people who use -- go to Victoria's LittleSecret have never heard of Victor's, so you -- why -- why suppose they come in and show that?QUESTION: You're confusing the marks.QUESTION: Now, why -- I understand you'reconfusing the marks. No, you're not confusing the marks. No. I'm -- he's saying I'm confusing the marks.(Laughter.)QUESTION: But I -- did I have it backwards?QUESTION: Yes, you did. QUESTION: Not Little -- all right. The peoplewho go -- no, the customers of Victor's do associateVictor's with Victoria, but they think nonetheless ofVictoria. They might even think more of Victoria. Idon't know what they think, but it's not negative in anyrespect, and the people who go to Victoria's, to useJustice Ginsburg's example, don't care, or don't know, or they've never heard of Victor's, so although there is --in a subset of people -- an association of the name, thereis no harm of any sort whatsoever, and they will provethat. Should they not have the opportunity to prove it?MR. DELLINGER: Justice Breyer, Congress simplydid not agree that no harm has been done when the famousmark loses its singularity, and remember, if there can beone store under Victoria's -- under Victor's Little Secretin Elizabethtown, Kentucky, there can be a thousandopening the Monday after Superbowl Sunday. QUESTION: So then in your view, anyone whostarts going around for a commercial reason and using thetwo words, it floats -- it floats -- where they wantpeople to think of Ivory Soap, they are open to a lawsuit,and they have to rely on a fair use defense, or are thereother defenses?MR. DELLINGER: The --QUESTION: Is my example wrong?MR. DELLINGER: Well, it's -- your example isthat there is a -- you're suggesting a mere mentalassociation. I'm not sure your --QUESTION: Well, in a commercial context -- in acommercial context where people are polled --MR. DELLINGER: Secondly, I am not -- by nomeans -- it would take a lot to persuade me that it floats is a truly famous mark deserving of this protection, butCongress believed that the harm is that if you have amark, and Congress identified marks like Buick Aspirin,but if you -- the very harm Congress sought to prevent is,when a mark stands for one thing -- this narrow set oftruly famous marks -- and you have replicating uses, it isno longer going to stand for anything in your mind, andCongress believed, and the market reflects, that that is atrue loss.Now, if you wait to try to -- to where you could show, as the Fourth Circuit would require, an actualrevenue loss, you can't unring the bell, particularly withtarnishment. If someone opened up --QUESTION: Mr. Dellinger, can I just clarify,then, it doesn't make any difference that this particularshop happens to sell sex toys. It could just as well --Victor's Secret could sell men's underwear and yourargument would still be the same, am I right? So we getout the tawdriness or the disparagement or thetarnishment. It's just -- it's a store, it sellsunderwear, men's underwear, and it's got the label,Victor's Secret.MR. DELLINGER: Justice Ginsburg, I don'tentirely agree with that. We do believe that the dilutionof the Victoria's Secret name through blurring would be sufficient, but in this case, you don't have to rely uponthat, because the court below did find that there wastarnishment when a name not only ceases to stand for onething, but is associated --QUESTION: But how does tarnishment fit thelanguage of the statute? That's what --QUESTION: Yes, I'd like to know that, too. Idon't see how tarnishment -- you know --QUESTION: Does that lessen the capacity of themark to identify -- MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it does, and the --QUESTION: I thought it just changed thereaction to the mark, rather than lessening -- I mean, youknow, you have an unfavorable reaction, rather than notknowing what you're talking about.MR. DELLINGER: Let me just quote you from thetreatise, one sentence from the McCarthy treatise. One ofthe classic functions of a trademark is to signify thatall goods and services sold under the mark are of equalquality, or of a special quality. That is part ofidentifying and distinguishing a mark. It -- the capacityis lessened. It lessens the capacity to identify anddistinguish a particular mark when that mark is tarnishedby what the trial court found some customers would find tobe an unsavory association.QUESTION: I don't understand -- you can say it,but I don't understand it. I can still identify anddistinguish Victoria's Secret, but I just think less ofit.MR. DELLINGER: Well, --QUESTION: It -- it doesn't -- any -- it isn'tany less identifiable.MR. DELLINGER: Justice Scalia, I think you'remisstating the statute.QUESTION: Okay. MR. DELLINGER: It's not whether you canidentify and distinguish. It's whether the mark's --QUESTION: Yes.MR. DELLINGER: -- capacity to identify anddistinguish is lessened, and if it no longer stands inone's mind --QUESTION: I'll take that.MR. DELLINGER: If it no longer stands in one'smind, or in the mind and the public perception for thesame connotation of quality as it did before theassociation with the unsavory image, its capacity toidentify and distinguish that quality has lessened, butmoreover --QUESTION: But you have to add the word qualityto the statute.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: The statute doesn't contain thatword.MR. DELLINGER: The statute uses dilution,Justice Stevens, as a term of art, and nothing could beclearer than that Congress thought that term of art,dilution, encompassed both blurring and tarnishment, as Ithink --QUESTION: Well --MR. DELLINGER: I may not persuade Justice Scalia --QUESTION: Nothing could be clearer than thatCongress adopted a definition of what -- of what dilutionconsists of and, to my mind, that definition does not atall cover disparaging the other product.MR. DELLINGER: Well, it -- Congress thoughtotherwise. The House report says that the definition --QUESTION: The House committee thoughtotherwise.MR. DELLINGER: Yes.QUESTION: What Congress thought was thedefinition that Congress adopted.MR. DELLINGER: And the definition of lesseningthe capacity encompasses that, but in any event, sinceblurring is still present, this is thought to be an easy case by the courts below, for -- for good reason. If youimagine hundreds of different users of the Victor's LittleSecret mark, the uniqueness, the quality, the public'sperception is going to be lessened.Congress further -- to go back to a questionasked by Justice Breyer -- made it absolutely clear thatit wanted the safe harbors read as broadly as possible toensure that there was no restriction on First Amendmentrights, so the courts are warmly invited to create aslarge a safe harbor for parody. This is a case in which we have blurring, we have tarnishment, which is a nearsubset of blurring, but the courts below looked at thedirect customer testimony.Colonel Baker, the Judge Advocate -- Staff JudgeAdvocate at Fort Knox -- looks at a Victor's Little Secretad in the base newspaper and writes off to Victoria'sSecret and says, they're using your name in an unfavorableway. His -- his deposition testimony remarks --QUESTION: Well, he was concerned about thetarnishment aspect, and I still have to -- I would likeyou to comment on the -- on Justice Ginsburg's example,too, would it diminish the capacity of the Victoria'sSecret mark to identify its line of goods if some --somebody thought they also sold men's pajamas?MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Someone else, I think you well -- you begin to have the elements of the proof ofdilution when you show that someone is using the same --or a name which reaches mental association because of anumber of factors. You have the elements of dilution. You might not yet have, as you have proof in this case, ofa really lessened capacity to identify and distinguish.Now, another -- the -- nobody sought tointroduce a survey in this case. I would trust Federaljudges more than sociology graduate students to make thiskind of determination, and nobody sought to bring before this Court a fact-bound determination of whether all ofthe judges below were correct when they found that therewas a strong association, and beyond that, that the use ofthe Victor's Little Secret mark to sell the kinds of goodsit sells, which some customers find unsavory, and whichMr. Moseley himself testified some members of the publicfind -- at least -- extremely offensive, that that has theeffect of lessening the capacity of a Victoria's Secretmark to identify and distinguish those famous goods and --and products, and that's --QUESTION: But the blurring, then, that you'redescribing now has no quality component to it? That onlycomes when you get to the subset?MR. DELLINGER: That is correct.QUESTION: Okay.MR. DELLINGER: It -- it only affects the factthat it doesn't -- no longer singularly stands foranything, that if Rolls-Royce were on differentproducts, it would no longer -- it would no longer meananything, and would no longer -- they might as well calltheir car a Yugo if it's used on products hither and yon.Tarnishment is a particular good example of whythe lessening itself needs to be remedied, because onceyou've tarnished a product, it's hard to unring that bellin the public's mind, if someone had a national program. QUESTION: Of course, if you're dealing withRolls-Royce, I suppose virtually any blurring is alsogoing to be tarnishment, which you don't necessarily haveeven in other famous marks.MR. DELLINGER: Tarnishment has generally beenrestricted so far in the case law to more unsavoryassociations, sex, drugs, and matters of that kind. Thisis an act which is more limited than its critics suggest. They -- of course, whether it was a bad policy was amatter that should have been addressed to Congress, but itcan be limited to a few very famous marks.A safe harbor is read broadly. People can usethe term, Victoria's Secret, for any purpose they want inparody and commentary, on the steps of the courthouse. They just can't make this one use of it, that is a commercial use in commerce that lessens the capacity ofthat mark to carry out its function that Congress soclearly had in mind when it passed the Federal TrademarkDilution Act.That's why I think the courts below saw this,like Buick Aspirin and Kodak Shoes, as a core paradigmexample of precisely what the statute was designed toprohibit, and why none of the --QUESTION: So, Mr. Dellinger --MR. DELLINGER: None of the most interesting questions arise.QUESTION: -- is proof, then, submission? Ifyou've got a very famous, distinctive mark, and you've gota -- a very similar use. You have those two things, andthen you get a few colonels to say yes, when they think ofthe junior mark they think of the senior, is that enoughproof?MR. DELLINGER: It is in this case, JusticeGinsburg, where the sufficiency of that I think was reallynot challenged.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Dellinger.Mr. Higgins, you have minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF JAMES R. HIGGINS, JR.ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. HIGGINS: Mr. Justice, and may it please the Court:There's no evidence in this case that ColonelBaker was ever in petitioner's store, and his particularaffidavit was challenged and disregarded by the trialcourt. What we have here is a choice between twostandards to interpret the FTDA. Our choice is groundedin the actual use, words that Congress used, and therespondent's position is grounded in the academic theoryof dilution which we say is way ahead of the law.Our standard is objective and predictable. Theirs is subjective, unpredictable, invites the courts tosubstitute its own judgment for consumer perceptions. It's consistent with almost nothing. Our standard focuseson measurable consumer perception. Theirs focuses at thebeginning on semantic similarity, and a presumption thatdilution follows from that. Our standard merely puts thefamous mark owner to their proof to show that Congress'words, the lessening of the capacity, has been establishedas a matter of proof. They should not get a nationalinjunction without that.Our standard keeps trademark law in its properbounds. Their standard merely rewards the achievement offame. Our standard, if applied in this case, shouldresult in this Court reversing the injunction anddirecting that the petitioners be allowed to use Victor's given name in their business.Thank you.CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you,Mr. Higgins.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 