 IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XDAVID ALLEN SATTAZAHN, Petitioner ::v. : No. -PENNSYLVANIA :- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -XWashington, D.C.Monday, November , The above-entitled matter came on for oralargument before the Supreme Court of the United States at: a.m.APPEARANCES:ROBERT B. DUNHAM, ESQ., Assistant Federal Defender,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; on behalf of the Petitioner.IVA C. DOUGHERTY, ESQ., First Assistant District Attorney,Reading, Pennsylvania; on behalf of the Respondent.SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor General,Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf ofthe United States, as amicus curiae, supporting theRespondent. PAGE C O N T E N T SORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. DUNHAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner ORAL ARGUMENT OFIVA C. DOUGHERTY, ESQ.On behalf of the Respondent ORAL ARGUMENT OFSRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.On behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,supporting the Respondent REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OFROBERT B. DUNHAM, ESQ.On behalf of the Petitioner P R O C E E D I N G S(: a.m.)CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: We'll hear argumentnext in Number -, David Allen Sattazahn versusPennsylvania.Before we begin the second argument, I wouldlike to welcome a group of French judges from the Cour --French Cour de Cassation, France's highest court -- whoare visiting our Court today.Soir le bienvenue, Monsieurs.Mr. Dunham, you may proceed.ORAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. DUNHAMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DUNHAM: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice, andmay it please the Court:The double jeopardy question presented in thiscase is whether the statutorily mandated judgment of lifethat was entered in David Sattazahn's first capital trialis, as a matter of Federal constitutional law, a judgmentthat precludes the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania fromseeking and obtaining the death penalty in a secondcapital trial. Pennsylvania was afforded one fairopportunity to sentence Mr. Sattazahn to death, and thejury in his case decided, in accordance with the trialcourt's instructions, in accordance with the verdict slip, in accordance with the law of Pennsylvania, to report tothe court the presence of circumstances that it knew wouldcompel the court to impose a life sentence. That judgmentof life having been imposed after a full and fairopportunity to try, Pennsylvania could not seek deathagainst Mr. Sattazahn on retrial.QUESTION: But that wasn't the result of thesame sort of factual determination by a jury that tookplace in Bullington, was it?MR. DUNHAM: No, that's correct, Your Honor. The Pennsylvania -- the factual difference betweenPennsylvania and Missouri is the following, Your Honor. In Pennsylvania -- actually in both States -- if there's aunanimous jury verdict, that's the verdict that the courtimposes, that's the sentence the court imposes. In bothStates, if the jury does not reach a unanimous verdict,then the court is required as a matter of law to impose alife sentence, so here, when the jury did not -- when thejury sent its note back saying it was to in favor oflife, the court was required as a matter of Pennsylvanialaw to impose a life sentence.QUESTION: But in Bullington the verdict wasunanimous, was it not?MR. DUNHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: Well, isn't that quite a significant difference? Here the jury did not come to a conclusionone way or the other. They -- they hung.MR. DUNHAM: Well, Your Honor, they did not hangin the traditional sense of a hung jury, and thedistinction between this case and a hung jury case is thefollowing. The traditional hung jury case, the lack of --when there's an absence of unanimity what happens is, thetrial court discontinues the proceedings and jeopardynever terminates, and the proceedings are sent back tostart over.Here, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, thelegislature determined in advance, saw the possibility ofa nonunanimous jury as one of the foreseeable outcomes ofthe trial and in so doing it said, well, if that happens,what we're going to do is say, the State only gets one chance. If the State does not meet its burden of provingto all twelve jurors that aggravating circumstancesoutweigh mitigating circumstances, then, well, that's theonly chance they get, and if they don't do that --QUESTION: But you agree --QUESTION: That assumes the point in issue. TheState says that's not what we're saying, it's a defaultmechanism and that is not the only chance the State getsif there's a default. I -- this isn't a State law issuewe're arguing. I take it that the case comes to us on the assumption that this is -- that Missouri has done is acorrect interpretation of its law. I mean, if the Statesupreme court says so, so you -- for you to say, oh well,the State says this is the only chance, that's the wholeissue of the case.MR. DUNHAM: Well, Your Honor, this is likeSmalis versus Pennsylvania, another double jeopardy casein Pennsylvania that was a decade before, in whichPennsylvania -- this Court correctly found thatPennsylvania could say what was necessary for the court toenter a judgment --QUESTION: Yes, but --MR. DUNHAM: -- but not say what theconstitutional --QUESTION: -- that was a question of what was --whether or not there was double jeopardy, whether or nothe, in fact, could be subject to a new trial, but you aretelling us that the State in this case has said that thisis his -- the State's only chance, and that's not the waythe State reads this law. That's all I would say.MR. DUNHAM: This is what the statute says, YourHonor. What the statute -- the statute is very clearwhen -- when you look at --QUESTION: The statute doesn't say anythingabout this is the State's only chance. MR. DUNHAM: Your Honor, what the statutesays -- that's true, the statute does not expressly saythis is your only chance. What the statute says, itdelineates the two circumstances, and the only twocircumstances in which a death sentence may be imposed,and then it says, the verdict must be a sentence of lifeimprisonment in all other cases.In so doing, what the Pennsylvania legislaturedetermined was that unless -- unless the prosecution wasable to prove its case for death, that is, thataggravating circumstances outweighed mitigatingcircumstances, and was able to prove its case for deathunanimously, then the outcome would be a life sentence.QUESTION: Mr. Dunham, do I understand thatessentially what you are arguing is that we have here, to put it in simple terms, claim preclusion but not issuepreclusion? You agree that this jury found nothing, sothat if the Pennsylvania law had been -- when the jurycomes in to or to , whatever -- when it comes inthat way, that the Pennsylvania law had been new trial onpenalty, you would have no double jeopardy claim. Soyou're relying on the entry of a mandatory judgment forlife to effect basically claim preclusion, although youadmit there's no issue preclusion. That is, no issue hasbeen found by anyone. MR. DUNHAM: There's no issue preclusion withrespect to aggravating and circumstance -- aggravating andmitigating circumstances, Your Honor, but what's clear isthat this jury had made a legally binding factualdetermination with respect to the issue of life or death,and --QUESTION: But this jury --QUESTION: But it --QUESTION: -- didn't do anything but say Wecan't agree.QUESTION: Yes, they just hung.MR. DUNHAM: No, Your Honor. This jury didsplit to .QUESTION: And its verdict had to be unanimousin order to have any effect, did it not?MR. DUNHAM: The verdict had to be unanimous forthe jury verdict to be imposed, but by operation ofPennsylvania law, when -- the judge is then given theopportunity to make two predicate factual determinations,and if those predicate factual determinations are found --and those are determinations relating to whether or notthe State had proven its case -- then the judge mustimpose a life sentence.QUESTION: Well, could the judge have imposed adeath sentence here in view of a to verdict of the jury?MR. DUNHAM: No, it could not, Your Honor.QUESTION: Well, then, it seems to me when yousay Pennsylvania law says this and says that, as JusticeKennedy just -- that's not what the supreme court ofPennsylvania said. You've obviously got a constitutionalargument here, double jeopardy, but I don't think you canshift it over and say, this is what Pennsylvania law says.MR. DUNHAM: The Pennsylvania supreme court --yes, Your Honor.The Pennsylvania supreme court can say what theoperative effects of the statute are, and what thePennsylvania supreme court has said the operative effectsof the statute are is that when the jury is not unanimous,then the judge must take a particular step, and that is to impose the mandatory life sentence.QUESTION: Yes, I do think you can say that inthis case, there was a judgment that could have been finalhad there been no appeal, and so therefore it's differentfrom a hung jury case in some other instances wherethere's just no determination at all, because after thejury's failure to agree, the judge did impose a sentencethat might have become final, that looked final in manyinstances, in -- from many perspectives. It turned outthat there was an appeal, but it could have been final if there had been no appeal.MR. DUNHAM: Well, in fact, Your Honor --QUESTION: I mean, I take it that's part of yourcase.MR. DUNHAM: Well, Justice Kennedy, whatPennsylvania does is, Pennsylvania forecloses any appealof the sentencing determination. When the defendantreceives a life sentence at the close of this trial-likecapital sentencing proceeding the State does not haveauthority to appeal and, of course, the defendant has noreason to appeal because he has -- he's come out with alife sentence.QUESTION: Can I ask you, do you know from therecord in this -- does the record tell us in this casewhether or not this criminal defendant was advised of the risk of taking an appeal?MR. DUNHAM: There is nothing in the record thatindicates that he was advised of that risk. In fact, therecord -- everything that we can see on the record, fromthe record there is nothing that says anywhere that DavidSattazahn was told that if he took an appeal, he riskedhis life, and in fact --QUESTION: Well, do Pennsylvania judgesordinarily tell potential appellants what the consequencesof an appeal will be? MR. DUNHAM: Well, Pennsylvania judges tell themwhat rights that they are waiving, so --QUESTION: By appealing?MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor. But -- But whatwas --be?QUESTION: What sort of a colloquy would thatMR. DUNHAM: I --QUESTION: I mean, you know, I can see where adefendant's being arraigned, or being advised whether ornot he should have counsel, there's that sort of acolloquy, but --MR. DUNHAM: That's what I was thinking of, YourHonor.QUESTION: Yes. Ordinarily a judge, after a verdict comes in, there's no colloquy between the judgeand the defendant, is there?MR. DUNHAM: No, Your Honor. There's a colloquyas to you have a certain number of days to file postverdict motions, you have the right to be represented bycounsel, and so forth.QUESTION: Could you --QUESTION: One of the things that we worry aboutin enforcing the Double Jeopardy Clause is the possibilitythat without its protection, the State, in effect, could fail in its attempts and try again and again and again andagain. Is there any risk of that with respect to thepenalty determination here?On the face of it, it would seem that thereisn't such a risk, because the only circumstance -- or theonly obvious circumstance -- in which the State could seethe -- seek the death penalty again is the one that wehave in this case, in which the defendant takes the appealon some underlying issue of guilt or innocence, and it'sonly then, if he is successful, that the State would, onits view and on the Pennsylvania supreme court's view,have another shot at getting the death penalty. Is thereany greater risk of the State's being -- bringingrepetitive, making repetitive attempts to get the deathpenalty against a given defendant?MR. DUNHAM: Well, Your Honor, if the judgmentis not a final judgment sentence, I don't see as a matterof double jeopardy jurisprudence what would prevent theState of Pennsylvania from then saying, for every otherdefendant who had received a life sentence solely byvirtue of a split jury, why that would not be subject tofurther proceedings.QUESTION: Well, that's a question thatultimately I intended to ask counsel on the other side,but what's your position on it? MR. DUNHAM: I think that --QUESTION: If you lose, is that, in yourjudgment, the consequence?MR. DUNHAM: I think that's --QUESTION: That even in a case in which thedefendant does not appeal the underlying conviction, theState can say, we'd simply like to try again on penalty? Is that your position?MR. DUNHAM: Your Honor, under double jeopardylaw, yes, I think that would be the risk --QUESTION: Well, is it a plausible positionunder Pennsylvania law, because I -- and here I'm reallyat sea, but we've been told that the State has no appealfrom the sentence. The State cannot go to the Statesupreme court and say something was wrong in the sentencing proceeding and we should have anotheropportunity, so how would the State get its second choice?Do you think it would be inconsistent underState law for the State simply to go to the trial judgeand say We'd like you to vacate that judgment insofar --or the verdict -- insofar as it calls for a life sentenceand let us try again? Do you think that is open to theState under State law?MR. DUNHAM: I think the suggestion would be --they certainly cannot appeal. That would be the manner in which it would be done if the State -- if the State --QUESTION: No, but is there any reason tobelieve that they could follow the course that I justsuggested, which would give them a repetitive opportunity?MR. DUNHAM: I would say as a matter of doublejeopardy, yes, there would be a reason to fear that.QUESTION: No, but I'm just asking a question ofState law. Do you think the State law can be read in away that would allow them to do that?MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor, I do.QUESTION: But how?QUESTION: I can't believe you would take thatposition, that as a matter of State law the State can goin afterwards and seek a redetermination of the deathpenalty under Pennsylvania law. You've already told us the State can't appeal.MR. DUNHAM: I'm -- that's --QUESTION: Under what provision of State lawcould the State go in and ask for it to be done in someother fashion? I'm startled by your answer, really.MR. DUNHAM: Well, Your Honor, I mean, I thinkit's unlikely that the State would do that, but I'm sayingthat --QUESTION: We're just asking, as a matter ofState law, how could it? QUESTION: The whole premise of your case is, asI understand it, is as a matter of Pennsylvania law, asplit verdict has the same effect as a unanimous verdictfor life.MR. DUNHAM: That's right, Your Honor.QUESTION: So, let's -- let's --QUESTION: If that's true, then they certainlycan't go in and -- and ask for another trial.QUESTION: Let's go back for a second, can --QUESTION: So, you misspoke on that.MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: Could we go back to where we startedthis whole discussion? I mean, I would like to suggest toyou that we're dealing with a kind of analogy, that thelaw in this entire area is a matter of analogy. We'reanalogizing the penalty phrase of a death trial as if itwere a second trial.MR. DUNHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: So I take it your problem is thatworking with analogy, there's quite a lot here thatsuggests a hung jury, and there are some things thatdon't, so if it's like a hung jury, of course, the DoubleJeopardy Clause doesn't bar it. If it's not like a hungjury, then it does, so I'd like to ask you to say asconcisely as you can in terms of the purposes of this whole area of law, why is it not like a hung jury?MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor.Justice Breyer, it's not like a hung jury firstbecause in the hung jury cases, the jury fails to reach adecision and, as a result, the trial court thendiscontinues the proceedings. A hung jury does not resultin the entry of a judgment. In a hung jury situation, thecase gets sent back and the prosecution then has theopportunity to decide whether it's going to proceed with aretrial.This is not a hung jury. It's not a hung jurybecause ) it does not produce a mistrial, it produces asa matter of law an entry of judgment, and that judgment isa -- what we would say is a -- a judgment of acquittal. The reason it's a judgment of acquittal is because this Court has made clear in the context of Bullington, it'smade clear in the context of Rumsey, and even in Monje v.California and Casperri that there is somethingfundamentally different about a capital sentencingproceeding that has all the hallmarks of a trial of guiltor innocence.There's something fundamentally different aboutthose proceedings from any other sentencing proceedingand, because of that, because a capital sentencingproceeding is the functional equivalent of a trial on the issue of life or death, and because the State hasadditional burdens of proof, additional evidentiaryrequirements, the sentencing phase is, in effect, thefunctional equivalent of a greater offense.Because of these factors, when a defendantemerges from a capital sentencing proceeding, tried tocompletion, submitted to a jury and, after thedeliberations are done and the law operates, comes out ofthis with a sentence of life, that life sentence is anacquittal of the death penalty.Now, because of that --QUESTION: You really are arguing for claimpreclusion, because in the two juries -- the jury in aState that says, Okay, we do a retrial on sentence, andPennsylvania -- the two juries are doing an identical thing. You're giving it a different label becausePennsylvania law precludes the claim, but the two jurieshave done precisely the same thing, so -- and thedifference between this case and Bullington, of course, isthat there was a determination, a fact determination bythe fact-finder for life rather than death.MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor.QUESTION: And so you can't equate those twocases, so you have to be relying on claim preclusionbecause a judgment has been entered. MR. DUNHAM: Well, but Your Honor, I think it'simportant to know what it is that the jury knew at thetime that it made its statement to the judge that it wasgoing to -- that it was intractably split to in favorof life.What that jury knew, because it was told in thejury instructions, was that there were certaincircumstances in which it could impose a death penalty. There were two limited circumstances -- aggravatingcircumstances and no mitigation, or aggravation thatoutweighed mitigation -- and in all other circumstances alife sentence would be returned, so the jury is told thatup front.Then the judge instructed the jury to take alook at the verdict slip in the case, and the verdict slip -- which contained language in bold capital lettersthat were mandated by the Pennsylvania Rules of CriminalProcedure -- the verdict slip also told the story the samethings, and told the jury that if it could not reach aunanimous verdict, it was to report that to the court, andif the court found two facts, ) that they were notunanimous and ) that they were not going to be unanimous,the court would have the duty to impose a life sentence.QUESTION: And that would go even if it had been for life and for death, so you've repeated a few times the to for life, but it wouldn't make anydifference if it was lopsided the other way?MR. DUNHAM: That's correct. That's correct,Your Honor. But what's clear from this is that this juryknew when it was reporting back that a life sentence wouldresult, and what's also clear is the way the statute iswritten, the legislature has determined -- the legislaturehas placed on the State the burden of persuading all jurors that death is the appropriate punishment, thataggravation outweighs mitigation. When the jury splits,that is a fact finding that the State has not proven itscase to all .QUESTION: But it's not a fact finding by thewhole jury.MR. DUNHAM: Well, it's a fact finding by all of the jurors that the State has not been able to persuadeeverybody.QUESTION: Yes, that's true, but it's outof , or out of , whatever the case may be. It's notthe whole jury.MR. DUNHAM: Yes, Your Honor, but then again,Your Honor, as a matter of double jeopardy -- as a matterof constitutional law -- there's nothing magical about thejury having to be unanimous. In fact --QUESTION: No, but there is something magical about a jury, a unanimous jury making a determination, aswas the case in Bullington, where you don't just have asplit in the jury, the whole jury comes back and says Yes,it's only life.MR. DUNHAM: But here the sentencer came backand said Because the State has failed to prove its casefor death, then the answer is life.The Pennsylvania law sets for the circumstancesin which the State has either proven or failed to proveits case for death, and --QUESTION: Mr. Dunham, maybe I'mmisunderstanding the Pennsylvania law, but I thought thatthis position, we enter judgment of life, it favorsdefendants. That is, the State is saying If nothingfurther happens we're not going to subject this defendant to the chance of getting death on a resentencing hearing.We're going to give him life.On the other hand, if he chooses to appeal fromthe guilt part on, say, a charge error, as was the casehere, then we're no longer going to give him that benefit. We did it on the notion that the thing would be over. Hewouldn't be subject to death, but now he's taking, ineffect, advantage of something we did to benefit him.MR. DUNHAM: Essentially, Your Honor, whatyou're stating is the clean slate doctrine, and what -- and I think it's critical, when we're categorizing thecases, to figure out which box this case goes in.The clean slate doctrine applies when thedefendant has been convicted, and has been convicted ofthe relevant charge. If it's true, as this Court has saidin Bullington, and as this court has said in Rumsey, and Iwould suggest, Your Honors, as it said in both Casperriand Monje, that there is this categorical distinctionbetween capital sentencing proceedings and noncapitalproceedings, and that what happens in a trial-like capitalsentencing proceeding is that you have a separate trial onthe issue of the death penalty, then when you areappealing from your guilt stage conviction, you'reessentially appealing from a lesser offense, and so, usingas the analogy Green versus United States, you would not be appealing -- you would not be placing the sentence atissue. You have won on the issue of sentence, so you'reappealing a lesser offense.QUESTION: But apparently Pennsylvania hasinterpreted its law differently on this point. Pennsylvania would say, I gather, that if the defendantdoes appeal in these circumstances from his conviction,that it's all open to the State to seek the death penaltyagain. That's what Pennsylvania would say.MR. DUNHAM: But Pennsylvania can't -- QUESTION: But you don't want us to hold that itcan say that. You want to say that the Federal ruleshould come into play and prevent Pennsylvania from sayingthat.MR. DUNHAM: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: May I ask you a question about --actually, two questions about Bullington? Is it not -- amI correct in recalling that in Bullington, the State hadthe same -- the jury had the same two options, it eithercould have found unanimously for the death penalty, oreither unanimously or by a split verdict, it could haverefused to find the death penalty and the consequenceunder Missouri law would have been the life sentence?MR. DUNHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: So it's exactly like this case in that respect.MR. DUNHAM: That's correct.QUESTION: And is it also not true that in thatcase, we can't tell whether the jury verdict was findingno aggravating circumstances, or a finding that no matterwhat the aggravating circumstances are, we're not going toimpose the death penalty?MR. DUNHAM: In Bullington?QUESTION: Yes.MR. DUNHAM: Justice Stevens, in Bullington we can take it one step further. In Bullington, we know thatthe jury found at least one aggravating circumstance.QUESTION: And they -- so that their -- thedouble jeopardy did not rest on the fact there was afinding of fact, but rather, there was an ultimatejudgment that death is the inappropriate penalty?MR. DUNHAM: That's correct, Your Honor.QUESTION: Yes.MR. DUNHAM: Now, Your Honors, I'd like to makea -- I'd like to just talk very briefly about the secondissue and then reserve time for rebuttal. TheCommonwealth has agreed that this statute -- thePennsylvania statute -- has created a liberty interest, alife and liberty interest in the life sentence that wasthe product of the nonunanimous jury.What we would like to -- the dispute between theparties is whether that life and liberty interest that theState concedes exists survives an appeal, and for all thereasons that we've talked about in the briefs, we wouldsay it does, because there is a special interest infinality.This Court has recognized in Bullington and inRumsey that capital sentencing proceedings -- and also inthe other, the noncapital cases we mentioned -- that oneof the hallmark differences between a capital sentencing phase and a noncapital sentencing is precisely theexpectation in finality in the capital sentencing, and sothe defendant has a legitimate and substantial expectationgoing in that when he gets this life sentence, it is goingto be a sentence that will remain with him.We would say that Pennsylvania arbitrarilydeprives a defendant of this life and liberty interest ifit conditions his appeal -- if it conditions theenforcement of that right -- upon giving up the right toappeal a lesser and distinctly different offense. It'sconditioning the enforcement of his life sentence for --in this case -- upon his not appealing the lesser firstdegree murder charge, and that's where we say it'sarbitrary.If the Court has no further questions, I'd like to reserve the remaining time for rebuttal.QUESTION: Very well, Mr. Dunham.Ms. Dougherty, we'll hear from you.ORAL ARGUMENT OF IVA C. DOUGHERTYON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTMS. DOUGHERTY: Mr. Chief Justice, and may itplease the Court:In Bullington, this Court examined its holdingthat the Double Jeopardy Clause does not apply tosentencing proceedings, and carved out a limited exception which was based on the findings made by a sentencer in acapital sentencing proceeding. The exception does notarise out of the proceeding itself. It arises out ofthese findings, which distinguish it from a traditionalsentencing procedure. This is the only conclusion whichis consistent with existing double jeopardy jurisprudence. The Court has never applied double jeopardy protections totraditional sentencing procedures, because --QUESTION: It does seem a little odd that -- ifyou have case , where there are no errors and thedefendant is not in any way prejudiced, and there is alife sentence, that's final. But in this case, there wasa flawed trial, the defendant was prejudiced, but at thispoint he now faces a greater sentence for having -- forhaving established the -- that prejudice. Now, obviously, if we're going to give him the option, we'd say That's arisk he takes, but it's a little troubling about your --MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, double jeopardy -- theDouble Jeopardy Clause doesn't preclude a defendant havingto make choices in making a decision, and there's nothingfinal about the life sentence that's imposed by a defaultjudgment under the Pennsylvania statute. It's nodifferent than any other sentence imposed at the end of atraditional sentencing proceeding.QUESTION: Well, is it final if he does not appeal? I mean, just to clear up that issue upon which wegot an answer that surprised us from counsel on the otherside, if he does not appeal, under Pennsylvania law, canthe State go, in effect, before the judge again and say Wewould like to have another attempt to get the deathpenalty?MS. DOUGHERTY: No, Your Honor.QUESTION: Okay.QUESTION: Well, this is like -- it seems likeBullington in one respect, and not like it in another. It's not like it in the sense that there's a hung jury. It's like it, however, in the sense that the person isfaced with a terrible choice. If he doesn't appeal, he'lllive. If he does appeal, he may die.Now, if that terrible choice is embodied in the reasons for an exception to the ordinary blank slate rule,that exists here, so do you think that terrible choice hasnothing to do with the exception whatsoever, or does ithave something to do with it?MS. DOUGHERTY: Under double jeopardy analysis,I don't believe it has anything to do with it. Thedefendant also, upon appeal --QUESTION: Well, if it has nothing to do withit, why did the court create the exception? For, afterall, ordinarily, as you pointed out, when a person a person appeals his trial, he makes of his sentence a blankslate. It can be reopened. So why did the court sayoriginally that death sentences are different?MS. DOUGHERTY: Because the proceeding itselfrequires a finding. It leads to a finding. It leads toan acquittal in a way that other traditional sentencingproceedings do not, and when someone has been acquitted ofthe death penalty, then the State -- that would beprecluded by double jeopardy purposes for going back,because of the finality that attaches to an acquittal, notto the final judgment, not to a sentence that's imposed asthe result of -- that terminates a proceeding, certainly,but it doesn't have that same finality that the court hasalways accorded to an acquittal, and --QUESTION: Well, from the dynamics of what the defendant faces when he's sitting at the table and hehears the verdict come in, he hears the verdict come in,no liability for the death penalty, the judge thensentences him to prison, and I had thought he wouldbreathe a sigh of relief. Under your position, no. Inother words, he's faced the ordeal of -- of the trial,et cetera.MS. DOUGHERTY: Exactly, and if he stops and issatisfied with a life sentence instead of trying to get anacquittal, which is the result of possibly seeking another trial, is that he could walk out of the courtroom aninnocent man on second trial. And that is a choice, but Ibelieve under Chaffin this Court has not ruled out thedefendant having to make choices like that. No matter howserious, how tough the choice is --QUESTION: Can you -- can I interrupt with justone question? Are there any other double jeopardy -- Imean, I don't -- are there any other hung jury situations,other than this very narrow category, in which theprosecutor does not have the option to go ahead and seek asecond trial?See, here you -- unless the defendant appeals, aprosecutor can't do anything about it here. Is there anyother hung jury situation in which the prosecutor's handsare tied in that way?MS. DOUGHERTY: I believe the answer is no.QUESTION: I think that's --MS. DOUGHERTY: However, I think it's comparableto the guilty plea situation, where the Government couldforego seeking death in order to -- for an agreement tolife, and the Commonwealth -- the State would not be ableto appeal that imposition of the life sentence.However, if the defendant appeals and gets hissentence, gets his guilty plea withdrawn, the State wouldnot be precluded in that case from seeking death at the trial. So I think the situation is along those lines.QUESTION: Well, but a hung jury is not quitelike a plea bargain, though. And that's what you'retalking about, isn't it? If the agreement is set aside,then of course everybody starts from scratch, but not --but when you've got a hung jury, normally the prosecutorhas the choice of whether to go ahead and retry or not.MS. DOUGHERTY: That's correct, Your Honor.However, the situation in this case, and thesituation for the exception in Bullington, revolved aroundthe findings by the jury, and it revolved around the ideaof an acquittal, not a sentence, and that was pointed outfurther in Rumsey, where the Court talked about, thesentence was based on findings which entitled thedefendant to a life sentence, and again in Poland --QUESTION: Just -- let me ask just one morequestion, then I'll be through. I did not remember --your opponent said that there was actually a finding of anaggravating circumstance in Bullington. Was he correct onthat?MS. DOUGHERTY: I don't believe so, Your Honor. There may have been a finding, but it may have beenoutweighed. I'm sorry, I don't remember that, but it mayhave been outweighed by the mitigating --QUESTION: So there would have been eligibility for the death penalty there.MS. DOUGHERTY: But the ultimate finding of thejury was that they were -- that they acquitted thedefendant based on their weighing situation.And Poland further limited Bullington andspecifically talked about when there is not an acquittal,then Bullington -- the Bullington exception does notapply, and --QUESTION: Suppose we had a State with a systemthat said, if any -- and I think some do have thissystem -- if any one juror votes for life, then thesentence shall be life. Suppose we had that system, andthe jury comes in and says, we're to for death. Thejudge enters judgment for life. In that case, if theguilt -- if it's an appeal from the guilt determination, and it's successful, then there wouldn't be -- there wouldbe no possibility of reopening the death-life decision,would there?MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, Justice Ginsburg, I don'tknow that that would qualify as an acquittal. That may bea decision made by the State legislature, but the factthat one person would hold out for life -- an acquittalis, traditionally has been looked at as a finding ofinnocence, and a finding -- the court has generallyrecognized it as finding innocence based on the evidence in the record, and it's based on -- the whole point of thejury system is to reach a collective agreement, acollective judgment by the community, and one personholding out for life does not possibly affect theconscience of the community on that sentence.QUESTION: So, you say it would make nodifference if, instead of in this case, where the legalconsequence following -- follows a jury disagreement, aState that says we make, in effect, each juror thedecisionmaker on the life-death question.MS. DOUGHERTY: I don't think that would stillhave the finality of an acquittal under this Court'sdouble jeopardy jurisprudence, and of course, thehypothetical doesn't apply in this situation, becausethat's not what Pennsylvania said, but I don't believe that one juror holding out for life could possibly garnerthat finality that an acquittal has, and if -- I believethere are certainly -- there might be -- there would be anargument in that case that if the defendant appealed,that --QUESTION: Why not? If the State law sets upthat single juror in the same way that it sets up a singlejudge, if the trial is before the judge -- if thesentencing trial is before the judge?MS. DOUGHERTY: A State could do that. I just don't believe that that legislative decision would havethe same finality as -- as an acquittal, because anacquittal is based upon a collective judgment of thecommunity on the ultimate question of --QUESTION: Well, do you think that that casethat I gave you, where the State law says one juror forlife is enough, and Pennsylvania, do you think there's anysignificant distinction between those two laws?MS. DOUGHERTY: I -- well, I'm sorry. I'm alittle -- I'm not quite sure I understand your question. There's a definite different in that Pennsylvania requiresa unanimous jury to reach a verdict, and therefore,Pennsylvania is saying unless the jury -- all of the juryagrees -- then there is no verdict. There's no acquittal. There's no conviction. It's a hung jury.I don't feel that I answered your question, butI'm not sure how to better answer it. I do believe thatthere --QUESTION: I take it you do believe that thereis a difference between those two situations.MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, there's a difference inlanguage. I don't know that there's a difference ineffect, in the double jeopardy concept of acquittal, thefinality that should be accorded that judgment.The -- Pennsylvania's position, of course, is that without these findings made by a jury, that underBullington analysis, then double jeopardy would not barretrial for the maximum sentence. You're right back atthe results obtained from the traditional sentencingproceeding. The imposition of a particular sentence, inthis case life, is not an acquittal of any more serioussentence that could have been imposed and, as this Courthas recognized in DiFrancesco as one example, thepronouncement of sentence simply does not have thequalities of constitutional finality that attend anacquittal.QUESTION: May I ask -- I said I wouldn't askanother question. I would like to ask one more. If thejury in this case had been unanimous and said life ratherthan death, would the judgment entered by the trial court have been any different than the judgment it actually didenter?MS. DOUGHERTY: Life would have been imposed,but it would have been imposed for a different reason. The jury --QUESTION: Well, no, I'm asking, would the formof the judgment, the language used by the trial judge inentering judgment, would it have been any different fromthe language it did use in this case?MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, it would have been based on the unanimous verdict of the jury.QUESTION: That's not my question. My questionis, the language of the judgment would have been anydifferent within the two cases?MS. DOUGHERTY: It would have been a lifesentence in both cases.QUESTION: Yes.QUESTION: But you're saying that the Polandanalysis should make the result different.MS. DOUGHERTY: Yes, Your Honor. If there's noacquittal --QUESTION: Yes.MS. DOUGHERTY: -- then Bullington doesn'tapply, and that's what would be different in the sentence. There would be no acquittal.QUESTION: What happens, in your view, which --I'll be rather imaginary. I mean, there isn't a realsituation like this, but given the rulings of this Court,I think you could have a State -- at least not in myviews, but other's views, you could have a State which onsentencing left every question of fact to a jury, so theydecide every possible question of fact, but the ultimatedecision about what to do after those facts are foundwould lie in the hands of a judge, and in a system likethat, where the judge then said life, would your argument still apply, double jeopardy or not? Could they reopenit, or not?MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, the facts that need to befound in a capital sentencing proceeding --QUESTION: Are very complex, but we have specialforms and they go do it all. What I'm trying to say is, Iwant a State still that turns over to the judge the powerof life or death, and what the judge in such a Statedecides is life, and now there is an appeal on the guiltand innocence phase. On -- in your opinion, can the Statereopen that ultimate judgment which it put in the hands ofthe judge? And you see, of course, why -- what my nextquestion will be is, Why isn't this that State?MS. DOUGHERTY: My problem in answering thequestion, Justice Breyer, is I'm not sure what facts the jury is --QUESTION: Everything you want. I mean, youknow, I'm just trying to avoid that question, so haveeverything you want, everything the Constitution requires,everything the opinions of this Court requires. What I'minterested in is not that, but I'm interested in the Stateputting the sentencing decision in the hands of the judge.QUESTION: Well, here the judge who enters theverdict in this particular case does not do so because heconcludes that the circumstances -- he simply does it because the jury has come in to , doesn't he?MS. DOUGHERTY: He comes in because -- that'sright. He has no discretion.QUESTION: He doesn't exercise independentjudgment.MS. DOUGHERTY: He has --QUESTION: No, but does that -- that's exactlywhat I'm trying to get at, exactly the question. I mean,is that what makes the difference? Because the State hastold the judge what to enter?MS. DOUGHERTY: Well --QUESTION: Rather than being discretionary, doesthat make a difference for double jeopardy purposes?MS. DOUGHERTY: Well, I think it -- I think itdoes, and to go back to your hypothetical, my problem in answering that question, if the jury, in fact, has foundas fact that the mitigating circumstances outweigh theaggravating circumstances, then I believe that would be anacquittal. If the jury's findings were made in that way,and the judge was -- the judge had to rely on thosefindings in order to impose that sentence, then I believethat that would be an acquittal, which would distinguishit from the case we have here.QUESTION: Why is that important? Why is itimportant for drawing a double jeopardy line that in the Poland situation a jury makes a unanimous determination,or in Justice Breyer's hypothetical, a judge that has thepower makes the ultimate determination himself? If thejudgment can otherwise be attacked on the underlyingconviction, why should it make a difference for doublejeopardy on sentence that the judgment of life rests uponthese kinds of determinations rather than the operation oflaw which we have?MS. DOUGHERTY: Because an acquittal hasalways -- the definition of acquittal has always beenbased on a finding of innocence, on a finding that theState hasn't proved its case, and if there are no suchfindings -- and that's why double jeopardy hasn't beenapplied to traditional sentencing proceedings, and if youdon't have those findings, then there's no basis to justify the acquittal, which would bar it under doublejeopardy.QUESTION: Were you going to comment in the timeremaining on the second argument -- which I call just adue process argument -- that it's just unfair to conditionthe appeal on the possibility of a death sentence? Surelythe second argument --MS. DOUGHERTY: Well --QUESTION: -- made by your --QUESTION: Was this point raised in the supreme court of Pennsylvania?MS. DOUGHERTY: It was raised. It was never --it was raised. It was not specifically addressed in thisfashion by the supreme court of Pennsylvania, but it wasbefore the court to address.The argument seems to be that somehow thesentence can be separated from the conviction, and I don'tbelieve that's the case. Due process -- procedural dueprocess requires notice and a meaningful opportunity to beheard. Mr. Sattazahn had that throughout theseproceedings. Substantive due process, as this Courtstated in Albright versus Oliver, it's reluctant to expandthis generalized notion of substantive due process, andtherefore, if there's a specific amendment that applies tothe States that addresses the issue, that's what should --that's how the claim should be reviewed.In this case, double jeopardy definitely appliesto the States, and it seems that double jeopardy coversall the concerns that are raised in the defendant's dueprocess and in petitioner's due process argument. Therefore, the only way that the defendant should not facea clean slate on resentencing on retrial is the Bullingtondouble jeopardy exception, not any due process claim.If the Court has no further questions --QUESTION: Thank you, Ms. Dougherty. Mr. Srinivasan.ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASANON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTMR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,and may it please the Court:The question in this case is whetherPennsylvania's imposition of a default sentence of lifeimprisonment by operation of law when the jury in acapital sentencing proceeding is unable to reach aunanimous verdict constitutes an acquittal within themeaning of the Double Jeopardy Clause. We think theanswer to that question lies in the settled rule that ahung jury is not an acquittal for double jeopardypurposes.Double jeopardy law has always drawn a cleardistinction between hung juries, where the jury fails toreach a resolution of the case, and acquittals, where aunanimous jury makes a factual determination that thefacts in evidence fail to establish the defendant's guilt,or in this --QUESTION: May I ask how you would respond to myquestion about the State that has a system, any one jurorwho votes for life, if there's any one juror, it's a lifesentence, and this case? Is there a distinction between those two for double jeopardy purposes?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Ginsburg, we thinkthere is a distinction between those two. In thehypothetical statute that you posit, if the jury'sresolution in favor of a life sentence were not consideredto have final effect, that would strike at the heart of avalue central to the Double Jeopardy Clause in that theState could then continue to reprosecute the defendantrepeatedly, so we think that in that hypothetical statute,when the jury comes back for a life sentence, I don't knowif it's fair to call it an acquittal because an acquittalhas a settled meaning under the Double Jeopardy Clause,but we think that determination would be accorded finalityfor double jeopardy purposes.But this case is different in a significant respect. Here, Pennsylvania gave the defendant the sameopportunity to obtain a final acquittal in his favor thatdefendants traditionally enjoy on the underlying questionof guilt or innocence, and that is that he could haveobtained a unanimous verdict in his favor, and we thinkthat distinction is critical for double jeopardy purposes.QUESTION: Why should that distinction be morecritical than the so-called judgment distinction? Inother words, in your -- I understand you to be arguing, asPennsylvania argued, that the line traditionally is drawn based on whether there was an acquittal or wasn't anacquittal -- an acquittal versus a hung jury, but thatline historically also is drawn, in fact, depending onwhether the jury's determination results in a judgment ornot. Here, we have a judgment. Why should we draw theline based on acquittal rather than drawing the line basedon judgment? There is a tradition for each.MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Souter, it's true thatthe sentencing proceeding in this case culminatedultimately in the entry of a judgment, but the fact of ajudgment we think is not dispositive for double jeopardypurposes, and that's because the core premise of the cleanslate rule is that the entry of a sentencing judgment isnot a double jeopardy disposition that bars the State fromresentencing in the event of a retrial. It's not the event of a judgment that makes the difference. It'swhether that judgment manifests the qualities of anacquittal. That's what Bullington holds.So the question is whether the entry of a lifesentence in this case manifests the quality of a factualacquittal, and we think it does not, because a hung juryhas never been thought to constitute an acquittal withinthe meaning of the Double Jeopardy Clause.QUESTION: Well, but it does constitute anacquittal of the death penalty if there's no appeal. MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think so, JusticeKennedy, because the State can resentence in the event ofa retrial. It's true that the State has decided that itwon't appeal, but the operation of the clean slate ruleworks such that when the defendant occasions a retrial bysuccessfully appealing his conviction and sentence, atthat point the State is free to conduct a resentencing andimpose a harsher sentence.QUESTION: If you win.QUESTION: That assumes the issue.QUESTION: I mean, that's the issue.MR. SRINIVASAN: If -- I'm sorry.QUESTION: I mean, you're right if you win, butyou're wrong if you lose.MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct, but -- of course that's correct, Justice Breyer, but I think thereason we should win is because the judgment that wasentered in this case is not a factual acquittal of thenature that was considered --QUESTION: But, counsel, supposing the State lawhad a provision in it that the votes of the jurors shallremain secret, and the only thing that shall become publicis the judgment, what would you do in that case?MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in that case --it would depend on how the jury were instructed. QUESTION: Well, they're instructed just as theywere in this case. As a matter of protecting the privacyof the jurors, we're just not going to let the public knowhow they voted, and that we just have a judgment outthere. What do you do in that case?MR. SRINIVASAN: No, I think if the jury isrequired to make a unanimous verdict in either direction,and the judge imposes a sentence of life imprisonmentbecause the jury has made a unanimous verdict, that wouldhave --QUESTION: No, it doesn't -- the "because"doesn't follow, because you don't know on the record I'mhypothesizing.MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in that situationit would present some of the same difficulties that I was discussing in reference to Justice Ginsburg's hypotheticalin that it's unclear whether the defendant would have --QUESTION: Well, I take it the judge probablyknows in Justice Stevens' hypothetical what the jury did.MR. SRINIVASAN: Right, and if the judgearticulated it in his judgment in a way that distinguishedbetween a judgment of a life sentence based on a unanimousjury verdict and judgment of a life sentence based on --QUESTION: No, in my hypothesis he entersexactly the same judgment he entered here, and he just says I'm -- let's close the files on this case so thepublic won't know how the jury voted.MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think in that situationwe'd have the same answer that we would to JusticeGinsburg's hypothetical, which is that because thedefendant has not been afforded an opportunity to obtainfinality, then the double jeopardy law would treat thatjudgment as final, and the State would not be permitted inthat situation to revisit the sentencing judgment.But this case is different in a significantrespect, because here, Pennsylvania law draws adistinction between a unanimous jury verdict and a hungjury that results in the imposition of a life sentence,and petitioner had the opportunity to obtain a unanimousjury verdict, and, in fact, when the jury initially past its note to the judge indicating that it had reached animpasse, petitioner immediately moved for declaration of amistrial and discharge of the jury. And in that situationit's clear under double jeopardy law that when thedefendant invites the declaration of a mistrial and thedischarge of a jury, there's no double jeopardyprohibition against the State's conducting a retrial or,in this case, the State's conducting a new sentencingproceeding.QUESTION: But isn't the -- isn't the only distinction in Justice Stevens' hypothetical between thatcase -- the case that he posits -- and this one, thesecrecy. And I don't know why the secrecy should make adifference, and I don't know why you don't answer bysaying, Look, what is necessary in order to implicatedouble jeopardy is the unanimous acquittal by the fact-finder, and if the record does not manifest that unanimousacquittal, then, in fact, there would be no doublejeopardy bar to trying him on the sentence again. Whyhasn't that got to be your answer?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Souter, because itdepends on whether State law makes unanimity the decidingcriterion. If State law does --QUESTION: Well, but on Justice Stevens'hypothetical, it does not. His hypothetical was, it's just like this case except that there's a secrecyrequirement, so we don't know. And -- and all we know isthat yes, there ultimately was one or the other conditionnecessary and sufficient -- sufficient, rather -- tosupport the judgment of life, but we don't know which oneit was, and I would have thought that on your position youwould say unless it affirmatively appears that there wasan acquittal by the unanimous jury, there would be nodouble jeopardy bar. Make it just like this case.MR. SRINIVASAN: Our position is that if a State has a unanimity requirement, the Double Jeopardy Clausedoes not preclude the State from enforcing that unanimityrequirement, but if a State draws no distinction between aunanimous jury verdict of acquittal and a one-juror votefor the life sentence, then the Double Jeopardy Clauserequires the State to honor the finality of the judgmentin favor of a defendant. That's our position in thiscase.QUESTION: Is it fair to take into account,assuming competing analogies of equal weight, choosing theone that would least discourage appeals? I mean, the realproblem here, I think, is the problem of a person having ameritorious appeal, but being afraid to make it. Socan -- am I free to take that into account, at least, intrying to choose between the analogies?MR. SRINIVASAN: Justice Breyer, we think thedue process question in terms of undue burden was --was --QUESTION: I'm not saying that -- due -- is thatnot a factor that I can take into account in trying tochoose among competing analogies?MR. SRINIVASAN: It's -- I think it's fair tosay that it's a factor, but I think it's important to notethat there are important reasons why a State would drawthe distinction drawn by Pennsylvania in this case. There are three reasons why a State might choose not to conducta resentencing in the initial round of proceedings, butnonetheless to resentence in the event of a retrial.First, as an interesting closure, the Statemight determine that after a capital trial and a capitalsentencing hearing, at that point, it makes sense toaccept what is still a substantial punishment, theimposition of a sentence of life imprisonment, but if thedefendant occasions a new trial by successfully appealinghis conviction, at that point the balance ofconsiderations changes.And in particular, in terms of the secondreason, if a State were to conduct a new sentencingproceeding immediately after a hung jury in the initialround of proceedings, the sentencing jury would come to the new sentencing proceeding without having had thebenefit of standing through -- of sitting through thecapital trial, and the State might reasonably concludethat at that point, it would have to retry much of theunderlying case on guilt or innocence.By contrast, when the defendant occasions a newtrial by successfully appealing his conviction, the Statewill have selected a capital jury to conduct the trial,and the new capital jury will come to the sentencingproceeding entirely familiar with the facts and circumstances of the case.QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. Srinivasan.Mr. Dunham, you have three minutes remaining.REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF ROBERT B. DUNHAMON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERMR. DUNHAM: Your Honors, I would just like tomake a couple of points in rebuttal.The first issue I'd like to address is thequestion of the State's interest in closure, and thepolicies, the way the double jeopardy policies work out inthis statute in this case. What Pennsylvania --Pennsylvania's statute as it's written recognizes severaldifferent interests. One of the interests it recognizesis the interest in economy, the interests in finality, theinterest in giving the State a single opportunity to try and obtain a death penalty.On the other hand, it balances this against whatthis Court has in the past said is a desirable goal oftrying to achieve jury unanimity. So it has a preferencefor a unanimous jury, and it balances that against thefinality of the sentence. And that's why the judge isrequired, when the jury comes back and says that it is notunanimous, why that judge is then required to see iffurther deliberations are going to be fruitful.When the judge determines that the jury is not unanimous, and determines that the jury is not going tobecome unanimous, that represents a decision at that pointthat the interest in finality, imposing the life sentencenow and ending it, outweighs the interest in obtaining aunanimous jury. And that is -- and that triggers, thatties into this Court's long-term double jeopardyjurisprudence that one of the primary interests is againstsubjecting a defendant to multiple trials, forcing him torun the gamut of a second capital sentencing proceedingafter the first has been tried to completion.On another issues, Your Honors, one of thethings that I would suggest as a possible structural wayof looking at capital sentencing cases to see whetherthere is a sensible way of determining whether or not whatyou have is an acquittal is this. In Bullington, this Court talked about the binary choice between life ordeath, and the significance of that when you have a trial-like proceeding, in distinguishing between whether it's anacquittal or a conviction, so there's a binary choice.What the Pennsylvania statute has done is createa second binary choice, only it's a procedural one. Ifthis were a hung jury like what you see at trial, the juryhas three options. They can acquit, they can convict, orthere's limbo. The hung jury in the case goes back.The Pennsylvania legislature has determined that there is a second binary choice -- a procedural choice --and that is, unless there is a conviction, a life sentenceis entered, and by eliminating that third category, it hasmade the determination that any failure by the State toprove its case to a unanimous jury constitutes anacquittal, so I would say that the second binary choice,the procedural choice, is a bright line way of sayingwhether or not there is an acquittal. And a bright line,I think, is what Bullington and Rumsey stand for --CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you. Thank you,Mr. Dunham.The case is submitted.(Whereupon, at : p.m., the case in theabove-entitled matter was submitted.) 